Putain put-on	I really , really , REALLY dislike movies that romanticise prostitution . . . which is one of the most dehumanising jobs in existence , but which far too many movies routinely depict as a great career choice for young women who want to get plenty of fresh air and chances to meet people . I recently viewed ' From Hell ' , in which a bunch of streetwalkers in Victorian London are all good-looking , clean , well-dressed and happy . They take a work break to relax in the pub over drinks , and they pay for these and leave a nice tip before going back to ' the job ' . The harsh reality is that most streetwalkers in Victorian London were broken-down pauper women who plied their trade ( standing up , in dark alleys ) for many hours just to earn enough pennies to pay for one night's lodging in a lice-ridden bed in a doss-house . The French film ' The Comrades of the Night ' is grossly offensive and dishonest , although at least it serves the useful purpose of proving that the French ( allegedly so sophisticated in sexual matters ) can be just as prurient and hypocritical as anybody else when the topic is sex . This movie purports to give us an inside look at the prostitution industry , but all the scenes depicted here are blatantly staged and unconvincing . The film takes a hypocritical tone , professing to condemn what is shown here , while actually revelling in the sexual exploitation . The viewpoint character is Olga , who was sexually exploited in her girlhood . Fair enough ; many prostitutes were sexually abused before they went ' on the game ' . But we are told that Olga ' really ' became a prozzy so as to earn money for food and medicine for her little crippled brother Jackie . ( Oh , yes . Pull the other one ! ) We see Olga and other ' working girls ' beaten and exploited by their pimps . This too would be a valid story element , as many real-life prostitutes are indeed mistreated and exploited by their ' managers ' . But the violence and other encounters shown here are laughably melodramatic and completely implausible . The whores must contend with corrupt vice cops . . . again , this happens in real life , but is shown here in a manner that's entirely unrealistic . SPOILER COMING , BUT WHO CARES : Eventually , Olga rebels against Verdier ( her pimp ) and shoots him . So what ? All these characters are cardboard . This movie is the French equivalent of those low-budget ' road-house ' exploitation movies that used to be commonplace in America . The only real merits of ' The Comrades of the Night ' are a few interesting examples of French underworld slang on the badly-recorded soundtrack . I'll rate this movie . Zut alors !
No Balls , no Bluff : this film is lost .	" Balls Bluff " is a low-budget , amateur short film that merits a small footnote in film history as the first movie written and directed by Robert Downey , Senior . No prints of this movie are known to exist . I have often maintained that no movie should be considered ' lost ' unless it was deliberately destroyed . Many , many films that were officially ' lost forever ' have been rediscovered by diligent searchers . In fact , just last week ( as I write this ) , BBC World Service announced the discovery of a complete print of ' Beyond the Rocks ' , a silent film directed by the very underrated Sam Wood ( apparently not one of his best efforts , but any Sam Wood movie is worthy of attention ) . So , ' Balls Bluff ' may yet turn up . But this seems unlikely . When a lost film is rediscovered , it's usually because at least one release print was never returned to the distributor , and the errant print is found in a private collection or archive . ' Balls Bluff ' was never released or distributed in the first place , so it's highly unlikely that a print will turn up in a forgotten projection booth . I have not seen ' Balls Bluff ' , which probably no longer exists . My review of this film is based on information given to me by two friends of mine : Fred von Bernewitz ( who edited ' Balls Bluff ' but no longer owns a print ) and the late Art d'Lugoff , an impresario who once screened ' Balls Bluff ' in his jazz club in Greenwich Village , NYC . Fred von Bernewitz originally distinguished himself in the 1950s as the compiler of a checklist of art and articles in ' Mad ' magazine . At the time that I write this , Fred von Bernewitz now has a very respectable career as an audio editor . ' Balls Bluff ' is unofficially based on ' An End to Bugling ' , a novel by Edmund G Love , who is better known for writing the book that became the Broadway musical ' Subways Are for Sleeping ' . EG Love was a journalist who , as a publicity stunt , once ate his way through 5 , 000 New York City restaurants . . . in alphabetical order of the restaurants ' names ! ' An End to Bugling ' is his novel about a Confederate Army regiment at the battle of Gettysburg in 1863 who , due to a glitch in Heaven , are sent forward in time to Gettysburg , PA exactly one century later . ( This novel was still being written by EG Love at the time when Downey borrowed its premise for ' Balls Bluff ' . ) ' Balls Bluff ' is the story of one Union Army soldier ( played by director / scripter Downey ) who abruptly finds himself snatched from a Civil War battlefield in 1861 and catapulted 100 years into the future , to Central Park in New York City . Of course , he sees cars and other strange objects . He sees a newspaper headline about Vice President Johnson and he assumes this refers to Andrew Johnson , not Lyndon . He tells a modern onlooker that he's " a Union man " , and of course this is misinterpreted as a reference to trade unions . Eventually , the soldier learns that the Yankees ( baseball team ) are in the Bronx today , so he heads north ( geddit ? ) to rejoin his regiment . Get it ? Yankees ? Union Army ? Civil War ? Bring the jubilee . . . As ' Balls Bluff ' was a very short film , made on a negligible budget , it was probably intended as Downey's ' demo ' film to get him professional assignments . . . and on that level , it certainly succeeded , as Downey went on to a very notable career . By all accounts , ' Balls Bluff ' wasn't very clever or funny , but ( with its short running time and shorter budget ) it didn't really have a chance to do those things . As I've not actually seen ' Bulls Bluff ' , I shan't rate it .
' When Love Laughs ' ? It's not laughing here , muchacho .	I'm not a big fan of cowboy movies in general , although I enjoy the truly great Westerns by Ford , Hawks , Walsh , Wellman . Something I enjoy even less than the typical shoot-'em-up oater is the singing cowboy movie , as musical cowpokes tend to be even more brainless than the other sort . ' Thief of Love ' ( ' Ladrón de Amor ' ) is a Mexican singing-cowboy movie , so it manages to embody all the flaws of singing-cowboy flicks made north of the Rio Grande with a few extra flaws of Mexican origin . The film takes place in Spanish California , in the early 19th century . I'll admit that I know very little about the culture of that time and place , yet I found the production design of this film very unconvincing , and I believe that I spotted some anachronisms . José Mojica plays a singing vacquero who stops off in la cantina to have muchas cervezas with los muchachos . While José is all beered up , he boasts that he can tame the wild mare - - a horse no man can ride - - owned by local ranchero Don Alvarado ( a stolid performance by Carlos Villarias ) . While he's in the neighbourhood , José also boasts that he can tame the Don's daughter , a Mexican spitfire played by Mona Maris . From here , the rest of the movie is by the numbers . One thing I found quite offensive about this film is its ' Taming of the Shrew ' attitude : if a man desires a woman , he is her absolute master and she must bend to his will . If she fails to realise this at first , she will come to her senses eventually . I got the impression that the blatant sexism and machismo in this movie were due to the fact that this film is a product of Mexican culture , intended for Mexican audiences . But Mexicans have no exclusive copyright on such attitudes : quite a few ' yanqui ' movies have committed the same crimes . I'll rate this dire effort just .
Absolutely awful	Jerry Lewis is revered in the film industry as the inventor of the ' video follow ' , a device which is now standard equipment on big-budget movies : it gives film directors an instant video playback of each film take , without the time-consuming and expensive process of printing daily rushes . While I give Lewis credit for this innovation , I find his talents as a performer and director quite minor . The only Lewis performance which impressed me was his dramatic turn in ' The King of Comedy ' ( which , to Lewis's credit , apparently he largely improvised ) . In the rest of his filmography , there are occasional flashes of extreme originality , such as the typewriter sequence in ' Who's Minding the Store ? ' . Apart from such sporadic delights , Lewis remains for me someone who walks on the sides of his feet while screeching " Hey , lady ! " . Jerry Lewis starred in two self-named TV series . The first one ( 1963 ) combined a chat-show interview format with comedy sketches . Advance word predicted that this series was incredibly bad . A few hours before the premiere episode was aired live , a protester was seen outside the ABC-TV studio with a sign reading ' Ban the bomb before it goes off ! ' This same wisecrack applies just as well to Jerry Lewis's 1967 TV show . ' The Jerry Lewis Show ' ( ' 67 edition ) used a variety format . . . but was slow , dull and self-indulgent with it , featuring some very bad artistic decisions . The main visual motif was a fingerpost : an elaborate depiction of a hand with one pointing finger , and a sign or label to tell us what the finger is pointing towards . On ' The Jerry Lewis Show ' , each sketch or musical number began with a rostrum camera panning slowly across a brightly-coloured drawing of a long and elaborately designed arm , ending in a fingerpost with the name of the guest star who was about to perform , or the title of the sketch we were about to witness . There was an attempt to vary the designs of the fingerposts to match the acts which they introduced : for instance , the Osmonds ( a quartet at this point ) were introduced with a shot of four intertwining fingerposts , each a different colour , converging towards a caption reading ' THE OSMONDS ' . All that effort to such little effect . Tone-deaf Jerry Lewis saw fit to afflict us with his musical ' talents ' in some weird production numbers . One episode featured a dreadful song called ' An Epicurean Delight ' , in which Lewis and two guest stars , all dressed as chefs , cavorted round a banquet table and sang ( ? ) about how to create the perfect meal whilst getting drunk on cooking wine . This short-lived series featured Jerry Lewis in awful comedy sketches which were so generic that any performer could have done them just as well . . . or just as badly . Examples : a fingerpost points to a caption reading ' A TOMB WITH A VIEW ' , which leads into a sketch featuring Jerry and a woman guest-star as archaeologists opening an Egyptian tomb . ( She precedes him with an aerosol spray which we're meant to think is an air freshener , but she's really killing a fly . ) Another sketch : Jerry is sent to a lumber camp to sack a brawny hot-tempered foreman named Brannigan , and then Jerry must take Brannigan's place in charge of a crew of hostile lumberjacks . Have another : Jerry and a male guest star ( doing a bad imitation of Dean Martin ) play jobless vaudevillains . The other guy decides to do a ventriloquist act , and he bullies Jerry into pretending to be his dummy . He draws vertical lines on Jerry's chin to make his mouth look like a vent-figure's jaw . Just occasionally in this brief series , Jerry aspired to something greater . In one long sketch with no dialogue , Jerry played a schlub who's locked in a penny arcade after closing time . He spots a Ray Bradbury-ish waxwork fortune-teller with a sign reading ' The Power of Positive Thinking ' . This inspires Jerry to make various things happen just by pulling faces and making wishes . Of course , all the things he wishes for are stupid . This sort of silent character-study reminds me of Ernie Kovacs and the brilliant sketches he performed as his silent Everyman character named Eugene . But Kovacs's ' Eugene ' sketches were very funny and featured some clever technical innovations , whereas Jerry Lewis ( here , at least ) isn't funny at all . I suppose that the real culprits on ' The Jerry Lewis Show ' are the inept scriptwriters . But , as one-man-band Jerry Lewis was the producer who hired them , he must ultimately take the blame for their presence . ' The Jerry Lewis Show ' is totally unworthy of revival . Its badness doesn't even attain the level of so-bad-it's-good campiness . It's just bad , full stop .
Be afraid . Be very afraid .	' Afraid to Love ' is a comedy that isn't very funny , due to unrealistic and improbable situations . I can laugh at something that's completely unbelievable , such as a Marx Brothers movie , but ' Afraid to Love ' takes place in an ostensibly real universe . . . yet this film offers characters and motivations that we're unlikely ever to meet . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . Sir Reginald Belsize , a languid baronet , is romantically involved with Helen de Semiano . . . but she is married , and her husband is in no hurry to give her a divorce . Out of the blue , Sir Reginald is abruptly informed that he is heir to a vast fortune , but only if he gets married - - to any woman , any woman at all - - within the next two days ! See what I mean ? This sort of contrivance happens often in bad movies - - and occasionally in good ones , such as Buster Keaton's ' Seven Chances ' - - but how often have you ever heard of a real-life example of an inheritance based on marital status ? Helen is eager to marry Sir Reginald , but she can't get shut of her husband in time to meet the deadline . Now comes another contrivance . If Sir Reginald isn't married to some woman - - a total stranger will do - - within 48 hours , the inheritance goes to something called the Wapping Aquarium ! In the real world , Wapping is a working-class neighbourhood , unlikely to contain anything so poncy as an aquarium . I suspect that the scriptwriter meant this as a parody of Battersea Dogs ' Home , an actual charity . Sir Reginald dashes off to his friend John Trevor , who runs a labour exchange . The baronet figures that Trevor can find some woman who's willing to marry him just long enough for Sir Reginald to collect the cash , then he'll buy her off with a quickie divorce . This is fine with Helen , but she insists that Sir Reginald marry an ugly woman . . . to ensure there'll be no hanky-panky on the way to the banky . Meanwhile , at Travers's office , we meet Katherine Silverton , known in this silent film's screen titles as ' Kitty ' . She's trying to persuade Travers to hire her as a typist , but is somewhat hampered by the fact that she can't spell . Kitty is pretty , though not very witty . ( A pity . ) When Sir Reginald arrives , she sees him and is attracted to him . She also overhears Sir Reginald telling Travers that he wants to marry an ugly woman : any total stranger will do . And so Kitty , who has just now clapped eyes on Sir Reginald and knows nothing about him , decides to marry him . See what I meant about contrivance ? The plot would make sense if Kitty knew that Sir Reginald is about to become very rich . . . but we're expected to believe that Kitty would marry an utter stranger without being after his money . Kitty is played by Florence Vidor , an actress of some minor beauty but not much dramatic talent . Kitty is too pretty to qualify for Sir Reginald's matri-money ( I mean his matrimony ) , so straight away she uglifies herself with several layers of make-up . I found this sequence quite distressing ; it had Florence Vidor looking like a drag queen . But she makes herself ugly enough to meet Helen's standards . Sir Reginald marries Kitty , and then they go off to Paris . . . with Helen tagging along to make certain that Sir Reginald doesn't have sex with his legally wedded wife , thereby cheating on his mistress who's married to another man . But Kitty very quickly reveals her true looks , dismaying Helen when she discovers how attractive Kitty is . This ' comedy ' isn't very funny , although there is one amusing sequence involving a butler who has several ' accidents ' on purpose in order to give surreptitious signals to Kitty . The butler is played by Arthur Lubin , who later had a long successful career as a producer and director of lowbrow comedies : notably the Francis the Talking Mule movies and the TV series ' Mr Ed ' . Eventually , Sir Reginald collects his inheritance and he duly pays off Kitty with a cheque for £5 , 000 , as he had planned to do all along . He and Kitty divorce , and the baronet goes pell-mell to Pall Mall to relax in his club . When he tries to use his cigarette holder , he discovers there's something crammed into it . . . his cheque ! Kitty stuffed it in there . Apparently she was interested in Sir Reginald for himself , not for his money . ( Pull the other one . ) There's a Cinderella ending , no less improbable than all that's gone before . Part of the problem is that we're never certain that Kitty isn't acting from mercenary motives . Even her refusal of Sir Reginald's 5 , 000 quid could be a ploy to lower his defences while she siphons more money out of him . It doesn't help that Clive Brook ( as Sir Reginald ) seems to be bored stiff throughout this entire film . I'll rate this rubbish , mostly for the title graphics and art direction . Vidor and Brooke were teamed much more effecitvely in ' You Never Know Women ' .
After that title , it's all downhill . . .	The title of this movie isn't very funny , but it's funnier than anything in the movie itself . " Send ' em Back Half Dead " is meant to be a parody of " Bring ' em Back Alive " , the memoirs of Frank Buck . Originally from Texas , Buck spent most of the period from the 1920s until World War Two travelling to exotic locations , where he trapped wild animals ( usually ferocious ones ) which he then transported back to Europe and America and sold to menageries , circuses and zoos . He starred in a couple of movies , operated a wild-animal exhibit at the 1939 World's Fair ( which he relocated afterwards to Massapequa , NY ) and he worked as an animal wrangler in Hollywood . An amazing man , whose life ought to provide the basis for a fascinating movie . This movie isn't it . " Send ' em Back Half Dead " is a lame comedy short , featuring an animal trapper named Hank Ruck ( instead of Frank Buck , geddit ? ) . Ruck is assisted ( if that's the right word ) by his dumb but pretty wife Marie . Here the movie seems to be parodying not Frank Buck but Martin Johnson , a filmmaker who explored Africa with his attractive wife Osa along for the trip . This movie is a ' quota quickie ' , made on an incredibly tiny budget . I really have to wonder why the filmmakers decided to make a movie about a big-game hunter : even as a parody , that subject is inappropriate for a low-budget film . We see a couple of stock shots of wild animals , badly intercut between shots of the actors reacting to something off-camera . We're supposed to believe that the actors and the wild animals are together , but they obviously aren't . Also , several scenes depicting the windswept plains of the African veldt look like they were shot indoors on a dodgy soundstage in Elstree . There are bad performances all round , but ( by default ) the least inept performances are given by Ben Welden and Andreas Malandrinos as a couple of oily Levantines . Welden was an American character actor who started his film career in England before moving to Hollywood , where he became the only actor ever to kill Elia Kazan onscreen ( in ' City for Conquest ' ) . Malandrinos had a long career in British films as a character actor , but I'll bet he left this rubbish off his list of credits . I'll rate this terrible movie .
Turn the page : no news here	' The Front Page ' , the famous stage comedy by Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthur , was based on their own experiences as reporters in the 1920s for two of Chicago's most cut-throat newspapers . Ben and Charlie worked for two different newspapers , but they weren't rivals : MacArthur wrote for an ( upper-class ) evening newspaper and Hecht wrote for a ( working-class ) morning tabloid , so their readerships didn't overlap . When they wrote ' The Front Page ' , the co-authors literally flipped a coin to see whose name would be listed first : Hecht won . After the play's success on Broadway ( and as a film ) , they continued to recycle the plot for uncredited remakes : the adventure film ' Gunga Din ' copies some of its plot and characterisation from ' The Front Page ' . This hardy perennial has been filmed and remade many times , most interestingly as ' His Girl Friday ' , in which the role of star newsman Hildy Johnson is rewritten as a woman . There's even been a musical version , ' Windy City ' , which I saw onstage in London . ( I didn't much fancy it . ) Charles MacArthur was one of the great characters of Broadway and Hollywood , and quite a few screenwriters of Hollywood's golden era used Charlie as the inspiration for colourful male leads in screwball comedies ( such as the character played by William Powell in ' Double Wedding ' ) . Ben Hecht's films were banned in Britain during the 1950s , due to his controversial comments on the Palestine issue . The hilarious film ' Gaily Gaily ' is inspired by Ben Hecht's early days as a Chicago newspaperman . The 1970 television production of ' The Front Page ' brings absolutely nothing new to the newsroom . Nowadays , when all of the other film versions are available on video , this low-budget 1970 production is totally unnecessary : in 1970 , it at least had the merit of bringing this American stage classic to a pre-VCR audience . For modern viewers , the only unique aspect of this version is a brief prologue by Helen Hayes , who was Charles MacArthur's widow . . . and she traded on that fact for at least three decades . ( For my money , Charles MacArthur was the real talent in that family . ) In the lead role of editor Walter Burns ( based on legendary Chicago editor Walter Howey ) , Robert Ryan is a disaster . Ryan was invariably inept in comedy roles , ahd here he's at the bottom of his form . George Grizzard is only marginally better ( and slightly effeminate ) as Hildy Johnson . Estelle Parsons plays her role on a rising note of hysteria : when her character falls out the window , my reaction was ' Good riddance ! ' . Throughout , the dialogue has been cleaned up slightly for television , which is a mistake for this particular subject matter . Also , I could have done without the presence of screech-voiced Doro Merande , who was one of the most annoying performers ever to appear in films . The best performance in this production ( which isn't saying much ) is given by veteran character actor John McGiver as the corrupt mayor of Chicago ( or is that phrase redundant ? ) . McGiver is grossly miscast here . It's always a pleasure to see McGiver at work , but this is not one of his better performances . I can't recommend this version of ' The Front Page ' for any reason , especially as so many far superior versions are available on video . Even Billy Wilder's remake of ' The Front Page ' ( starring Lemmon and Matthau , much too late in their careers for these roles ) is funnier than this tv version . I'll rate the 1970 ' Front Page ' . Skip this version and watch ' Gaily Gaily ' : it's hilarious , and it gives a much more accurate depiction of Chicago journalism .
As Italian as Chico Marx , but not as funny .	The enormous success of ' All in the Family ' inevitably spawned a flurry of imitations . ' The Montefuscos ' - - created by Persky and Denoff , both of whom had done excellent work on ' The Dick Van Dyke Show ' - - was an attempt at an Italian-American version of the Bunker mentality , as in Archie Bunker . Instead of Archie , the paterfamilias here was Tony Montefusco . He is the absolute boss in his home ( I feel sorry for his wife ) , but of course there are - - as in so many Yank sitcoms - - those usual " Awwww " moments which hint that , deep down , Tony is just an old softy . For some reason , it seems to be permissible on American television to invoke ethnic stereotypes providing the stereotypes are favourable . So , here we avoid the negative Italian stereotypes but we get all the positive ones : they have huge families , they love to eat , they quarrel among themselves but stick up for each other , yadda yadda . At this point in his life , Tony's children have mostly grown and flown the coop ( understandably ) , but they've given him young grandchildren . So , in every episode , we have the big Sunday evening sit-down dinner of the whole Montefusco clan at Tony's house . ( I feel sorry for his wife , who has to do all the cooking beforehand , all the serving during , and all the wash-up afterward . ) Tony's daughter Angela has married . . . which would be fine with Tony , except that Angela has committed the unpardonable sin of marrying a man who ( gasp ! ) is not an Italian . He isn't even Catholic ! Angela's husband is Jim Cooney , a bland and hapless schlub who is Episcopalian , a fact which scandalises Tony . He constantly addresses his son-in-law as ' Cooney ' and refers to him contemptuously as ' my Episcopalian son-in-law ' . Meanwhile , anything Tony's wife has to say about this situation doesn't count . . . because she's an Italian wife , which ( in this sitcom , at least ) means she should shut up and stay in the kitchen , except when she's serving food . Jim Cooney is constantly depicted as the family's jerk : apparently Episcopalians are the only minority group whom it's safe to ridicule . This sitcom was horribly unfunny , which ( I hope ) explains why it didn't last very long . I found it offensive , not so much because it gleefully perpetrated ethnic stereotypes , but rather because it seemed to think that it was celebrating the richness of Italian-American culture . This show was about as Italian as Chico Marx , but not remotely as funny . Basta !
After you , Alphonse . . .	' Love and Glory ' was directed by Rupert Julian , whose best-known credit is the silent version of ' The Phantom of the Opera ' , starring Lon Chaney . But Chaney and Julian quarrelled very bitterly during production of that film : Julian was ultimately dismissed from the set , and Chaney took over the direction himself . . . with an uncredited assist by Edward Sedgewick . Rupert Julian's reputation is based entirely on one highly regarded film ( ' Phantom of the Opera ' ) which he largely didn't direct . ' Love and Glory ' is probably a better indication of his talents . This movie is very bad indeed . This is one of those films that take place in two time periods several decades apart . In the 1860s , a regiment of Zouaves ( French infantry ) are fighting in Algeria . For some stupid reason , Anatole Picard has brought along his wife Gabrielle , played by Madge Bellamy with an elaborate marcel hairdo that immediately types her as a 1920s actress . When gabby Gabbie ( she gets plenty of dialogue in the intertitles ) wanders off and gets captured by the riffraff Riffs , Anatole and his buddy Pierre leave their regiment and go looking for her . They find Gabrielle in the encampment of local warlord Karim Bey , but now they get captured too . ( C'est le guerre , oui ? ) Discovering that Anatole is the regiment's trumpeter , the Bey ( a stereotypically stupid swarthy foreigner ) orders him to bring forth his trumpet and blow the call for retreat so that his regiment will go home . Of course , Anatole blows a charge instead . ( This is clumsily depicted in the silent-film intertitles . ) When Anatole gives his horn a sweet toot , the Zouave regiment come rushing into view , toot sweet . Sacre bleu ! Gabrielle and lucky Pierre are rescued , but Anatole dies in action . Vive le France ! Fade in fifty years onward , during the days of the Great War . Pierre and Gabrielle ( now much older ) are living in the French village of Mirabel , which is lately overrun with German schweinhunds , I mean soldiers . From this point , the movie degenerates into a sluggish examination of honour , courage , truth and beauty . Madge Bellamy looks utterly ludicrous in old-age makeup , and Charles de Roche ( as Pierre ) looks very nearly as bad . Ford Sterling ( the silent film era's equivalent of Harvey Korman ) overacts outrageously as the French mayor who must appease the German invaders . Gibson Gowland is much more impressive in a too-small role . Rupert Julian shows here how bad a director he was . There are long , long , long stretches in which a single actor ( usually Madge Bellamy ) is kept in close-up , relieved only by long speechy intertitles . Julian should have learnt from the example of William Wellman , who always used close-ups only very sparingly for maximum emotional impact . Also , Julian should have studied Wellman's action sequences : in ' Love and Glory ' , the battle scenes in 19th-century Algeria are ludicrously bad , and the modern-day battle sequence ( German shock troops versus French poilus ) is utterly unconvincing . I'll rate ' Love and Glory ' precisely .
Skip the movie , watch the saddle .	Spade Cooley ( whose nickname referred to his protuberant lips ) had a semi-successful career as a singing cowboy , a sort of downmarket Roy Rogers performing on radio and television . ( He even got mentioned in an episode of Jackie Gleason's ' Honeymooners ' . ) Cooley's minimal talent soon lost momentum : by the early 1950s he was washed up on the air waves , and hoping to star in cowboy movies . He made three dire oaters and then called it a day . In 1961 , the hot-tempered Cooley beat and tortured his wife so severely that she died , and he was convicted of murdering her . As with Tom Neal ( another homicidal actor who wasn't much of an actor ) , a morbid fascination hangs over Cooley's films , purely due to the real-life tragedy . ' The Silver Bandit ' is the second ( and probably worst ) of his three starring vehicles . This is one of those cheapjack stories with a masked villain , a device which enables a stunt double to do all the fighting and riding without the audience catching wise that he's a double . Cooley portrays the meek clerk of the silver mine , whose mettle is tested when he must catch the bandit . That's a really bad decision , because Cooley is such an inept actor that it's a bad idea to have him playing a feckless character who calls attention to his own naffness . This entire movie appears to have been filmed on a budget of about two bits and a plugged nickel , except that the Silver Bandit owns a hand-tooled Bohlin saddle that had me green with envy . In fact , I kept watching the saddle leathers instead of this movie , because the saddle was a lot more interesting . The songs in this semi-musical western are ineptly performed by Cooley and Ginny Jackson . And this movie features the only silver mine I've ever seen that's located BELOW the timber line ; in real life , silver ore is usually found above high timber . Sadly , ' The Silver Bandit ' is so bad , it doesn't even manage to be enjoyable on a campy level . I'll rate this movie precisely one point , for that Bohlin .
Sodom and Begorrah !	The " Old Mother Riley " series of comedies , starring Arthur Lucan ( in drag ) as an Irish scrubwoman , and his wife Kitty McShane as Mother Riley's daughter , are all quite dire , but this one is the worst entry in the series . At least the other entries have titles which give you some sense of their plotlines , but " Old Mother Riley's New Venture " has a distressingly generic title which strongly implies that the film went into production before its script was written . It certainly feels that way , too . About 20 minutes into the film , it seems to be about a stolen gem called the Hoola Diamond ( is that name meant to be funny ) ? Then the diamond goes unmentioned for several reels while Mother Riley gets suspected of murder . Then the plot shifts gears again . The film opens with a vaguely amusing routine about a Lowell Thomas-like newsreel narrator whose script doesn't match his visuals . This leads into a long boring exposition scene with no laughs at all . Mr Grigsby is the workaholic owner and operator of a posh hotel . He hasn't had a holiday in years , because he can't trust anyone to run the hotel in his absence . Then he suddenly decides to take a holiday after all , and ( get this ) he decides to hand over his authority to the very next person who walks through his door . So of course that person is Old Mother Riley . One of my least favourite cliches is the one about the plain-spoken prole with no education who takes over a huge business concern and immediately does a better job than all the educated experts . For a moment , I thought " Old Mother Riley's New Venture " would fulfil that cliche . Instead , it does something worse . Arthur Lucan , neither Irish nor female , was never convincing as Daphne Snowdrop Riley ( as her name is given here ) , but in this film his panto-dame impersonation is even worse than usual . The film's first shot of Mother Riley is a close-up of her hands holding a dish , while we hear her voice offscreen . This is a terrible directorial decision , because it emphasises Lucan's hands and falsetto brogue , which were the least convincing parts of his female impersonation . There is one good gag here , which must have earned a rueful laugh in postwar Britain , as Mother Riley smashes several plates , finds one plate that's unbreakable , and turns it over to discover that the underside bears the words ' EXPORT ONLY ' . A more typical ' joke ' occurs when Mother Riley is challenged to provide the exact date of an event , and she answers : ' How should I know ? My name is Old Mother Riley , not Old Moore . ' ( This is an unfunny reference to an almanac publisher . ) In this film , unlike most of the other Mother Riley instalments , Kitty McShane speaks her lines in a brogue , and her dialogue gives her several ' Oirish ' figures of speech . She also attempts to impress us with her vocal talents in a long dull production number built upon ' I'll Take You Home Again , Kathleen ' . This occurs in a St Patrick's Day sequence , in which several Anglo-Irish tipplers get nostalgic for the auld sod ( no , not Arthur Lucan ; I mean Ireland ) . I can abide it when Americans or Australians of Irish descent get nostalgic for distant Hibernia , but I have very little patience for Irish immigrants and Anglo-Irish who get shamrock-happy while living in England . If it's so wonderful back home in Ireland , why don't you jump on a ferry ? Sebastian Cabot ( the only actor who worked with Jerry Lewis , Bob Dylan AND Old Mother Riley ) shows up briefly as a sheikh who can't speak English , so we get a long dialogue scene when his aide ( also Arabian ) speaks to him in pidgin English . Can't these Arabs speak Arabian ? SPOILERS COMING NOW . It gets worse . Grigsby goes on holiday and leaves no forwarding address . Then he dies in an accident , and it turns out he died intestate . ( This fool is a businessman ? ) Then it turns out he wasn't dead after all . I did like one clever touch , during a scene in which police inspectors question Old Mother Riley as a murder suspect . We see the hands on a clock revolving rapidly to show the passage of many hours . Yes , plenty of films have used this visual device . . . but here , the hands move rapidly in accelerated time while we continue to hear Mother Riley's and the detectives ' voices speaking offscreen in normal time . I've never encountered this visual device used over dialogue before . There are also a couple of clever optical wipes . Gobsmackingly , this film ends with a pie fight ! There are one or two vaguely original gags here , but suddenly - in the midst of the pie fight - the film cuts to some guy we've never seen before , sitting in a canvas chair and shouting ' Give me more ! Give me more ! ' Huh ? Who's he ? It took me a few seconds to realise that this guy is supposed to be the director of the movie we've been watching . . . and , for all I know , the man appearing onscreen in this shot might actually be John Harlow , the man who directed this mess . This gimmick is so confusing , the scene loses any comic momentum it possessed . He gets hit with a pie ( he deserves one ) , and then the travelogue narrator ( from the very beginning of the movie ) gets hit with a pie too . What a proper mess ! I have a great fondness for variety-hall British comedy , but I don't ever want to see " Old Mother Riley's New Venture " again . I'll rate this rubbish 1 point out of 10 . Faith and bejabbers !
Julie Andrews kisses herself .	Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke were so brilliant together in ' Mary Poppins ' ( in spite of his wretched faux-Cockney accent ) that it's a shame they don't recapture that chemistry here . This very weak variety special is directed by Andrews's long-time husband Blake Edwards . Despite their long happy marriage , Andrews and Edwards have done their best work separately : Edwards has made some brilliant films - - including ' The Great Race ' , one of my all-time favourite comedies - - but he's never done a good job of directing Julie Andrews , and she always comes off as lacklustre under his direction . London's Covent Garden district ( on the site of a long-ago convent , hence its name ) has a deep and rich history , being for many decades the site of an open market specialising in produce and flowers . Alfred Hitchcock's father , a poulterer , maintained a stall in Covent Garden Market , and Hitchcock set much of his film ' Frenzy ' there , filming in authentic locations . More recently , Covent Garden has been a centre for opera and high culture . George Bernard Shaw knew what he was doing when he set the opening scene of ' Pygmalion ' in Covent Garden : a natural place for Londoners of the upper and the lower classes to cross paths . It's a shame that almost none of that atmosphere is conveyed in ' Julie and Dick at Covent Garden ' , which appears to have been filmed on indoor sets with rather obvious actors substituting for authentic stallmen . Dick Van Dyke is nearly bowled over by a barrow boy who tells him ' Mind your plates ! ' This prompts Julie Andrews to give Van Dyke a lesson in Cockney rhyming-slang : ' plates ' ( short for ' plates of meat ' ) is slang for ' feet ' , and so forth . Eventually , Julie and Dick meet the Ghost of Drury Lane , who has somehow arrived in Covent Garden . This ' ghost ' is played by Carl Reiner , kitted out in elaborate Elizabethan garb with a peccadillo ruff . There's some very unimpressive trick photography as Reiner passes through a solid wall , and Andrews puts her hand through his ghostly body . Then , for no discernible reason , all three of them sing ' Consider Yourself ' from ' Oliver ! ' , marching in place , with Reiner looking utterly ridiculous in his Shakespearean cozzy alongside Andrews and Van Dyke in normal clothing . But then it gets worse . Julie tells Dick about Britain's tradition of pantomime comedies , in which the male hero ( the ' principal boy ' ) is played by a woman in tight-fitting trousers , while the ' dame ' is played by a male comedian in drag . This is the cue for a painfully bad tab-show version of ' Cinderella ' , in which Andrews plays the dual role of Cinderella and Prince Charming , with some very clumsy editing for the scene in which the male Julie Andrews kisses the female Julie Andrews . Even worse is the depiction of the Ugly Stepsisters , played by Van Dyke and Reiner in horrible drag , with elaborate Marie Antoinette wigs and polonaise gowns . Oh , blimey ! It's a shame that these talented performers got stuck doing this rubbish . I'll rate it just .
Foul ball !	' Abner the Baseball ' is an extremely low-budget cartoon from Paramount , the studio that consistently produced the least entertaining and least imaginative animation . The opening credits of this cartoon ( with a choral theme song ) place so much emphasis on the title character , they make this toon seem intended as the debut of an ongoing series . But this is strictly a one-off , and it's hard to see how it could have been otherwise : Abner is just a talking baseball . . . and he isn't even a talker , so much as a mere narrator . We meet Abner propped upon a pillow in the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown , New York . With an annoyingly twee voice emerging from his anthropomorphised face , Abner reveals the events leading up to his arrival in this hallowed hall . It seems that Abner is the baseball that got whacked by Mickey Mantle for a home run against the Detroit Tigers , on 10 September 1960 . . . sailing for an astonishing 634 feet ( 193 metres ) . Abner gets whacked right out of Briggs Stadium and into the street , where he's found by a kid who is honest enough to bring him back to the stadium . Abner's narration tells us that this is the longest home run ever hit . Actually , Mantle had previously hit at least one longer home run , in an exhibition game . We see a cartoon version of Mickey Mantle , although the only part of him that's recognisable is the number 7 on his jersey . The animation here is quite bad even by Paramount's low standard , and repetitive with it . Every single time the catcher signals a pitch , he always gives the two-finger signal . ( My cultural references are British , so I got a big laugh out of this . . . for the wrong reason . ) Each time the pitcher goes into his wind-up , he invariably cocks his leg absolutely straight up into the air . Even a very unsophisticated child who knows nothing about animation cels will notice that the animators are using the same actions over and over in this brief toon . A baseball is not the best possible object for animators to imbue with anthropomorphic existence . Abner is drawn to look like a regulation baseball , but with a human-ish face . ( As if the baseball-headed mascot of the New York Mets got his body chopped off . ) Kids who watch this cartoon might be prompted to wonder how a humanised baseball feels when it gets knocked for a home run , or when it lands in the street outside the stadium . Doesn't this hurt ? Abner never addresses this . Nor are we ever told why this particular baseball is named Abner . The obvious assumption is that this refers to Abner Doubleday . It's now thoroughly discredited that Abner Doubleday invented baseball : this canard was created by an Anglophobe sport-equipment manufacturer who wanted to suppress the fact that America's national pastime was invented in England . Still , the disproven myth refuses to die . When I visited Arlington National Cemetery - - where Doubleday is buried - - I was annoyed that the tour guide kept saying that Doubleday invented baseball ( which he didn't do ) , while mentioning nothing at all about Doubleday's actual achievements as a general in America's Civil War . I'll rate ' Abner the Baseball ' just 1 point in 10 , and that's only because I'm a baseball fan .
Instant amnesia .	Larry Semon was ( at best ) in the lower second rank of silent-movie comedians , more likely in the third rank . Buster Keaton , in his memoir co-written with Charles Samuels , commented that Semon tended to fill his comedies with all sorts of outrageous gags which had nothing to do with the plot or the characters . Consequently ( said Keaton ) , audiences tended to laugh harder at Semon's shorts than at other comedians ' work . . . but afterwards they couldn't remember what they'd laughed at . It's hard to see how Keaton can have known this : did pollsters stop audiences on their way out of Semon screenings , and challenge them to synopsise what they'd just seen ? But Keaton's observation was apparently made without malice , and certainly seems to be true . I've sat through ' The Sawmill ' twice without laughing at all , and I'm blowed if I can remember what it's about . Semon's in a sawmill , right enough , and he avoids the obvious gags such as tying the heroine to a log as it approaches the buzzsaw . But he doesn't do anything better than that , either . This is very much a run-of-the-mill Semon movie , and I'm not saying that to hang jokes on the word ' mill ' . As IMDb correctly notes , Semon expended a huge budget on this short comedy ( and he spent only slightly smaller budgets on some of his others , such as ' The Counter Jumper ' ) . Semon insisted on producing and budgeting his own films ( with other people's money ) , but he was notoriously bad at budgeting and financing . . . nearly as bad as Harry Langdon . Semon's eventual bankruptcy was undoubtedly a factor in his early death . . . or disappearance , depending on which theory you believe . Anyway , you can definitely believe that ' The Sawmill ' is worth a miss . I'll rate it , at absolute most , one point in 10 . That sound you hear of sawing wood is the audience snoring .
Not enough pistachios in ' Mixed Nuts ' .	I was not surprised to discover that ' Mixed Nuts ' was recut from footage in two other shorts : this film's storyline is incoherent . Also ( in the print I viewed , at least ) the photography in some scenes is so dark that I could barely follow the action . Stan Laurel , pre-Hardy , plays a lunatic who thinks he's Napoleon . By the way , is there even one documented case in authentic medical literature of a mental case who thought he was Napoleon ? The funniest gags here are in the intertitles , when someone comments of Laurel : ' He thinks Waterloo is a swimming pool . ' ( That gag would never have played in Laurel's native Britain , where there are plenty of jokes conflating Waterloo the battlefield and Waterloo the railway station . ) Also in this film , we have coal dust identified as ' Pittsburgh talcum ' . I was surprised when a wisecrack in the intertitles referred to Laurel - - his face blackened by coal - - as ' Al Jolson ' . . . because at this point ( 1922 ) Jolson was still exclusively a stage performer , and I didn't expect 1922 movie audiences to get that gag . However , I viewed a print with most of the original intertitles replaced by later ones : the Jolson jape may have been inserted at some point after ' The Jazz Singer ' . Eventually , Laurel commandeers a steamroller and uses it as a tank . . . a surprising gambit for a man who allegedly thinks he's Napoleon Bonaparte . I can't recall Napoleon ever using tank warfare . At one point in this movie , some boys play a game cried ' shinny-on-your-side ' . I've asked several American friends if they've ever encountered this term . So far , nothing . ' Mixed Nuts ' contains some plot business that ( with my British cultural references ) I didn't understand , but which an American friend explained to me . I had often heard the phrase ' meal ticket ' as a slang term , but was unaware of its literal meaning . In ' Mixed Nuts ' , there's some business with an actual meal ticket : in some old-time diners , the charges were totted up progressively , with the customer paying at the end . Modern American audiences probably won't understand this any more than I did . ' Mixed Nuts ' is mostly interesting as a glimpse of Stan Laurel still fighting to find a screen character in his own right , getting away from his stint as Chaplin's understudy ( in the Fred Karno troupe ) and as Chaplin's outright imitator ( in ' The Keystone Trio ' of American vaudeville ) . Max Asher , quite funny in some Hal Roach films , is given nothing to do here . As an alleged comedy , this movie falls flat . I'll rate it just .
Skip this documentary , watch the episodes instead	" Amos ' n ' Andy " was a phenomenally popular American radio programme , transmitting five days a week from 1929 to 1960 ! Although this was a comedy series , Freeman Gosden and Charles Correll ( the actors who wrote the scripts and played all the male voices ) had the brilliant idea of using serialised plotlines which continued from one episode to the next . Often , the Friday episode would end with a cliffhanger . . . keeping the show's huge listening audience on tenterhooks over the weekend . Nearly all the characters in " Amos ' n ' Andy " were Negroes ( this being the accepted term at the time ) . Gosden and Correll , who were white , performed the black characters ' voices in a broad minstrel-show dialect with heavy reliance on malapropisms and catchphrases such as " Amos , I'se regusted " . Amos ' n ' Andy made a few half-hearted movie appearances ( featuring Gosden and Correll in blackface ) , but these were never remotely as popular as the radio series . For the transition to television , producers Gosden and Correll wisely hired a talented cast of black actors to play their characters . Filmed at the Hal Roach studio in California , the tv show " Amos ' n ' Andy " originally aired on CBS from June 1951 to June ' 53 and was a huge hit , but was yanked off the air under tremendous pressure from the NAACP . " Amos ' n ' Andy " was also the very first American sitcom to air in Britain , where the BBC televised it fortnightly from April 1954 to September 1957 . My stepfather has told me of the great interest which this programme aroused in the mid-1950s among British televiewers , both white and black . Eventually , social pressure led to the 78 television kinescopes of " Amos ' n ' Andy " being suppressed for more than 20 years . Was " Amos ' n ' Andy " racist ? The dialogue and situations in the tv series were slightly more realistic than the ( much cruder ) radio version . To its credit , this tv series gave steady employment to some talented African-American actors . Several of my black friends ( in America and England ) , have told me nostalgic tales of how their families eagerly watched this show because ( in the 1950s ) it was the only tv programme that showed black men and women who weren't servants . The Negro characters in " Amos ' n ' Andy " were businessmen , homeowners and housewives , not shoeshine boys or mammies . ( In one episode , Kingfish quotes the Wall Street Journal . ) The characters in " Amos ' n ' Andy " had unfavourable traits , but they were no worse than white sitcom characters such as Gilligan , Eddie Haskell or Ralph Kramden . In fact , the Raccoon Lodge ( in ' The Honeymooners ' ) is clearly inspired by the Mystic Knights of the Sea , the fraternal lodge that inspired so many " Amos ' n ' Andy " episodes . Andy's friend Amos Jones was definitely a positive role model : a hard-working cab driver , a loving husband and father . But these positive traits made him a poor figure for comedy plotlines . In the radio series , Amos ( voiced by Gosden ) was a major character . . . yet when this sitcom moved to television , Amos ( now played by black actor Alvin Childress ) was demoted to a mere narrator , speaking into the camera at the start of each episode to describe the antics of the more rascally Andy and his lodge brother the Kingfish . " Amos ' n ' Andy : Anatomy of a Controversy " was a tv documentary produced in 1986 , timed to mark the release of the tv show's 78 episodes to video . This documentary's television format is painfully obvious : there are crude gaps for commercial breaks every few minutes . The onscreen narrator is George Kirby , a very talented African-American actor who had no connexion to the original series , but whose comedy style is firmly in that vaudeville tradition . In the first half of this hour-long programme , he gives us a rundown of the tv series , its actors , and the social controversy . Annoyingly , we see NO clips from any of the episodes , nor any interview footage of anyone connected with the tv series . We DO get some irrelevant soundbites from a few black celebrities who offer their opinions of the tv show . . . but these are only opinions , from people who have no direct link to the series . For the second half of this documentary , Kirby announces that we will now see an episode of " Amos ' n ' Andy " in its entirety : shown on tv for the first time in more than 20 years ! We see the episode in which the Kingfish sells Andy a house . . . but the ' house ' is actually a flat backdrop left over from a recent movie shoot . It looks good from the front and the back , but it's only half an inch thick . When Andy walks through the front door , he finds himself standing in the back garden ! " Amos ' n ' Andy : Anatomy of a Controversy " served a useful purpose in 1986 , when most people had heard of this notorious tv series but nobody had seen it for many years . Now that all 78 episodes are available on video , we can make up our minds without this documentary . I'll rate " Anatomy of a Controversy " 1 point out of 10 . Here's a trivia note which you WON'T learn from this documentary : Joe Connelly and Bob Mosher , the headwriters of the " Amos ' n ' Andy " tv show , later created ' Leave It to Beaver ' . . . a series which was a lot less funny than " Amos ' n ' Andy " .
' Deadly ' doesn't begin to describe it .	Lawrence Sanders wrote a series of novels about NYPD detective Edward Delaney ; popular in their day , they have not remained in print . Sanders actually gave them sequential titles : ' The First Deadly Sin ' , ' The Second Deadly Sin ' , ' The Third Deadly Sin ' . The series died before Sanders ran out of sins . Frank Sinatra was occasionally an inspired actor , although always an undisciplined one . ( He snagged the great lead role of Billy Bigelow in the film version of ' Carousel ' - - Sinatra would have been brilliant in this part - - but then dropped it when he learnt that the film was going to be shot in two different screen ratios , and he would have been required to do all his scenes twice . ) Sinatra's Academy Award for ' From Here to Eternity ' was well-deserved , and in my opinion he should have got an Oscar for ' Von Ryan's Express ' too , and possibly for ' Suddenly ' . However , Sinatra apparently ran out of energy ( and talent ) before he made the movie version of ' The First Deadly Sin ' . This was Sinatra's last starring performance ; apparently he'd planned to develop a franchise series based on Sanders's novels , but this movie was such a clanging flop that no sequels were made . Two later friends of mine had worked ( before I knew them ) on the crew of this film ; they've told me that the production was a nightmare , plagued by wrong-headed decisions . Delaney ( Sinatra ) is hunting a serial killer while Delaney's wife ( Faye Dunaway ) struggles with cancer . These two plots never interlink , nor does Sinatra convey any sense of a man torn between two priorities . He just shuttles ( in slow motion ) between police procedural sequences and hospital sequences . The killer is known to the audience , so it's no spoiler when I tell you that the murderer is Daniel Blank , a wealthy playboy who has no particular motive for killing random Manhattanites : he just kills ' em for the hell of it . With an ice axe , no less . The killer is played by David Dukes , who filmed his scenes in Manhattan concurrently while starring on Broadway in ' Bent ' , in which he played an inmate of a concentration camp . Dukes's head was shaved to a tight crew cut for his stage role , but this coiffure was inappropriate for his film role as a murderous playboy , so Dukes plays his scenes in a hairpiece . Which would have been fine , if the film chose not to call attention to the hairpiece . Instead , we get a stupid sequence in which Dukes's hairpiece flies off while he sinks the axe into a victim's skull . Then we get a bad dialogue scene later , explaining why the playboy has a crew cut and why he wears a wig to cover it . Hell toupee . My friends on the film crew told me that the wig fell off by accident , and then the dialogue was inserted so they wouldn't have to shoot a retake . Frankly , Dukes's performance quite fails to impress me : given the handicap of his inappropriate hairstyle , the casting agent should have chosen another actor ( with more hair ) instead . We get an utterly pointless scene in which Sinatra swots up evidence with two civilian volunteers , of the sort whom real police call ' cop groupies ' . One of the volunteers is played by Martin Gabel , an American actor who spoke with a pronounced mid-Atlantic accent . ( In real life , Gabel described himself as ' affected ' . ) Gabel's accent was useful in some other roles , but here it's just distracting . SPOILERS COMING . Sinatra's ( very slow ) race to find the killer occurs during the week before Christmas , but this has nothing to do with the plot . And the film was shot in late summer , worse luck . ( The exterior scenes in this movie show very little snow . ) As New Yorkers know , every year during Christmas season - - and only during Christmas season - - the Empire State Building's upper floors are lighted green and red . While ' The First Deadly Sin ' was shooting principal photography , Sinatra's production company paid some bucks to Helmsley-Spear ( the Empire State Building's landlords ) to wire up the Christmas lighting a few months ahead of schedule . This would have been a very effective device for an exterior shot of Sinatra in midtown Manhattan at night , with the Empire State Building glowing green and red in the background . Instead , after all that trouble , we merely get one quick insert shot of the Empire State Building's upper storeys , lighted in the appropriate colour scheme but with no surroundings - - no context - - at all . This shot occurs immediately before the death scene . Ouch ! The death scene . After nabbing the killer , Delaney goes to visit his wife in hospital . This scene is beyond awful . Sinatra reads aloud from an old-time children's book about two little girls named Sunny and Honey . He reads this awful text in a voice so lethargic , he seems to be on meds . Dunaway remains utterly inert through this scene , at the end of which Sinatra realises she's dead . Of boredom , most likely . Fade out . I sat through this rubbish only because I know two people who worked on the tech crew . I'll rate ' The First Deadly Sin ' just one point in ten .
Bing's big boo-boo ; Lillie's shilly-shally	' Doctor Rhythm ' is the worst film Bing Crosby ever starred in . Bing made this movie at his home studio Paramount during one of his best career arcs . The film has good production values , especially an impressive studio mock-up of Manhattan's Central Park . So , why is this film so painfully dull ? Part of the problem is down to a weak score . The best song here is the insipid ' This Is My Night to Dream ' . The script is even worse . Ostensibly , this movie is based on O . Henry's story ' The Badge of Policeman O'Roon ' . In that story , a fictional war hero clearly based on Theodore Roosevelt impersonates his friend O'Roon ( a mounted police officer assigned to Central Park ) when O'Roon is unable to fulfil his duties : the brief story ends with one of O . Henry's trademark coincidences . If Paramount had actually filmed that story ( which had barely enough plot to sustain a feature-length film ) , the result would have been better than this mess . Instead , we have a weird plot in which Crosby is a white-coated medico who illegally substitutes for his policeman friend , foot patrolman Andy Devine . The trim-figured Crosby looks dapper in a patrolman's tunic , but the huge slobby Devine looks so different from Bing that it's difficult to imagine Crosby substituting for Devine . And where did Crosby's character find a police tunic that fits him so well ? The opening scene of this movie - - an illicit midnight foot-race in Central Park - - is fast-moving and shows promise , but the film's all downhill from there . I blame screenwriter Jo Swerling , a man of little talent who nevertheless got his name onto several prestigious projects . Swerling is contractually credited as co-author of the great Broadway musical ' Guys and Dolls ' , but that theatre classic does not retain a single word of Swerling's original ( and worthless ) script . The single worst problem with ' Dr Rhythm ' is that someone at Paramount intended it to be a star vehicle for Bea Lillie , who only briefly appears alongside Bing in this movie . The Canadian-born Bea Lillie was married to a British peer and was often mistakenly assumed to be English . In the 1930s , Lillie was a huge star in Broadway musicals . . . however , it's notable that she only starred in revues : shows with songs and skits but no plot . In the 1960s , Lillie played Madame Arcati in the Broadway musical ' High Spirits ' : this was her one and only success in a book musical . Lillie simply didn't have the acting ability to carry a narrative story . She starred in a semi-amusing silent , ' Exit Smiling ' , but most of her other film work is in supporting roles . I found her performance in ' Around the World in Eighty Days ' deeply annoying . In ' Dr Rhythm ' , the banal plot and Bing's groaning are interrupted a couple of times so that Bea Lillie's specialities can get crowbarred into the movie . We see the routine in which she orders a double dozen double damask dinner napkins from a flustered shop clerk ; Lillie had done this routine on Broadway but was careful never to perform it in Britain , where audiences knew that Lillie had stolen the routine from Cicely Courtneidge . We also get here another of Lillie's stage schticks : she is seen standing still on stage , wearing a formal gown that reaches to the floor , entirely concealing her feet . With much pomp , Lillie recites a dignified speech . . . then she hikes up her skirt to reveal that she's wearing roller skates , and she skates merrily away . That's about as funny as this movie gets . It doesn't help that Lillie is physically unattractive . She looks like a cross between Norma Shearer and Jughead Jones . Mary Carlisle , Bing's love interest here , is blonde and pretty but dull as dishwater . Bea Lillie simply didn't have enough material to carry a starring role in a feature film , but there's enough of her on offer here to seriously weaken ' Dr Rhythm ' as a Bing Crosby vehicle . Usually , when an important stage performer makes a rare screen appearance , I commend the film for preserving the performer's act . In this case , ' Dr Rhythm ' serves the useful function of proving that Bea Lillie wasn't very funny . I can't recommend this movie to anyone but Bing Crosby completists , for whom I'll rate it just 1 point out of 10 .
Too many babies , not enough laughs .	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy had extensive ( separate ) film careers before they were eventually teamed . For many of Ollie's pre-Stan films , he was billed on screen as Babe Hardy . . . and throughout his adult life , Hardy was known to his friends as ' Babe ' . While touring postwar Britain with Laurel in a music-hall act for Bernard Delfont , Hardy gave an interview to journalist John McCabe in which he explained the origin of this nickname : early in his acting career , Hardy got a shave from a gay hairdresser who squeezed Hardy's plump cheeks ( the ones on his face ) and said ' Nice baby ! ' Hardy's workmates started crying him ' Babe ' , and the nickname stuck . Although much of Hardy's pre-Laurel work is very interesting - - notably his comedy roles in support of Larry Semon and the Chaplin imitator Billy West - - his teamwork with Billy Ruge ( who ? ) in a series of low-budget shorts for the Vim Comedy Film Company is very dire indeed . Hardy and Ruge were given the screen names Plump and Runt : names which are unpleasant in their own right , but made worse because Ruge ( although shorter than Hardy ) isn't especially a runt . Seen here , Hardy looks much as he does in his early Hal Roach films with Laurel . . . but without the spit curls and the fastidious little moustache . ' One Too Many ' , an absolutely typical Plunt and Runt epic , is direly unfunny . . . and its dreichness is made even more conspicuous by the fact that this film has exactly the same premise as ' That's My Wife ' , one of Laurel and Hardy's most hilarious films . Plump ( Hardy ) is the star boarder in a rooming-house run by a tall gawky landlady . Runt ( Ruge ) is the porter . Plump receives a letter from his wealthy uncle John , whose dosh he expects to inherit . His uncle is coming to see him and to meet Plump's wife and baby . There's only one problem : Plump hasn't got a wife and baby . He's been lying to his uncle in order to seem a family man . Now , of course , Plump expects Runt to find him a wife and baby on short notice . Of course , the results are disastrous . It would be nice if those disastrous results were funny , but they aren't . Most of the unfunny humour here is just empty slapstick , with characters settling their arguments by shoving each other into bathtubs . SPOILERS COMING . Vim director Will Louis ( who ? ) shows no instinct for camera framing : the actress who plays the landlady is significantly taller than Hardy , and Louis consistently sets up his shots so that her head is out of frame . This could be funny if done on purpose , but it's merely inept . At one point in this bad comedy , an extremely tasteless gag is looming on the horizon as Runt approaches a black laundress . ' Surely they wouldn't stoop THAT low for a laugh , ' I thought . But they do . Runt steals the woman's black infant and tries to fob this off as Plump's progeny . Somehow , Plump acquires an infant's cot , but he still hasn't got a baby . With Uncle John coming up the stairs , Plump conscripts Runt for babyhood . This gag might just possibly have worked with a midget , or even with a truly runt-sized actor such as Chester Conklin , but Billy Ruge is only slightly below average height . Ruge's impersonation of a baby is neither believable nor funny , and Uncle John would have to be a complete moron to fall for it . Amazingly , he does ! The most notable aspect of ' One Too Many ' is a brief appearance - - apparently her only-ever film appearance - - by Madelyn Saloshin , Oliver Hardy's first wife . The marriage was not a happy one , although Hardy's marital troubles never attained the epic proportions of Stan Laurel's . Only one thing in this movie impressed me . There is a very brief flashback sequence , with Hardy reminiscing about his seaside romance with a bathing beauty . In 1916 , there was still not yet a standard film grammar for conveying flashbacks : the one shown here is done gracefully and simply . Too bad this movie has no other merits . ' One Too Many ' is definitely one film too many on Oliver Hardy's CV , and I'll rate this movie just . Laurel and Hardy together are definitely much funnier than either of them separately .
Is it love ? No , just heartburn .	' Is That You , Love ? ' begins with the odd menage of three bachelors who live together : an exporter , an engineer and an all-purpose egghead , none of whom will ever see fifty again . It's not clear why they co-habit , as they're all well-off financially and aren't discernibly gay . ( I'm not so sure about their pompous butler . ) Their quiet home life is disrupted by Giorgina , a dejected and rejected young shopgirl who attempts suicide in the street near their home . When Giorgina is brought to their home to recover , the bachelors take a paternal interest in her . . . and the dialogue is careful to establish that their interest is purely paternal . They informally ' adopt ' her , then proceed to shower her with gifts of escalating value . Ultimately , they buy the boutique where she worked , sacking the cruel modiste who bullied Giorgina , and putting Giorgina in charge . SPOILERS COMING . The only good-looking man in this movie is Mario , a handsome young architect . So , guess what happens . This movie could have ended in the first reel if Giorgina had committed suicide properly . I'll rate this spaghetti . Mama mia !
Paltry poultry ; you've seen this plot before .	Several of Disney's " Silly Symphonies " cartoon series were adaptations of classic stories in the public domain , but there was only one story which that series adapted twice : Hans Christian Andersen's ' The Ugly Duckling ' . The Fleischer studio's cartoon ' The Little Stranger ' almost seems to be a reply to Disney's efforts : not a parody , because this cartoon isn't funny and doesn't try to be . ' The Little Stranger ' has two points which intrigued me very much . Point # 1 is that this cartoon is a switch on the classic ugly-duckling story . Rather than a swanling getting among the ducklings , here we have a chick ( a baby chicken ) hatching among the ducklings . Unlike in Andersen's version , the changeling child here is actually better-looking and more graceful than his step-siblings , yet is still an outcast . Point # 2 which impressed me is that this is the only version I've ever encountered of the ugly-ducking story which addressed an unresolved question in Andersen's original story : how did a swanling ever come to be hatched and reared among ducks ? ' The Little Stranger ' has a bizarre prologue in which a tear-stricken hen deposits her egg in another nest , which turns out to be a duck's nest . So we're able to concentrate on the story ( such as it is ) without wondering how a chick ends up among ducklings . SPOILER COMING . Those are the points in this toon's favour . Now , here's the worst point that works against it : ' The Little Stranger ' has the single most hackneyed plot line in all of children's fiction . This is the plot line which children's book editors deride as ' Egbert the Egg ' . It goes like this : all the other eggs laughed at Egbert until he saved them from the egg-beater . In ' The Little Stranger ' , the ducklings mock the changeling chick until he saves them from a vulture . Ho hum . The cleverness and originality in the premise of this movie don't make up for the extremely hackneyed plot which then descends from that premise . I'll rate this toon just 1 point out of 10 . Fleischer should have stuck to Popeye and Superman cartoons .
Lost but no loss , Stan Laurel's bicorn-y debut .	Some footage from ' Nuts in May ' ( 1917 ) - - Stan Laurel's very first movie - - was salvaged five years on and edited into ' Mixed Nuts ' , another of Laurel's pre-Hardy comedies ( from a different production company ) , but ' Nuts in May ' in its original form almost certainly no longer survives . The obscure production company that made ' Mixed Nuts ' obtained clear title to ' Nuts in May ' ( from an even more obscure production company ) , and had no interest in letting any prints of the previous movie compete with their revised version . ' Nuts in May ' was a right one-off : the one and only film ever made by the Bernstein Studio , an independent endeavour which produced and released just this lone one-reeler before going out of business . Sam Bischoff - - the producer of ' Mixed Nuts ' , and a notorious tightwad - - bought ' Nuts in May ' at a bailiff's auction . In the last years of his life , I had the great privilege of befriending Joe Rock , a Hollywood old-timer who knew Stan Laurel intimately . ( Besides working with Stan Laurel , Rock introduced him to Lois Neilson , and Rock was subsequently best man at their wedding . ) Although Joe Rock didn't work on ' Nuts in May ' , he remembered the film and told me quite a bit about it . This synopsis of ' Nuts in May ' is based on Joe Rock's memories ( still clear as he approached his ninetieth birthday ) and my viewing of ' Mixed Nuts ' . Stan plays a resident of a " Home for the Weak-Minded " , apparently a lunatic asylum . There are several gags depicting the inmates ' bizarre behaviour . Stan's particular delusion is that he thinks he's Napoleon . ( Is there even one genuine case on record of anyone - - besides Bonaparte himself - - actually believing that he or she was Napoleon ? ) Stan walks the grounds of the cuckoo-hatch sticking his right hand into his shirt ( ha ha ) and wearing a Napoleonic hat . ( Memo to IMDb reviewer Bob Lipton : Napoleon's hat was a bicorn , not a tricorn . And how does Mr Lipton know that Stan is wearing a ' blue ' blazer in this monochrome movie ? ) Stan salutes everybody , including the other lunatics . He thinks he's Napoleon , but he gives the salute of the British army . Stan has his own personal keeper in the asylum : a taller moustached man who wears a kepi so that Stan will think he's a French officer . French soldiers ( and gendarmes ) didn't wear kepis until after Napoleon's death . . . but don't mind me ; I just work here . Stan gets out and finds some local boys , who eagerly join him in playing soldier . Stan's kepi-wearing keeper pursues him through the film , but at a lethargic pace . Stan hijacks a steamroller ( when did Napoleon ever drive a steamroller ? ) , and there's some unfunny undercranking as Stan nearly runs down some navvies in a road crew . In the surviving footage , the photography's bad and the pacing is awful . Stan Laurel's performance gives no hint of the brilliance to come . Indeed , right up until his team-up with Oliver Hardy ( apparently Hal Roach's idea ) , Laurel on the screen was just one more frenetic comedian , not necessarily imitating Chaplin but working the same trough of knockabout humour with little or nothing to distinguish him from other slapstickers . Joe Rock did tell me that ' Nuts in May ' was financed by Los Angeles impresario Adolph Ramish , who paid Stan Laurel the astounding wage of $75 to appear in it . Ramish screened ' Nuts in May ' at the L . A . Hippodrome , where it was seen by Carl Laemmle . . . not yet the major producer he would later become . Apparently Laemmle liked ' Nuts in May ' enough to sign Laurel to a contract with Nestor Film Company , one of the lesser satellites in the Universal Studios planetary system . However , from what I've seen of Stan Laurel's time at Universal , his work there was not especially funny . He really didn't come into his own until he arrived at Hal Roach's studio . . . where Laurel distinguished himself as a director and gag man as well as a comedian before teaming with Hardy . Purely for its historic value , it would be nice if a complete print of Stan Laurel's film debut eventually turns up in some forgotten bailiff's locker . However , the photography would be wretched even if the print were pristine . Stan Laurel was brilliant elsewhere , but not in the surviving footage of ' Nuts in May ' . And I'm positive that none of the ' lost ' scenes contain some nugget of hilarity : if something funny had been in there , Sam Bischoff would have included it in ' Mixed Nuts ' . I normally don't rate films I've never seen ( quiet in the back , there ! ) , but I feel confident that ' Nuts in May ' merits just 1 point in 10 , and an asterisk in film history for Stan Laurel paying his dues .
Bolshevik , Bolshoi , Bullsht !	It's not impossible for propaganda to be artistically successful . Quite a few German movies produced by the Third Reich ( and blatantly pro-Nazi with it ) have entertaining storylines and good performances despite their dreadful political agenda . I've seen a few Soviet movies that succeed as artistic endeavours while promoting communist agitprop : a few , but very few . ' Clown Giorgi ' is not one of those movies . It stinks , comrade . First , I'll give the Russians some credit . In Britain and in America , where Jonathan Winters calls people ' clown ' as a term of abuse , we give very little respect to clowns . . . and very few of our clowns deserve respect . ( In America , clowns are one step above street mimes on the comedy food-chain . ) In Russia , however , clowns are respected craftsmen . . . and they deserve that respect . A typical clown in a Russian circus has spent years of apprenticeship in mastering acrobatics , juggling , animal-training and many demanding physical disciplines . ( I've seen clowns in the Moscow State Circus who are truly astonishing . ) In America , any jerk can be a clown with just some greasepaint and a dodgy wig . ' Clown Giorgi ' takes place in the Ukraine during Russia's civil war of 1918 , and the propaganda is so thick you can cut it with a samovar . The communist Red Army are clearly depicted as the brave heroic good guys . . . peace-loving commies who aren't afraid to die in battle , but who yearn for the war to end so they can go back to their agricultural collectives . The Menshevik forces of the White Army are the deceitful bloodthirsty oppressors . I would have put it just the other way round , but this movie asserts that ' Bolshevik ' ' good ' . The hero of this Russian film is a circus clown , so ( by Russian standards of clowndom ) audiences would perceive him as an admirable and resourceful figure , not a baggy-pants buffoon . In the opening scenes , we briefly see Giorgi doing his circus act . After the October uprising , he's conscripted into a Red Army brigade ; he serves loyally but without distinction as the company clerk . The heavily-bearded brigade commander has been severely wounded in previous battles , but is still determined to fight onward . He needs a brave man to infiltrate the White Army's lines and learn their battle plans . Giorgi's experience as a clown makes him a master of disguise , so he volunteers for the mission . Giorgi succeeds , and gets back to the Red Army encampment just in time to see his bearded commander die selflessly and heroically . Someone must take this fallen hero's place to lead the Red brigade into battle . . . but the soldiers will be demoralised if they learn that their commander has died . BLATANTLY OBVIOUS " SURPRISE " ENDING . Next thing we know , the bearded commander has risen from the dead . . . and he courageously leads his valiant commie brethren into battle against the White Army . Just when the communists win the battle , their commander is shot dead . The corpse turns out to be wearing a false beard . Who can this be ? Giorgi was a master of disguise , da ? Eto pravda ! The brave clown gave his life for the Communist Revolution . I have such utter contempt for communism ( especially the Soviet variety ) that I was tempted to hold my nose with one hand while I cranked this borscht through my Steenbeck viewer . It would take a very , very , VERY loyal Marxist-Leninist to enjoy this movie . I'll rate ' Clown Giorgi ' . Bring back the czar !
Goose-steppin ' out with my baby . . .	The movie ' Cabaret ' , filmed in the 1970s but set in Berlin just before Hitler's rise to power , features a very annoying scene in which a smug policeman explains that he allows these new troublemakers ( the Nazis ) to beat up communists because they keep the communists in line ; he smugly predicts that some other bunch of hooligans will come along to keep the Nazis in line . With our post-war hindsight , we're apparently meant to view this attitude as wrong-headed . Ach , ja , if only those German bureaucrats had been more sympathetic to the poor dear communists , those nasty Nazis never would have taken over . Sorry , but I disagree . As terrible as the Nazis were , the communists were worse . Stalin killed more people ( including more Jews ) than Hitler . If Germany had gone communist circa 1932 , the Holocaust probably would have happened anyway . . . possibly with an even higher death toll . Let's recall that Hitler and Stalin were on the same side in WW2 until the borscht got a little too hot . ' S . A . - Mann Brand ' is blatant Nazi propaganda , but ( unlike many later and better films made by the Third Reich ) at least it wears its Nazi politics on its armband , I mean sleeve . Heinz Klingenberg plays Hans Brand , a handsome young lorry-driver who's been having trouble earning a living in Germany's post-war economy . Ach , ja , but now that this nice Herr Hitler is making a few changes , things should be better soon , nicht wahr ? ( As I said , this movie is propaganda . ) Brand gets a job as a stormtrooper , and soon things are goose-stepping along nicely . Brand's father ( Otto Wernicke ) harbours some Marxist beliefs , prompted by his bitter memories of the Kaiser and Germany's disastrous Weimar economy . The father approves when his stormtrooper son starts dating Vera ( Elise Aulinger ) , a German fraulein with some radical Marxist notions . Surely a good National-Socialist man can love a communist woman ? Erm , nope . This film clearly states that communism is bad ( as opposed to Nazism ) and not to be tolerated under any circumstances . SPOILERS COMING . It turns out that Vera is a hopeless stooge for Anton Huber , a demagogue who talks about the plight of the poor German people but who really wants to foment a communist revolt so that he can hand Germany over to the Soviet Union . Fortunately , Vera sees the error of her ways . She helps Brand betray Huber to the German authorities , and she pledges herself to the new German cause . Brand's dad throws away his copy of the Communist Manifesto and he decides to vote for this new fellow Adolf who has such interesting ideas . All the Nazis live happily ever after . ( Now if only Hitler would do something about those pesky foreigners . . . ) ' Stormtrooper Brand ' is Nazi agitprop , but that's not the problem . ' Triumph of the Will ' serves the same agenda , but that film is a brilliant testament to the power of cinema . ' Stormtrooper Brand ' manages to make Nazis look dull and boring and bourgeois . I enjoyed Otto Wernicke's performances as police detective Lohmann in two of Fritz Lang's best films , but here Wernicke gives a dull and stolid performance with a bad make-up job . The photography and sound recording are dodgy . If a propaganda film makes its point well ( as ' Triumph of the Will ' does ) , I can admire the filmmakers ' proficiency while despising their agenda . ' Stormtrooper Brand ' is just bad , full stop . Significantly , after this film was released , most of the Reich's subsequent films were much more subtle in their sermonising . I'll rate this movie barely .
I'd rather hear ' La Cucaracha '	' The Last Meeting ' is a bittersweet romance taking place over the course of about 25 years . In the early scenes , Soler ( José Crespo ) is a struggling young violinist . We hear very little of his actual fiddling - and what we do hear is obviously dubbed - but he's handsome and charming with it , which is this movie's way of telling us that he's very talented and he deserves to be successful . Soler is in love with Yolanda ( Luana Alcañiz ) , a beautiful blonde who dances in a nightclub's floor show . Along comes Magda ( Andrea Palma ) , the dark-haired jaded wife of a millionaire . She sets her sights on Soler , and she lures him away from Yolanda . . . but only temporarily , because Soler soon realises that he loves Yolanda after all . ( Yolanda's certainly prettier . ) We're meant to sympathise with Soler , because apparently he was less tempted by Magda's charms than by her husband's wealth : specifically , what it can do for Soler's career . By the time Soler decides to go back to Yolanda , it's too late : she has married wealthy Raul ( Paul Ellis ) . This is the sort of movie with plenty of rich people in it . Yolanda goes to live in America with Raul . Having cheated himself out of his one true love , Soler throws himself into his career . SPOILERS COMING . Fade in 25 years later , and Soler ( now in unconvincing middle-aged makeup , but with the same waistline ) is a famous concert violinist embarking on a world tour . While performing in New York City , Soler meets Yolanda again . . . as beautiful as ever , and not a day older . Erm , well , it turns out that this isn't Yolanda after all : it's actually her daughter , played by the same actress . There's some implication that Soler can find the happiness with Yolanda's daughter that he nearly had with her mother . Oh , blimey ! This movie attempts the same trick as ' Evergreen ' - casting the same actress as mother and daughter , and trying to conflate them into one person - but it doesn't work here . The scenes that allegedly take place in New York City are very unconvincing . There is some very painful ' comedy ' in this movie , mostly coming from stock character types . The concert music is badly composed , badly arranged , badly performed and unconvincingly dubbed . I kept hoping the soundtrack would play ' La Cucaracha ' : it would have been better than anything performed here . I'll rate this movie , and I'm being generous .
Unsavoury Savo	I saw this movie in 1974 , at the National Film Theatre in London , and I've absolutely no desire to see it ever again . ONCE in a blue moon is plenty ! In the 1930s , Jimmy Savo was a starring comedian on Broadway . One of Rodgers and Hart's greatest musical comedies , ' The Boys from Syracuse ' , was created as a star vehicle for Savo . He tended to play a chirpy little innocent fellow , fairly similar in appearance and behaviour to Eddie Cantor , Lou Costello or the English comedians Norman Wisdom , George Formby or George Robey . Savo is now utterly forgotten because he made only a few films and no major film appearances . ' Once in a Blue Moon ' is one of the movies made at Paramount's studio in Astoria , N . Y . during the brief period when Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthur had absolute autonomy to write , direct and produce their own films . None of the Hecht / MacArthur Astoria films are very good ( possibly excepting ' Crime Without Passion ' ) , but most of them are unusual enough to command interest . ' Once in a Blue Moon ' is painful to watch . Its humour is leaden , its pacing is paralytic , and there are too many sub-Chaplin moments that try to be significant and meaningful . Savo plays a travelling clown named Gabbo ( a name ' borrowed ' from a previous Ben Hecht story ) . Gabbo wanders through Europe with his caravan , searching for audiences whom he can entertain . ( He won't find any here . ) He crosses paths with some Russian nobles who are fleeing the revolution . To escape the Bolsheviks who are pursuing them , the Russians pass themselves off as circus performers and they travel with Gabbo , pretending to be a circus troupe . This isn't funny , or inspiring , or anything else except boring . Some of the dialogue in this film is so incoherent , I thought the sound recording was defective . No ; the soundtrack is fine , but several of the actors are speaking in ( real or faked ) Russian accents which are nearly incomprehensible . Edwina Armstrong , the untalented actress who plays the Russian princess , is Ben Hecht's daughter camouflaged by a stage name . Reportedly , Hecht and MacArthur wasted pots of money on this film , shooting endless retakes of Savo entering a room . Very little of that production budget is visible in this movie . Savo ( an Italian-American ) eventually retired to Italy , where he wrote and illustrated a very dull memoir titled ' Little World , Hello ' . The illustrations in this book ( all self-portraits of Savo ) are very strange : Savo invariably draws his self-portrait in three-quarter view with one empty eye socket , looking as if he had one eye missing . ' Once in a Blue Moon ' rates , at absolute most .
The director's wife hanged herself !	Major Rupert Hughes was one of those weird real-life characters whose life story would make an excellent movie . He was an uncle of Howard Hughes , and appears to have acquired some of the same mental disorders as that billionaire . Rupert Hughes dabbled in several art forms - - he wrote a novel , he wrote a book of history , he produced a few films - - but some of those endeavours ( such as this movie ' Reno ' ) appear to be merely soapboxes for Hughes's various bugaboos . Shortly before ' Reno ' was released , Hughes's wife ran off to China and hanged herself . . . and I shouldn't wonder if the timing was no coincidence . This movie is horrible . Ostensibly , ' Reno ' is a drama about the marital travails of Emily Dysart ( Helene Chadwick ) . She has married Roy Tappan ( Lew Cody ) , who is suave and handsome but turns out to be a scoundrel . Fortunately , Tappan divorces her , saving her the trouble of getting her own divorce . Emily marries Walter Heath ( George Walsh ) , rather less handsome than her previous husband but much brawnier and the salt of the earth . Tappan marries Dora Carson ( Carmel Myers ) . Sorted ? Not quite , because Emily's marriage to Tappan produced two children , Paul and Ivy , whom she wants to raise , but Tappan has spitefully retained custody of them . Most of this movie is some weird sort of divorce travelogue . Emily and her new husband proceed to pursue the Tappans all over the eastern United States - - from New York to South Carolina - - trying to find a state where the divorce laws are most congenial for Emily to regain custody of her children . The film takes a didactic tone . For some reason , filmmaker Hughes is clearly outraged that American divorce laws vary from state to state , and this movie is largely a screed against that situation . At one point , the action shifts to Virginia for the sole purpose of informing us that a girl can legally marry at age 12 in that state . ( This is no longer true , but was apparently so in 1923 . ) Hughes doesn't seem to realise - - or perhaps doesn't want to realise - - one blunt fact : each of the states in the USA is an autonomous commonwealth that can write its own laws , so long as none of them are unconstitutional . Eventually , Hughes seems to realise that this movie needs some sort of action climax . So , Emily's new husband chases her old husband out to Yellowstone Park , where they proceed to brawl at the edge of a geyser just before it erupts . Oh , blimey ! Their fight scene is made even more ludicrous because weedy Lew Cody is clearly no match for burly George Walsh , yet Hughes keeps the fight going anyway in an attempt to create some suspense . It's no surprise how the fight ends , but it takes its time getting there . In the role of Emily's brother , a stiff and mannered performance is supplied by one Rush Hughes , stepson of the guy who dealt this mess . Apparently , Rupert Hughes at least had the grace to adopt his wife's children before she hanged himself . I'll rate this bilge just 1 point in 10 .
This is definitely a ' Turkey ' .	I find Tex Avery's cartoons hugely variable . His Screwy Squirrel toons are hilarious , and I regret that he made only three of them . His best Warners toons ( ' Thugs with Dirty Mugs ' ) are both innovative and uproariously funny . But his Droopy cartoons just stink , and far too much of his other work is quite dire . ' Jerky Turkey ' just isn't funny at all . Allegedly depicting the voyage of the Pilgrims to Plymouth Rock in the year 1620 - ( ha bloody ha ) , this 1945 toon is firmly stuck in World War Two , with topical references ( such as ' C cards ' ) that will be utterly incomprehensible to modern audiences . The animation is poor to the point of neglect : one long sequence features a protracted pan across a single drawing , with no movement at all . . . which would be acceptable , if something funny was happening . The main character is voiced by Bill Thompson , using the same adenoidal whimper that he had previously used for portraying Wally Wimple in the radio programme ' Fibber McGee and Molly ' and would later use for the unfunny Droopy . I wonder if Avery designed this Pilgrim , who doesn't resemble a typical Avery character . The Pilgrim has an absolutely enormous nose which looks distressing rather than funny . He stalks a turkey ( definitely designed by Preston Blair ) who sounds and acts like Jimmy Durante . . . but who , alas , isn't remotely as funny as the genuine Schnozzola . It doesn't help that the Durante character has a SMALLER nose than the Pilgrim . There's a very weak running gag which has a very weak and obvious pay-off . ( First rule of survival in the cartooniverse : Never trust a bear . ) Tex Avery , I forgive you for this ' Turkey ' because you gave us so many laughs elsewhere . ' Jerky Turkey ' barely merits a rating of .
What's the German for ' this movie stinks ' ?	Serves me right for watching German comedies . ' Kyritz-Pyritz ' is a mistaken-identity farce , but it's trite and predictable and there's nothing here I haven't seen in literally dozens of bad sitcom episodes , dinner-theatre disasters and Brian Rix comedies . I'll make allowances for the fact that ' Kyritz ' was made in 1931 , when all the old jokes on offer here were slightly newer . But that's only a partial excuse . In the 1920s , Ben Travers was staging farces at the Aldwych Theatre with hackneyed situations like these . . . but he got fresher jokes and wittier characterisations out of this unpromising material . Well , let's wade through the strudel . Max Adalbert plays Herr Doktor Lietzow , the mayor of the little German burgh of Kyritz . Twenty years ago , he had a fling with a Berliner fraulein which resulted in an illegitimate daughter . The girl has grown to adulthood without ever meeting her father or seeing a photograph of him . ( This backstory is set up via some very unwieldy dialogue and insert shots of illegible German handwriting . ) Now , all of a sudden , Lietzow decides to go to Berlin to meet his daughter . . . and to get away from Frau Lietzow for a while . The mayor enlists the aid of his two cronies , Piepenberg the pharmacist ( Henry Bender ) and Rux the wine merchant ( Paul Hoerbiger ) . The three of them cook up an excuse for a dirty weekend in Berlin , telling their wives they're going on a business trip . Lietzow telegrams his daughter , telling her which train he and his two beer-buddies will be on . Still with me ? Next door over from the little burgh of Kyritz is the slightly more cosmopolitan burgh of Pyritz . En route to Berlin , the three ' bachelors ' decide to get off in Pyritz for a drink . Meanwhile , three male musicians from the local Sängerbund ( singers ' guild ) board the train at Pyritz . Of course , Lietzow and his pals miss the train . Of course , the trio of yodelers arrive in Berlin . Of course , the daughter and her landlady mistake these three kappelmeisters for Lietzow and his buddies . Meanwhile , back at the ranch ( I mean , back in Kyritz ) , Frau Lietzow finds the telegram form that her husband sent to Berlin . She sees that her husband is sloping off to Berlin to meet a young woman , and of course she assumes that the fraulein is her husband's mistress . ( Little does she know that the girl is her husband's blanket-brat . ) Mrs Lietzow summons Mrs Piepenberg and Mrs Rux , and they all hop the next choo-choo to Berlin . The results are painfully unfunny and completely predictable . Everybody in this film overacts , and the director shows a leaden sense of comedy . The pacing is bang awful , and there are some really dire continuity errors . The only things I liked about ' Kyritz-Pyritz ' were the location sequences of Berlin and its suburbs , in the last years before Hitler took over the franchise . For the historical value of a few exterior scenes in this movie , I'll rate ' Kyritz-Pyritz ' . Schweinhunds !
Common clay	' Der Dorfsgolem ' literally means ' the Village Golem ' , and the title is meant to be funny . Just as in Britain and America ( where we tell jokes about ' the village idiot ' ) , Germany has a long tradition of humour based on ' hicks ' and foolish rustic types . ' The Village Golem ' is a comedy , but it's not very funny . It's harvest time , and the villagers of Eseldorf have a great deal of work to do , scything the fields and bundling the sheaves . But they don't want to do it themselves . The local schoolmaster ( the only character in this movie who looks Jewish ) has found an old scroll recounting the legend of Rabbi Loew of Prague , who crafted a golem to protect the Jews of the ghetto . Now the villagers mould a clay man under the schoolmaster's direction . He performs some indistinct ritual ( this is a badly deteriorated print of a film that was dimly photographed in the first place , so I can't make out all the action ) and hey presto ! The golem comes to life . The cheapjack golem in this movie looks suspiciously like either a parody or a bad imitation of Paul Wegener's famous golem . SPOILERS COMING . The villagers put their golem to work . But a badly-made golem does a poor job . He sees some peasant girls passing , and he's more interested in leering at them than in doing his tasks . " We made him TOO human , " says one of the village elders in a title card . Pieces of the golem fall off occasionally . Finally everybody gets angry at the golem and he tries to run away . A thunderstorm begins . ( Bad stock footage . ) The rain dissolves the golem . I'll rate this movie 1 point out of 10 . ' Der Dorfsgolem ' is badly scripted , wretchedly directed , dimly photographed , and execrably performed all round by this uncredited cast . There's a large potential for humour in the theme of the Golem , but it wasn't attained until the 1950s when Avram Davidson wrote his classic story ' The Golem ' .
Marjorie Daw as the Golem .	I viewed a very poor print of this very poor film . Marjorie Daw stars as Joan Thayer , a wronged woman - - apparently American - - who somehow ends up in Paris , where she tries to drown her sorrows by jumping off a quay into the river . ( She must be in Seine . ) She's rescued by a handsome Legionnaire ( Warwick Ward ) . They fall in love , but a vamp comes between them , vamping until ready . Clive Brook lurks about the proceedings as a Parisian impresario . Although Marjorie Daw has the lead role in this film , her participation appears to have been minimal . For much of the story , it's bang obvious that some other woman is doubling Daw . When Daw is on screen , she seems distracted . . . as if she's too busy thinking about her next film role to bother playing this one properly . Worse luck : after Ward fishes Daw out of the river , she spends much of this movie wearing a truly grotesque hairstyle that looks like the wig Paul Wegener wore in his role as the Golem . In fact , Daw's leaden performance resembles the Golem too . My rating for this mess : 1 point out of 10 .
X plus Q equals zero	The most interesting thing about ' The Thirteenth Juror ' is the middle initials of its two leading players , Francis X . Bushman and Anna Q . Nilsson . This is surely the only time in film history that an actor with the middle initial " X " was teamed with an actress with the middle initial " Q " . And I was thinking about this while I watched the movie , which should tell you how interesting this movie is . Bushman plays an attorney who is highly respected but is secretly a serial philanderer . He gets caught in the act when his latest paramour's husband ( George Siegmann ) comes home unexpectedly . Bushman kills him in self-defence . For wildly complicated and implausible reasons , he decides to make the killing appear to be a homicide , so as to protect Anna Q . Nilsson . Bushman nobly stands trial for murder , in the full knowledge that he could get off with a verdict of self-defence if he told the truth . Make sense to you ? Me neither . SPOILERS COMING , BUT THERE'S NOTHING TO SPOIL . Anna Q . Nilsson and Francis X . Bushman are meant to be lovers in this movie , but the combination of Q and X adds up to zero . At the end , Bushman is acquitted ( via an implausible gimmick ) and he stands there beaming with approval as Nilsson is reunited with her husband . . . played by Walter Pidgeon , in another of his long series of thankless roles . Pidgeon's character in this movie is named Marsden , which is also the name of the character he played 3 years later in a completely unrelated film , ' The Gorilla ' , which is a lot better than this movie . ' The Thirteenth Juror ' is a dark-purple mellerdrammer . Nobody in this movie behaves normally if they have a chance to clench their fists , dishevel their hair , quiver their brows . This movie was made by Universal Studios under the reign of Carl Laemmle , who was nicknamed ' Uncle ' because of his penchant for putting his relatives on the payroll . ( Ogden Nash famously wrote : ' Carl Laemmle had a very large faemmle ' . ) ' The Thirteenth Juror ' was directed by Edward Laemmle , one of Carl's numerous nephews , who showed absolutely no talent for filmmaking and whose career was entirely due to Universal's nepotism . ( On the other hand , another of Carl Laemmle's nephews was William Wyler , who became a very great director indeed . ) I'll rate ' The Thirteenth Juror ' . Next case !
The Kaiser won't surprise her	' U 9 Weddigen ' is one of those dead-earnest dramas that tries to make deeply meaningful statements such as ' War Is Bad ' , but which has nothing significant to offer . The early scenes are set in the last years of the 19th century . Mathilde Sussin plays a German widow with two strapping sons . After her husband's death , she marries an Englishman , moves to England , and bears him one more son . . . then the Englishman dies , having fulfilled his usefulness to the plotline . Years pass . All three sons follow a similar course , but in their respective homelands . In England , der mamma beams with pride as her youngest son ( Fred Solm ) becomes a Royal Navy officer . Back in the fatherland , the two older sons ( Gerd Briese , Ernst Hofmann ) become submarine officers in the Kaiser's fleet . We can see where this is heading . By now it's 1914 , and Der Mamma decides it's time for her to pay a visit to Germany and see her two older sons . So her ship sails out from Southampton . Guess what happens in the Northern Sea . Guess who the U-boat officers are . Guess who shows up to rescue Der Mamma . This is one of those movies where you know , far in advance , how every scene is going to play out . . . and then it does . Interestingly , both the British and the Germans are depicted sympathetically . . . but that's the only point of interest in this movie , which beats us over the head with the irony of a war fought by ( all together now ) Brother Against Brother . There are very few movies I'll rate an absolute zero , but this is one of them . The German submarine in this movie is designated U-9 , but it ought to be U - " nein " as in " no ! " Let this leaky vessel sink without a trace .
Did he say ' mer ' or ' merde ' ?	I've always found the dilettante Man Ray and his artistic efforts to be deeply pretentious , and I've never understood why his work attracts so much attention . Apart from his Rayographs ( which he invented by accident , and which are merely direct-contact photo prints ) , his one real contribution to culture seems to be that he was the first photographer to depict female nudity in a manner that was accepted as art rather than as porn . But surely this had to happen eventually , and there's no real reason why Ray deserves the credit . The critical reaction to Man Ray reminds me of the story about the Emperor's New Clothes . " L'Étoile de merde " . . . whoops , " de mer " . . . features a lot of blurry photography and a recurring visual theme of a starfish , which is never explained . Starfishes have the fascinating ability to regenerate lost limbs - - and even to regenerate entire duplicate bodies - - but , if that has anything to do with this movie's theme , Ray neglects to say so . I was much more impressed by this movie's title cards , which ( in French ) manage to include rhymes , a pun ( ' Si belle , Cybele ' ) and some portmanteaux . As so often in Ray's work , there is indeed a beautiful young woman seen in this movie . Unfortunately , the photography is ( largely ) so blurred that we have little opportunity to appreciate her . I'll rate this mess .
Village idiots	' Village Tale ' is based on a novel by Philip Stong , an Iowa newspaperman who is now best remembered for writing ' State Fair ' , which became a Rodgers & Hammerstein musical . Actually , the best-known piece of text authored by Stong is not usually attributed to him . It was Stong who wrote the widely-reprinted statement that was purportedly spoken in prison by anarchist Bartolomeo Vanzetti shortly before his execution : the document that figures prominently in ' The Male Animal ' . Stong once attributed his writing career to having fallen out of a bath at age two . Although Stong was born and raised in Iowa , and most of his fiction is set there , it's significant that - as soon as his stories and novels about Iowans became successful - he moved to Connecticut and stayed there . On a lighter note , I once interviewed Stong's niece Norma Lyon at an Iowa agricultural fair while she carved a life-size statue of Elvis out of butter ! I saw ' Village Tale ' in New York City in 1992 , at the New School for Social Research , during one of William K Everson's screenings . This IMDb review is based on notes that I took at that screening . Apart from my notes , I'm dismayed that I have almost no memories of this film ; ' Village Tale ' made almost no impression on me . It's a boring , sententious movie : most of the characters are archetypes on the verge of becoming stereotypes . The village in this movie could be Mayberry's evil twin . It's one of those soap-opera whistle-stops where everyone has a Dark Secret : like Peyton Place , but with less sex . Most of the local yokels spend their days hanging about the cracker barrel in the general store , whittlin ' and chawin ' and deciding whose life to destroy next , ' cos there ain't rightly nothin ' else to do in these heah parts . SYNOPSIS WITH SPOILERS . Randolph Scott has an innocent crush on Kay Johnson , who's trapped in a loveless marriage to Arthur Hohl . The village gossips - purely from spite , and lacking anything else to do - convince Hohl that Scott has cuckolded him , driving Hohl to attempt to murder Scott . Meanwhile , meek little Donald Meek gets beaten to death by village bully Robert Barrat . Donald Meek was a character actor whom I consistently find annoying and overly mannered , so I was glad that he got beaten to death in this film , but disappointed that it happens offscreen . When the yokels finish having fun with Scott and Johnson , they move on to their next victim . ' Village Tale ' is an utterly depressing film , totally devoid of humour or introspection . I wouldn't want to meet any of these people , and I wouldn't much fancy spending five minutes in their village . The direction , by John Cromwell , is up to his usual high standard , but he's got bad material to work with here . The screenplay is by Allan Scott , whose work I usually admire . As I've not read Stong's novel , I can't tell if the badness of this material is down to the source material or Scott's script . Edward Ellis gives his usual good performance as an unsavoury character . Arthur Hohl and Robert Barrat are sadly underrated character actors who deserve to be better known , but neither of them gives an especially good performance here . I'll rate ' Village Tale ' just .
I guess I'm supposed to burst into tears , or something .	I disliked everything about this movie , beginning with its bathetic title which attempts to manipulate us into liking ( or pitying ) the main character . This movie is pitiful in every aspect , apart from MGM's usual excellent production values . In Hollywood's golden era , a trip to the movies meant several short subjects besides the main feature . The studios had a constant need for entertainers who could sustain a ten-minute short film ; those who made good in a short subject might move up into the big leagues of feature-length movies . Particularly at MGM and Warner Brothers , a lot of vaudeville performers were given a chance to star in one short film as a sort of demo reel . ' The Little Maestro ' gives Jerry Bergen ( who ? ) a chance to show his stuff . Since you've almost certainly never heard of Jerry Bergen ( no relation to Edgar and Candice ) , that tells you what to expect . IMDb's synopsis for this movie is accurate enough , right up until the phrase ' That's when the fun begins . ' There is no fun in this movie . Bergen shows up at a nightclub , clutching a violin case . ( In the movies , a violin case usually indicates the presence of a machine-gun , not a violin . ) For some reason , a waiter who has never clapped eyes on Bergen before decides to put him to work right then and there . . . not only as part of the kitchen staff but also as a performer on the bill ! This might have been vaguely plausible if the script had inserted a line about the staff being short-handed , or an entertainer cancelling on short notice . This movie has the general ambiance and look of a comedy except that it isn't funny . Naturally , Bergen makes a mess of everything he tries to do . . . but none of his mayhem is funny . The waiter keeps assuring the chef that Bergen is a brilliant entertainer - - again , the waiter has never seen Bergen before - - so we keep waiting for Bergen to open that violin case and dazzle us with his virtuosity . When he finally does so , he isn't remotely entertaining : not as a violinist , nor as a comedian . His act involves some truly bizarre decisions . I can't believe that the customers in a sophisticated urban nightclub would want to hear ' Home on the Range ' - - except maybe as a parody - - but Bergen performs it here , and it's not funny . Memo to students of comedy : When a comedian plays a character who wreaks mayhem intentionally , it can be hilarious . When a would-be comedian plays a character with good intentions who wreaks mayhem unintentionally through pure ineptitude , it's much more difficult for this to be funny . SPOILER COMING . Just when I thought that this movie couldn't annoy me any more deeply , it surpassed itself . At last , the chef finally ejects Jerry . . . by way of the kitchen door into a back alley . While being bum-rushed through the kitchen , Jerry manages to filch a piece of meat . Once he's out in the alley , the soundtrack cues the ' poor starving waif ' music while Jerry starts to eat his booty . But then a dog emerges from the shadows , and the dog is clearly hungry too . Rather than share his meal with the dog , Jerry gives the meat to the dog outright . . . then he shambles off into the night , starving and friendless . I guess I'm supposed to burst into tears , or something . Chaplin handled this stuff well enough . If you wonder why Jerry Bergen never reached Chaplin's level of stardom , this movie will tell you why . Don't bother watching it , though . My rating : just , for the production values .
A wrecked auto sight for this parasite	' The Parasite ' ( with its overwrought title ) is an extremely misogynistic melodrama , an example of what I call a ' bad woman ' story : one of those dramas in which a vampire ( in Kipling's sense of the word ) sets out to destroy people in general and men in particular , not for financial gain nor for any other credible motive , but simply because she CAN . Movies like this create the impression that all women ( or at least all good-looking women ) are innately sinful and evil , beyond redemption . SPOILERS COMING . ' The Parasite ' does at least deviate from this cliched course with an unexpected ending , in which the bad woman redeems herself by giving up her life to spare an innocent child . Madge Bellamy plays Joan , the ex-wife of respectable Arthur Randall ( Owen Moore , badly miscast ) . Although they're divorced and no love is lost between them , Joan continues to bleed her ex-husband for alimony , and she attempts to improve her own social standing by emphasising her ties to Randall . Meanwhile , Randall has remarried : his new wife Laura is played by Lilyan Tashman , also badly miscast . Tashman tended to play flashy floozies , but here she plays a respectable woman who uses her newfound position as Randall's society wife to become a philanthropist . For starters , she's adopted a little orphan named Bertie . Joan , the hissable villainess , wants to wreck her ex-husband's new marriage , hoping to keep him ( and his money and society position ) for herself . Joan abducts little Bertie and drives away with him , planning something unpleasant . Joan's car goes off a cliff and ends up in a ravine . ( The stunt work is laughably bad here : Madge Bellamy is clearly doubled by a male stunt double , and little Bertie is doubled by a dummy . ) After a couple of days in the ravine , it becomes clear to spoilt wilful Joan that no rescue is coming soon ; she and Bertie will probably die slowly of starvation or dehydration . At this point , after the entire movie has depicted Joan Laird as the second coming of the Whore of Babylon , she does a complete volte-face : Joan slits a vein in her own arm and allows Bertie to lap the blood , so that he can stay alive . Rescue comes eventually . . . in time to save little Bertie , but only because Joan made the ultimate sacrifice . There is a heavy moral tone here : the film admits that even a jezebel like Joan Laird is capable of redemption . . . but she must die in order to achieve this . I found this entire film extremely heavy-handed , moralising , and misogynistic . I'm tempted to rate ' The Parasite ' zero points , but I'll give it one point in 10 .
Bland blonde blunder	' Beware of Blondes ' is a very early example of the caper film , but it can't quite seem to make up its mind whether it's a comedy or a drama . Several of Raymond Griffith's films feature a necklace or some other valuable piece of jewellery as a McGuffin : ' Beware of Blondes ' feels like a Raymond Griffith comedy with all the comedy left out . Matt Moore , playing a more cerebral character than usual , is Jeff Blake , a hot-shot employee of a big jewellery firm in New York . His boss Costigan appoints Jeff to serve as courier , booking him passage aboard an ocean liner to bring a valuable emerald to a buyer in Europe . ( A title card tells us that the emerald is worth $444 , 444 . . . is this meant to be funny ? ) Costigan has received a tip that the notorious female jewel-thief Blonde Mary will be aboard the same ship , planning to steal the emerald . ' Beware of blondes ' , Costigan warns his protégé . Of course , when Jeff gets on the ship , it's loaded to the gunwales with attractive young blondes . He has the emerald hidden in a cigar lighter , and he also has a worthless decoy copy of the emerald , made of paste . Jeff is so clever , maybe he'll hide the fake emerald in the lighter and keep the real emerald out in the open , expecting the thief to assume that the real gem is the fake . This movie is a trifle too pleased with its own cleverness . Which of the numerous shipboard blondes is genuinely interested in Jeff , and which is plotting to steal the stone ? Nothing here is what it seems , and we're too busy getting our bearings to notice that the plot doesn't make much sense . Typical of the ineptitude here : according to this silent film's intertitles , the ocean liner is going to some place called ' Europe ' . . . not Southampton nor Le Havre , but just ' Europe ' . SPOILERS COMING . During the voyage , Jeff strikes up a friendship with an attractive young lady who's a brunette . . . so she must be safe , then . But she studies his reaction when she says that the ocean is as green as an emerald . She is , of course , Blonde Mary in disguise . Matt Moore gives a better performance than usual , but it's wasted in this dumb movie . There's some amusing camera work when Jeff first boards the ship , and the camera follows one blonde after another , to convey that the ship is packed with fair-haired ladies . But this clever business is too little , too late and too seldom . I'll rate ' Beware of Blondes ' .
Lunt and a runt .	' Backbone ' is a turgid romance that ping-pongs back and forth between two different centuries , with the same romantic leads doubling in both periods . This sub-genre seemed to be fairly popular in silent days , another such example being the recently rediscovered Valentino film ' Beyond the Rocks ' . The most notable aspect of ' Backbone ' is the casting ( in the two male leads ) of Alfred Lunt , a major actor of the American stage who made few film appearances . But Lunt is not especially impressive here . One of Lunt's more distinctive traits on stage was his appealing habit of playing major scenes with his back to the audience , relying on his splendid voice and physique to convey emotion while his face was concealed . In silent films , Lunt did not have such an option . This film takes place in deepest melodrama : to be specific , in the same moss-covered New England territory of ' Shore Acres ' and ' Way Down East ' . The villain here is evil real-estate speculator Anthony Bracken , who covets the timberland purchased by John Thorne . More than a century earlier , this land was owned by Frenchman Andre de Mersay . Thorne and de Mersay are both played by Lunt , even though the two men are not relations . Andre de Mersay as an older man is played by Emile La Croix , who doesn't remotely resemble an older version of Lunt . Bland and unattractive Edith Roberts plays de Mersay's granddaughter and her modern counterpart , both named Yvonne . The action wavers unpleasantly between France's genteel yesteryear and modern Maine , without establishing any effective parallels between the two story-lines . The modern story features a grotesque supporting cast , including a sinister Chinese , a brutal Red Indian and a burly Irishman . The so-called comic relief is supplied by an hotel proprietor played by James Doyle , a stout carnival dwarf who performed under the stage name Major Doyle , following the nom-du-guerre tradition of such military midgets as General Tom Thumb and Commodore Nutt . In this movie , Major Doyle plays a man named Colonel Tip , thus giving himself a higher rank while maintaining his short stature . SPOILERS COMING . Neither of the two centuries in this film contains an especially plausible story . The stodgy action is top-heavy with forged documents and other portentous props . De Mersay's dying words ( via the inter-titles ) are ' Tell Yvonne the tale of the dragon ! ' With utmost contrivance , this turns out to refer to a piece of Chinese panelling with an image of a dragon . . . when a concealed stud in the dragon's tail is pressed , this opens a secret compartment containing McGuffin papers . All of this is made even more contrived by the unlikelihood that a Frenchman would make the ' tale / tail ' pun , which only works in English . Actually , the French for ' tale ' is ' conte ' , which could pun with a certain French word that rhymes with ' Lunt ' . The photography is excellent , but this film is so unbelievable ( and so badly paced ) that I'm tempted to rate it zero points . Still , film footage of Alfred Lunt is so rare that I'll rate this film one point in ten for his presence in two badly-written roles .
Fanny batters the big screen	Fanny Brice is one of those old-time performers who remains well-known only indirectly , through an impersonator : nowadays , most people who think they're familiar with Fanny Brice's style as a performer are actually recalling Barbra Streisand in ' Funny Girl ' and ' Funny Lady ' . ( A similar problem exists with George M . Cohan , whom most people know only through James Cagney . ) Personally , I've never understood the appeal of Fanny Brice , and I suspect that most of the people who claim to be Brice fans are really thinking of Streisand's two movies , which do NOT depict Brice's life or her personality with any accuracy . If you want to see a movie which tells the true story of Fanny Brice's life , watch Alice Faye in ' Rose of Washington Square ' . . . a movie which is so accurate in its depiction of Brice's romance with Nick Arnstein , the characters ' names had to be changed to prevent Brice from suing . Fanny Brice made very few films ; late in her career , she starred in a popular radio sitcom as Baby Snooks , a bratty little girl . When performing this role , Brice would actually dress up in costume as a small girl , thus creating the misperception ( which I still encounter ) that radio actors often dressed up as the characters they played , for the benefit of the studio audiences . Brice was the only radio actor who did this . ( Although a few other radio actors occasionally wore costumes for publicity photos . ) ' Be Yourself ! ' is a poor film , although the underrated director Thornton Freeland does his job well with weak material . Part of the problem is that this movie is almost but not quite a musical : Fanny sings a couple of numbers , but they're spaced very thinly through the movie , so the transitions are jarring . And the movie isn't really a comedy either ; Fanny makes a few wisecracks , but this film is basically a character study ( of the male lead , not Fanny Brice's role ) . Although Brice gets top billing , the plot of the movie is really about the washed-up boxer played by Robert Armstrong . The make-up man has equipped Armstrong with a severely flattened nose , which looks quite realistic and is appropriate for his character . . . but it also looks very distressing . Every time Fanny Brice looked at Armstrong , I expected her to sing " Second-Hand Nose " . This movie suffers from the presence of Harry Green , an actor who portrayed Jewish stereotypes in much the same way that Stepin Fetchit played Negro stereotypes . Harry Green's " Yiddisher " schtick grew so annoying that he eventually became unemployable in Hollywood , and he landed up in England . . . giving exaggerated portrayals of pushy American Jews for British audiences who had no frame of reference for these characterisations . Some parts of ' Be Yourself ! ' are so weird , I can't even guess if they're intentionally strange or merely inept . When Robert Armstrong's Irish-American boxer first becomes attracted to Fanny Brice's character ( named Fanny Field , but clearly meant to be Jewish ) , he moves in with her . A few minutes later , Fanny Brice is screeching her way through a ditty : " My baby wants bacon , so that's what I'm makin ' , and I'm cookin ' breakfast for the one I love . " Nobody connected with this movie , including Brice herself , seems to find any irony whatever in the idea of a Jewish woman cooking bacon ( which she just happens to have handy ) . I can't even tell if the irony is intentional : maybe the lyricist just needed a rhyme for " makin ' " . At one point in this movie , Armstrong calls Fanny Brice ' a funny girl ' , which in post-Streisand hindsight looks like a deeply significant line , but wasn't meant to be . I'll rate " Be Yourself ! " precisely . Fanny Brice really didn't have the right sort of talent for movies .
Short back and sides	' Bothered by a Beard ' could be considered an early example of " mockumentary " . This short film consists of a series of vignettes which purport to show how men have contended with their facial hair ( and its removal ) through the centuries . Unfortunately , this movie isn't funny enough to succeed as a comedy , and it certainly isn't informative enough to serve as a true documentary . The best sequence is a brief appearance by Tod Slaughter , reprising his most famous role as Sweeney Todd , the Demon Barber of Fleet Street , in the act of ' polishing off ' a customer . This isn't a clip from Slaughter's earlier film ; it's new footage performed by Slaughter especially for this movie . Veteran comic Jerry Verno is mildly effective in one of the historical vignettes . Skip this movie , unless you're an absolute Tod Slaughter completist . I'll rate it . Next !
The jokes date back to the Stone Age .	I saw " It's About Time " when it was transmitted in Australia . At that time , the cheapest American sitcom ever made still had a much larger production budget than the most prestigious series produced in Australia . . . but I still noticed the general cheapness and shoddiness of this ( only vaguely funny ) sitcom . Produced by Sherwood Schwartz , who had previously created " Gilligan's Island " , " It's About Time " was his attempt at a second bite of the cherry . Both sitcoms featured the premise of modern characters stuck in a primitive situation : in this case , two modern astronauts who somehow went yesterwards to the Stone Age . Both sitcoms even had theme songs which sounded similar . ( By the way , the lyric to " Gilligan's Island " can be sung to the tune of " Amazing Grace " , and vice versa . Who says this website isn't educational ? ) " It's About Time " featured a lot of Flintstones-style jokes , with anachronistic cavemen . All the cavemen speak modern American English , with Borscht Belt accents but with varying degrees of ' primitive ' syntax . ( " Me no like . " ) When I saw this sitcom in Australia , I was much younger and naffer : I recall telling my stepmother that I was impressed that this show did NOT commit the error of depicting cavemen as co-existing with dinosaurs . My stepmother commented that the only reason this sitcom left out the dinosaurs was because their production budget couldn't afford any ! I was embarrassed that I hadn't thought of this myself . The leader of the cavemen ( although only a supporting character ) was played by Cliff Norton , a third-rate comic who managed to work with a lot of major American comedians ( Sid Caesar , Steve Allen , Dick Van Dyke , etc . ) . His chief henchman was played by Mike Mazurki . I've never lived Mazurki , but he was perfectly cast as a caveman . For this show's purposes , the two main cave people were played by Joe E . Ross and Imogene Coca , as the cave couple who more or less sponsored the astronauts . This couple also had a son and daughter who were teens or pre-teens : much humour about the fact that a prehistoric teenager is almost identical to a modern teenager . This sitcom also reveals the little-known fact that all humans in the Stone Age were white . Paralleling a similar situation in " Gilligan's Island " , the two astronauts ' spacesuits never got dirty nor torn , and they had an amazingly vast repertory of modern gadgets inside their tiny little spacecraft ( which looked a lot like a Project Mercury capsule ) . " It's About Time " may well deserve some recognition as ( probably ) the first fictional TV series which completely reversed its own premise . . . most likely out of desperation . After a few unfunny episodes in the Stone Age , the two astronauts finally repaired their ship and set course for the twentieth century . ( Did they reset the clocks ? ) I would've sworn that a Mercury space capsule without booster rockets isn't capable of attaining escape velocity , much less breaking the time barrier , but maybe I studied at the wrong time-travel academy . At the last moment , cave-folk Ross and Coca and their two teenagers all piled into the tiny little capsule . ( Like Dr Who's Tardis , it's bigger on the inside than the outside . ) They all ended up back at NASA in the 1960s . In real life , the two astronauts would have been debriefed and then gone on to their next mission . ( Too bad that NASA's rules preclude them from getting a book deal . ) In order to keep the series running , Sherwood Schwartz came up with this contrivance : modern scientists ( very plausibly ) wanted to study the Stone Age family , but ( rather less plausibly ) the cave family wouldn't trust any modern people except for their two astronaut buddies , so ( very implausibly ) NASA permanently reassigned the two astronauts to be the cave family's minders . Lots of unfunny sight gags : for instance , the astronauts instal the cave family in a very posh hotel suite , but the cave family sleep on the floor . The original theme song - - recounting the plight of two astronauts trapped in the Stone Age - - was quite catchy , but somebody had to rewrite the lyric and the melody to reflect the switch in the premise once they got back to the present . Who cares ?
Mr Magoo has a Bimbo	George K Arthur ( a chirpy little Aberdonian ) and Karl Dane ( tall and slack-jawed ) were an immensely popular comedy team of the silent era whose career slowed in talkies , largely due to Dane's thick accent ( he was a Dane by name and a Dane by nature ) , combined with the fact that neither was an especially good actor . The film historian William K Everson told me that he owned prints of all the Dane-Arthur team-ups , but that he very seldom viewed them because ( in his opinion ) they just weren't funny . I'm inclined to agree . What most intrigues me about Dane and Arthur is that , uniquely among major comedy teams , they tended to play adversaries rather than allies . This is especially prominent in ' Brotherly Love ' , set in a penitentiary . . . in which Arthur plays a young lag trying to escape , and Dane plays the warder trying to stop him . The army comedy ' Rookies ' is probably the best of the Dane-Arthur films . Someone at MGM must have agreed , because here's a movie called ' Circus Rookies ' : not in any way a sequel to ' Rookies ' , yet titled to make us think it is . Mister Magoo ( no , not THAT one ) is a circus impresario who keeps losing his gorilla-keepers , because Bimbo the gorilla insists on mauling them . Along comes Oscar ( Dane ) , who manages to tame Bimbo by the brilliant stratagem of offering the gorilla a banana . . . apparently nobody ever thought of this before . Eventually , Dane has got Bimbo so well-trained , he tells him to ' Kiss papa ' . . . and Bimbo complies . Karl Dane never won any beauty prizes , and the sight of this lanky fellow being kissed by a gorilla ( played by a man in a too-obvious ape cozzy ) is not a pretty sight . George K Arthur , much handsomer and a more conventional personality type than Dane , tended to dominate their films together . Here , possibly for the only time in the team's brief history , Arthur has far less to do than Dane . There's an unfunny running gag : every time Dane runs out of bananas , Bimbo dunks him in a water-trough . ' Circus Rookies ' has a high budget and MGM's usual excellent art direction , but it's wasted on a bad script and not enough humour . I'll rate this movie just .
This movie made my brain want to wash its hands .	I was not surprised to learn that Arthur Lipsett , who created this film , later committed suicide . ' 21-87 ' reveals an extremely bleak and pessimistic view of humanity . To say that Lipsett ' created ' this film might be overstatement . It consists of a few soundbites dubbed onto scraps of documentary film footage , scavenged by Lipsett from uncredited sources . Lipsett was Canadian , but most or all of this footage was shot in New York City : I recognise many New York City locations , and ( in two separate shots ) men are holding New York City newspapers . Although Lipsett did not shoot any of this footage , he should still take responsibility for his choices of what to include here . Except for a few brief clips of glamorous female circus performers , he seems to have gone out of his way to choose clips which make humanity seem coarse , dirty , effete , superficial . We see an unattractive woman chewing something . We see an overweight slovenly woman primping : indulging her vanity even though her looks are nothing to boast of . A heavy-set man takes his cigar out of his mouth long enough to spit , then shoves his stogie back into his gob . A racetrack railbird has a prominent facial mole . We see a row of pier glasses in a funfair arcade , their warped surfaces distorting the reflexions of the crowd , making them resemble hunchbacked dwarfs . A few young attractive people of both sexes manage to make themselves look ridiculous , frugging wildly at a discotheque . We briefly see a ' diving horse ' at a pier : one of those weird novelty acts that were popular in Atlantic City ( New Jersey ) in the 1940s . A rider goads his horse up a steep incline to a high platform above water ; the platform suddenly collapses , forcing the horse to do a high dive . Lipsett's stock footage of this bizarre performance prominently includes a United States flag , so that his Canadian audience can assure themselves that this particular insanity takes place south of their border . We also see a fashion show , with anorexic models on a catwalk , flaunting fur coats which Lipsett apparently wants us to interpret as symbolising greed or animal cruelty or something unpleasant . The models are young females but they all wear grotesque maquillage , making them seem more like drag queens . Speaking of drag queens : the film also includes a brief shot of a couple who resemble the Duke and Duchess of Windsor . The film's irrelevant title comes from a remark made in passing on the soundtrack : the audio has no relationship to the images . Allegedly , ' 21-87 ' inspired George Lucas to create ' THX 1138 ' . Apart from both films having numeric titles and being made on micro-budgets , I see almost no similarity . From what I've seen of Lipsett's work , he wasn't remotely as talented as Lucas . When I finished watching ' 21-87 ' , my brain wanted to wash its hands . Ick ! My rating : zero points for this movie .
Chitlin's and grits	This movie is bilge . There are times when I'll actually look for a bad movie on television ; namely , when I'm cleaning house or updating my computer records , and I want to have some mindless rubbish playing in the background on TV : something just interesting enough to keep me from getting bored , but not interesting enough to command my attention and distract me from the drudgery I'm doing . Recently I had some drudge-work to do in New York City , and I switched on the goggle-box just in time to catch " Morgan's Ferry " . SPOILERS AHEAD . " Morgan's Ferry " is like the bastard stepchild of a one-night stand between two much better films : ' The Desperate Hours ' and ' O Brother , Where Art Thou ? ' . I'm gobsmacked at how awful this movie is . Firstly , the movie is narrated by a voice-over which is meant to be the female protagonist . . . only the voice-over is supplied by a different ( older ) actress , who is supposed to be the heroine looking back on these events from many years later . So we know , straight off , that she's not going to die . Bang goes the suspense angle , right there . This movie takes place in the white-trash deep South , so the characters have cornpone names like Vonnie , Joe Ed , and Carlene . I kept expecting Meemaw and Peejo to show up . One character is named Parson Weems , which was also the name of the American historian who made up the story about George Washington's cherry tree . All the dialogue and narration in " Morgan's Ferry " is written in that horrible deep-South dialect . You've heard it in a hundred bad movies . Never say " I don't know " if you can say " I don't rightly know " . Never ask someone how far away the next town is , if you can ask him how far he " reckons " it is . There are some of those annoying sub-Faulkner Southern Gothic touches . The heroine's father dug a grave for her when she was born , and she's kept the grave lying open ever since because she knows she'll need it eventually . Anton Chekhov warned dramatists that they should never introduce a dramatic element ( such as a loaded firearm ) unless they intend to use it later in the plot line . Chekhov's rule is ignored here : the heroine's open grave is yawning at the beginning of the movie , and at the end of the movie it's still yawning . ( And so are the audience . ) Sam , Monroe and Darcy are convicts who have escaped from a work farm . As in " O Brother , Where Art Thou ? " , the escapees are two morons and their handsome smooth-talking leader . As in ' The Desperate Hours ' , the three convicts hole up in someone's house , intending to lie doggo and take the occupants hostage . In this case , the house has only one occupant : Vonnie , played by Kelly McGillis in a one-note performance . Also as in ' The Desperate Hours ' , the stupidest of the three convicts strikes forth on his own and gets killed . Roscoe Lee Browne used to be one of my favourite character actors . His performance in this movie is so bad , I'm tempted to forget all the fine performances he's given elsewhere . In this movie , he embodies one of my least favourite character clichés , one that has shown up in a lot of movies and TV shows in recent years : the po ' old black man who jes ' cain't hardly speak proper English but who is so incredibly dignified . I'm aware that , in segregation days , African-American menials were stigmatised ( or worse ) if they spoke proper English , but this movie takes place in the 1990s . . . so why is Browne speaking like he jes ' done ex-caped from a minstrel show ? The casting of Kelly McGillis as Vonnie is intriguing , for the wrong reason . After she starred in ' The Accused ' ( a drama about rape ) , McGillis spoke very courageously about an occasion in her offscreen life when she had been raped . In " Morgan's Ferry " , she's alone in a remote house with three randy young men who just got out of prison and who are determined to intimidate her . . . yet rape is never even mentioned , not even as a threat . This is implausible enough on its own , but the fact that Vonnie is played by an actress publicly known to be a rape victim just draws more attention to the lapse . Annoyingly and implausibly , Vonnie has several opportunities to escape or to summon help , yet never does so . Very offensively and extremely implausibly , Vonnie becomes sexually attracted to the leader of the escapees : Sam , played by the petulant-looking Billy Zane . This plot turn makes " Morgan's Ferry " one of those ghastly movies ( another is ' Three Days of the Condor ' ) which tell male viewers that , if you take a woman hostage , she will eventually want to have sex with you . We never do learn the facts of Sam's criminal history ; this is an obvious ploy to make him more sympathetic . The film's title is nearly irrelevant . Morgan's Ferry is the place our three escapees are trying to reach : apparently if they can get to Morgan's Ferry , they've safely escaped . In our modern age of high-tech law enforcement , I couldn't believe this . The scriptwriter seems to be using Morgan's Ferry as a symbolic device , like Daisy Buchanan's green light : something the anti-hero longs to possess , but which he can never attain . I got me a mess o ' chitlin's an ' hush puppies to eat right smart , so I ain't got no mo ' time fo ' this heah movie . I'll rate " Morgan's Ferry " .
Hand me the Kryptonite !	Of all the major Hollywood studios , Paramount may well have had the worst animation department . The excellent cartoons exhibited in Paramount cinemas in the 1930s ( the Popeyes , the wonderfully rotoscoped Superman cartoons , the Betty Boops which I personally dislike ) were made by the Fleischer studio for distribution by Paramount . When Paramount actually made cartoons in-house ( Casper the Friendly Ghost , Little Lulu , the post-Bluto Popeyes ) , the results were generally rather dire . It's significant that , when Paramount wanted a cartoon sequence for ' The Big Broadcast of 1938 ' , the work was jobbed out to Leon Schlesinger's animators at Termite Terrace , who usually laboured for Warner Brothers . . . far and away the best cartoon studio in Hollywood history . The ' Little Lulu ' toons are based on a character created for the Saturday Evening Post by Marjorie Henderson Buell ( aka ' Marge ' ) , notable only for being one of the very few female cartoonists in what has always been the boys ' territory . ( The single-named Marge wasn't even a very talented cartoonist ; at least two other women - - Dale Messick and Ramona Fradon - - were consistently much better . ) Paramount's Lulu cartoons are insipidly plotted and weakly animated ; the content is appropriate for very young children , but surely children deserve something better . The Lulus are extremely dated , not least because of the peculiar 1940s hairdo that Lulu wears . From a modern viewpoint , Little Lulu comes off as a weak imitation of Beryl the Peril , a much funnier character . Lulu is voiced by Mae Questel , using the same annoying adenoidal voice she used for Olive Oyl and Betty Boop . Were Paramount simply too lazy to find a better voice artist ? ' Super Lulu ' is a mildly interesting instalment in the Lulu series , only because it references Superman : a much more important cultural figure who ( via Fleischer ) was also starring in a Paramount animation series . In this cartoon , Lulu is hooked on Superman comics , and she even daydreams herself as Super Lulu , battling a giant and performing other epic deeds . Lulu's practical-minded father insists that she give up those comic books . SPOILERS COMING . A burglar enters the house , ties up Lulu's father , and proceeds to steal the valuables . ( Very considerately , the burglar has dressed himself in an official burglar's uniform : domino mask , striped shirt , flat cap . ) Lulu , wearing her Super-suit , gets the jump on the burglar and captures him for the police . Fade out on a happy ending , as Lulu and her father enjoy a Superman comic book together . I try not to deconstruct children's entertainment , but it's perhaps not a good idea to offer children a story in which a little girl tackles a burglar . I do recall an actual case in Europe , circa 1980 , in which a boy about eight years old knocked out a burglar , then told the police afterwards ' I did what Tintin would have done . ' Good job it didn't turn out otherwise . I'll rate ' Super Lulu ' , for its depiction of Superman's popularity in the first decade of his career . The other Lulus are worth zero points .
The Candy Man can't .	Sammy Davis Jnr was a dynamically talented performer , whom I always enjoy watching . His talents were at their peak in the mid-1960s , during the period in which this variety special was made . Unfortunately , it's very poor stuff . This musical special tries to make some ' serious ' observations about childhood , but it utterly trips over its own earnestness . Sammy Davis was a talented dramatic actor , but he needed good material : here , he's let down by some inept scripting . If somebody had decided to film 30 minutes of Sammy Davis singing and dancing in front of a wall , it would have made for fascinating viewing . Here , Davis is required to act cuddly with a bunch of child actors , and the results are dire . Davis demonstrates absolutely no rapport with children . And the children here are doing nothing interesting in their own right ; we want them to go away so that Sammy can unleash his incredible talents . The best scene ( which isn't very good ) occurs right after the beginning . We see some arch and artificial child ' actors ' engaged in some heavily scripted ' playing ' . Sammy comes along and wants to join them , apparently unaware of the overtones in his behaviour . The children aren't having any , because this game is for kids only , and Sammy isn't a kid . ( Smart thinking , kids ! ) Sammy insists that he should qualify as a kid because he still remembers all the ' rules ' of being a kid . To prove it , he reels off a list of rules such as ' cleanliness is next to nothing ' . Nobody seems to notice the irony of creating a set of rules to define childhood . Anyway , this dialogue scene is pretty bad , but it sets up the one good musical number on offer here , performed by Sammy and the kids , called ' Walk Down the Road ' . They start off walking down a ( studio-bound ) ' road ' , then they gradually start travelling by faster and faster means ( all of these acted out in body movements ) , culminating in a rocketship . This number more than somewhat succeeds in evoking the magic of childhood , in which kids can ' become ' a rocketship just by pointing their arms overhead and making a whooshing sound . Despite the weak material , some of the child performers here show real talent and presence . Special mention should go to Michael Favata , a boy singer featured prominently here , who worked again later with Sammy Davis Jnr in better material . After ' Walk Down the Road ' , this show goes downhill rapidly . The back-up music by Dino , Desi & Billy is nothing much : this act had its brief success on the novelty value of its bloodlines : Dino ( Dean Paul Martin ) was a son of Dean Martin , and Desi was the son of Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz . Which reminds me : a brilliant book about Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis was authored by Arthur Marx , a veteran scriptwriter who was also the son of Groucho Marx . He researched this book by interviewing several members of Martin's and Lewis's families . When Dino learnt about his interviewer's background , he excitedly asked him how it felt to be the son of such a famous man . ' You should know , ' said Arthur Marx . ' Your father is Dean Martin . ' ' Yeah , ' replied Dino , ' but YOUR father is GROUCHO MARX ! ' I wish there was one line of dialogue as funny as that in ' Sammy Davis and the Wonderful World of Children ' . I'll rate this very poor special only . You did much better elsewhere , Sammy .
Put it back , thief !	George Raft was never much of an actor ( as he freely admitted ) , but I fondly recall the ironic desperation in the performance he gave in ' If I Had a Million ' . In that movie , Raft played a cheque forger who unexpectedly receives a legitimate cheque for $1 , 000 , 000 , made out to himself . . . then he realises that he can't cash the cheque nor deposit it , because his handiwork is known in every bank in town . Raft's forger nearly goes insane in his frustration . Good performance ! Now here's Raft again , playing a similar role in a film with a similar title : ' I Stole a Million ' . Sadly , this movie has a screenplay by Nathanael West : possibly the single most over-rated author in the entire history of American literature . ( By coincidence , Nathanael West's brother-in-law was S . J . Perelman : possibly the single most UNDER-rated author in American literature . ) This movie is not remotely as good as ' If I Had a Million ' . This movie embodies one of my least favourite film cliches : the one about the ' reluctant thief ' who swears he wants to go straight , but first he's got to pull one last job . ( Similar to this is the one about the ' weary warrior ' : the guy who claims to dislike violence , even though he's spent most of his life kicking butt . And now he's got to kick butt one more time . . . ) In ' I Stole a Million ' , Raft plays a cabdriver who supplements his income with petty crimes . He keeps vowing that one of these days he's going to accumulate enough swag so that he'll be able to go straight . One reason I loathe this ' reluctant thief ' plotline is because it insults the audience's intelligence . The main reason why habitual thieves are habitual thieves isn't the money at all : they get a powerful thrill ( very nearly like an orgasm ) from their criminal behaviour , and they just won't give it up . But here we're expected to believe that Raft would go straight if he could just pull one big job . Well , he gets that chance in this movie . Will he get away with the million bucks ? And if he does , will he really go straight ? Who cares ? This movie bears no resemblance to reality . The few pleasures on offer in ' I Stole a Million ' are supplied by the supporting cast . Dick Foran , the sour-faced Victor Jory , the even sourer-faced Al Hill and the very under-rated Joe Sawyer are all fine here , despite Frank Tuttle's usual lacklustre direction . Hobart Cavanaugh was a character actor who usually blended into the woodwork , but he's splendid here as a mousy little accountant . Watch for veteran stuntman Dave Sharpe as an undersized cab driver . As for leading lady Claire Trevor . . . erm , no comment . George Raft came from Hell's Kitchen in New York City , and he made no bones about the fact that ( in real life ) he had an extensive criminal background . ( Raft and gangster Bugsy Siegel were pals before either was famous . ) Raft was extremely believable as a crook in films in which he had good direction , such as ' Scarface ' , ' You and Me ' and ' Quick Millions ' . In ' I Stole a Million ' , Raft gets no direction at all . . . and he's utterly unbelievable , even though he's playing a role quite similar to his own early life . I'll rate ' I Stole a Million ' .
Not even ' sub ' standard	' False Faces ' ( there's no ' THE ' in the film's title ) is being marketed on video as a Lon Chaney movie . Buyer beware ! Chaney plays a small role , having far less screen time than Henry Walthall and Mary Anderson . That wouldn't be bad if this were a good film . ' False Faces ' LOOKS like a good film , possessing elaborately tinted colour sequences and some highly artistic intertitles , sometimes superimposed on live backgrounds . Many of these intertitles are so elaborate that they're difficult to read . ( But we can clearly read the name of producer Thomas Ince in SIX different places in the credits : Ince was notorious for this shenanigan . ) A far worse drawback is that this film has a plot which is both dull and extremely overwrought . ' False Faces ' exploits the events of the Great War , and the movie's sympathies are very clearly drawn . The war is characterised as ' the armies of civilization beating back the wolf-hordes of a blood-crazed king ' . Hmm , guess which side is which . All the Americans are extremely virtuous and resourceful , and there's no mention at all of the British ( whose B . E . F . Tommies had far higher casualties than America's doughboys , and who were in the war longer ) . All the Germans are sub-human ' Huns ' , as the intertitles cry them . Don't mistake me : I quite agree that the Allies were ( and still are ) the good guys , but I'm deeply annoyed at attempts to demonise villains like the Kaiser or Hitler or Osama bin Laden . It's a cheap easy tactic to depict such people as inhuman monsters , because we don't want to contemplate why human beings could be capable of such hideous acts . Henry Walthall , a very dull and stolid actor , plays American super-agent Michael Lanyard , alias the Lone Wolf . When I saw the name ' Lanyard ' , I got ready to make puns about Walthall's hero stringing us along , but this movie ain't worth the trouble . The plot is downright incoherent , and features one of the most blatant examples I've ever seen of a ' McGuffin ' : a cylinder , allegedly containing some sort of microform , that's constantly passed back and forth among the characters . Doesn't mean a bloody thing , but everybody wants it . By the way , although Hitchcock popularised the term ' McGuffin ' ( which he credited to Angus McPhail ) , he did not create the concept that it represents . Pearl White , the queen of silent serials , had a McGuffin in many of her films , but she called it a ' weenie ' . Sure does LOOK a good film , though . Near the very beginning , there's an impressive dissolve shot in which several of the male cast members ( including Chaney ) are shown as disembodied heads , who suddenly sprout false whiskers that look very realistic . But this is just a camera stunt that doesn't advance the story . Much more impressive is a later sequence in which a German submarine commander ( allegedly the man who sank the Lusitania ) is haunted by the ghosts of his victims . First , some tiny people materialise on his table . Next , he sees children's corpses floating outside his porthole . When a ghost materialises in front of the hatchway , he shoots it . . . and the ghost falls over . ( This must be the only ever film in which bullets stop a ghost . ) As in Rex Ingram's ' The Conquering Power ' ( which may have been influenced by this movie ) , it's clear that the ' ghosts ' are manifestations of the villain's guilt complex rather than actual supernatural spooks . This sequence in ' False Faces ' is excellent , but has a contrived payoff . All the scenes aboard the submarine feature spacious roomy sets , with high ceilings ( not overheads ) , and nothing belayed nor bolted down . And if you're aboard a submarine and you want to sink it , just open the convenient hatch in the floor . Deck ? No , this one is definitely a floor . The hatchways are regular doors , the overheads are regular ceilings . If the script didn't say this was a submarine , I'd think we were on a movie set . Somebody open the window . Lon Chaney is my favourite actor , but - - unlike many people I've met whose Chaneyphilia borders on fanaticism - - I'm capable of admitting that Chaney sometimes gave a bad performance . He gives an utterly lousy one here , but that's the fault of the script and direction . Cast as a German spymaster , Chaney isn't allowed to portray the role as a human being . The character is written as a one-dimensional Hun , so that's how Chaney plays it . This film was made shortly before Chaney's stardom , when he was a hard-working utility actor who grabbed every role he could get . The climax is so utterly bad that it's laughable , with Walthall slathering make-up on the semi-conscious Chaney . This scene puts Henry Walthall alongside Ford Sterling ( in ' He Who Gets Slapped ' , a much better movie ) as one of the few actors who had the great honour to apply make-up to Lon Chaney . Walthall and Chaney had a genuinely affecting rapport together on screen in ' The Road to Mandalay ' ( in which they played brothers ) , but not here . I realise that Chaneyphiles will want to see every Lon Chaney movie they can find ; fair enough , but make ' False Faces ' a very low priority on your list of the Thousand Faces of Lon Chaney . I'll rate this dull movie only one point in 10 , for that atmospheric ghost sequence .
Physician , heal thyself	I'm going to trash this movie , but where do I start ? Veteran character actor Hobart Bosworth plays a Park Avenue surgeon with a much younger wife ( Claire Windsor ) . Doctor Walters has adopted a foster son ; annoyingly , the foster son is named Foster . That's Raymond Griffith as Leonard Foster , the stepson . Griffith usually played dapper comedy roles ; he's miscast here . When the movie starts , Foster is already old enough to be out on his own , especially as he's a scoundrel . He seduces his stepfather's maid and secretary , then sets his sights on Dr Walters's wife , who is technically his own stepmother . Walters orders the young man out of his house ( good move ) , but Foster promptly gets injured in an accident . Meanwhile , Dr Walters and his estranged wife get stuck in a lift , where they manage to reconcile . ( I guess neither one of them has bladder trouble . ) SPOILERS COMING . When Dr Walters emerges , he learns that his stepson needs life-saving surgery . . . and of course Dr Walters is the only surgeon who can perform it . Will he honour his oath , and save the life of the ungrateful stepson who betrayed him ? Or will Dr Walters arrange a little ' accident ' that will kill Leonard Foster ? Hobart Bosworth performs his entire role in straight-arrow mode , so there's never any doubt . Nor much suspense , either . I'll rate this movie , mostly for its interesting cast . The script and direction are by Marshall ' Mickey ' Neilan , but he did much better elsewhere .
The front man needs a front tooth .	" Streamlined Swing " was directed by Buster Keaton at the lowest point in his career , when he was under contract to MGM but they refused to make proper use of his comedic talents . This film was a showcase vehicle for " The Original Sing Band " , an unusual vaudeville act consisting of several young black men who play all the instruments in a band . The gimmick is that , except for one acoustic guitar , there aren't any real instruments in this band : the various bandsmen make unusual mouth noises ( almost like scat-singing ) to simulate the sounds of a clarinet , a saxophone , a trumpet with a wah-wah mute , and so forth . The mouth noises aren't meant to be funny ; we're supposed to be impressed with the Sing Band's genuine ability to simulate the sounds of musical instruments . Our lads in the band have got a snappy new diner but no customers , so they put on a band concert ( with their nonexistent instruments ) to attract a crowd , and of course there's a happy ending . It's unfortunate that all the members of the Sing Band speak in " Yassuh " dialect , which was probably inflicted on them by some white booking agent who figured they'd be more popular with white audiences if they spoke like illiterate stereotype darkies . Also , the band's front man ( the guitarist ) is missing one of his front teeth , which really gives him a distressing appearance . MGM were the richest Hollywood studio , but they obviously didn't spend much money or effort promoting the Original Sing Band . A shame , really . Buster Keaton directs this short film with proficiency but no energy . The whole film seems lackadaisical . " Streamlined Swing " deserves maybe , but I can't blame the men in the band for trying .
Regardez les tootsies !	If anybody out there knows what the title ' Emak-Bakia ' means , please let me know . I've always found the dilettante Man Ray and his artistic efforts to be deeply pretentious , and I've never understood why his work attracts so much attention . Apart from his Rayographs ( which he invented by accident , and which are merely direct-contact photo prints ) , his one real contribution to culture seems to be that he was the first photographer to depict female nudity in a manner that was accepted as art rather than as porn . But surely this had to happen eventually , and there's no real reason why Ray deserves the credit . The critical reaction to Man Ray reminds me of the story about the Emperor's New Clothes . There is in ' Emak-Bakia ' one interesting shot of several women alighting from a 1920s motorcar : the camera aims at the pavement and the running board , so that we see only their feet in silk stockings and shoes . Man Ray's entire career shows a constant obsession with the nude female form : this one shot seems to imply that he may have had a fetish for women's feet or shoes or both . We also see a brief montage of Rayographs , depicting either dressmaker's pins or nails ( it's hard to tell ) , edited in a manner that almost makes them look animated . I remember a shot of a headless puppet with a balloon in its neck , and a picture of Josephine Baker's face is drawn on the balloon . Or am I thinking of some other Man Ray movie instead ? Who cares ! All of his work is equally meaningless . The emperor is naked , folks , and this movie just barely rates . Au suivant !
This ' Superman ' can't fly .	" It's a Bird It's a Plane It's Superman " was the unwieldy ( and comma-less ) title of a 1966 Broadway musical that ran for less than four months . The score by Charles Strouse and Lee Adams produced not a single hit song . . . although " You've Got Possibilities " was recorded in England by Matt Munro . ' Superman ' was such a resounding failure that , years later , when Martin Charnin approached Strouse to write the tunes for a musical comedy about Little Orphan Annie , Strouse almost refused because he'd already had one flop musical about a comic-book character ! ( ' Annie ' became the biggest hit in Strouse's songbook . ) Many bizarre ( or Bizarro ) decisions were made in the musical ' Superman ' , chiefly the decision to eliminate most of the established characters . The Broadway musical has no Perry White , no Jimmy Olsen . ( They show up briefly in this tele-version . ) Superman wastes a lot of time fighting some larcenous Chinese acrobats ( played by white actors ) who seem more like Batman's sort of villains . The main villain here is an evil scientific genius in the tradition of Lex Luthor . . . but he isn't Lex Luthor . Apparently the producers of ' Superman ' didn't want to pay DC Comics for the rights to use the Luthor character , so they named their villain " Doctor Abner Sedgwick " . In the Broadway production ( but not in this TV version ) , the actor playing Dr Sedgwick wore long flowing hair , just to make sure we all understood he wasn't the famously chrome-domed Lex Luthor . The lead character in the ' Superman ' musical isn't even Superman , Clark Kent , Lois Lane or anyone else in the established superhero canon : it's Max Mencken ( who ? ) , an egotistical reporter at the Daily Planet who wants to destroy Superman due to sheer envy . Mencken actually has more time onstage than Superman and Clark Kent together ! ( And more songs . ) In 1966 the big-name Broadway actor Jack Cassidy was looking for a star vehicle , so the ' Superman ' production team built up the minor role of Mencken in order to attract Cassidy and take advantage of his box-office name value . This was a fatal error : a musical about Superman ought to be ABOUT Superman . ' ABC Wide World of Entertainment ' wasn't so much a TV series as it was an irregular time slot . In the 1970s , whenever ABC-TV had a piece of programming that didn't fit any established niche , they bunged it into whatever late-night slot was available and called it ' Wide World of Entertainment ' . The most notorious example of this was the ' Monty Python ' special which ABC-TV aired at midnight : several Python episodes were drastically recut to fit the time slot , provoking a famous lawsuit from the Python comedians . The 1975 television production of " It's a Bird It's a Plane It's Superman " - - transmitted under ABC's ' Wide World of Entertainment ' rubric - - is a re-staging of the Broadway show , with a new cast . This is a VERY bad musical special , done on a criminally low budget . The entire production is filmed on a cramped sound stage . The musical numbers , which were bad in the first place , are staged in a very unimaginative manner . In the Broadway version , the nearest thing to a hit song was " You've Got What I Need , Baby " , a duet sung by Mencken and Sedgwick when they decide to team up in a plot to kill Superman . Staged on Broadway , this was a rousing up-tempo number that efficiently closed the first act . In this 1975 TV version , the song is stodged down so that Kenneth Mars and David Wayne can perform it with arthritic slowness . A ( very minor ) musical high point occurs in the song " You've Got Possibilities " when Loretta Swit , as the villainess , attempts to seduce mild-mannered Clark Kent , whom she doesn't realise is really Superman . When Linda Lavin performed this number in the Broadway production , there was an element of suspense when she sang the line " underneath , there's something there " while she started to unbutton Clark's shirt . . . nearly discovering the big Superman " S " underneath . This clever staging was omitted in the TV version , and nothing better is brought in to replace it . Swit's singing voice is smoky and appropriately vampy , but weak . This TV special does have one poignant moment that didn't occur in the Broadway original , when Superman meets two teenage fans named Jerry and Joe who want to write stories about him and draw pictures of him . This is a subtle reference to Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster , the real-life teenagers from Cleveland who created Superman in the 1930s and sold the character to National Periodical Publications . I wish that " It's a Bird It's a Plane It's Superman " had more moments like this . I'll rate this terrible show only . Pass the Kryptonite .
Pastafazoola for Little Mary	SPOILERS SPOILERS'Poor Little Peppina ' is not one of Mary Pickford's better efforts , although it's a creditable attempt at a change of pace for Little Mary . There's a long prologue in which she doesn't appear at all , her screen character being only an infant . Peppina's father is a wealthy landowner who helps send a Mafiosa to gaol . Seeking revenge , the gangster escapes and abducts Peppina . When a man and a child are rumoured to be drowned , Peppina's father assumes that the dead child is his daughter and he makes no attempt to find her . He sounds a devoted dad , he does . . . Fade out , fade in years later , and now the girl Peppina is Mary in a long black wig . When she finds herself heading for a forced marriage , she escapes with the aid of a duchess who gives her enough money to reach America . Peppina is also given the address of the duchess's brother in New York City , who will help Peppina become an American citizen . For safety's sake , Peppina disguises herself as a boy ( like Shakespeare's Rosalind ) for the trip , in which she stows aboard an ocean liner with her paisan buddy Beppo . Instead of cutting off her long tresses , Peppina becomes a ' boy ' by tucking her hair under a cap . In New York , she easily finds work as a messenger ' boy ' . . . but she loses the address of her patroness's brother . SPOILERS COMING . This film's plot has many , many , MANY coincidences . In New York , Peppina meets . . . none other than the villain who snatched her in the first place . Seeking protection , she asks for help from a handsome district attorney , who turns out to be the duchess's brother . Mama mia ! I give Mary Pickford credit here for one of her rare attempts at playing a sexually mature woman , rather than the little girl-character who could always be relied upon to get the cash registers ringing in Mary's box office . Also , this is one of Mary's rare attempts at an ethnic role . Her boy disguise is almost convincing . . . though not quite as convincing as in ' Little Lord Fauntleroy ' , in which she played a biological male . Cesare Gravina is excellent in a supporting role . A fatal flaw is the casting of Mary's brother Jack as her peasant friend Beppo . Jack Pickford was an actor with decent looks but no talent , whose career was entirely due to his sister's stardom . In the scenes between Mary and Jack Pickford , their physical resemblance is quite obvious . . . which is unfortunate here , as their characters aren't meant to be siblings . And the plot of this movie is unbearable . I'll rate ' Peppina ' . Marron ' !
. . . but not worse than this movie !	George Jessel was an extremely annoying performer whose work has dated badly . In vaudeville , his speciality was a monologue in which he supposedly had a telephone conversation with his mother : this unfunny gimmick required him to ask questions into a prop ' phone and then repeat ( for the audience's benefit ) all the ostensible answers that his mother was saying down the line . The single most impressive credit on Jessel's CV was that he starred on Broadway in ' The Jazz Singer ' , in the role later played by Al Jolson in the film version . Jessel bitterly claimed that Jolson had stolen the role from him , but this seems unlikely : clearly , Jolson was a much better choice for the role . In his later career , Jessel revealed some ability as a toastmaster at testimonial dinners , and became so popular in this capacity that President Truman informally appointed him ' Toastmaster-General of the United States ' . Long after his performance style had fallen out of fashion , Jessel remained in demand as a moderator at celebrity functions . ' It Might Be Worse ' , a thoroughly unfunny comedy short , is at least useful as a record of Jessel's performing style . IMDb's synopsis is incorrect : Jessel does not talk a friend out of suicide ; instead , Jessel encourages the friend to make a false confession - - taking responsibility for Jessel's own crimes - - and then commit suicide , so that Jessel will be off the hook . The film begins in the rooms of John Stephens ( Allen Connor ) , a rather effeminate-looking playboy , as he mixes a cocktail of whisky and carbolic acid - - we see a close-up of his manicure - - and then he languidly telephones the police to inform them that he's about to top himself . Then Jessel shows up , hoping to cadge . Stephens moans that he's lost all his money and his girlfriend ( no comment ) , so his only option is to commit suicide . Like several other showbiz personalities ( step forward , Mel Brooks ) , George Jessel seemed to feel constantly compelled to remind his audience that he was Jewish . . . as if his Yiddisher speech patterns were likely to make us forget this . The funniest line in this movie occurs when Jessel informs his buddy : ' In the language of Benjamin Franklin , you're a schlemiehl . ' To which I reply : Oy , vey ! Eventually Jessel's wife ( played by Mary Breen ) arrives , and at this point the movie degenerates into a shouting match . . . becoming even more unpleasant than previously . I'm tempted to rate this movie absolutely zero , but - - as it does provide a record of a performer who hobnobbed with the biggest showbiz names of his era - - I'll rate it one point in 10 .
Joe DiMaggio , stick to your day job	I can enjoy a truly brainless musical if it has some snappy songs and an interesting cast . " Manhattan Merry-Go-Round " is a brainless movie with a few dull songs , and guest appearances by celebrities who ( mostly ) don't show up long enough to do anything interesting . Some great character actors are in this film ( James Gleason , Luis Alberni , Moroni Olsen ) : they've given wonderful performances in other movies , but in " Manhattan Merry-Go-Round " they merely go through the motions . Here's the plot : some deeze-dem-doze gangsters take over a record company ( WHY ? ) , and they strong-arm several celebrities into making recordings . The head gangster is played by Leo Carrillo , who usually played funny crooks . In this movie , he isn't funny . The gangsters manage to round up some interesting " guest stars " to perform for their record company , including Cab Calloway , Louis Prima , Gene Autry and cowboy comedian Max Terhune . All these lads are solid show-biz professionals , but in " Manhattan Merry-Go-Round " none of them do anything interesting . Cab Calloway was usually a dynamic performer , but in this movie he's almost comatose . The one and only interesting scene in this movie occurs when the gangsters kidnap Joe DiMaggio , of all people . They prop him in front of a microphone , and force him at gunpoint to sing " Have You Ever Been Lonely ? " ( An interesting choice of song for the future husband of Marilyn Monroe . ) DiMaggio wasn't much of an actor , and this movie proves he's no singer . Joltin ' Joe croaks his way slowly and painfully through his big number . It's fascinating to watch and listen to Joe DiMaggio's performance . . . but fascinating only in the way that a train wreck is fascinating . Some musicals are so inept , they become enjoyable on an " Ed Wood " so-bad-it's-good level . " Manhattan Merry-Go-Round " is just awful . Where have you gone , Joe DiMaggio ? Nowhere near this film , I hope . I'm rating this movie . . . it would be batting . 000 without DiMaggio's weird performance .
Soldier boy is a girl , and it gets worse . . .	' Haiducii ' is the centrepiece of a trilogy of Roumanian films directed by Horia Igirosanu , dramatising the struggle of the Roumanian people to overthrow the tyrannical Pharinote : the Greek regents installed by the Holy Roman Empire as rulers of Roumania . The first film in the triptych is ' Iancu Jlanu ' ( 1928 ) ; the conclusion is ' Cioceii ' ( 1931 ) . I saw ' Haiducii ' in July 1996 at the Cinema Ritrovato festival in Bologna ; they screened a print with the original intertitles , from Roumania's Arhiva Nationala de Filme . This one movie in the trilogy covers events from 1812 through 1817 , with the revolution of 1821 left for the third film to cover . Much of the action in ' Haiducii ' is seen from the viewpoint of two young Roumanian sisters , Ileana ( Ana Ciobanu ) and Victorita ( Iva Dugan ) . When Ileana is kidnapped by the Pharinote , Victorita disguises herself as a boy and takes the name Mihaita , then tries to rescue her sister by infiltrating the group of soldiers commanded by Mereanu ( Cristache Antoniu ) , a haiduco . Actor Cristian Niculescu is good as Vulpe , a rival haiduco . The Pharinote have seized the inn owned by Tunsu ( portrayed by the one-named actor Titiandrescu ) , and they use this as their headquarters . Tunsu , enraged , joins the struggle to overthrow the regents . Eventually , after fighting alongside the ' boy ' Mihaita , Mereanu discovers that he's actually a girl named Victorita . The two promptly fall in love , not forgetting their struggle for political freedom . Oh , goulash ! I found this movie deeply unsatisfying . Part of the problem is that this is , after all , the middle section of a trilogy . . . so I've come into some material in mid-progress , and other plot points are left hanging for the conclusion . Fair enough , except that this movie is unsatisfying for other reasons as well . I confess that I know absolutely nowt about this chapter in Roumanian history , yet I get a very strong sensation that Ileana and Victorita , as well as several other characters here , are outright fictional characters , or composites at best . I've never objected to the device of placing fictional characters in actual historical events ( I've done this myself , as a novelist ) , but it bothers me very much when the fictional characters start controlling those events , for instance when they're shown here winning battles that actually were won and lost by real-life individuals . This film is made even more ludicrous by the device of Victorita fighting alongside Mereanu whilst disguised as a boy . Mereanu is entirely fooled , which raises questions about his perceptive abilities , and he accepts this ' boy ' as a valid comrade-at-arms . But as soon as Mereanu learns the truth about Victorita , he is attracted to her so quickly that I can't help wondering if he'd had any of those same feelings for her when he thought she was a boy . Normally , when I've seen only a portion of a film , I shan't rate it . In this case , I've seen only one-third of a trilogy . . . but each movie in the trilogy was released separately and was meant to stand on its own merits , so ' Haiducii ' is to some extent a complete and self-contained entity . If the other two instalments are as implausible and chaotic as this one , then all three are very bad indeed . I realise that some Roumanians ( or some people of Roumanian descent ) will be angered that I have so little esteem for a movie about a crucial period in that nation's history . The reason I dislike this movie so much is not due to any antipathy towards the Roumanians , but because this film's Roumanian director has done such a very bad job of dramatising that material . I'll rate ' Haiducii ' just one point in ten .
Acidic Hasidic foolabout .	Hester Street , in Manhattan's Lower East Side , was where many immigrant Jews settled in the last decades of the nineteenth century and early decades of the twentieth . There's even an excellent film , ' Hester Street ' by Joan Micklin Silver , about that time and place . Although the term ' ghetto ' might be too harsh in this case , there were the usual problems one would expect to encounter when a lot of impoverished people are crowded into a small area . ' A Gesture Fight in Hester Street ' is clearly a staged event , shot in a film studio rather than the eponymous street . It's also one of those ghastly attempts at ethnic humour which were so widespread at the time . Two actors , costumed and heavily made-up as Hasidic Jews ( with crepe beards ) , have an altercation which rapidly escalates into a fight . The alleged humour here - - and the explanation of that odd phrase ' gesture fight ' - - is due to the fact that they begin the fight by waving their fingers at each other and poking each other , rather than the more forthright tactic of swinging their fists . I've seen a few other early films ( ' Cohen Saves the Flag ' , for one ) which depict the stereotype that Jews fight dirty , and that Jews fight in an unorthodox ( no pun intended ) manner which is less honest than the way ' real ' men would fight . I suppose that a lot of people laughed at ' A Gesture Fight in Hester Street ' when it was originally exhibited in nickel odious , I mean nickelodeons . I didn't laugh at all . I would rate this movie Zero , but just to be polite I'll rate it 1 in 10 . Since this movie has no actual footage of Hester Street ( nor its inhabitants ) in 1900 , its historic significance is nil .
About turn , retreat !	' Zu Befehl , Herr Unteroffizier ' is a very bad German comedy . The title translates as ' You Give the Orders , Mr Noncom ' , and the rest of the movie is just about as hilarious . The fact that any German production company was making army comedies AT ALL in 1932 really gives one pause . Proceed at your own risk . The very minimal action is set shortly before the Great War , as the Germans had nothing to laugh about in that conflict . Ralph Arthur Roberts plays a middle-aged businessman . At the start of the movie , he sacks one of his employees . I'm laughing already . Then it turns out that the businessman is in the army reserves ( as a private ) , and he's just been recalled for active duty . The hilarity mounts . Next , it turns out that his sergeant in the reserve unit is the man he's just sacked . My sides are splitting . It gets worse . The businessman has a shrewish wife , played at top volume by Ida Wüst . ( And she supplies this movie's Wüst performance . ) When he went into the reserves , he told his wife he was an officer . Now his wife shows up at the army base , and he doesn't want her to know he lied about his rank . From this point , the whole movie degenerates into a sitcom : specifically , the sitcom cliché about the underling who tries to impress a visitor by pretending he's the boss , and tries to persuade everyone else to treat him accordingly . The photography in this film is excellent , especially in the exterior sequences . But I didn't laugh once . Footage of German infantrymen drilling in 1932 does not provoke me to laughter . I'll rate this movie 1 point out of 10 .
War is hell .	' Two Good Comrades ' is a comedy about the German army of occupation in France . That could be a very funny subject for a dark comedy , but what we get here doesn't even come up to the level of " ' Allo , ' Allo ! " . Paul Hörbiger and Fritz Kampers play a couple of German infantrymen in the Great War . Their regiment are occupying a French village . There is a great deal of bad slapstick , the punchlines generally telegraphed from a mile away . These two German versions of Willy and Joe interact with each other , with a ma'm'selle , and with a local official . The action is set shortly before the Armistice , which makes the ending obvious but fails to inject any suspense into the proceedings . The sound recording and photography are wretched . I'll rate this movie just barely .
Too many Ding-a-Lings in the script .	There's a certain sort of movie or television fare that I like to have tuned in on telly in the background while I'm doing boring housework . The show has to be interesting enough to divert me , but not interesting enough to demand my full attention , because then I won't get the housework done . ' Mr Write ' came on while I was housecleaning . It proved to be more boring than housework . . . and I was just about to switch off , when there was one clever piece of dialogue . A man asks his wife where the toothpaste is , and she replies ' It's in the tube marked " Crest " . ' I was impressed with this line ; it's not especially funny , but it's a clever way to get a product plug into the dialogue . So now get this ironic plot . Paul Reiser plays a struggling playwright . Out of the blue comes a candy manufacturer played by Martin Mull , whom I've never found remotely funny . ( I've found Reiser funny elsewhere , but not here . ) Mull offers to use his money to bankroll a production of Reiser's play . Reiser agrees , but then he learns there's a catch : the dialogue and staging of the play must include several references to Mull's product Chocolate Ding-a-Lings . Suddenly , Reiser's character has artistic qualms . Huh ? Wha - ? I know for a fact that many live-theatre productions contain commercial plugs . What Reiser has been offered here is nothing new . And of course this same thing - - product placement - - happens in movies routinely . Reiser's response is utterly implausible . Even more implausible is the fact that Mull is able to put his Ding-a-Lings into the script without Reiser's consent or even his knowledge . Under the terms of the Dramatists Guild agreement , a stage play ( unlike a movie or TV script ) CANNOT be altered without the playwright's consent . All of this hugger-mugger pluggery is made more contrived because of the presence of that line about Crest toothpaste , suggesting that the people who made this film are very familiar with how product placement works . Elsewhere in this wretched movie , we have a prole character who compares himself to ' that guy Willy Loman ' ? Why can't he just cite Willy Loman , and leave ' that guy ' out of it ? Obviously , the scriptwriter assumes we've never heard of ' Death of a Salesman ' , or perhaps that we won't believe that this character would be familiar with the play . Jane Leeves , whom I've found very funny and extremely sexy elsewhere , is wasted here as a woman from Leeds ( with the wrong accent ) . I'll rate this rubbish exactly one point , for that toothpaste gag .
Trouble is bruin '	' The Bear's Marriage ' is a very strange film . It has the general ambiance of a folktale , with much of the bloodshed and cruelty that many actual folktales possessed before they got bowdlerised for the nursery . This silent film was made in the early days of the Soviet regime , yet it takes place in Czarist Russia and two of the main characters - - depicted very unsympathetically - - are members of the Russian peerage . The general tone seems to be that no perversion or insanity is beyond the excesses of the blue-bloods . A Russian countess is frightened by a bear , shortly before she gives birth to the son who will inherit her husband's title . Years later , now a young man , the Count has a bizarre compulsion to dress in a bearskin and attack women . . . specifically , young and pretty ones . We're given to understand that this homicidal fetish is due to prenatal influence , caused by the bear that scared his mother . The dowager countess , now elderly , has gone completely round the twist . We see her looking like Rochester's first wife in ' Jane Eyre ' : wild eyes , disarrayed hair , toothless . The Count marries a young woman . . . without telling her about his hobby , of course . He can't even get through the honeymoon before he puts on the bearskin and kills her . The makers of this movie seem to be imitating ' The Cabinet of Dr Caligari ' , or perhaps the Martian sequences in ' Aelita ' . The costumes , make-up and sets are all highly stylised . Unfortunately , all of the acting is very stylised too . The extras in the crowd scenes seem to be obeying the commands of a drill instructor . The photography is very arty-tarty but often so dark that I could barely see what was going on . I can't ' bear ' this movie , and I'll rate it just one point in 10 .
He scumbles with his fingers , in an obsolete technique .	The plot of this movie is as ridiculous as its misspelt title . I've never heard of Jefferson Machamer , but he was apparently a successful comic-strip artist . Still , his career as depicted here is sheer wish-fulfilment : he has a huge opulent studio , and he pays gorgeous models to lounge about so that he can sketch them at his leisure . Oh , yes . Even more offensive than this insult to my intelligence is some unfunny racial humour : Machamer has a black manservant named ' Cloudy ' ( Henry Jines ) whom he mistreats while Cloudy says thinks like ' Yassuh , Marse Jeff'son ' . Memo to this movie : Lincoln freed the slaves . I was more impressed by a couple of sequences in which Machamer executes an entire drawing on-camera , undercranked so that his technique is sped up in time . Much more interesting for me than Machamer's linework is his scumbling technique : he scumbles with his fingers , without letting go of the pencil . I might have recommended this movie to would-be artists just for this brief glimpse of Machamer's scumbling technique . . . but nowadays , with computer graphics software replacing hand-scumbling , why bother ? My rating for this unfunny , racist and implausible movie : 1 point out of 10 .
Danger : Death by boredom !	Beginning in the first year of Queen Victoria's reign , there were rumours in England of a bizarre criminal nicknamed Springheel Jack , who was allegedly able to leap to superhuman distances and heights . The legend lasted into Edward VII's time , with the result that a few minor but genuine criminals began calling themselves Springheel Jack . ( A minor character in Michael Crichton's novel ' The Great Train Robbery ' uses this name . ) Several Victorian stage melodramas featured Springheel Jack as a character . This film is based on one such play . . . although it takes place in 1805 , which is too early for Jack's exploits . Handsome Jack Wraydon is a captain in an army regiment quartered in Essex , prepared to defend England against an invasion by the troops of Napoleon . ( No mention is made of the French army's disastrous attempt to invade Fishguard , Wales , in 1798 . ) Captain Wraydon is nicknamed Springheel Jack , for his prodigious ability to high-jump . . . which we keep hearing about in the dialogue , but which we never see onscreen . Jack Wraydon is afraid to marry , due to ' the curse of the Wraydons ' . Supposedly , his family has a history of hereditary insanity , but the only documented example of this is his deceased uncle Philip , who was a mad inventor . Meanwhile , some blaggard known only as ' The Chief ' ( Tod Slaughter , as hissable as always ) is preying upon the king's soldiers , strangling them with laughable ease . The Chief has two henchmen who speak with the most blatantly phony Cockney accents I've ever heard . . . even worse than Dick van Dyke in ' Mary Poppins ' . SPOILERS COMING . It turns out that the Chief is actually Philip Wraydon , alive after all . Philip has apparently invented some sort of infernal machine which amplifies the ' power ' of the human body , enabling him to make prodigious leaps which enable him to frame his nephew Jack for Philip's crimes . Regrettably , we never actually see Tod Slaughter doing his Springheel Jack routine : a pity , as it would have been hilarious to see this fat little man kangarooing his way across the screen . All of Tod Slaughter's films are very creaky , with only ' Sweeney Todd ' and ' The Face at the Window ' enjoyable for modern audiences . ' The Curse of the Wraydon ' is very likely his worst . This material is beyond stagebound . At the alleged ' climax ' of the film , two characters stand in a room and have a long slow conversation in which they agree that they ought to hurry to the old mill . When they finish this conversation , one of them says ' Hurry ! ' , which is the cue for both of them to saunter towards the mill . As they approach the mill , they hear a scream . This prompts them to stop in their tracks and have another long conversation , in which they agree that they ought to investigate the scream . Having settled this , they stroll purposefully forward . In this entire film , there's one and only one clever cinematic device . After Philip Wraydon frames Jack for his own crimes , a reward is posted for Jack Wraydon's capture . The reward is 100 guineas . ( In real life , the reward would have been in pounds . . . even though spade guineas were still in circulation in 1805 . ) We see the reward poster in close-up , while - - through a series of dissolves - - the reward gradually increases . This effect is spoilt somewhat by the fact that the reward handbill is printed in what is obviously 20th-century typography . At the end of the film , Philip chucks his nephew Jack into one of those dungeon pits with walls that gradually move together , crushing anyone between them . All this time , we've been hearing about Jack's ability to leap to superhuman heights . . . so now we expect finally to see that ability onscreen , even if it requires trick photography . Curses ! Foiled again ! Jack escapes from the pit by another method entirely . . . and of course Tod Slaughter falls into the pit , just in time to get crushed by his own infernal machine . ' The Curse of the Wraydons ' is so bang awful , I'm tempted to rate it zero points . But due to my interest in the actual Springheel Jack mystery - - which I mentioned in my novel ' The Woman Between the Worlds ' - - I'll rate this movie . Consider yourself warned .
Shut up and shoot her !	' False Number ' was a stage play dramatised for German television . This low-budget production would have been more effective if some pre-filmed exterior sequences ( especially of the robbery ) could have been inserted ; as it stands , all the most exciting events in this drama take place offstage and so must be rehashed in the thick-ear dialogue . Alois , Max and Cyril are a gang of robbers : hardened professionals , who pull their jobs quickly and efficiently . They've planned another job - - a payroll heist - - and it looks to be routine . But this time something goes wrong , and a watchman is killed . The gang rush back to their hideout to plan their next move . Did anyone see them ? Were they identified ? Have they been followed ? Suddenly the ' phone rings . The caller is a middle-aged woman named Crystal . . . and the call turns out to be a wrong number . Or is it ? Alois , the leader , becomes convinced that Fraulein Crystal knows something about the robbery . Now they have to find her and silence her . There would be more suspense here if we knew that the characters were going to leave the studio-bound set and go someplace else . But we know they're going to stand here and talk and talk and talk , nicht wahr ? I'll rate this thing one point in 10 .
Nothing fine in this mess	Jay Ward , the creator of Bullwinkle , has earned my undying respect for proving that intelligent scripts plus bad animation will make a better cartoon than superb animation with bad scripts . In 1967 , Ward cobbled together a feature-length compilation of clips from various Laurel & Hardy movies , which was released by Hal Roach Jnr ( son of Laurel & Hardy's original producer ) as ' The Crazy World of Laurel & Hardy ' . I'm a fan of Stan and Ollie , and I'm also a fan of Jay Ward , but this movie is nothing to cheer about . Jay Ward and co-producer Roach appear to have created this thing purely to make a few bucks off the kiddie trade . It doesn't really work as entertainment , and it certainly doesn't tell us anything useful about Stan Laurel or Oliver Hardy . In the 1960s , Robert Youngson enjoyed a great deal of success with several feature-length compilations of silent-film footage . ' The Crazy World of Laurel & Hardy ' looks suspiciously like a cynical attempt to cash in on Youngson's success . The difference is that Robert Youngson's compilation films contained rare silent-film footage which we weren't likely to see anyplace else , and Youngson's wisecracking narration managed to include some genuinely informative content about the actors in his retrospectives . Jay Ward's movie tells us nothing at all about Laurel & Hardy , and it consists only of footage from the most widely-seen Laurel & Hardy films . There is NOTHING here from the silent films Stan and Ollie made for the Hal Roach studio , even though some of their best work was done during that period . There is NOTHING here from the films which Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy made separately from each other . There is nothing here from Laurel & Hardy's 20th Century-Fox period ( although admittedly those were their worst films ) . There's nothing here from ' Robinson Crusoeland ' , their last and most unusual film which they made in Europe . No ; all we get here is an unimaginative sampling of the most obvious excerpts from a dozen of the sound films Laurel & Hardy made for Hal Roach Senior . Instead of sponsoring this feature-length compilation , Roach Junior would have done better merely to re-release a couple of his dad's Laurel & Hardy features , or perhaps a selection of their short films . Even worse : Hal Roach Senior and Junior were the only two people who had access to Laurel & Hardy's out-take footage , yet none of that material is included here . Worst of all : ' The Crazy World of Laurel & Hardy ' has no structure , no theme , no pace . There's no attempt to arrange the film clips by subject nor theme nor any other category . Ward could have done some interesting things here , such as presenting the gradual development of Stan & Ollie's onscreen characters , or showing how Laurel & Hardy's 1935 short ' Tit for Tat ' was a direct sequel to ' Them Thar Hills ' , with the same supporting cast . Ward could have spotlighted the contributions of some of Stan & Ollie's supporting players , such as James Finlayson and Mae Busch . But instead of any coherent overview of Laurel & Hardy's movies , we just see a few random minutes from one of their films , a few minutes from another , and so forth . The compilation doesn't build to any sort of climax nor payoff , and the clips aren't arranged in any logical sequence . Consequently , some of Laurel & Hardy's funniest jokes lose most of their punch . For example , we get the weird sight gag from ' Busy Bodies ' ( 1933 ) in which Stan pulls on Ollie's head until Ollie's neck stretches to bizarre lengths . In ' Busy Bodies ' this was an effective gag because the jokes leading up to it prepared us for this departure from reality . Here in this compilation film , there's no proper preparation for the gag and so it merely frightens children . . . who appear to have been the intended audience for ' The Crazy World of Laurel & Hardy ' . Anyone who thinks this compilation film is a ' Greatest Hits ' of Laurel & Hardy will be disappointed . Fans of Stan & Ollie should skip this clip-job and watch a few Laurel & Hardy shorts instead , or any of their features . This movie is a blot on the otherwise impressive credentials of the great Jay Ward . I'll rate ' The Crazy World of Laurel & Hardy ' .
God owes me a refund	' God Gave Me Twenty Cents ' could be a great title for a comedy film , but this silent sudser is a serious movie . Deadly serious . It was directed by Herbert Brenon , whose films were always tinged with an air of unreality . This was an asset when Brenon directed fantasies ( ' Peter Pan ' ) or films with unusual subject matter ( such as the circus scenes in ' Laugh , Clown , Laugh ' ) . But ' God Gave Me 20¢ ' deals with extremely prosaic and gritty themes , and Brenon's inflexible directorial style pushes this dreary material dangerously into the region of self-parody . Steve Doran ( handsome Jack Mulhall ) is a sailor on shore leave in New Orleans , whose good-time girl is dance-hall floozie Cassie : a second-rate Sadie Thompson ( played by Lya De Putti , a notorious silent-screen vamp who was totally forgotten until Liza Minnelli mentioned her in ' Cabaret ' ) . Steve's shipmate is Barney , who just got back from China with some valuable jade for his poor old mother . Cassie wants the jade , even though she looks pretty jaded herself . She vamps Barney and steals his rocks ( the green ones , I mean ) , but she gets caught and goes to prison . With time on his hands , Steve meets a virginal waitress named Mary . . . played by Lois Moran , a competent silent-film actress who wasn't quite talented enough for true stardom . Steve and marry Mary . . . no , I mean Steve and Mary marry . She's in love with him , but . . . well , Steve's a wandering seaman , and Mary is handy while Cassie's in the clink . SPOILERS COMING , BUT THERE'S NOT MUCH TO SPOIL . When Cassie gets out , she immediately gets Steve drunk and she tries to get him to abandon Mary and come back to her . She taunts Steve into letting the matter be decided by a coin-toss , for which she has two dimes . ( Why does she need TWO dimes ? ) Anyway , they toss the dimes and Cassie calls ' heads ' : both dimes come up heads , which is all the incentive Steve needs to abandon Mary and go on a drunken fling with Cassie . With plenty of other men on the waterfront , it's not clear why Steve is such a hot catch that Cassie would want this particular load of seaman . The penniless Mary decides to fling herself into the sea , hoping to drown so that she can come back to life as a seagull . ( I am NOT making this up ! ) Just before she can drown herself , Mary finds two dimes on the quayside . She decides that this money was sent to her by God , because 20¢ is just enough for Mary to buy herself a little white nosegay for her hair , that will cheer her up and persuade her that life is worth living . As you've likely guessed , the two dimes Mary found were the two dimes Cassie tossed . They were thrown away by Steve , because he found out that Cassie cheated him when she called ' heads ' in the coin toss . They were two-headed dimes . ( But , again , why did she need to toss TWO coins ? ) Oh , blimey ! This movie is bilge ! The dead-earnest plot is bad enough , but it's made worse by Brenon's decision to use close-ups freely throughout the entire film , so that they lose their dramatic effect . Brenon should have taken a lesson from William Wellman , a much better director who only used close-ups very sparingly . Thelma Todd is quite beautiful in her brief appearance as a dance-hall girl . Jack Sharkey flexes his muscles impressively . William " Buster " Collier gives a good performance as the unfortunate Barney . I'll rate " God Gave Me Twenty Cents " . . . and that one point is because I really like this movie's title .
Bing bungles badly , buh-boo-boo-buh-boo . . .	I'm very much a Bing Crosby fan , but his TV special " Goldilocks " is nothing special . This is a musical cartoon , retelling the famous story of the Three Bears : a story that really can't sustain itself over a half-hour format , even with the addition of songs and commercials . The cleverest aspect of this cartoon was the decision to retell the story from the viewpoint of Papa Bear . . . but that decision was probably made merely to pad Bing Crosby's part . Crosby supplies the speaking and singing voice of Papa Bear , and he also narrates . The ( very few ) songs are by the Sherman brothers , who have done superlative work elsewhere but stumble badly here . By far , their best song in this cartoon is the one sung by Papa Bear ( Crosby ) as he explains to Junior Bear about those weird creatures called humans : " Oh , it's the human race , the human race , the hustlin ' bustlin ' people-chase . " I wish all the songs in this very un-special TV special reached that level . The animation , by the sadly underrated DePatie-Freleng Studio , is not up to that studio's usual standard . " Goldilocks " is quite bad . The fact that all the voice-overs are performed by members of Bing's family only adds to the amateurish , vanity-production feel of this very poor special . Purely out of admiration for Crosby's long career , I'll rate this show 1 star out of 10 .
Two suicides in one movie	In my IMDb review for ' Jitters the Butler ' , I describe the comedy team of Clark & McCullough , as well as the similarities between funnyman Bobby Clark and his contemporary Groucho Marx . . . and the circumstances leading to Paul McCullough's suicide . ' Fits in a Fiddle ' is another Clark & McCullough comedy short from the same period . . . but ' Jitters ' is very funny ( probably their best work on film ) , whilst ' Fits in a Fiddle ' is pretty bad . Part of the problem here is McCullough . . . or , rather , the fact that he has no material . Clark & McCullough were ostensibly a cross-talk comedy act in which both men were funny ; i . e . , two comedians , not a comedian and a straight man . But their act was always structured so that Clark got the vast majority of the laughs . McCullough assisted Clark in his physical mayhem but never initiated mayhem of his own . McCullough spoke the feed lines which gave Clark a chance to give the punchlines . McCullough did have a nice talent for making peculiar noises . . . but , throughout the history of this act , he was lumbered with the job of playing a ' funny ' character while somebody else ( Clark ) got all the funny material . Clark & McCullough frequently portrayed would-be musicians , excusing their own incompetence with the very funny line ' We may not be good , but we're loud ! ' In this movie , they don't even have that excuse . ' Fits in a Fiddle ' features the heavily-accented German character actor Herman Bing as the manager of radio station AWOL . Bobby Clark tries to go on the air as a ' fiddle player ' , but he can't play a note : his violin is rigged with a gramophone ! Eventually , Clark and Bing get into a duel , using violins as weapons . ( Stand by for a bad pun on ' violins ' / ' violence ' . ) Throughout this would-be mayhem , poor McCullough has even less to do than usual . Here's the funniest joke in this movie : Pretty girl : Do you have change for a twenty ? / Bobby Clark : Not since 1929 . Now here's a ' joke ' that's more typical of this movie : Herman Bing : You are temperamental , eh ? / Bobby Clark : No , I was born in this country . As I was screening this funeral-paced movie , I suddenly realised that the cast list of ' Fits in a Fiddle ' includes TWO suicides : McCullough ( who slit his own throat with a straight razor ) and Herman Bing . Throughout Bing's Hollywood career , his stock-in-trade was a comically exaggerated Teutonic accent . During WW2 , this stood him in good stead playing comical Nazis , but in the post-war years there were fewer casting calls for actors with German accents , and Bing topped himself . After watching this movie , I don't blame him . I'll rate this terrible movie .
A pigment of your imagination .	This is one of the extremely low-budget Mickey McGuire short comedies which were ground out by Fontaine Fox's production company , based on a character in Fox's ' Toonerville Folks ' comic strip . The only real points of interest in these crude comedies are the presence of the very young Mickey Rooney and the influence these films had on the Our Gang series . Mickey ( Himself ) McGuire is the president of the Scorpions Club . Today's Mickey's birthday , and a new kid has applied for membership of the Scorpions : Stinky , a boy with long hair and a cissy outfit . ( Amazingly , this kid looks like a not-so-dry run for Stinky , the boy played on 1950s television by adult comedian Joe Besser in the Abbott & Costello Show . ) Stinky and the various Scorpions give Mickey birthday presents which turn out to be practical jokes . A regular cast member in the Mickey McGuire series was Hambone , the black boy . When I see a black actor in a silent comedy , I usually cringe in anticipation of some stupid racist joke . In fact , in the Mickey McGuire silent shorts ( and in the sound shorts which continued the series ) , Hambone is almost always treated as a full member of the gang : just as smart , brave and industrious as the white kids ( which isn't saying much ) . The Mickey McGuire shorts are actually less racist than the Our Gang shorts ( notably ' The Kid from Borneo ' ) , which contained many ' jokes ' that demeaned black people . Here , the funniest gag occurs when Mickey puts a toy telescope to his left eye and looks through it . He can't see anything , but when he withdraws the ' scope there's a big black ring round his eye . Then Hambone puts the telescope to his own right eye and looks through it . He can't see anything either . But , when the black boy puts down the telescope , there's a WHITE ring round his eye . I laughed at this gag , which I don't consider racist : it doesn't treat the black kid as an inferior to the white kid , but merely as being a different colour . All the Mickey McGuire comedies are very crude . If you watch several of them in sequence , you can keep track of Mickey Rooney's dental progress as he loses his milk teeth , and then his adult teeth grow in . I'll rate " Mickey's Initiation " just .
Below Larry Semon's usual standard .	I viewed a print of this Larry Semon comedy that came from a Czech archive ; all the original dialogue cards had been cut out , and a small number of titles in Slovak spliced in . The film would have been better with no titles at all . In the late 19th and early 20th centuries , ' counter jumper ' was the term used in both Britain and the U . S . A . to describe the lowest dogsbody clerk in a general store or emporium . Here , Semon is employed in that capacity in an Old West general store that caters for desperate characters . As usual for Semon , most of the gag set-ups are deeply contrived and implausible . We get here not one but two separate sequences in which randomly splattered stains just happen to resemble a human face . One of those sequences involves a stereotypical cowardly Negro . I've never found that sort of humour funny . Earlier in the film , a brief glimpse of character actor Jack Duffy grimacing in his usual old-man disguise was much funnier . Duffy was a handsome young man who lost all his teeth at an early age , and ( in heavy makeup ) he played toothless old codgers . I wish he'd had a bigger role in this movie . This being a Larry Semon comedy , the general store is filled with crates and pottery which are stacked in utterly implausible patterns , ensuring that Semon's headlong collision with ONE piece of merchandise will cause dozens of objects to hurtle floorward . Plot line ? Well , if you insist . Lucille Carlisle ( very chic here , and actually a good actress ) owns a valuable necklace which is nicked by sneering villain Oliver Hardy . Semon pursues Hardy over hill and dale to retrieve it . At the climax of the film , there's one exciting overhead shot : the camera points straight down at Semon and Hardy brawling in the sagebrush , the viewpoint revealing that they're at the edge of a very steep cliff and in danger of rolling off it . Sounds good so far , but keep reading . Semon's comedies were notorious for extremely implausible slapstick , filmed with blatantly obvious fakery . Eventually , Semon picks up the much larger and heavier Hardy and flings him over the cliff . This being a Semon film , Hardy is unhurt . Then Semon dives off the same cliff ; he too lands unhurt . Now , see , here's the problem : Semon's comedies take place in a universe where everyone is unbreakable . Any suspense generated by that impressive climax , with the camera aiming straight down the cliffside precipice , is entirely squandered once we realise that the characters in this movie can't possibly get hurt . The ' stunts ' are performed by a couple of blatantly obvious dummies . Despite the general cheapness and tackiness of Semon's films , he often shelled out large amounts of money for one complicated special-effects gag per movie . Here , Semon blows his budget on an elaborate stop-motion sequence in which one chicken egg rolls away from its siblings , then the egg's shell cracks just enough for a pair of avian legs to emerge . The bird's feet and legs resemble those of a duckling rather than a chick . Unfortunately , this is the beginning of a very unfunny routine , as the half-hatched egg waddles about . When the ( genuine ) live chick eventually hatches , it looks nothing like the stop-action figure we've been viewing . I was vaguely impressed by some shots in which the walking egg ( in stop-motion ) and Semon ( in normal motion ) both appear on screen together ; these impressed me slightly because two different photographic exposures had to be matted into the same shot . Semon would have been better off paying that money to a better gag writer . I'll rate this woeful comedy just .
Bungle in the jungle	' You look like Old Mother Riley ! ' said Harold Steptoe in the classic 1972 sitcom episode ' Die Now , PAYE Later ' , upon discovering his father Albert in women's clothes . Actually , Wilfrid Brambell in drag looked a lot more like a biological female than Arthur Lucan ever did , but the joke reveals how popular Old Mother Riley continues to be in Britain . The Old Mother Riley films starred Lucan ( in drag ) as Irish washerwoman Pansy Snowdrop Bluebell Riley , and Lucan's real-life ( and much younger ) wife Kitty McShane as Mother Riley's daughter Kitty . ' Mother Riley's Jungle Treasure ' is the last instalment but one in this series , and the last to include McShane . She and Lucan feuded constantly , and by 1951 the marriage had become so estranged that it split up the act . It's interesting to compare Arthur Lucan's marriage to that of an even more popular English comedian of this period : George Formby . Lucan and Formby were both dominated by their wives , both couples feuded constantly , and most of the feuds were about money . In Formby's case , all the arguments took place behind closed doors , even though everyone who worked with Formby knew his wife to be a shrew . In Lucan's case , he and his wife feuded so publicly that sometimes their onstage act would degenerate into a genuine argument over offstage affairs ! ' Old Mother Riley's Jungle Treasure ' , which has a bigger production budget than usual , begins in the 17th century , on a Caribbean island . ( The dialogue gives its exact position in ' longitude north ' and ' latitude west ' : that's the script's error , not mine ! ) Morgan the pirate ( a ham-scented performance by Sebastian Cabot ) watches as two of his swabbies bury his treasure . Yo-ho , me hearties . The swabbies speak with Cockney accents from the Dick Van Dyke Bad Accent School , so Morgan whips out two flintlock pistols and shoots them dead . ( They die offscreen , to protect Mother Riley's " U " certificate . ) Morgan hides the treasure map in his bedframe , then dies without reclaiming the treasure . SOME SPOILERS COMING . Fast-forward to 1951 , where Mother Riley and Kitty are working in the antiques shop of Mr Orders ( painfully obvious pun ) . Morgan's bedstead is in the shop ; conveniently enough , so is Morgan's suit of armour . Apparently he died in it , because now his ghost materialises in the armour ( surprisingly good trick photography ) and he tells Mother Riley where to find the map . Nice of him to let her have the treasure , eh ? We see a shot of the armour lying down for a kip , but the stuntman inside it is clearly too tall and slim to be Sebastian Cabot . Pretty soon , Mother Riley and Kitty and Orders have hired an aeroplane and flown off to the Caribbean jungle , which looks suspiciously like Walton-on-Thames and is inhabited by stock footage of lions , tigers and penguins . . . plus several dark-skinned natives who look like they came from Africa by way of Brixton . We get the old wheeze in which the white explorer tries to communicate with a dark-skinned native by speaking pidgin , and then the native replies in flawless English . Kitty McShane goes poncing through the jungle dressed for a garden tea party in Essex . The ' jungle ' atmosphere in this movie is bang dodgy without ever quite becoming laughable . This movie is so inept , I actually wonder if anyone connected with it ever twigged that lions and tigers don't live in the same biome , and neither species is Caribbean . The stock footage of the penguins is obviously a joke . . . probably meant to make all the other lapses in this movie look like ' deliberate mistakes ' , as the BBC used to call them . There are of course some villains following Mother Riley , and seeking the same loot . The funniest ( and most racist ) line occurs when villainess Estelle refers to the natives as ' Kentucky minstrels ' . There are also some jokes that only British audiences will get . The pilot of Mother Riley's ' plane is named Prang . ( RAF slang for a crash landing . ) We hear references to scoring a century at Marylebone Cricket Club , Man Utd beating Arsenal , post-war rationing , and a young man expecting a call-up for national service . The ghost of Morgan the pirate , last seen in that antiques shop , has no difficulty materialising on the Caribbean island at the climax , when Mother Riley and her friends are about to get burned at the stake . ( Which would make them the only things " well done " in this bad comedy . Ooh , matron ! ) Considering how many dark-skinned natives are on offer here ( some of them played by white actors in body paint ) , there is much less racism and unga-bunga than I'd expected . One of the white men in Mother Riley's expedition ( supposedly the good guys ) hopes to encounter some natives so that he can force them to work as porters . The convenient gimmick that rescues Old Mother Riley from the natives is obvious a mile off , and the ending is anticlimactic . Distressingly , at least two of the male characters in this movie express romantic affection for Old Mother Riley . . . even though Lucan's drag performance doesn't remotely resemble a biological woman ! On the plus side , late in this film the natives perform a very impressive display of rapid athletic movement that's either an authentic African folk dance or an extremely convincing imitation of one . More for that dancing than anything else , I'll rate this movie . Fans of Sebastian Cabot ( ARE there any fans of Sebastian Cabot ? ) will be intrigued to see what he was doing before he wiped the snotty noses of those brats Buffy and Jody .
. . . but not as kicked-off as I am .	If you actually want to know anything about Joe Penner , there's substantial information about him in my IMDb review of his alleged comedy ' The Day the Bookies Wept ' , which is a poor film but a much better ( and funnier ) movie than this one . ' Mr Doodle Kicks Off ' is utterly execrable . First , an inglorious moment in sport history : in the 1929 Rose Bowl football match ( California v . Georgia Tech ) , a California player ball-carrier named Roy Riegels ran 65 yards the wrong way , and scored the winning touchdown against his own team . This incident remained a big joke for years afterward , and was parodied ( or imitated ) in many Hollywood films . One of the first movies to make fun of Riegels's football faux-pas was Frank Capra's ' Flight ' . In my IMDb review of ' Flight ' , I made several errors . . . including misspelling Riegels's name . As my punishment for being naughty , I'm now reviewing ' Mr Doodle Kicks Off ' , which borrows the same Riegels incident as Capra's movie . It will come as no surprise to you that Frank Capra's film is a much better movie than ' Mr Doodle Kicks Off ' . Joe Penner , unfunny and whiny with it , plays a jerk named Doodle Bugs . That name might have been amusing in America in 1938 . In Britain , where hundreds of people were killed by doodlebugs during the Blitz , I fail to see the joke . Doodle's dad is named Ellery Bugs , a name which I do find funny . . . slightly . Ellery has his heart set on his son attending his alma mater Taylor Tech . . . not for reasons of academia , but to become a football star . This is one of those brainless Hollywood movies in which colleges exist only as support systems for a football team . Actually , I can think of several real colleges like that . SPOILERS A-GO-GO : Ellery Bugs , who has more money than any man named Ellery Bugs has a right to possess , offers a whacking big endowment to the dean of the college if Doodle becomes a gridiron great . The college's dean has no discernible forename , but his surname is Martin , so he must be Dean Martin . That joke is funnier than anything in this movie . Still here ? It gets worse . It's too late for me , but you can go surf the X-rated websites and leave me here in my agony . Doodle Bugs is , of course , a total failure at footy . Among other things , he has an irresistible compulsion to start dancing whenever he hears ' Pop Goes the Weasel ' . If memory serves , Curly of the Three Stooges had a similar compulsion triggered by precisely the same song : I think Joe Penner did this gag first , but it was definitely funnier when the Stooges did it . The financial endowment offered by Ellery Bugs is dependent upon his son becoming a football star , so it looks like Ellery's moolah is safe . Or maybe not . Dean Martin ( the one in this movie ) is determined to get his hands on Ellery's huge endowment ( the one in his wallet ) , so he decides to improve Doodle's football abilities by pimping his own daughter . ( This man is a college dean , remember . ) The dean sends his lovely daughter Janice to diddle with Doodle , which sounds like a doddle but gets deadly dull because Doodle is a dud . Nonetheless , this mess is a brainless 1930s comedy , so Janice's phony affection makes Doodle believe that she's really in love with him , and somehow this inspires Doodle to become a genuinely excellent football player . ( No comment . ) The climax of the film is , of course , the Big Game . But when Doodle learns that Janice's ' love ' for him was just a ploy , he loses all his previous brilliance . He runs the wrong way on the field ( Roy Riegels should have sued ) , and of course somebody strikes up ' Pop Goes the Weasel ' at the worst possible moment . Guess who wins the game anyway . Guess who decides she really loves Doodle after all . Guess who doesn't give a damn . I'll rate this rubbish , purely for its supporting cast . Billy Gilbert is perfectly cast as a pompous Greek master , but his welcome presence is too brief and doesn't save this movie . Jack Carson and Ben Alexander are good as Doodle's teammates . As the college dean , George Irving gives a good performance in a badly-written and very unlikeable role . May I go home now , mistress ?
. . . but he should have stayed away	The most interesting thing about ' A Stranger Came Home ' is that it's based on a novel by George Sanders . . . yes , I'm reliably informed that this was the well-known character actor of that name , not some other George Sanders . But our favourite cad is nowhere to be seen in this film , and nor is there a " George Sanders role " herein which might suggest that Sanders had written the novel as a vehicle for his own acting talents . Paulette Goddard ( still quite attractive at this late point in her career ) stars opposite William Sylvester , best known from ' 2001 : A Space Odyssey ' . The rest of the cast in this low-budget 1954 English film are extremely obscure . . . and they were obscure even in England in the 1950s . Goddard plays Angie Vickers , a wealthy American widow who lives on a posh country estate in the Cotswolds . Three years ago , on holiday in Portugal , her husband Philip vanished over the side of their fishing boat , presumed dead . In fact , somebody coshed Philip and pushed him overboard ; Philip survived , but with a convenient case of amnesia which prevented him from contacting Angie or the police . Now , three years on , Philip has conveniently regained his memory . . . but he doesn't know who tried to kill him . So , he comes back to England ( without a passport ? ) and heads straight for his wife's country home , where ( conveniently ) she's hosting a party for several guests who just happen to coincide with Philip's list of murder suspects . In sub-Christie fashion , the guests start dying one by one . . . but is Philip topping them , or is the original assailant back in business ? ' A Stranger Came Home ' has lots and lots and LOTS of talk , and very little action . There are some gaping holes in the plot , and some implausible motivations . Much of the photography is a lot darker than it needs to be , without commensurate spookiness . There are passable performances from Alvys Mahen ( as a secretary with a grudge , who is an obvious suspect ) and from Jeremy Hawk ( as a weary cop ) . The only real point of interest in this film is Paulette Goddard , still quite sexy in 1954 but well past her peak in terms of sex appeal or acting ability . I'll rate this movie . Next case !
A loose woman in a tight spot .	I'm told that ' The Woman Disputed ' is one of those mongrel films made in two versions - - silent and part-talkie - - for release at a time when talkies were clearly the coming thing , but most cinemas were not yet wired for sound . I've viewed the Library of Congress print , which is silent . With other films from this transition period , it's been my experience that the silent version is usually superior to the talkie version , if only because talking pictures were a new and uncertain experience for all the people involved . Not having seen the talkie version of ' The Woman Disputed ' , I assume that this silent version is the better of the two . . . but it's not very good . ' Boule de Suif ' ( ' Ball of Fat ' ) is a famous story by Guy de Maupassant which has been dramatised many times for stage and screen . This version makes some changes in the characters ' names , nationalities and politics , but still maintains the basic situation . Much of the action in de Maupassant's story takes place during a long coach journey , which is omitted here . The change is not in any way an improvement , and I assume it was done only because of the difficulties of putting a movie camera ( and crew ) into a crowded coach for protracted sequences . The film , which deviates from de Maupassant's original , is as follows : Austria and Russia are at war with each other ( what else is new ? ) , and beautiful Mary Ann Wagner is caught in the middle . To be precise , the commanders of rival forces both have a case of the hots for her . The Russian is Nika ( Nika ? ) Turgenov , extremely well-played by an actor I've never heard of . The Austrian is Paul Hartman , who doesn't seem to realise he shares his name with an American tap-dancer . Shouldn't the Austrian version of his name be ' Hartmann ' ? Another character in this movie who doesn't realise he shares his name with a real-life actor is yclept Otto Kruger . When Mary Ann prefers Paul to Nika , the latter orders his Cossacks to besiege the Austrian town . Meanwhile , some snooty snobs have sneered at Mary Ann for being ( they believe ) a woman of loose morals . These include Father Roche and a couple of young bluebloods . They make it clear that they won't deign to associate with Mary Ann until her morals get tightened . When the count , the countess and the priest try to break the siege , Nika's men capture them and he orders them shot . But then another prisoner is caught : Mary Ann . Aha ! Twirling his moustaches , Nika announces that he will spare Mary Ann and the other prisoners , providing Mary Ann gives him one night of passion . The three snobs , who formerly shunned Mary Ann as a slut , now urge her to give herself to Nika so as to save their skins . If you've read de Maupassant's very well-known story , you know how this movie ends . The exteriors and long shots in this film are quite good . Much less impressive are the interior sequences . There are many , many , many close-ups in this film , and they emphasise the worst excesses of silent-film acting : arching eyebrows , flaring nostrils . I'll just barely rate ' The Woman Disputed ' .
Barthelmess is barely " tol'able " as this David .	The movie ' Drag ' has nothing to do with cross-dressing , although there are some elaborate theatrical costumes seen in the later reels . The title reflects the fact that this story's protagonist - - I can't quite call him the hero - - is dragged down by his wife and his in-laws . ' Drag ' is yet another of the many , many movies which somebody decided to describe as ' lost ' without bothering to look for it . Last time I checked , this film definitely exists . But it's easy to see how ' Drag ' was permitted to fade into obscurity , because this film is so very bad : even as an historic artefact , it's nearly worthless . Frankly , many ( perhaps even most ) of Hollywood's so-called ' lost ' films have vanished precisely because they weren't much good in the first place , and therefore weren't much worth preserving . For every genuine cinematic masterpiece that appears to be gone forever , such as Murnau's ' 4 Devils ' , there are a hundred or more reels of drivel such as ' Drag ' that might exist in somebody's attic but aren't worth tracking down . ' Drag ' is an early talkie , and - - like several other films from the beginning of the sound era - - its most creaking flaw is the underscripted dialogue . Silent films were made from scenarios rather than fully-fledged screenplays : the scenarist would indicate the actions and the emotional states of the characters , but wouldn't write extensive dialogue . One or two lines of dialogue might be included , to convey the content of an entire sequence . Dialogue-writing was considered a separate skill , entrusted to title-card writers after the actors ' footage was completed . Many of the early sound films were made in this same way , with scenarios rather than scripts . . . leaving the actors with insufficient dialogue to carry their scenes . The most notorious example of this was ' His Glorious Night ' , with John Gilbert desperately improvising variations on ' I love you ' through an entire romantic sequence . Several scenes in ' Drag ' feature actors speaking generic dialogue and then repeating the same lines a bit more desperately , clearly unable to improvise beyond the meagre lines of the scenario . Matters are made worse in ' Drag ' by extremely poor sound recording , as well as the fact that some of these actors seem to have no experience with dialogue at all . ( This too was a hazard of the early talkie era . ) SPOILERS AHEAD . Richard Barthelmess plays David Carroll , the publisher of a small-town newspaper . The small town is Paris , Vermont . . . and there are some painful attempts to wring humour out of the fact that this hick town is named Paris . David is married to Allie . . . but the marriage is a package deal , because her in-laws are living with David too and cadging off him . The in-laws are Ma and Pa Parker and their son Charlie Parker , who doesn't seem to realise he has the same name as a jazz saxophonist . David feuds constantly with his in-laws , but his wife always takes their side . The only sympathetic citizen of Paris ( the one in Vermont ) is Dot , a vivacious and artistic young lady who doesn't seem to be a native of this hick burg , although it's hard to believe she voluntarily came here from elsewhere . Dot moves to New York City , inspiring Dave to do the same . He walks out on his wife and her relations , and he moves to Manhattan . With laughable ease , David writes a play and gets it produced on Broadway ! Conveniently , Dot is the costume designer for the play , so she and David will be spending lots of time together . ( Actually , I've been peripherally involved in a couple of Broadway productions , and I've never seen the playwright and the costume designer working together : each has plenty of work to do in his or her separate craft without impinging on the other's . ) From this point , the most obvious plot twist would be for David to sever all ties with his wife and the Parkers , and start a new life with Dot . ' Drag ' does something more surprising here , but that's not really a point in its favour . Feeling tempted to dally with Dot , David sends for his wife Allie to join him in New York so that he'll remain faithful to her . Even though Dot is a dilly , he'd rather dally with Allie . What happens next is no surprise : Allie's brother and parents show up too , and once again they all move in with David . The payoff is quite dull . Despite the terrible script - - really not much more than a scenario - - I'll give the makers of this film some credit for attempting a story about a protagonist in an atypical situation . In the real world , someone in David Carroll's situation would either stick with his wife or abandon her altogether . Richard Barthelmess ( showing more acting ability than this story deserves ) plausibly portrays David as a married man who is attracted to an exciting ' other woman ' yet who still feels some love for ( and loyalty to ) his dull familiar wife . Barthelmess's attempt to balance his character's conflicting emotions is the only major point of interest in this film . Veteran character actor Lucien Littlefield is briefly impressive as David's father-in-law , and Lila Lee is attractive and intelligent as Dot . All the other supporting actors are wooden and dull here . I was especially disappointed with Tom Dugan as David's brother-in-law . Dugan would later achieve a solid career as a dependable character actor ( notably as the Hitler lookalike in ' To Be or Not to Be ' ) , but here he's barely recognisable and shows no glimmer of his later ability . ' Drag ' isn't the worst film I've ever seen , but it's well down there . I'll rate this movie , mostly for Barthelmess's creditable attempt to navigate the pitfalls of a difficult role that's badly written . I'll make some allowance for the fact that this very poor talking picture was made at a time when nobody was an expert at making talkies .
Well , this movie sure SEEMS like 23 - hours . . .	" 23 - Hours ' Leave " was originally a story by Mary Roberts Rinehart , an author hugely popular in her lifetime who is now largely forgotten . The story was filmed in 1919 as a starring vehicle for Douglas MacLean . He must have liked it , because MacLean obtained the film rights and produced this remake in 1937 , with the action still set in Rinehart's original 1917 . I once viewed a damaged print of the silent version that had a couple of reels missing , and I had difficulty following the story . This remake turns out to be radically different from its predecessor , omitting a couple of subplots and running gags that didn't help the silent version . But what it replaces them with isn't much of an improvement . Allegedly we're on a cavalry base of the American Expeditionary Force during the Great War . The uniforms seem authentic enough , but the civilian clothes ( and the marcelled hairstyle of actress Terry Walker ) are firmly 1937 vintage . Who wrote this movie's dialogue ? It's full of words that one almost never hears spoken in real life , such as ' sorrowfully ' and ' cantonment ' . And I was deeply annoyed that nearly every character in this movie refers to flapjacks as ' pattycakes ' . I've studied the American slang of that time period - - military and civilian - - but I've never encountered that usage . Also , would a new auto in 1917 ( with standard features ) retail for $2 , 000 ? I doubt it . This is one of those movies in which one sharpie ( James Ellison ) keeps breaking the rules and getting away with it , while the other characters stand on the sidelines and exclaim about how brilliant he is . Worse luck , his behaviour is implausible . Ellison is cast as a cavalry sergeant who wears non-regulation underwear and a tailored uniform ( instantly rumbled as non-regulation ) ; I just couldn't believe that a real non-commissioned officer would do this . Oddly , this movie is a semi-musical : at unexpected moments , Ellison and some of the other cast members burst into song . . . but this happens so seldom and so sporadically that the transitions into and out of the songs are much more unwieldy than they would be in a full-fledged musical . And the songs are quite lacklustre . Fans of Ward Bond will be intrigued that he sings briefly here , and very well ! Terry Walker ( who ? ) sings pleasantly and is nice to look at , but she shows very little screen presence . The best performance here is by Arthur Lake , in a characterisation very different from his usual Dagwood Bumstead performance . A subplot about foreign spies is barely developed , and I couldn't believe that spies would waste their time on this cavalry regiment . The cavalrymen know in advance the date when they'll ship out for Europe : I know for a fact that the soldiers in the real AEF were not told when they'd ship out . A fight sequence in this movie , featuring dozens of brawling he-man soldiers in a duplex barracks , is easily the single worst-staged ( and most implausible ) brawl I've ever seen in decades of movie-watching . . . with the men flinging cotton batting at one another , instead of throwing their fists . At least the silent version of this story correctly kept the apostrophe in its title . I'll rate this clunker just .
Rootin ' Teuton , rushin ' Prussian	' Fridericus ' is one of several German films recounting the military career of Prussia's king Friedrich the Second . An earlier version , the silent film ' Fridericus Rex ' ( made before Hitler's rise to power ) , has little to recommend it beyond a good performance by Werner Krauss in a supporting role . ' Fridericus ' was made barely a year after ' Der Alte und der Junge König ' , another biography of Friedrich . The best and most elaborate of these biopics is ' Der Grosse Konig ' , made in 1942 . ' Fridericus ' stars Otto Gebuhr in the title role : the same actor who portrayed Friedrich in ' Der Grosse Konig ' ( The Great King ) . ' Fridericus ' is a less effective film than ' The Great King ' ( basically a remake ) , but a comparison of the two films is interesting . ' Fridericus ' was made in 1936 , when Hitler was firmly in power but the Second World War had not started yet . ' The Great King ' was made in 1942 , when Hitler's biggest victories were past and it was likely that the Third Reich would lose the war . This explains why ' The Great King ' places greater emphasis on Friedrich's military struggle against superior forces and overwhelming odds . There's nothing in ' Fridericus ' that isn't done better in ' The Great King ' , including Otto Gebuhr's performance in the title role . The best thing in ' Fridericus ' is a brief performance by beautiful dark-eyed Lil Dagover as Madame Pompadour . I'll rate this movie .
Not-so-special " K "	' K the Unknown ' is a faithful adaptation of a novel simply titled ' K ' , by Mary Roberts Rinehart . . . who is now remembered only for her spooky-house thriller ' The Bat ' . The heroine of ' K ' is Sidney Page ( Virginia Valli , very pretty in her stylish bobbed hair and nurse's uniform ) . Sidney lives in her mother's small-town boarding-house while working as a nurse to Doctor Wilson , a playboy who's supposed to be a brilliant surgeon . ( Then why is his surgery in such a small town ? ) A couple of the local louts , skinny George and fat Joe , are always fighting each other over Sidney , but she doesn't much fancy either one of them . The local Mrs Grundy types are perpetually gossiping over Sidney , speculating that she's having an affair with Dr Wilson . ( He's too busy having affairs with every other attractive woman in town . ) There's some blatant symbolism when a shot of the gossiping women dissolves into a shot of some geese , then back again . ( This idea was done better in ' The Music Man ' , with clucking hens . ) Along comes a handsome mysterious stranger , known only as ' K ' . When he moves into Sidney's mother's boarding-house , the local gossip ramps up a notch . Soon , ' K ' is teaching Sidney how to paddle his canoe . ' K ' is clearly a Man with a Secret . . . but , guess what ? When you find out what it is , you won't give a damn . In fact , I stopped giving a damn a lot sooner . I'll rate this movie . I only kept watching because Rinehart was once considered a major novelist .
More plausible than Hitchcock's version .	' Creo en Dios ' takes its title from the first words of the apostles ' creed in Spanish . This Mexican film was made more than a decade before Alfred Hitchcock's Canadian film ' I Confess ' , yet there are startling parallels between them . In ' I Confess ' , a Catholic commits a murder and then confesses the deed to his priest , attaining absolution for the sin if not for the earthly crime . When the priest becomes falsely suspected of the murder , he is unable to exonerate himself by naming the killer . Alfred Hitchcock was educated in a Catholic seminary , and apparently he genuinely accepted some aspects of Catholic dogma . In ' I Confess ' , the priest is genuinely incapable of naming the murderer , because God prevents the priest from violating the secrets of the confessional : Hitchcock seemed to accept the dogmatic truth of this . But non-Catholic film audiences did not , and ' I Confess ' was a flop at the box office . Here in ' Creo en Dios ' we have the same premise , with slightly different results . A murder is committed in a Mexican village . The murderer's identity is known to the audience : he is Antonio ( Miguel Inclán ) . The only villager who knows that Antonio is guilty is his wife Carmen ( Isabela Corona ) . Father Bernal ( Fernando Soler ) is hearing confession in his church . When Carmen blurts out her own sins to the priest , he realises that Carmen's husband is the killer . Yet Bernal's priestly vows prevent him from divulging this information to the authorities . But then Father Bernal is suspected of the murder . He cannot clear himself without violating his vows . . . I found ' Creo en Dios ' slightly more plausible than Hitchcock's version of this premise . Whereas Hitchcock seemed to believe ( and expected us to believe ) that some supernatural barrier prevented his priest from speaking the truth , in ' Creo en Dios ' it is clear to us that Father Bernal is physically capable of speaking the truth , but chooses not to do so because he holds his priestly vows to be more sacred - - and more important - - than his own innocence and his personal freedom . SPOILERS COMING NOW . Somewhat less plausibly , Bernal chooses to keep schtum because he fervently believes that Antonio's conscience will impel him to confess . Amazingly enough , this happens . My greatest problem with ' Creo en Dios ' is that it's far too long , too slow and too talky . The characters ' motivations are plausible only if we recognise that this is a community in which the religious beliefs have been embedded so deeply as to become superstition . In our modern world , murders are committed every day of the week by people who feel no pricking of conscience . ' Creo en Dios ' manages to be slightly more plausible than Hitchcock's treatment of this theme , but there isn't so much as a shadow of Hitchcock's cinematic skill on view in this boring morality play . I'll rate this movie .
dis-Orienting	Sessue Hayakawa had a respectable career in silent-era Hollywood as an actor in films produced by white men for white audiences . But , as a Japanese man contending with the racial prejudices of the time , Hayakawa nearly always played villains . . . usually wily Orientals who lusted after decent white women . SLIGHT SPOILERS COMING . In ' Alien Souls ' , Hayakawa has top billing ( he's the best-known actor in the cast , even by 1916 standards ) but he has far less screen time than Tsuru Aoki does as a virtuous Japanese maiden named Yuri Chan . ( I would have thought that ' Chan ' is a Chinese name , and ' Yuri ' is a Russian man's name , but nobody asked me . ) Yuri attracts the unwanted attention of a young American playboy deeply in debt , who rejoices in the glib name Aleck Lindsay . For extremely contrived reasons , this smart Aleck outsmarts himself by getting the mistaken impression that Yuri is rich . . . and he pursues her accordingly , pretending to be in love with her . This film seems to take the racist attitude that any Oriental woman would be grateful for the attentions of a white man , as surely a white man is more desirable than a man of any other colour . Director Frank Reicher ( better known for playing the ship's captain in the original ' King Kong ' ) generates some slight but genuine suspense : we know that Yuri has no wealth , but we fear for her safety when Aleck will eventually learn the truth . All the other Caucasian characters in this fusty photoplay are jaded socialites with names like Smythe and Van Ness . One point in this movie's favour is that the white characters are stereotyped almost as badly as the Oriental ones . Unlike in most of his other films , Sessue Hayakawa here plays a character who is absolutely virtuous and admirable . He eventually rescues Yuri , and there's a chastely romantic ending for these two Oriental souls . I liked Hayakawa better when he was the prison-camp commandant torturing British servicemen in ' Bridge on the River Kwai ' . As for the depressing ' Alien Souls ' , I'll rate this only 2 in 10 .
If the camels die , . . . WE die .	Lou Tellegen is a footnote in theatrical history , having played opposite Sarah Bernhardt as her handsome romantic leading man during her last great tour . ( If Tellegen's acting ability had matched his looks , Madame Sarah would certainly not have chosen him ! ) Tellegen's autobiography ' Women Have Been Kind ' is laughably inept and bathetic . Dorothy Parker , writing in ' Vanity Fair ' , famously suggested that the book should be retitled ' Women Have Been Kind . . . of Dumb ' . Groucho Marx claimed that Lou Tellegen was ' a fairy ' , but there's no evidence that Groucho ever met Tellegen . Groucho also claimed that the Marx Brothers performed in vaudeville with Sarah Bernhardt . . . but all records indicate that this never happened . ' The Unknown ' ( the title refers to Tellegen's role ) stars Lou Tellegen as a mysterious and romantic young wanderer named Farquhar who lands up in Algeria , where he joins the Foreign Legion . Farquhar immediately incurs the wrath of the sadistic Captain Destinn , who has him flogged and does other nasty things to him . Conveniently , there just happens to be a beautiful waitress ( Dorothy Davenport ) at the local hotel ; she and Farquhar hit it off instantly . SPOILERS COMING . The romance between Farquhar and his barmaid makes Destinn angrier . He's about to send Farquhar off on an assignment which Destinn knows is really a suicide mission . At the last moment , Destinn discovers by chance that Farquhar is actually an embittered French nobleman , wandering the globe under an assumed identity . ( Yes , he actually CHOSE the name Farquhar ! ) Destinn salutes the blue-blood , tears up Farquhar's induction papers , and sends him on his merry way with Dorothy . Vive la France ! This movie is nonsense , but there are good performances by burly Theodore Roberts ( as Destinn ) and from Tom Forman ( somewhat burly ) and Raymond Hatton ( not nearly so burly ) as a couple of grunts in the Foreign Legion . But this movie is totally implausible without ever becoming funny . I'll rate ' The Unknown ' . This movie was such a flop that its title became available again a few years later , for a completely unrelated Lon Chaney movie . . . and this plotline was remade in 1928 as ' The Foreign Legion ' , with nobody remembering the original version .
Toothless comedy	It's an odd coincidence that England's two most famous Northern comedians - - George Formby and Frank Randle - - were both from the small town of Wigan , Lancashire . ( Stan Laurel was born in Lancashire too , but I consider him an American comedian : Laurel's comedic style was English but not especially ' Northern ' . In ' Way out West ' , he even claims to have been born south of London . ) George Formby's thick Lancashire dialect never impaired his popularity in southern England . . . but Frank Randle was always a Northern commodity , whose appeal was distinctly limited south of the Midlands . Randle was a physically unappealing man , whose humour dealt heavily in sexual innuendo and broad vulgarity . He was an influence on Benny Hill . . . but Benny's sexual humour was always cheeky , whilst frankly randy Frank Randle's was extremely raunchy . ( Max Miller , England's most famous ' blue ' comedian , was more suggestive than either of them . ) A typical gag from Randle's music-hall act : he would come out onstage and start to speak a few words in his broad Lancashire dialect , but would seem to have difficulty . He beckoned into the wings , giving the cue for a shapely showgirl in a scanty costume to come onstage bearing a satin pillow . Randle would then ostentatiously take out his dentures ( full plates , upper and lower ) and place them with great ceremony on the pillow . The showgirl would curtsey , turn and exit while Randle leered at her backside . Then he faced the audience again and resumed his monologue , staying utterly toothless for the rest of his turn . Offstage , Randle was legendary for his violent arguments with theatre managers , and for his bizarre behaviour which often bordered on mental illness . The stories told about Randle's offstage behaviour are much more interesting than the unfunny and vulgar routines he performed in his music-hall act . In the 1940s , Frank Randle starred in a few cheapjack comedy movies for the Mancunian Film Corporation . As that name indicates , Mancunian's film studio was based in Manchester , and their movie output was distributed almost entirely to cinemas in northern England . Very seldom did a Mancunian film get screened south of the Midlands , north of the Tweed or west of Shrewsbury . These were ' quota quickies ' , ground out to meet the British law requiring a minimum quota of films exhibited in Britain's cinemas to be British-made regardless of quality . ' Somewhere in Civvies ' is absolutely typical of Frank Randle's output , although it has a slightly better cast than usual . . . largely due to veteran character actor H . F . Maltby , whose superb comedy timing and distinctive appearance ( walrus moustache , spectacles , quivering chin ) are wasted in these trivial doings . The funniest joke in this movie ( and one that's absolutely typical of Frank Randle's comedy style ) occurs when Randle , as an army private , turns out for parade mounted on a ' moke ' : a small donkey of the sort usually employed for giving rides to children at the seaside . Maltby , as Randle's commanding officer , spots the donkey and demands to know what Randle is doing . Randle replies : " I'm sitting on my ass , sir ! " If you fancy this sort of humour , then I recommend this movie . If not , not . I'll rate ' Somewhere in Civvies ' ( and the entire Frank Randle oeuvre ) . I'm tempted to rate it only one point , but Randle was genuinely a major name during the golden era of English music-hall comedy .
Too right : no funny business	Gertrude Lawrence was a vitally important stage actress of the 1930s , who is now largely forgotten because her film career was negligible . Like some other stage performers of the same era ( such as Fanny Brice and George M . Cohan ) , ' Gertie ' Lawrence is now primarily known because of a film about her , in which she is played by someone else : in Lawrence's case this was ' Star ! ' , a big-budget musical featuring Julie Andrews in a bowdlerised version of Gertrude Lawrence's life and career . ' Star ! ' was a mess for many reasons , not least for its witless decision to omit any depiction of Julie Andrews in Gertrude Lawrence's greatest and most famous role , as Anna in ' The King and I ' . In fact , ' Star ! ' utterly omits any mention of Gertrude Lawrence's film career . . . except for a brief shot in a montage sequence when Andrews is seen wearing a replica of the costume Lawrence wore in ' Rembrandt ' . ' No Funny Business ' , with its unfortunate title , is a very slight comedy of manners . Gertrude Lawrence and the very dull and stolid Edmund Breon play Yvonne and Edward Lane , a long-married couple who have become bored with each other . ( Not very promising premise , this . ) Each one wants a divorce , but they cannot obtain one unless they can prove infidelity . ( I'm not certain if this plot point was legally correct in the 1930s , but let's assume that it was and we'll see where this mess takes us . ) Without telling each other , Yvonne and Edward separately decide to engage the services of a professional co-respondent , who will contrive an incident suggesting marital infidelity . In our modern enlightened era of no-fault divorce , professional co-respondents are now a rarity . If you want to know more about professional co-respondents , or how they did business , or why , have a look at the character played by Erik Rhodes in the Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers movie ' The Gay Divorcee ' . . . which is a much better movie than ' No Funny Business ' , and also more plausible . Edward engages the services of Anne , a bright young thing who is hired to meet him in a public place and start an incident which will suggest infidelity . Yvonne does much the same with Clive , a male co-respondent who will ditto . Anne is played by Jill Esmond , an attractive and talented young actress who would do better work elsewhere . But here's the most interesting part : Clive is played by the young Laurence Olivier . At this early point in his career , Olivier had an offstage reputation for giggling nervously onstage . . . but in this movie , he hadn't much to giggle about . Still with me ? Mr and Mrs Lane contrive to hire their co-respondents without meeting them in person first . So , Anne agrees to meet and flirt with Edward without having any prior idea of what he looks like . Ditto , Clive agrees to meet and flirt with Yvonne under the same circumstances . You can guess what happens : Clive and Anne rendezvous in the same place . Each one assumes that the other is his / her respective client , and complications ensue . Not half ! This ' farce ' is not funny . Laurence and Lawrence had worked together before , as newlyweds in Noel Coward's ' Private Lives ' , but here they show little chemistry in their scenes together . Worse luck , Laurence Olivier and Jill Esmond were ( in real life ) husband and wife at the time they made this film , yet they show no chemistry together whatever . Muriel Aked , a tiny bird-like character actress with a great vast beak of a nose , is wasted here in a poorly-written role . The blame for the script should go largely to Frank Vosper , a character actor who ( a few years after this film was made ) mysteriously vanished from an ocean liner at sea . His body was never found , and nobody knows if Vosper's death was down to murder , suicide or accident . I wonder if this movie flashed before his eyes just before he went over the starboard gunwale . This movie is aptly titled : no funny business , indeed . I'd like to rate this movie zero points , but Gertrude Lawrence ( like George M . Cohan ) was an extremely important stage performer whose film roles are so rare that ( again , like Cohan's ) any film footage in which she appears , no matter how awful , has historical significance . For that reason alone , I'll rate ' No Funny Business ' .
Billie's billets	Billie Burke , in real life the wife of Florenz Ziegfeld , is now remembered only for putting a wastebasket on her head to play Glinda the fairy . As so few people have seen her in other roles , it's not widely realised that Burke's Glinda routine was no act : she went through her entire career with that annoying twittery voice and those fluttery gestures . Fortunately , ' The Misleading Widow ' is a silent film , so we're spared the ordeal of her twittering tonsils . Although this film was made in America with a Yank cast , the action is set in an English village near a British army base . . . which is just as well , because this story couldn't happen in America . It deals with the compulsory billeting of soldiers in civilian homes , which is lawful in Britain but specifically proscribed in America by the Third Amendment . Betty Taradine ( Burke ) is one of the women of the village : ostensibly a widow , the truth is that her husband abandoned her years ago under scandalous circumstances . The village women have been gossiping about her . Now , during the Great War , Colonel Preedy arrives and informs Mrs Taradine that she is required by law to billet one of Preedy's officers - - his aide-de-camp - - in her home . When the aide-de-camp arrives , he turns out to be Mrs Taradine's long-lost husband , who has changed his name and is now an army captain calling himself Peter Rymill . But Mrs Taradine is not best pleased to have her husband back , as she has declared him dead so she can collect on his life insurance . She and her ( late ? ) husband maintain the charade so that she doesn't get nicked for fraud . It turns out that the reason why he walked out in the first place was because his wife was irresponsible with money . Despite collecting the insurance , she's still irresponsible , and she hasn't paid her bills in months . Mrs Taradine's electricity and telephone service are about to get shut off , and the grocery deliveries have stopped . In order to be able to live comfortably while he's billeted at his wife's house , Captain Rymill pays her bills himself , without letting on that he's her husband . Now the villagers have really got something to gossip about : why is this army officer paying Mrs Taradine's bills for her ? Hmmm . . . I found this movie moderately amusing , but the painful memory of Billie Burke's twittery voice is so deeply burnt into my brain that I kept cringing every time she spoke any dialogue in this silent movie , even though I couldn't actually hear her . I'll rate this movie just .
Weak satire , hideous backgrounds	I saw ' Up Sunday ' when it was originally transmitted , and I'm apparently the only person who saw it : Auntie Beeb scheduled the episodes late at night , just before the sign-off test pattern . This programme was meant to be sociopolitical satire in the style of ' TW3 ' , but fell far short of the mark . The best parts of this very weak series were Willie Rushton's drawings and John Wells's political impersonations ( somtimes abetted by Rushton ) . Clive James occasionally provided film clips , although the BBC were chary about these . Kenny Everett was a dead loss ; I recall being deeply unimpressed by his contributions . By far the most notable thing about ' Up Sunday ' was one of its worst points : somebody decided to transmit the performers in bluescreen up against psychedelic backgrounds . This shouldn't have been done at all , but was done so very badly that there tended to be a very annoying halo effect round the performers , especially in their hair . Nearly 40 years on , I still get nauseous when I recall those backgrounds .
Ten seconds of the Volantes	" A Private's Affair " is a ' musical ' in only the most charitable sense of the term . If one song performed over and over throughout a feature-length movie is enough to make that movie a ' musical ' , then " A Private's Affair " qualifies . During the opening credits , we hear a song called " It's the Same Old Army " . It's a pleasant song , with a brisk tune and a decent lyric . You'll be hearing it again , later . And later . And later still . Luigi ( Sal Mineo ) is an Army private with a chip on his shoulder and some personal problems . He's also a talented jazz drummer ( Mineo does his own drumming in this movie ) , but the Army offers few outlets for this ability . His best buddy is Mike Conroy ( Gary Crosby , playing his role in the easy-going manner that made his father Bing a star ) . One morning , Luigi and Mike and two other grunts are assigned to unload heavy sacks of potatoes . While doing this , they improvise a song called " It's the Same Old Army " , and they heave the sacks back and forth while singing this song . It's a pleasant song , but we've already heard them sing it during the opening credits , so the song is already a reprise the first time they perform it . Still , the number is well-staged , with the PFCs lugging heavy sacks up and down in time to the music while they sing . The lyric is interesting : it describes army life irreverently without actually being disrespectful . Of course , it's implausible that four guys are all able to improvise the same song , with tune and lyric falling perfectly into place , but . . . Word gets out to the base commander , who decides that the four squaddies should warble their ditty on a nationwide TV show . ( Ah , the Army ! ) Quick as you can say ' ten-hut ! ' , our lads are packed off to New York City to perform on a live broadcast . But , um , well , y'see , Private Luigi has a lot of personal problems , and he's going to throw away his big break ( and the big break for his three buddies ) because he needs to go somewhere and sulk , and darkly brood . Or maybe he won't throw away his big break after all . Which will it be ? Who cares ? The song ' It's the Same Old Army ' is performed over and over , with less variation and less imagination each time it's reprised . Several good performers in the cast list ( Barbara Eden , Jim Backus , Jessie Royce Landis ) have nothing to do . " A Private's Affair " is one of those annoying and unconvincing military-themed movies in which a commanding officer , in charge of thousands of men , spends all his time trying to resolve the personal problems of one disaffected inductee . Other examples of this dismal sub-genre are " Thousands Cheer " and " Buck Privates " ( the dull subplot with Lee Bowman , not the brilliant comedy sequences with Abbott & Costello ) . I sought out " A Private's Affair " only because the great director Raoul Walsh made it , and I want to see as many Walsh films as I can . I was disappointed . Walsh appears to have phoned in his efforts here , bringing nothing to the pacing and characterisation of this film . Mineo and Gary Crosby were heart-throbs for teenage girls at this time : I suspect that the executives at 20th Century-Fox decided that this movie would be a big hit purely on the strength of Mineo's and Crosby's presence , without requiring a decent script or a good score . ( They were probably right . ) I did enjoy one brief scene near the climax of the film , when we see the novelty act which goes on the TV show just before Crosby's quartet . This act consists of two guys who ride unicycles and chuck Indian clubs at each other while wearing silly hats and blowing bubble pipes . WHILE they're juggling the Indian clubs and riding the unicycles , each one grabs the other guy's hat and bubble pipe and transfers them to his own head and mouth . . . and they keep doing all of these things simultaneously . It's an astonishing act , and unfortunately it only appears on screen for about ten seconds . This novelty act is consists of two guys named Scott Beldin and Don Thompson , who performed together for a while as the Volantes , but who also made at least one appearance on the Ed Sullivan Show while billed as the Martin Brothers . I wish that " A Private's Affair " had featured much more footage of the Volantes , and much less footage of the bathetic plot involving Sal Mineo . I'll rate " A Private's Affair " .
Sink this ' Bismarck ' !	The 1940 film ' Bismarck ' was one of the Staatsauftragsfilme : the ' state-produced films ' of the Third Reich which were clearly meant as Nazi propaganda . Rather than blatantly extolling Hitler , these films typically chose a powerful figure from German history and depicted him favourably , careful to stress similarities ( real or invented ) between this protagonist and Adolf Hitler , the founder of the Third Reich . In this particular film , the similarities are more obvious than elsewhere . . . as the protagonist of ' Bismarck ' is the diplomat who founded the Second Reich . ' Bismarck ' is a selective recounting of the life story of Otto von Bismarck , the prime minister of Prussia who achieved military victory over Austria , humiliated the French government , and proclaimed Kaiser Wilhelm the First as the Emperor of Germany . Early on in this long movie , we get a feeling of what we're in for as Bismarck addresses the Landtag . Speaking directly into the camera , actor Paul Hartmann ( as Bismarck ) tells us : " The great questions of the present will not be solved by speeches and parliaments , but by iron and blood . " He doesn't say " Sieg heil ! " , but you get the message , ja ? This film carefully sets up parallels between Bismarck and Hitler . As soon as Bismarck becomes prime minister , the next scene shows him building up the army that will create a German empire . ( Hitler did much the same as soon as he became chancellor . ) Figures in Bismarck's life are presented as equivalents of figures in Hitler's career . Although Bismarck installed Wilhelm as emperor , this movie shows Bismarck challenging the Kaiser's authority and urging him to form a military non-aggression pact with Russia to strengthen Prussia's eastern flank . Wilhelm is depicted as a man who has outlived his usefulness , who should step aside for a stronger and greater leader : in other words , he's the equivalent of Paul von Hindenburg , the president of the Weimar Republic who was displaced by the ambitious Hitler . The period detail in ' Bismarck ' is excellent , and the production values are impressive . . . but then , Germany's UFA film studio was able to use cheap labour in wartime . In the central role , Paul Hartmann gives a lacklustre performance . Not much better is Friedrich Kayssler as Kaiser Wilhelm . ( Kayßler was murdered for political reasons less than a week before Hitler committed suicide . ) In the role of the Empress , Lil Dagover is darkly beautiful . . . still looking remarkably like the pale heroine she depicted in ' The Cabinet of Dr Caligari ' and ' Destiny ' . Many of Nazi Germany's propaganda films had some genuine artistic merit and interesting scripts , notwithstanding their political agenda . But ' Bismarck ' is long on Nazi agitprop and short on redeeming features . The most interesting thing about this movie is its sequel : ' Bismarck ' was a huge hit at the Third Reich's box office , reaping a profit of nearly two million reichsmarks . The propaganda office straight away commissioned a sequel : ' Die Entlassung ' . This is a much better film than ' Bismarck ' , with the same director but with a much better actor taking over the role of Otto von Bismarck : the great Emil Jannings . I'll rate ' Bismarck ' .
A southern belle goes ding-dong .	The title of this Civil War melodrama has two meanings . ' The Heart of Maryland ' suggests that its heroine embodies the heart and soul of her native state Maryland . But her name is Maryland Calvert , so the title also refers to the heart ( or mettle ) of this story's heroine . The nitrate print which I viewed was somewhat deteriorated , yet ( so far as I could tell ) was complete , with no footage missing . Still , there seemed to be several gaps in the narrative . This sort of Swiss-cheese storytelling was commonplace in movies of the silent era , as they were often filmed without a script , with intertitles written afterwards to paper over any cracks in the narrative . But ' The Heart of Maryland ' is based on a stage play , so I assume that there was a plot line in place before this movie was shot . Yet this story ' jumps ' several times , with characters abruptly changing motivations and performing actions that have no foreshadowing . ' The Heart of Maryland ' takes place in that state during the American Civil War , but - - as far as I can tell - - this movie is entirely fiction , and does not depict actual events . To my intense annoyance , this movie follows the same political line as ' Birth of a Nation ' , ' Gone with the Wind ' and ' The General ' ( the last a brilliant movie which is politically contemptible ) . The heroine Maryland Calvert uncritically accepts that the Confederacy is a noble cause , and that the Union forces are villainous interlopers . There is , of course , absolutely no mention of slavery . We see some black plantation workers in this movie , but apparently they're just pitching in and helping the white folks . CONTAINS SPOILERS . Southern belle Maryland Calvert is the unwilling recipient of the affections of hayseed Tom Boone . She makes it clear to Boone that the path to her heart leads through the Confederate army's recruiting office . ( Turn left at the shoo-fly pie . ) Maryland is more interested in handsome Alan Kendrick , yet he has gone over to the Union cause . Then he gets captured . Then he gets tortured . Apparently a couple of characters in this southern-fried sour mash are spies , or else they changed sides . I couldn't be sure , because several stretches of the film were too deteriorated to risk running through my Steenbeck viewer . The local church has been commandeered for use as a military prison . ( I found this part quite believable . ) Captain Thorpe is on the Confederate side , but he's clearly a baddie even though this film depicts the Yankees as the villains . ( See how confusing it gets ? ) Kendrick is brought to Thorpe , bound and helpless . Thorpe has got drunk on whatever Confederate officers drank ( mint juleps , I guess ) , and he proceeds to abuse Maryland ( the woman , not the state ) in front of his hog-tied prisoner while Kendrick strains manfully at his bonds . Finally , Maryland grabs a bayonet and stabs Thorpe , then unties Kendrick . He puts on Thorpe's military coat , which is identified as ' gray ' ( American spelling ) in the intertitles . That's another thing Civil War movies always get wrong : most of the divisions in the Confederate army wore brown uniforms - - butternut brown , to be precise - - yet we're forever hearing about ' the blue and the grey ' . Only a few Confederate divisions wore grey . Anyhow , Kendrick escapes from behind Confederate lines wearing Thorpe's grey coat , heading for the Union garrison at Charlesville . The wounded Thorpe angrily gives the order to attack the Charlesville garrison . But the rebel forces are already in the field : how will they get the order to attack ? Thorpe tells Eli Stanton , the deaf old sexton , to ring the church bell . . . signalling the rebel forces to attack . Maryland , previously a loyal southerner , now decides to save the Union forces at Charlesville . She rushes up into the bell tower and flings herself onto the clapper , clinging fast so that it can't strike . There's plenty of flinging and clinging but no ringing . The sexton , conveniently deaf ( so he can't hear the bell NOT ringing ) , is too senile to notice that there's more weight than usual on the bell rope . ' The Heart of Maryland ' was filmed three times in the silent era ( actor Warner Richmond appearing in two versions ) , yet - - so far as I know - - it was never remade in the sound-movie era . What little credibility this story possesses would be lost if this film had a soundtrack . In a talkie , we would hear the gasps and moans of Maryland as she clings to the bell . We would also realise that her attempts to muffle it aren't very successful . More importantly , Thorpe and his men in the church prison would notice that the bell isn't tolling properly . . . because they aren't hearing what they expected to hear . Since this is a silent film , and nobody would hear the bell whether it rings or not , none of those questions arise . Worse luck , the climactic event in this movie is stolen from a popular Victorian poem : ' Curfew Must Not Ring Tonight ' by Rose Hartwick Thorpe . ( Hmm , same surname as this movie's villain . ) Dolores Costello is pretty but not otherwise impressive as the southern belle on the southern bell who turns into a swinger . ( She is very obviously stunt-doubled during the campanile climax . ) Jason Robards leads with his chin as her manly swain . Ulysses Grant and Robert E Lee cross paths , which I do know is inaccurate : except for one brief encounter in Mexico before the Civil War , Grant and Lee only ever met at Appomattox on the day the war ended . John Ford's brother Francis is impressive in a brief turn as Jefferson Davis . A couple of scenes in this movie feature tableau staging , emphasising the stagebound Victorian origins of this material . In the parts of this movie that I could see clearly , the frame compositions and art direction were excellent . I'll rate ' Heart of Maryland ' .
Dinehart's big break is a bust .	Alan Dinehart is very nearly at the top of my list of all-time favourite character actors . The underrated Dinehart was usually cast as smooth-talking characters at the edge of the law or slightly beyond it . He was often useful to a plot line as the hero's immoral buddy : the cynical guy who would bend the law for the hero's benefit but without the hero's knowledge . Dinehart was consistently so excellent in supporting roles that I've long wanted to see him in a lead role . In ' I Have Lived ' , Dinehart finally gets his chance to play the central role . . . but the movie is so badly written that his talents are overwhelmed by the material's flaws . Both he and female lead Anita Page are cast against type here , and neither one of them seems able to expand their respective ranges . SPOILERS COMING . Dinehart was always effective as a cynic , yet here he seems to be playing an idealist : Thomas Langley , a successful playwright . In a nightclub , he meets hard-bitten hostess Jean St Clair . . . played by Page , who was more effective in her roles as a dewy ingenue . Langley decides that Jean is the perfect choice for the lead role in his next play . He does a Pygmalion act , moulding her for stardom . The play succeeds , Jean becomes a star . . . and she marries handsome Warren White . This film is turgid and implausible . The dialogue is awful ; this would be bad enough in its own right , yet is made absolutely fatal because the central character is allegedly a successful playwright . If this guy writes dialogue the way he talks , I can't believe that any of his plays are successful . This whole movie has the feel of a silent film with dialogue dubbed in after it was shot . Anita Page was far too young to play this role as the dame who's been around the block once too often . Ginger-haired frog-faced actor Matthew Betz is quite good as a thug named Blackie . I'll rate this movie .
Bubble and squeak .	I saw ' South Sea Bubble ' at Cinefest 2006 , in Liverpool , New York . The American audience clearly disliked this stiff-upper-lip film , not so much because of its extreme Britishness as down to its extreme badness . There was a great deal of shifting and squirming in the audience round me while I was trying to concentrate on this film's story , and more than a few audible comments from the row in front of me . I would have had trouble following this movie anyway ; it's quite dull , and appears to have been badly edited . Ivor Novello is now almost totally forgotten , but in his day he was a major figure of the London theatre . He was , in fact , pretty much the nearest thing to Noel Coward before Noel Coward came along . Like Sir Noel , Novello was a languid handsome lounge lizard who starred in brittle drawing-room comedies ( which he wrote ) and musicals ( for which he wrote the scripts , music , and lyrics as well as directing ) . Novello's autobiography ' I'm on a See-Saw ' ( also the title of one of his most popular songs ) gives an interesting view of the London theatre in Novello's heyday . Like Oscar Wilde , Ivor Novello's health and career were broken by a prison sentence . . . although not for the same offence . During the Second World War , Novello was found to be guilty of petrol hoarding . Quite a few other Britons were guilty of this too , so the Home Office decided to make an example of Novello . He was given a stiff prison term . It broke his spirit and his health , and he died soon afterward . As his films tended to be far less successful than his stage performances , Novello is now sadly forgotten . Anyroad , here we have the unfortunately-named ' South Sea Bubble ' . Basically , a stock troupe of various character archetypes go off into the South Pacific in search of . . . Rodgers & Hammerstein ? Oh , if only ! No , they go poncing off in search of buried treasure . At least two of the characters in this movie seemed to be genuinely insane , whereas the rest merely behave illogically . Benita Hume , as the heroine and love interest , is mannered and unattractive with it . Ivor Novello , as the hero and romantic lead , is woefully miscast . Novello is meant to be playing an adventurer in the tradition of Allan Quartermaine or Indiana Jones : a rugged two-fisted hero . Oh , dear . I've already compared Novello to Noel Coward and Oscar Wilde , so that gives you some notion of how two-fisted he is . He's not even one-quarter of Quartermaine . It doesn't help that these people are allegedly in the steaming tropics of New Guinea , but none of them show any sort of sunburn nor perspiration . ( And their shadows are wrong , too . ) However , that's all right , as ' South Sea Bubble ' was clearly filmed on the Sussex Downs , and doesn't look very tropical with it . Not for one instant did these actors convince me that they were playing real human beings in a plausible situation . ' Old Mother Riley's Jungle Treasure ' did a better job of it with this material . I'll rate this mess just . Maybe this movie is the real reason why Ivor Novello got that stiff prison sentence .
Ed Wynn wanted to destroy this movie .	It's interesting how comedians can be extremely successful in one medium yet utterly flop in another . Morecambe and Wise were hugely successful on television , yet their movies are awful . Fred Allen was hilarious on radio , yet painfully unfunny on television ( where his physical appearance may have been a handicap ) . Ed Wynn had two tremendously successful careers on stage and on the radio , yet his film and television work are nothing to get excited about . Wynn's style of comedy was easiest to take in small doses , which may be why he was a success in revues and in half-hour radio shows but never starred in a successful feature-length film . Come to that , he never starred in a successful short film , either . His best film work is in small supporting roles . During his long career ( starting in vaudeville , culminating as a headliner in the Ziegfeld Follies ) , Ed Wynn was very proud of the fact that every single line he ever spoke onstage he had written himself . He didn't write this movie . According to ' Variety ' at the time , the production rushes for ' Rubber Heels ' were so bad that Ed Wynn offered to pay Paramount the full amount they'd spent to make this movie , so that he could buy it back and destroy it . When Adolph Zukor refused Wynn's offer , Wynn spent the next few months publicly knocking this movie at every opportunity . . . and then sailed off to Europe shortly before the film's premiere , so that he would be out of the country until the stench faded . The eyeglasses which Wynn wears in this movie are not his distinctive hornrims , possibly because the similarly-bespectacled Harold Lloyd ( a much bigger box-office name ) was also under contract to Paramount at this time . Also , this is a silent film , so Wynn's distinctive vocal crotchets ( which served him so well in radio and onstage ) are absent . Here's the so-called plot : the Prince and Princess of Backachia have come to New York City to sell their crown jewels . The Princess is played by Thelma Todd . . . who looks quite sexy here - - with brunette hair for once , and a jewelled tiara - - but she isn't very impressive in a poorly-written role . The Prince is played by some untalented guy who's old enough to be Thelma Todd's father . Chester Conklin ( very funny elsewhere , but not here ) is the leader of a gang of thieves who plot to steal the sparklies . Ed Wynn is the inept detective who ( for some reason ) is assigned to guard the jewels . In this movie , Wynn plays one of those stupid bumblers who turns out not to be so stupid nor so incompetent after all . I've always found this sort of character much less plausible than the other sort of movie bumbler ( played by , for example , George Formby or Norman Wisdom ) who wins out at the end by sheer chance . SPOILERS COMING . This movie is painfully unfunny and implausible . There's an alleged climax , when the thieves bring the steamer trunk containing the jewels to Niagara Falls , intending to smuggle them over the bridge into Canada . Wynn ends up locked in the trunk ( of course ) , and the trunk accidentally goes over the falls ( of course ) . . . except we're supposed to be impressed with a three-way surprise here , because ( # 1 ) the trunk didn't really go over the falls after all ; ( # 2 ) the jewels weren't really in the trunk ; and ( # 3 ) neither was Wynn . But we don't much care , partly because this movie is so wretched anyway . . . but largely because the rear-projection process during the " Niagara Falls " sequences is so inept that we never for one moment believe that any of the characters are anywhere outside of Paramount's Astoria studio . This movie was directed by Victor Heerman , who will not be totally forgotten any time soon . . . because he directed the Marx Brothers in ' Animal Crackers ' . That film's success is down to the talents of the Marxes and their writers , not the director . ' Rubber Heels ' is much more typical of Heerman's abilities . . . in other words , not much . Ruth Donnelly , later a splendid character actress at Warner Brothers , is very funny here in a brief role with the double-entendre name Fanny Pratt . I'm a fan of Ed Wynn's later work as a dramatic actor ( again , successful only in supporting roles ) so it saddens me to rate this movie only .
Alfred less than Abel in substandard Douglas Sirk	Alfred Abel had a long career as an actor in German films , but is remembered for only one role : as the master builder in ' Metropolis ' . Two different film historians in Europe have separately told me that Abel also directed a substantial number of films , but neither historian has offered me specifics for this . IMDb lists only a few films which Abel is known to have directed . One of these is ' Alles um eine Frau ' ( ' All for a Woman ' ) . The attractive actress Charlotte Susa ( blonde , with a regal Prussian accent ) stars as Blanche Keyne , the wife of an English industrialist : her husband Frederick ( Gustav Diessl ) was an aviator in the British Expeditionary Force during the Great War , but after the Armistice he made a fortune manufacturing aeroplanes . During the war , Blanche was a cabaret dancer , but she has long since put those days behind her . By chance , Frederick crosses paths with an old acquaintance , with the unfortunate ( and unintentionally funny ) name Heinrich Droop . During the war , Heinrich was a German air ace . At one point , he shot down Frederick's ' plane over France . When the English aviator's aeroplane caught fire , Heinrich landed and risked his own life to pull Frederick from the burning wreckage . ( I found this absolutely plausible ; during World War One there were many examples of German and British servicemen violating the rules of battle for the sake of chivalry . Very few such examples in World War Two , alas . ) Heinrich did not prosper after the war , and he's now running a petrol station in Germany . Frederick straight away offers him a job managing Frederick's largest aircraft factory in England . When Charlotte and Heinrich meet , they are instantly attracted to each other . Ach , du lieber ! Meanwhile , out of the past emerges Charlotte's former dance partner ( Hubert von Meyerinck ) . When he discovers that Charlotte and Heinrich are having an affair , he starts blackmailing Charlotte . This movie is a soap opera , and not a very good one . What's the German word for ' turgid ' ? There is some unfunny ( and patronising ) comic relief from Willi Schur and Carsta Löck as a couple of servants . This film assumes , as a given , that a German man is automatically sexier than an Englishman . Based on what I see here , Alfred Abel wasn't a very good director : the film's pacing is bad , and the actors ' performances are much too erratic . Bad photography , too . I'll rate this movie .
One very clever idea .	UPDATE : Somebody named " CC the Movie Man " has written a review of the 1949 Warners cartoon ' Rabbit Punch ' starring Bugs Bunny , but has mistakenly posted it to the web page for THIS movie : a 1955 Paramount cartoon ( also titled ' Rabbit Punch ' ) starring the more obscure Moe Hare and Tommy Tortoise . This explains why CC's review and mine are describing two entirely different cartoons . Now read on . Paramount are my favourite Hollywood studio : they made the funniest comedies , some excellent musicals , and a couple of good horror films . Yet , of all the major Hollywood movie factories , Paramount had by far the worst in-house animation studio . After Paramount ended their deal with the Fleischer Studio , they proceeded to grind out some really awful toons featuring insipid characters like Casper the Ghost and the wretched Baby Huey . By far , the best Paramount cartoons were the ' Madcap Specials ' which featured one-off characters that didn't have to be sustained over a series . One of Paramount's unmourned cartoon series featured Moe Hare and Tommy Tortoise . The cleverest thing about this series was Moe Hare's name . Every toon in the series had the same premise : brash wise-guy Moe would easily best slow-going Tommy in some activity , but Tommy would somehow win in the end . Predictable , and unfunny . ' Rabbit Punch ' starts out being just one more glum instalment in the series , this time featuring Moe and Tommy as opponents in a boxing match . The title might qualify as clever , if not for the fact that Warners had used it several years earlier for a boxing cartoon starring Bugs Bunny . The gags here are quite obvious . After Moe challenges Tommy to a boxing match , we next see Moe carrying a box of possessions he intends to bet on the outcome . Moe Hare was normally drawn naked , but in this shot he's wearing a shirt . . . so we know it's going to be relevant to some awful gag . Sure enough , when Moe gets to the betting window , he offers " de shoit off me back " as part of his wager . Ha ha . SPOILERS COMING . There is , however , one bit of cleverness in this cartoon . . . and that's more than I can say for the rest of the Moe Hare series . After bullying Tommy Tortoise into the boxing ring , Moe Hare proceeds to pummel Tommy so mercilessly that he knocks him right out of the cartoon . . . and onto a table at Paramount's animation studio , where Tommy sees a script titled ' Rabbit Punch ' . Yes , it's the script of this very cartoon that we're watching ! Tommy consults the script , and finds out what Moe is going to do next . Armed with this knowledge , Tommy jumps back into the cartoon and defeats Moe . This cartoon is painfully unfunny , especially when compared to Bugs Bunny's version of similar material . But the meta-fiction notion of knocking Tommy out of the toon , and enabling him to read the script , is genuinely clever . For that one notion , I'll rate this cartoon .
The Duncan Sisters did it better .	Tex Avery's 1937 toon ' Uncle Tom's Bungalow ' is arguably a rehearsal for his more elaborate rehash ' Uncle Tom's Cabana ' made ten years later for a different studio . However , I found ' Uncle Tom's Cabana ' completely unfunny in addition to being racist . ' Uncle Tom's Bungalow ' is just as racist ( or maybe even more so ) but is actually funny . Both toons are , of course , parodies of ' Uncle Tom's Cabin ' : not so much the original Stowe novel as the various theatrical productions based on it . In 1937 , it was very probable that audiences who saw this toon were familiar with ' Uncle Tom's Cabin ' from its stage adaptations . Rosetta and Vivian Duncan were still performing their hugely popular ' Topsy and Eva ' turn onstage at this point . Ten years later , Stowe's characters were much less a mainstay on the stage , so audiences who sat through ' Uncle Tom's Cabana ' were much less familiar with the original material . The single funniest gag here will be lost on modern audiences : villain Simon Legree is billed as Simon Simon Legree , with a screen caption helpfully telling us to pronounce this " See-MOAN " . I recognised the reference to Simone Simon , a French screen personality ( I'd rather not call her an ' actress ' ) who was briefly notorious in 1937 but lacked the talent or presence to achieve genuine stardom . The very funny gag here ( well , it was funny in 1937 ) is made even funnier because director Tex Avery frames and lights the Simon Legree character in a manner that parodies the elaborate treatment given to Simone Simon by her Hollywood directors during her attempt to achieve American movie fame . Apart from that , we basically just get some ridiculous antics from Little Eva , Topsy , Eliza and Uncle Tom . Little Eva's antics had the potential to be funny - - she flashes her frilly pantalettes until the narrator reprimands her - - except that Little Eva's voice is supplied by Bernice Hansen , doing exactly the same annoying little-girl voice which she used in so many other Warners toons . SLIGHT SPOILERS NOW . One racial gag is so outrageous that it's funny : when Legree is threatening white girl Little Eva and black girl Topsy , he intimidates both of them so much that Topsy blanches and Little Eva darkens . . . until they've traded colours ! Elsewhere , Eliza has one funny and non-racist gag when attempting to cross the river . At the end of the toon , Uncle Tom shows up with enough cash to buy his own freedom from Legree . How did Uncle Tom get rich ? The narrator speculates that maybe Uncle Tom cashed in his Social Security . This might have been a funny joke in 1937 : FDR's Social Security scheme was still fairly new , and American citizens - - who didn't know what to expect - - thought it really might bring them financial comfort . Now we know better , of course . But , sadly , Avery's script has to step on even this joke . It turns out that Uncle Tom got rich the same stupid way that stereotyped black characters usually get rich in dumb cartoons : he got lucky in a crap game . I'll rate this cartoon only . . . and it's still a lot funnier than ' Uncle Tom's Cabana ' , which isn't remotely amusing .
Duke and Astin are wasted	' Two on a Bench ' was a pleasant bit of froth : a made-for-TV movie directed by Jerry Paris in his usual workmanlike manner . The most notable fact about ' Two on a Bench ' is that Patty Duke and John Astin met for the first time when they were cast in this movie ; they married the following year . The male lead in this movie is Ted Bessell , who seems to have been associated with every bland and middle-level project in American television during the 1960s and 70s . I'd read somewhere once that Bessell was a child prodigy who performed at Carnegie Hall when he was ten years old ; somehow , the intelligence he manifested in his childhood never guided his adult career as an actor . Here's the premise of this TV movie : American spymasters determine that a park bench in Boston is being used as a message drop by spies from behind the Iron Curtain . Because so many different people use the park bench , the spies who pick up and drop off the messages could be anyone . Eventually , the list is narrowed to two suspects : a free-spirited neurotic young woman ( Duke ) and a buttoned-down stockbroker ( Bessell ) , both of whom ( separately ) eat lunch on the bench at regular intervals . The investigation causes them to ' meet cute ' , when government agent Brubaker gets the two of them into a room together . . . announcing that one of them is a spy , and that the other one has a patriotic duty to help catch the guilty one . Naturally , Duke and Bessell glare at each other suspiciously . SPOILERS COMING RIGHT NOW . The real spy is none other than John Astin , who plays Patty Duke's psychiatrist . Quite without her knowledge , he's been using her as a ' pigeon ' to carry the secret messages . Astin is an actor whose work I consistently enjoy , yet he's uninteresting and bland in this poorly-written TV movie . I'll rate ' Two on a Bench ' .
Stan Laurel gets the shaft , drops a lode , and corrupts miners .	For me , the funniest thing about this barely funny slapstick comedy is its title . The movie takes place in a coal mine , so American audiences probably assumed that the title ' Pick and Shovel ' is merely a reference to the miners ' tools . However , in Britain the phrase ' pick and shovel ' refers to hard labour - - any hard labour , with any tools or with no tools at all - - performed by prison inmates . That title indicates to me that some Brit who didn't get a script credit on this movie - - possibly the Lancashire-born Stan Laurel or his Scots crony Jimmy Finlayson - - had some uncredited input . Apart from that title , the comedy here ( what there is of it ) is mostly formulaic slapstick , made slightly more cringe-worthy than usual because Stan and the other miners are swinging picks at each other . There are a couple of amusing surrealist gags : Stan reports for work at the coal face wearing a raccoon coat , and the foreman's pretty daughter has a job in the mine shaft . She must be one of those miners ' canaries I've heard about . The beloved James Finlayson performs opposite Laurel here , but I must warn fans of Laurel & Hardy that this movie contains none of the hilarious interplay between ' Fin ' and Stan that highlighted so many of the classic comedies which pitted Fin against Stan and Ollie . Although I enjoy slapstick and physical comedy , I tend to dislike gags which involve someone getting covered in dirt , sludge , slag or industrial waste . Here , I cringed even more than usual when the dirt came , because it involved a load of coal showering down onto Finlayson's head . I was one of the thousands of volunteer workers at Aberfan in October 1966 just after the mine-tip disaster which killed 144 people , and later I worked as a miner ( opals , not coal ) in the tunnels at Coober Pedy , so I've some idea of how extremely dangerous pit mining is . ( I've also been down the shaft of the now-disused 19th-century anthracite mine at Beamish in Durham . ) Just this moment , as I write this review , there are desperate attempts to rescue some miners trapped underground in Utah : let's hope they get to daylight alive ! ( UPDATE : They didn't . R . I . P . ) Slapstick is my favourite form of comedy , but mining is such a deathly dangerous profession that I just couldn't laugh at the mishaps in ' Pick and Shovel ' . Nice title , though . My rating for this miner comedy , which is indeed a minor comedy : just , partly in appreciation for pretty Katherine Grant's performance .
Robert Riskin , don't quit your day job .	" When You're in Love " is notable for two trivial reasons , neither of which brings any merit to the movie . The first trivium is that silent-film star Louise Brooks appears in this film as a chorus girl . In 1929 Brooks had poisoned her Hollywood career , refusing to participate in the re-shooting of one of her silent films as a talkie . Eight years later , trying to recover her brief stardom , Brooks was desperate enough to strike a one-sided bargain with low-budget studio Columbia : former Denishawn dancer Brooks would accept a chorus-girl role in " When You're in Love " , at a chorus girl's wage and indistinguishable from any of the other chorus girls . Columbia would circulate photos of Brooks in the chorus line , hoping to drum up publicity for this film with the angle of the ex-star beginning all over in the chorus . The back end of this deal was that Columbia promised to give Brooks a starring role afterwards . The chorus-girl angle did nothing to save the box-office of " When You're in Love " , and the starring vehicle never came . ( I find Louise Brooks very sexy , but most of her fans seem very creepy . The Louise Brooks cult is determined to delude itself that Louise Brooks herself was identical to the character she played on screen . Most Marilyn Monroe fans are creepy too , for the same reason . ) The second trivium is that " When You're in Love " is the only film ever directed by screenwriter Robert Riskin . Riskin was the principal scripter on most of Frank Capra's best films : most of the distinctive touches that define Capra's movies are actually Riskin's creations . When Riskin resented that Capra got all the credit for their collaborations , Capra suggested that Riskin should try to direct a film himself . This movie was it . . . and a very bad directorial debut . In his autobiography , Capra was openly gleeful about the flop of Riskin's one directorial effort . " When You're in Love " stars opera singer Grace Moore , which is part of the problem . Opera singers tend to be failures as movie stars . The success of Jeanette MacDonald was due much more to her sex appeal rather than to her singing voice . Ironically , one of the few opera singers to succeed in movies was Geraldine Farrar : a box-office hit in silent films . Grace Moore lacked Jeanette MacDonald's sex appeal and acting skills . Hedging their bets , the producers of " When You're in Love ' have larded this film's score with music that's highbrow , lowbrow , middlebrow and everywhere else on the brow spectrum : some genuine opera , some operetta , some Jerome Kern . The most ludicrous moment occurs when Moore dresses up as Cab Calloway and sings ' Minnie the Moocher ' with bowdlerised lyrics . It's not pretty , folks . The plot , you ask ? Nobody sees a movie like this for its plot . Well , if you insist . Grace Moore plays a successful opera singer , who - as an implausible publicity stunt - gets married in name only . Her husband is a charming ne'er-do-well , played by Cary Grant . Guess what happens in the last reel . Go ahead , have a guess . It really irritates me to see movies about a woman who falls in love with a completely irresponsible jerk because he's handsome and charming . This happens in real life too , but I don't need to see it in the movies . " When You're in Love " is froth , utterly without substance . That's no crime , but the bubbles in this champagne have gone very flat indeed . I found this film tedious . Many of the musical numbers were extremely dull , and all of them were badly staged . Some character actors whom I've liked elsewhere ( Henry Stephenson , Luis Alberni ) give listless performances here . Robert Riskin was a brilliant screenwriter but this is one of his poorest efforts . Based on this one film , he shows absolutely no talent for directing , although perhaps he might have acquired the proper skills if he'd continued . ( One of the greatest scriptwriters of all time , George S Kaufman , also directed only one film . . . but Kaufman was a brilliant stage director . ) I'll rate ' When You're in Love ' precisely .
The lady is a Tramp , and vice versa .	As previous IMDb reviewer Bob Lipton correctly notes , Charlie Chaplin's ' tramp ' films were so popular that he spawned many imitators . ( The Gloria Swanson performance which Mr Lipton cites was in 1973 , on - - wait for it - - the Carol Burnett show . Carol Burnett played Buster Keaton , no less . ) Chaplin impersonation contests were hugely popular in America from 1914 onward . . . but there is NO truth to that urban legend about Chaplin entering one and losing . Quite a few of the faux Chaplins impersonated him outright , copying his tramp costume and his plot lines : the most successful of these imitators was Billy West . One actor even cried himself Charlie Aplin , until Chaplin sued him off the screen . The more imaginative of the Chaplin impersonators merely emulated the Little Tramp's pathos without copying his physical appearance : the most successful of these was Harold Lloyd as a character yclept Lucky Luke , before Lloyd developed his own original horn-rimmed characterisation . Quite a lot of forethought went into Lloyd's development of Lucky Luke : Chaplin's moustache was one dot , so Luke's moustache was two dots . The tramp's trousers were too loose , so Luke's trousers were too tight . And so forth . Some of the Chaplin copycats even ' borrowed ' the stories and gags from specific Chaplin films . For instance , the first half of Snub Pollard's short comedy ' At the Ringside ' blatantly copies the first half of Chaplin's ' Easy Street ' . Only in the second half does Pollard's film diverge into a plot of its own ( a boxing match ) . Minerva Courtney impersonated Chaplin - - even copying his ' Tramp ' costume - - in at least three low-budget shorts . The only notable aspect of Miss Courtney's impersonation is that she is a woman portraying a man , and she actually manages to be somewhat convincing : not only as a biological male , but specifically as an impersonator of one of the most famous men ever to appear on the screen . I noticed that this particular ' Charlie ' was broader in the hips than at the shoulders , but the Tramp's baggy trousers do a great deal to disguise Miss Courtney's pelvic dimensions . The best part of ' Miss Minerva Courtney in Her Impersonation of Charlie Chaplin ' is the beginning . We see Miss Courtney as herself , in normal female garb and with medium-length fair hair . She steps into a changing room and strips down to her undergarments ( nothing very racy here ) . She puts on a bust suppressor : an interesting touch , as she's not especially well-endowed in that area to be getting on with . This particular bust suppressor looks like one of those chest guards worn by baseball umpires . Next , she puts on a duplicate of Chaplin's ' Little Tramp ' cozzy , not forgetting the moustache . This dressing scene , besides being interesting in itself , is almost certainly meant as insurance against accusations from the audience that " Miss Courtney " was actually a male actor impersonating a woman impersonating a man . Such things were not unknown in 1915 : some of the ' female impersonators ' in vaudeville were actually genuine females who lived as men full-time ( shades of " Victor / Victoria " ! ) except when wearing frocks onstage . Minerva Courtney manages to be convincing enough as a male that this prologue is indeed necessary to convince us of her true sex . After transforming herself into the Little Tramp , alas , our lass Minerva runs out of inspiration . At least she actually goes outdoors in her Chaplin rig , whereas many of the real Chaplin's " Tramp " comedies were filmed entirely indoors . ( Sometimes featuring ' exterior ' sets built on indoor stages . ) But rather than putting the fake Tramp into an entirely new situation , Miss Courtney decides to copy one of the real Chaplin's films , ripping it off as closely as possible . Worse luck , the Chaplin film which she copies is ' The Champion ' , which features the Tramp in a boxing match against a much larger man . Why ever did a woman choose this particular plot line as a vehicle for her ability to pass for a male ? I was hoping that Miss Courtney would actually re-enact the climactic boxing match from ' The Champion ' , so that we could witness her prowess in the manly art of fisticuffs . Very annoyingly , this rip-off of ' The Champion ' simply terminates , at an arbitrary point , without Miss Courtney ever actually climbing into the square circle . I suppose that audiences in 1915 would have been shocked at seeing a woman in a boxing match , especially against a male opponent . This impersonation of Chaplin , filmed on a minuscule budget , is interesting solely as a curiosity . . . and as testament to how extremely lucrative the Tramp comedies were in their day . I'll rate this sex-change .
Incest and Eskimos	The most impressive thing about ' Anemic Cinema ' is its title : an anagram which is very nearly also a palindrome . Unfortunately , it only works in American English , since in Britain ' anaemic ' is spelt differently . I've always found the dilettante Man Ray and his artistic efforts to be deeply pretentious , and I've never understood why his work attracts so much attention . Apart from his Rayographs ( which he invented by accident , and which are merely direct-contact photo prints ) , his one real contribution to culture seems to be that he was the first photographer to depict female nudity in a manner that was accepted as art rather than as porn . But surely this had to happen eventually , and there's no real reason why Ray deserves the credit . The critical reaction to Man Ray reminds me of the story about the Emperor's New Clothes . Back in the early 1960s , the second season of ' The Twilight Zone ' opened each episode with a shot of revolving concentric circles in black and white . There's an image in ' Anemic Cinema ' which is so similar , I wonder if ' Twilight Zone ' borrowed it from this film . The main difference is that the revolving image here is a black and white spiral . Indeed , if ever there was any movie that deserves to be described as a spiral , this one is it . Throughout ' Anemic Cinema ' , we're treated ( ? ) to shots of a revolving disc containing words ( in French ) moving in a spiral . The effect is vertiginous , and the texts - - about incest and Eskimos - - are nearly Dada in their meaninglessness . I did laugh at one clever sexual pun . The emperor is naked , folks , and this movie just barely rates . Au suivant !
Mexican jumping beans .	The title of this Spanish-language film translates as " You will not kill " , but I assume that the more portentous ( and Biblical ) commandment ' Thou shalt not kill ' is closer to the director / author's intention . The most intriguing thing about this very low-budget Mexican movie is that some sequences were actually filmed in New York City : street shots of what appear to be Spanish Harlem or Washington Heights . The director must have used a camera concealed in a vehicle , as pedestrians ( who are plainly not professional actors ) walk right past the action without any self-consciousness . Semi-handsome Ramón Pereda plays a young immigrant from Spain who has come to New York City hoping to make good , but he just can't get an honest break . He gradually drifts into bootlegging , spending his time with Latino criminals far less cultured than himself . Eventually he is reformed by the love of a good woman , in the form of Adriana Lamar as an attractive cabaret singer . . . and some help from his brother ( Alberto O'Farrell , a name to conjure with ) . This movie isn't very plausible . Released in 1937 ( four years after Repeal ) it firmly takes place within Prohibition , yet ( unless I missed something in the Spanish dialogue ) there's no attempt to stage the action as a period piece taking place a few years earlier . One possible explanation for this might be that the director / screenwriter Miguel Contreras Torres commenced production on this film before Repeal , and needed several years to complete it . A likelier explanation is that he just didn't bother to get his facts right . This movie appears to have been made for Mexican audiences , so I'm intrigued that the protagonist is specifically identified in the dialogue as from Spain ( not Mexico ) , and he's played by an actor using a Spanish ( not Mexican ) accent . This may have been some sort of snob appeal . Just as many American viewers are anglophilically attracted to movies full of upper-class English accents and stately British homes , there may well be Mexican filmgoers who would rather see movies about Spaniards than about Mexicans . Sadly , the extremely low production budget of this movie impaired my ability to take it seriously . We see a very convincing shot of a New York street : shot on grainy film stock , but still convincing in a cinema-verite way . We see a man walk past the camera , his face conveniently concealed . He glances furtively round , then he enters a building . Cut to an interior , as the same character steps into a one-room flat . It's blindingly obvious that this ' same ' person is actually a completely different man ( wearing only vaguely similar clothing ) , and the room ( apparently someplace in Mexico ) doesn't plausibly resemble an interior of the Manhattan building we saw in the previous shot . Even in the interior sequences , there's very bad shot-matching . The dialogue is badly post-dubbed , too . I'll rate this movie 2 points , purely for its ambitions . . . not for its achievements .
She can pull the one that flushes this movie .	' Bunty Pulls the Strings ' stars Leatrice Joy , a silent-film actress who did her best and most popular work in comedy roles . Although Joy was a major box-office name in her own right , she is now remembered mostly for marrying John Gilbert , the leading man whose career - - more conspicuously than that of any other silent-film actor of either sex - - was ruined by the arrival of talking pictures . I've had the great delight of meeting Leatrice Gilbert Fountain - - daughter of Leatrice Joy and John Gilbert - - and listening to her reminisce about her parents and the people she's known from Hollywood's earliest days . ' Bunty Pulls the Strings ' takes place in the obscure Scottish village of Lintlehaugh . All the characters are rural Scots , and the inter titles of this film contain some unfortunate ' braw bricht the noo ' dialect . Tammas Biggar owns the village's only shop , and is therefore one of the wealthier locals . His elder son Jeemy has been prosecuted for embezzling £120 ( a considerable sum in 1921 ) from the funds Biggar is holding in trust for Susie Simpson , a mean-spirited local spinster . Biggar's younger son Rab is ' saft ' and lazy ; he wants to move to Glasgow , where he can blend right in . Biggar's middle child is his bright daughter Bunty , who is engaged to Miss Simpson's nephew Weelum Sprunt . Weelum is considered a very respectable catch , because he holds the collection plate at the local church . Bunty keeps house for her father and Rab , but of course this will end once she's married to Weelum . Had enough plot yet ? There's more ! Decades ago , before his eventual marriage to Bunty's mother ( now deceased ) , Biggar was betrothed to Eelen Dunlop but he abandoned her at the altar . She fled Lintlehaugh in disgrace , and has never returned . The conniving Miss Simpson makes Biggar an offer tantamount to blackmail : if he agrees to marry her , she will move into Biggar's house and assume Bunty's duties as housekeeper . If Biggar refuses to marry her , he must hand over the entire trust fund or face prosecution . Just at this moment , along comes Eelen Dunlop for the first time in decades , with her niece Maggie in tow . Biggars has regretted his matrimonial cowardice , and now he wants to marry Eelen , especially as the marriage will force Susie Simpson to abandon her scheme . But if he marries Eelen , he'll have to stravage up the quids to buy off Susie Simpson . MINOR SPOILER NOW . The title of this movie tells us what's going to happen . . . which is obvious anyway , since Leatrice Joy's Bunty is the only intelligent and honest person in the film . Bunty steps in and swiftly puts everything right , even finding a job for Maggie . I'm very interested in depictions of Scottish life during the time period in which this ( American ) film was made , but neither the production design nor the actors ' performances convinced me that this was anywhere in Scotland . The Harry Lauder dialogue doesn't help . As the villainess , dumpy Josephine Crowell is so physically repulsive , I wanted to speed-crank my Steenbeck viewer every time she came on screen . Raymond Hatton was a gifted character actor , but here - - as the gormless Weelum - - he's so dull-witted and unattractive that I found it difficult to believe that Leatrice Joy's Bunty - - bright , energetic , very pretty with her long black hair - - couldn't do better , even in a place like Lintlehaugh . Och aye , ye ken I cannae rate this unfunny and obvious comedy any higher than . My Scottish forebears would have cried this movie ' dreicht ' . . . which is no ' a compliment , laddie .
It's just not up to scratch .	' Thundering Fleas ' has been marketed on video as an Oliver Hardy and Charley Chase film . In fact , Hardy shows up only briefly ( as a burly cop ) but has some funny moments . Chase is glimpsed in only a tiny bit role , hiding behind what appears to be Chester Conklin's moustache . ( From Chase's brief days at Mack Sennett's Keystone studio . ) The best performance here is by James Finlayson : clean-shaven , but sporting an odd bit of lip-liner pencil that makes him look as if he's wearing Little Richard's moustache ! Technically , this is an Our Gang comedy , starring some of my least favourite Hal Roach brats : ugly Mickey Daniels , hideous Joe Cobb and untalented Scooter Lowry . At least Mary Kornman and her sister Mildred are excellent here ( as the bride's younger sister and flower girl ) , wearing prettier frocks and more elaborate hairstyles than usual . James Finlayson's son Alexander shows up as a boy in the wedding party . Long-time Laurel & Hardy nemesis Charlie Hall is seen briefly , but has almost nothing funny to do . Here's the plot : the kids collect some fleas , and then the fleas get loose at Martha Sleeper's posh wedding reception . There's one very unpleasant gag sequence early on , when the kids harvest fleas from the beard of a sleeping man , accidentally setting him on fire when their magnifying lens works as a burning-glass . I couldn't help being reminded of real-life occasions when juvenile delinquents have deliberately set fire to a tramp or homeless person as a ' joke ' . In this movie , when the burning man jumps off a quay into the water , the scene is shot in a manner that emphasises the danger he's in , rather than playing for comedy . I just couldn't laugh . Several shots are badly framed . SPOILERS COMING . Near the end of this movie , there's a crude and unfunny animation sequence , depicting a flea that doesn't look remotely flea-like . This is followed by a gag that might have been funny if done properly . The fleas get loose near a statue of the Discobolus , and the statue comes alive and starts scratching himself . This gag MIGHT have been funny , except that I could clearly see the actor playing the statue ( in body paint ) fidgeting slightly before he was meant to start moving , so I knew that the ' statue ' was alive all along . There's a lot of itching and scratching in this movie , but not much to laugh at . My rating : just .
Trouble looms	' The Weaver ' is German agitprop . I get the impression that this film purports to depict actual events , but my limited knowledge of German history prevents me from verifying this . The film appears to take place in roughly the same period as the Luddite uprising in England , or possibly the Tolpuddle Martyrs . The weavers have always made their cloth by hand , but now the steam-driven looms threaten to automate the process . Of course , we get the usual rubbish ( in the intertitles ) asserting that machine-made cloth is inferior to the hand-made stuff . Wilhelm Dieterle gives a good performance as the nominal hero : a former weaver who has become a captain in one of the Emperor's best regiments , but who is now emboldened to rejoin the weavers and to lead their families in a revolt against the machines . Dieterle's later ( well-deserved ) success as director William Dieterle has unfairly eclipsed his early promise as an actor . The weavers sabotage the looms ; eventually , some of the looms are destroyed . With the nation's textile industry threatened , Emperor Friedrich Wilhelm calls out the troops . The weavers stand up to them , in a climax that might have been exciting if it hadn't reminded me of a bad imitation of the climax of Eisenstein's ' Battleship Potemkin ' . When several of the weavers are shot dead , their wives step into the breach . The women triumph where their husbands failed , simply because the soldiers daren't shoot women . Paul Wegener is cast as Dreissiger , the wealthy skinflint owner of the cotton mill who exploits his starving weavers . In this role , Wegener gives the stiffest and most mannered performance I've ever seen from him . Ironically , his portrayal of the Golem was less stiff and more human than the performance he offers here . I'm passionately interested in German films of this period , so I'll rate this stiff , stolid , sententious , slow and boring movie . . . which is probably one more point than it deserves .
Hang up and don't call back	' Fraulein , Wrong Number ' attempts to be a frothy farce , but it's neither especially frothy nor particularly funny . Imagine the MGM musical ' Bells Are Ringing ' with all the songs cut out , and that's about what you'd have here . Blonde actress Magda Schneider - - pretty , but not very interesting - - plays Inge , the dogsbody in a subdistrict post office . She has such a lowly position , she hasn't even met the new postmaster of her office . She dials a wrong number , which connects her to a randy opera singer ( played by José Wedorn , who must surely be the only man named José ever to act in a German movie ) . Intrigued by her voice , he persuades Inge to meet him for a date at a nightclub . This is over the ' phone , so neither knows what the other looks like . See where this is heading ? At the nightclub , Inge meets a handsome older man ( Johannes Riemann ) whom she believes is the baritone . We know what she doesn't : this is her boss the postmaster , and she'll get the ( mail ) sack if he finds out who she is . Not realising that this is his employee , he finds himself attracted to her . Meanwhile - - this is one of those movies with plenty of meanwhiles - - the opera singer shows up at the same nightclub and meets an attractive woman ( Trude Berliner ) whom he believes is Inge . But this woman's a gold-digger . Complications ensue . None of them are funny , and most of them are obvious . A few of the plot twists are not obvious , but only because they're so implausible . I'll rate this mess .
Half-baked doughboys	' French Leave ' has enough good laughs to fill a one-reel comedy short ; unfortunately , those laughs are spread out over six reels of tedium . IMDb's cast list has got Al Cooke and Kit Guard credited ( ? ) as playing ' themselves ' . That's not quite accurate . In the same way that Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy played two stumblebums named Stan and Ollie who did not resemble their real-life selves , Cooke and Guard are cast here as two idiots named Al and Kit , whom - - I sincerely hope - - are fictional characters , not self-portraits . I well and truly dislike it when actors play characters with the same names as themselves . In this case , ' Kit ' was an extremely uncommon name in 1927 , so - - when a man named Kit plays a man named Kit - - everything is more self-conscious and ' meta ' than it needs to be . Right , here goes . Al and Kit are doughboys from the town of Pratt Falls . . . and that's the funniest joke in the movie . They're in Paris on Armistice Day , where some contrived events lead them to believe they've accidentally killed a man . Do they go to the police and straighten it out ? Of course not ! So , when the gendarmes start chasing them , Al and Kit naturally go on the lam . We know ( but they don't ) that the French government intend to honour Al and Kit for their bravery in combat . . . and the police only want to escort them to the award ceremony . This briefly amusing movie is infuriatingly unfunny . True humour arises when a protagonist is in genuine trouble , preferably physical danger . ( Think of Harold Lloyd , dangling from that clock . ) In this case , Al and Kit think they're in trouble but we know they aren't . There's no build-up , no suspense , because we know that the misunderstanding will eventually sort itself out . Remarkably , the screenwriters manage to magnify the misunderstanding into a climax , when the two legionnaires are ' caught ' by the flics and escorted to the awards ceremony . We know that these two idiots are about to get a gong , but they think they're for the chop . Their distress is only mildly amusing . Now , if it were just the other way round - - the two of them are eager to accept medals , unaware that they're actually heading for the guillotine - - it would have been hilarious . Louise Lorraine and Virginia Sale have little to do as a couple of mam'selles . The funniest performance in this film is given by 8-foot-tall John Aasen , cast as a Legionnaire named Shorty . . . who accidentally smashes everything he touches , due to his immense bulk . ( Aasen was famously the giant in Lloyd's film ' Why Worry ? ' . ) Most of the furniture and props destroyed by Aasen in ' French Leave ' are obviously ' breakaway ' fakes , and yet the huge Aasen brings a genuine note of pathos to his slapstick performance : he really was an immense and enormous man , and watching him here we can't help wondering about the genuine plight of a real-life giant . Watching this pathetic movie spawned by Joe Kennedy's FBO studio , I was shocked that the grossly unfunny intertitles are credited to Jack Conway . There was an excellent director of that name at MGM at this time ; was he possibly moonlighting for Joe Kennedy ? I was relieved to learn that they're two entirely different Jack Conways . I'll rate John Aasen for his splendid performance , but ' Legionnaires in Paris ' just barely rates . Au suivant !
' Common Clay ' is merely mud	' Common Clay ' is based on an old stage play , and it shows . The action is creaky and stagebound , and the highly contrived final revelation relies on an extremely heavy coincidence which comes with an even heavier moral . Ellen Neal ( Constance Bennett , the least attractive of the three Bennett sisters ) is established as a ' bad girl ' who is more sinned against than sinning . We first see her working in a speakeasy , yet it's clear that she has few options . When the speakeasy is raided and Ellen is hauled off to court , Judge Filson advises her to associate with a better class of people . As in ' An Inspector Calls ' , it turns out here that the ' better ' classes are morally no better than the common people , and in fact are even worse . ( This hasn't been my own experience , I hasten to add . ) Ellen gets a job as a maid in the respectable household of the Fullertons . All is well until their handsome son Hugh comes home from college . His eyes meet Ellen's , and we know what's going to happen . Ellen is honest enough to let Hugh know about her spotty past , but it's not her past that he's interested in . Pretty soon Ellen has a bun in the oven , courtesy of the college boy . A year later , when Ellen shows up with a baby which she claims is Hugh's love-child , Hugh's father suspects a shakedown . To protect his family , he orders his attorney Yates to ruin Ellen's reputation , such as it is . Yates , the lawyer , is played by veteran character actor Tully Marshall in a Smith Brothers beard , which makes him the only actor in this cast who has something to hide behind . SPOILER COMING RIGHT NOW . Enter the twist ending , upstage left , dragging its coincidences across the script . Tully Marshall was a brilliant actor , but here he's lumbered with tying up an implausible plotline . Are you ready ? Turns out that bad-girl Ellen is the daughter of respectable lawyer Yates ! When he was a young man , the same age as Hugh , he decided to sow his wild oats with a woman who loved him but whom he didn't choose to marry . When she gave birth to his daughter , she generously decided to raise the girl entirely by herself , instead of compelling Yates to marry her . . . so as not to stand in the way of Yates's promising career as a lawyer . Hoo boy to this , and the hoo-boy factor gets even worse because Ellen's martyr mother is played by Beryl Mercer , the single most annoying performer in the entire history of Hollywood . ( Film historian William K Everson agreed with me on this . ) Fortunately , Mercer's ' contribution ' to this particular movie is largely confined to one long scene . Elsewhere , Mercer has polluted dozens of good movies with her whines , her snivels , her tremblings , her whimpered begorrahs . The sure hand of director Victor Fleming guides this material about as ably as it can be done . ( Not much . ) I admire Constance Bennett for her work on behalf of the American military ( she is buried in Arlington National Cemetery ) , but her appeal as an actress has always eluded me . Her sisters Joan and Barbara were much sexier and more talented . ( Barbara Bennett was the mother of notorious chat-show host Morton Downey Jnr . ) ' Common Clay ' was a stage vehicle for Jane Cowl , an important stage actress of the early 20th century who made few films , and who is now forgotten . If this film had starred Cowl , it might at least have rated some historical significance as a record of her stage performance . Any movie that gives Tully Marshall a chance to shine is welcome , but he did much better work for Victor Fleming ( with much better material ) in ' Red Dust ' . Hale Hamilton is good in his brief role as the judge . Beryl Mercer needs her sinuses cleaned out . ( Among other things . ) I'll rate this bathetic sobfest just .
Extremely petty larceny	' 13 Washington Square ' is a real address in a very prestigious residential neighbourhood of New York City , so I'm surprised to see it as the title of a fictional film . ( Henry James's novel ' Washington Square ' didn't cite a specific address in its title . ) The choice of the number 13 in this fictional address is even more surprising , as that triskaidecimal number is usually reserved for horror films and spooky subjects ( such as Lon Chaney Jnr's abortive TV series ' 13 Demon Street ' ) . ' 13 Washington Square ' makes sporadic attempts to evoke a spooky-old-house atmosphere , but this isn't really a suspense film ( and certainly not a horror film ) , so the ' 13 ' in the title - and the occasional attempts at emulating ' The Cat and the Canary ' - are really very misleading , with no value even as red herrings . Character actor Jean Hersholt was famously one of the most kind-hearted and public-spirited figures in Hollywood , for whom the Humanitarian Award is named . Ironically , this warm-hearted man was usually cast in heartless villain roles , until late in his career when he gained fame ( on radio and in low-budget movies ) as the wise and helpful Doctor Christian . A similar career arc befell Basil Rathbone , who spent most of his career playing villains until he gained fame ( on radio and in some mostly low-budget movies ) as the wise and helpful Sherlock Holmes . In ' 13 Washington Square ' , as a slight change of pace , Hersholt plays a villain who is at least outwardly a virtuous man . ' Deacon ' Pyecroft wears the clerical dog-collar and mild demeanour of a meek clergyman , but the truth about Pyecroft is that he's a confidence trickster and jewel-thief . ( The gimmick of crook-as-priest was done better in several better movies . . . in fact , Hersholt had just played a nearly identical role a few months earlier , in ' Alias the Deacon ' , which is a far better movie than this . ) Pyecroft has set his biretta ( wrong religion ! ) for the jewels of Mrs De Peyster , a wealthy socialite who lives at 13 Washington Square , but who conveniently has just boarded an ocean liner bound for Europe . ( Leaving her jewels home , apparently . ) Not only is Pyecroft a con artist and a yeggman , but he's also a cat burglar . This is a case of over-yegging the pudding , because the plot line calls for Pyecroft to break into houses by climbing in through upstairs windows . We see some unconvincing footage of an agile stuntman doubling for the very unathletic Jean Hersholt when Pyecroft lets himself into the De Peyster digs . Don't mind me , scriptwriter , but wouldn't Pyecroft's cat-burglar antics contradict his ' deacon ' disguise ? Anyone who sees a ' priest ' climbing in through the upstairs window is going to be suspicious . . . Mrs De Peyster ( no first name in the intertitles ) is about to set sail for Europe when she receives a radio cablegram informing her that her respectable son Jack is about to marry prole shopgirl Mary Morgan . Shock ! Horror ! She disembarks at once and heads homewards , determined to break up the engagement . Meanwhile , in Washington Square , Jack and Mary need a clergyman to perform the service . . . when Pyecroft conveniently shows up in his deacon disguise . Various objects ( including the De Peyster jewellery and the marriage licence ) go missing , only to turn up in the wrong place . This movie's multiple subplots never gel . The film is basically a farce , with some ' suspense ' sequences that aren't suspenseful enough . ZaSu Pitts , a performer whom I find extremely wearying in large doses , does her usual flutterbudget routine here as the De Peysters ' housekeeper , and she's lumbered with some very implausible dialogue in the title cards . She speaks several ' funny ' lines that aren't funny at all , but which are genuinely painful to read on screen . Lots of doors slamming , shadows creeping down obliquely-lit hallways , hands reaching through doorways . Not so much Scooby-Doo as Scooby-Don't . The photography , editing and art direction are quite impressive , but they seem to be trying to convince us that this is a horror movie . ' 13 Washington Square ' straddles several genres without really belonging to any of them : it comes nearer to being a comedy than anything else , but several sequences are laughable for the wrong reasons . I'll rate this mess .
A dim sum indeed	' Sei Min Ha Wa ' is Cantonese for ' Four Faces of a Beautiful Woman ' , but there's a ( possibly unintended ) pun in the title . ' Min ' means ' human faces ' , but it also means ' surfaces ' . . . and there's the Chinese rub , because this movie is all surfaces and no depth . When I lived in Kowloon , I learnt a bit of Cantonese and Mandarin . Recently , hoping to practise my ( limited ) skills , I attended a screening of this movie at an Anglo-Asian film society . The movie's dialogue is in Cantonese , with bits and bobs of English and Mandarin . I viewed a print which had Chinese subtitles so that Mandarin and Japanese audiences could read the dialogue onscreen . The subtitles are ( mostly ) small and illegible , except when the art director makes them BIG and illegible with jumpy eye-wearying graphics . The narrative techniques in this movie are so chaotic , I suspect that even native speakers of Cantonese will have trouble understanding the action . The movie tells four stories , with Hong Kong television comedienne Sandra Ng Kwan-yue starring in each . As with Tracey Ullman ( another mildly talented tv comedienne who fancies herself a dramatic actress ) , these roles seem chosen to showcase the actress's range of disguises . Each story is brief , so we've little time for exposition or characterisation . Worse luck , the directors use all sorts of arty-tarty music-video techniques at the expense of coherent storytelling . I'll try to synopsise all four stories : if I make any mistakes , divide the blame between my imperfect knowledge of Cantonese and the filmmakers ' aversion to straightforward story techniques . # 1 : " Mao " . Kwan-yue plays a prostitute who wants to be Julia Roberts in ' Pretty Woman ' . Hoping to meet her Richard Gere , she stalks a psychiatrist ( played by Jan Lam Hoi-fung , who also directed this story ) , but he tells her he's gay . She keeps tracking him to watery settings ( a swimming pool , a riverbank , a car wash ) , giving cinematographer Chris Doyle some really splendid visual compositions . This segment seems to have been storyboarded as a series of pretty camera set-ups : nothing happens , but it all looks nice . # 2 : " Moving in the Wind " ( directed by Kwok-leung Gan , who scripted the first 3 stories ) . Kwan-yue plays a broken-down peasant whose sadistic husband ( played by Man-fai Kwok , who directed the 3rd and 4th stories under the name Eric Kot ) has abducted a sexy nightclub hostess . Lots of pretentious handheld camerawork here , and some cinema-verite that I found TOO unsettling . When Kwok bursts into a schoolroom , shouting and cracking a whip , a small boy toddles away screaming : this is plainly no act , and the boy is genuinely frightened . Kwan-yue is upstaged here by Kwok and by Karen Mok Man-wai ( VERY sexy ) as the hostess . Except for a brief prologue and one shot of a railway sign , this story has NO subtitles : tough noodles for you if you don't speak Cantonese . I'd swear that some of this segment's dialogue isn't ANY Chinese dialect : the actors occasionally seem to be speaking gibberish . In one bizarre scene , the hostess leads her customers in a half-Chinese , half-English rendition of ' Moon River ' : I burst out laughing when a Chinese actor ( playing a drunk ) tried to sing the phrase ' huckleberry friend ' ! Later , the customers sing ' Tie a Yellow Ribbon ' with Mandarin lyrics , whilst the camera plays the P . O . V . angle of a karaoke screen . # 3 : " Twins " . Kwan-yue plays a wealthy lesbian who lives as a male : her physical impersonation of a Chinese man is impressive , but " his " narration on the soundtrack is obviously the voice of a biological male . The lesbian's twin sister is in a coma , the victim of a murder attempt . The lesbian impersonates her own sister to catch the murderer . Lots of scattered flashbacks and pretentious camera angles , including one sequence shown upside-down . When the camera takes the P . O . V . of the coma victim , a visitor who sprays scent onto the ' woman ' must aim ABOVE the camera so the scent won't cling to the lens and destroy the illusion . Later , when a car drives into the frame , the convoluted camera angle makes it seem as if the car is driving down a vertical wall ! # 4 : " The Love Game " . Kwan-yue plays a repressed housewife on a Hong Kong game show . ( The tv show's compere is hilariously played by Hoi-fung , who scripted this segment . ) Hoi-fung shows Kwan-yue hidden-camera footage of her husband having an affair , then offers her a prize if she can guess the identity of the other woman . Amusingly , this ( fictitious ) Hong Kong game show has all the vulgarity and greed of an American game show , lacking only the glitz and jackpots . This four-course Chinese dinner adds up to a dim sum indeed . I'll rate ' Four Faces ' : one point for the visual beauty of ' Mao ' , one point for Kwan-yu's only decent performance ( in ' Love Game ' ) . ' Bu hao ' is Chinese for ' lousy ' .
Beryl Mercer gets steadily worser	The beloved character actor James Gleason had a second career as a playwright ; he starred in several of his own plays on Broadway before becoming a film actor . One of Gleason's plays , the farce ' Is Zat So ? ' was a huge box-office hit : if Gleason had carefully invested his royalties from this one play , he might never have had to work again . But he squandered the profits , eventually giving up on writing altogether and concentrating his talents on a long series of memorable roles as a film actor . ' Dumbbells in Ermine ' was co-written by James Gleason , but so far as I can tell it's not based on any of his playscripts : he appears to have adapted a play written by other hands . He's also good in a supporting role here as Mike , the brassy trainer of Jerry Malone , the film's prizefighter hero . Robert Armstrong plays the fighter , giving a performance very similar to the one he gave as a broken-nosed boxer in ' Be Yourself ' . He falls in love with the well-bred Faith Corey ( Barbara Kent ) , but Faith's extremely religious parents are preparing her for missionary work in the Congo . SPOILERS COMING SOON . None of the characters in this movie are especially interesting , and there are too many subplots . In this movie , all the subplots are neatly tied up and solved by Faith's kindly old grandmother . . . which is implausible enough by itself , but made much worse by the fact that the granny is played by Beryl Mercer . The late film historian William K . Everson once agreed with me that Beryl Mercer was the single most annoying performer in the entire history of Hollywood movies . ( We also agreed that Sterling Holloway and Chester Clute were tied for second place . ) This so-called actress , this baggage of whines is totally unbelievable as the font of all maternal wisdom , which is how she's cast in this movie . Mercer is painful enough in small supporting roles with only a few lines of dialogue : here , she plays one of the main roles , with a disproportionate amount of the movie's dialogue , and her whining voice is more excruciating than usual . Even Andy Devine's voice sounds more pleasant than Beryl Mercer's . I'll rate ' Dumbbells in Ermine ' ( with its almost totally irrelevant title ) . James Gleason was probably right to phase out his scriptwriting career in favour of his superb performances as an actor .
Fast-forward to the underpants .	The male leads in ' Hot Saturday ' are Cary Grant and Randolph Scott , who - - in real life - - were house mates at about the time this movie was made . Some people have publicly speculated that Grant and Scott had a sexual relationship . I'll comment that there's very little real evidence for this . I saw ' Hot Saturday ' at the Film Forum in NYC , and several people in the audience made nudge-wink noises when Scott's character shyly admitted that he's not very comfortable with women . Scott plays a geologist who's holed up in a cave , and he seems to be interested only in catacombs and stalagmites . . . not catamites . ' Hot Saturday ' is one of those stories ( like ' A Village Tale ' , or the much better known ' Peyton Place ' ) about a small town where everybody knows about everybody else's dirty linen . There are plenty of rumours in this movie , starting with Cary Grant . . . who plays a character cried Romer , but everyone pronounces it ' rumour ' as if he were the novelist Rumer Godden . Grant makes his entrance in a dazzling all-white outfit with white buck shoes , topped off by a black trilby . Later , Grant plays a scene in white jodhpurs that would have looked quite fetching on one of the FEMALE characters . The town is called Marysville , for some reason . I found most of this movie quite boring . Good-girl Ruth ( Nancy Carroll ) is a friend of rock-hopper Scott but she dallies with playboy Grant . Then she's suddenly eager to marry Scott . He glances in the direction of her midriff and suspects that Grant did something to make her anxious to get married in a hurry . Do the maths . Carroll's father , played by William Collier , is named Harry Brock : the same name as the villain in ' Born Yesterday ' . The only scenes in this pre-Code movie that didn't bore me were three very kinky bits . Ruth accuses her kid sister Annie ( the very sexy Rose Coghlan ) of stealing her knickers . When Annie denies this , Ruth wrestles Annie onto the bed , hoists up Annie's skirt and yanks the underpants off Annie's body . This sequence is amazing ! In a later sequence , Ruth wears a very fetching pair of gauntlet cuffs . Later still , she arrives at Randolph Scott's cave soaking wet from a rainstorm and straight away passes out . When she wakens under a blanket , the first things she sees are her own clothes - - including her bra and knickers - - strung out to dry . I guess that Randolph Scott likes girls after all . The only interesting parts of this movie were those three kinky bits , and very few people are turned on by gauntlet cuffs . . . so that leaves just two kinks , and I'm rating this snore-fest .
Agitating agitprop	' Professor Mamlock ' is very much a work of Soviet propaganda , and heavy-handed with it . . . not merely extolling the alleged virtues of collectivist Marxism but also viciously condemning the Nazis . In real life , the Nazis were very likely indeed as bad as the fictional Nazis in this movie , but also no worse than the Soviets . Hitler killed millions , but Stalin killed even more . The title role is performed by Semyon Mezhinsky , who looks like an overfed Gandhi but who emotes like an underfed Werner Krauss . My IMDb colleague Les ' Longhorn ' Adams has synopsised this movie accurately , but his synopsis leaves out some crucial details . Professor Mamlock , a German Jew , has dedicated his life to serving humanity as a medical scientist . However , the rise of Nazism determines that the Jewish doctor cannot possibly be a loyal citizen of Germany : he is therefore stripped of his title and position , and hounded through the streets . Mamlock has spent most of his career at one clinic : now the head of the clinic ( a very fine characterisation by Vladimir Chestnokov ) beams with approval as racial epithets are smeared ( in blood ! ) across Mamlock's medical tunic while his papers and lab apparatus are smashed . Eventually , the professor is shot dead by Nazi stormtroopers . About halfway through ' Professor Mamlock ' , it suddenly becomes clear that the title character is not the movie's real protagonist after all : that dubious honour falls to the professor's son Rolf ( Oleg Zhakov ) , who joins an underground movement of German communists . This being a Soviet movie , it's put forth that communism is meant to be the only possible thing that can vanquish the Nazi movement . Rolf Mamlock ultimately leads a citizens ' uprising to defeat the Nazis and instal a communist regime ! No comment . I found the pro-communism scenes in this movie even less watchable than the anti-Nazi sequences , although Pyotr Kirillov is excellent as Rolf's commie comrade . A fine hissable performance is given by Vlad Chestnokov as the Aryan governor of the clinic , who strikes the Jewish doctor's name off the medical register . This deeply hypocritical movie criticises the Nazis for anti-Semitism while ducking the fact that even more Jews were robbed , imprisoned and killed by Stalin than by Hitler . Isolated bits and bobs of this movie are well done , but on the whole it's extremely bad propaganda , on a level of subtlety somewhere between a bludgeon and a sledgehammer . And that's another reason why the Soviets were even worse than the Nazis . Although plenty of German movies touted the Nazi cause during Hitler's regime , nearly all of them ( with a few notorious exceptions ) did the job with genuine subtlety , avoiding explicit Nazi symbols in favour of and deference to references to pre-Nazi German scholars such as Friedrich Schiller . My rating for this mess : just barely .
One less belle to lancer	Even though I've written some historical fiction , I really dislike stories which place fictional characters at the centre of genuine historical events . The hundreds of real people who actually died aboard the Titanic are reduced to dress-extras for a tragic romance between fictional lovers . The hundreds of soldiers who died needlessly at Gallipoli are merely a backdrop for two fictional buddies . Sorry , but I prefer to think about the real people who made real sacrifices in these real moments of history . This movie is titled ' Balaclava ' , so every English schoolboy knows that the climax of this film will be the charge of the Light Brigade . Cyril McLaglen stars as Lieutenant Gardner , a hussar in the Crimean War . ( McLaglen cuts a fine figure in his cavalry uniform . ) Miles Mander is the sadistic captain of the regiment . Outraged by how Mander mistreats his adjutant , McLaglen challenges him to a duel . As Mander is the challenged party , it falls to him to choose the weapons : pistols at ten paces . Neither duellist knows that the abused adjutant is lurking in the shrubbery with a pistol of his own . McLaglen takes care to fire wide - this is a matter of honour , not blood - yet the captain falls dead anyway , shot by the adjutant at the precise moment that McLaglen fired . McLaglen is blamed for the captain's murder . . . but it can't be proved , so he is merely cashiered from the army . Undaunted , the ex-hussar now changes his name and enlists as a dragoon . . . in the Light Brigade ! Despite the fact that he has no verifiable background , he obtains an officer's commission with astonishing ease . Fade out , fade in , and now both of McLaglen's regiments - his former hussars and his current dragoons - are riding towards their destiny at Balaclava . Oh , the history books forgot to mention that there was a house in the middle of the ' valley of death ' . The Russian and British regiments converge upon a quaint little cottage in the North Valley , where the Light Brigade are just about to charge . Gobsmackingly enough , the house is inhabited by a dainty English rose , played very badly by Benita Hume . Of course , she and McLaglen fall in love . Oh , blimey ! Pass the cartridges ! SPOILERS COMING . McLaglen participates in the Charge of the Light Brigade , and manages to survive . Severely wounded in the action is the hussar adjutant , who now makes a deathbed confession . McLaglen is cleared of Mander's murder . Who bloody cares ? This movie is rubbish . I resent that the real story of the Charge of the Light Brigade is used as a backdrop for this mellerdrammer . Also , frankly , the Charge of the Light Brigade was hardly Britain's finest hour . It is now reckoned as one of the worst blunders in military history . Even if this film had depicted these events honestly , none of the people on screen would be covered in glory . . . except perhaps for the Russian artillery units . I like Cyril McLaglen - - Victor's less talented younger brother , who played similar roles and so was doomed always to be second fiddle to Victor - - but this movie is quite dire . Matters are not helped by the fact that Benita Hume was neither particularly beautiful nor especially talented in her performance here as a Raglan sweater girl . The last thing the story of Balaclava needs is a Mills & Boon romance bunged into it . I'll rate this movie just .
Yukon do better than this	' Dangerous Nan McGrew ' stars Helen Kane and Victor Moore , who also teamed at about this time in ' Heads Up ' for the same studio . I can't see any real advantage in teaming these two performers ; they have no on-screen chemistry with each other , and ( due to the age difference ) they couldn't even be teamed as a romantic couple . I've already commented about Kane and Moore in my IMDb review of ' Heads Up ' , to which I'll add just one detail here . In ' Heads Up ' , Helen Kane played a character named Betty . Anyone who has seen Helen Kane on screen ( or heard her recordings ) will see straight away that she was the inspiration for the cartoon character Betty Boop ; after seeing ' Heads Up ' , I now believe that Max Fleischer got the name for his cartoon character from Helen Kane's character's name in that film , plus her habit of scat-singing ' boop-oop-a-doop ' syllables into her songs . In her very few films , Helen Kane usually played supporting roles . ' Dangerous Nan McGrew ' is , to my knowledge , her only starring vehicle . . . and she proves here that she can't carry a feature-length film . Just a few minutes of her ' boop ' routine - - and her incredibly annoying speaking voice - - become very wearying . Here , she's a singer ( oh , dear ! ) in a travelling medicine show run by Victor Moore . She also does an Annie Oakley turn . The medicine act ends up in the Yukon , having dodged sheriffs and process-servers in all the more civilised climes . ( The film's title is , of course , a parody of Robert W Service's Yukon epic ' Dangerous DAN McGrew ' . ) The saxophonist in the medical show is Stu Erwin , giving perhaps the most annoying performance of his career . Up in the Klondike , Kane and Moore cross paths with bank robber Foster , although it's not clear why a bank robber would be up here in the frozen tundra where the only banks are snowbanks ( boom , boom ! ) . With frozen assets ( ba-dum-bum ! ) . Those jokes are about as bad as the ones in this movie . The bank robber is played by Frank Morgan , who spent the first half of his career playing mean villains and the second half playing whinnying dimwits . He was more credible as mean villains , as he's cast here . This movie is largely incoherent . We're told that one of the members of the medicine show is a fugitive , on the run from a murder charge , but we're not told ( until nearly the end ) which one : this is a cheap ploy to inject some suspense . Handsome James Hall shows up in a Mountie uniform , looking for someone to arrest . All these people stranded in the Klondike decide to have an ice carnival ( ! ) , the centrepiece of which is a costume party . Helen Kane shows up at the party dressed as a little girl . . . and that's where my blood sugar went out of control . In her normal mode , Helen Kane's boop-a-doop antics had her acting very little-girlish , but she was still clearly an adult woman . Here , kitted out as a four-year-old ( but still plainly an adult ) , Kane's little-girl act just becomes unbearable . Meanwhile , at the same party , tough-guy villain Frank Morgan shows up dressed as Buster Brown , complete with Dutch-boy wig and short trousers . The sight of this particular grown man disguised as a five-year-old boy is bad enough , but the effect is made even more ludicrous because Morgan has kept his moustache . Why ( you ask ) would this macho villain humiliate himself like this ? Well , erm , the plot of the movie involves a robbery in which the henchmen have been told to hand the swag to a guy disguised as Buster Brown . Maybe he didn't want to look conspicuous . . . ' Dangerous Nan McGrew ' is directed by Mal St Clair , a name well-known to aficionados of old-time film comedy . . . but not for favourable reasons . St Clair worked with an impressive list of comedians and comic actors , yet he almost invariably directed their very worst films . Mal St Clair doesn't deserve all the blame for the failure of ' Dangerous Nan McGrew ' , but he certainly deserves some of it . I'll rate this slush fest .
This taxi doesn't play ' fare ' . . .	' The Taxi Mystery ' starts very promisingly , but rapidly goes pear-shaped . In its general tone , this film is very similar to ' The Second Floor Mystery ' ( 1930 ) : both films feature a young hero who finds himself in adventures that get very weird very quickly . But ' The Second Floor Mystery ' remains enjoyable because we rapidly twig that the hero's implausible adventures are fictional yarns which he spins to impress the heroine . In ' The Taxi Mystery ' , all the implausible events are ostensibly genuine . . . and the viewer's credulity snaps from the strain . Right , let's get started . Handsome young Harry Canby ( Robert Agnew ) is a jaded yachtsman , who has just sailed round the world in search of adventure but failed to find any . ( He can't have been looking very hard . ) Mooring his yacht at a Manhattan quay - - and still wearing his yachtsman's cap - - he tries to hail a taxi parked nearby , but discovers it has no driver . Just then a mysterious young woman rushes up . They ' meet cute ' as she mistakes Harry for the driver , and she demands to be taken away in a hurry by Harry . He starts to protest , until he realises that she's being pursued by men with guns . Without even bothering to start the taxi meter , he hoists her into the cab for an exciting chase sequence . ( The real cabbie conveniently left the key in the ignition . ) This is where Credibility gets out and walks . The thugs overtake the cab , forcing Harry to pull over near a high brick wall with no doors nor windows . As Harry manfully fights off the thugs , one of them notices that the woman has scarpered . How did she vanish from an open area with no place to hide ? Hell if I know . . . but she conveniently dropped a McGuffin : a photo of herself . SPOILERS COMING . The real cab driver conveniently tracks down Harry in his posh Manhattan residence . Apparently the cabbie knows the mystery woman's identity . Just as he's about to reveal this information to Harry , a hand appears from behind the drapes , clutching a pistol . . . and the cabbie is shot dead . The gunman has a chance to kill Harry too , but instead he exits stage right . See what I mean ? We never find out how this gunman got into Harry's rooms . We never find out why he bothered to conceal himself and wait until the most dramatic instant , instead of shooting the cabbie straight off . ( And he could have killed Harry too , but then there'd be no story . ) The gunman isn't there to steal anything ; he serves absolutely no purpose except to fulfil a dramatic set-piece that ultimately leads nowhere . And the whole movie is like this ! As played by Robert Agnew , Harry Canby looks to be in his mid-20s , but we learn that he's the ward of Willoughby Thompson , so Harry must be a minor . ( Sailing round the world by himself , mind you . ) Now get this : the mystery woman is Nancy Cornell , an actress starring in a Broadway show . Her understudy Vera Norris is the wife of the show's producer . That's right : the producer's wife is the star's understudy . By an amazing coincidence , Nancy Cornell and Vera Norris are exact lookalikes , give or take a beauty mark . ( Both played by actress Edith Roberts . ) No explanation for this contrivance is ever offered : they're not twins , nor even cousins . I could see that a movie actress would hire a stand-in who is her exact double , but there's no particular reason why a stage actress would need a lookalike for her understudy : the understudy merely has to fit the same costume . Wait , it gets worse . Years ago , Willoughby Thompson's infant daughter disappeared , and he's been mildly curious as to her whereabouts ever since . Nobody has any idea what the wee child would look like now , but apparently Nancy and Vera could both pass for her . ( I was expecting either Nancy or Vera - - or maybe both of them - - to turn out to be the missing girl . Some hope ! ) Vera Norris's husband the Broadway producer is also a crook ( I can believe that part ! ) and he has a fiendish plan to pass off his wife as the missing girl . But that sound you hear in the distance is Credibility's death rattle , because ( wait for it ) , in order for Norris to achieve his scheme , he has to bump off Nancy . Eh ? Wha - ? Huh ? Hello ? Nowhere in the plot of this movie does Nancy Cornell stand in the way of the Norrises ' scheme , so there's no reason for the Norrises to kill her . Except that the scriptwriter needs to keep putting Nancy and Harry in harm's way . If ' The Taxi Mystery ' tipped the wink to its audience - - like ' The Second Floor Mystery ' does - - and indicated that it didn't take itself seriously , this weird story might work . There are bits of comedy relief along the edges , such as a backstage sequence with Robert Agnew disguising himself in a ludicrous wig , but there isn't enough intentional humour here for this story to qualify as a comedy . Even the parts of it that could have worked are handled badly : Nancy Cornell's abrupt vanishment would have been more plausible if the sequence had been shot in front of a wall with doors and windows , to indicate how she managed to disappear so suddenly . Since this movie isn't funny and it isn't remotely plausible , I'm generously rating it only .
Send for Emeric Pressburger !	' The Part of the Nightie ' . . . sorry , I mean ' The Night of the Party ' is yet one more of the many , many , many ' lost ' films that have returned from oblivion . . . although this particular movie might perhaps have done better to stay lost . The single most notable thing about ' Night of the Party ' is that it was directed by Michael Powell . . . a film figure of such major importance that any movie he directed automatically merits attention . I saw this movie at National Film Theatre in March 2000 ; as a Powell completist ( and a fan of actor Leslie Banks ) , I'm glad that I saw ' Night of the Party ' but I'm in no hurry to see it again . ( Full disclosure : in the mid-1960s , I worked with Ralph Smart , who had worked on the screenplay of this movie . He told me quite a bit about his early career , but he never mentioned ' The Night of the Party ' . Now I've seen it , I don't wonder . ) Two of Powell's contemporaries in the British film industry were Pen Tennyson and Arthur Woods . Both of these men died very young during World War Two , after making only a couple of films apiece . . . but , in both cases , their immense talent was manifest in these films : so much so , that cineastes must deeply regret that neither director lived to create a mature body of work . In Powell's case , although his life and career were thankfully long enough to create some of the greatest movies in the history of cinema , his earliest efforts ( unlike those of Tennyson and Woods ) showed little hint of his immense talent . Here goes the plot , then . Lord Studholme ( Malcolm Keen ) is a press baron - - one of his newspapers is a tabloid cried the Sun - - and , like most press barons , he's a deeply unpopular man . He hosts a cocktail party in honour of Princess Amelta of Corsova ( where's that when it's at home , then ? ) . This movie very quickly shapes up to resemble one of those Agatha Christie novels where several different characters all have strong motives for killing the same person : several different people attending the party make clear their animosity for Studholme . This being a very unusual cocktail party , the guests decide to play a brisk round of Murder in the Dark . The lights go out , and when they come on again . . . Lord Studholme is dead . Conveniently , who should arrive at just that moment but Sir John Holland , master sleuth of Scotland Yard ( played by Leslie Banks , in his ' Arsenal Stadium Mystery ' whimsical mode ) . As I've noted , there's no end of suspects for murdering Studholme . However , the most obvious suspect is His Lordship's secretary , Guy Kennington ( played by Ian Hunter ) . I was so bored during this movie , I started thinking up dead-awful puns . If Kennington is the killer , would the corpse be Kennington Offal ? Ouch ! Anyway , this is the sort of movie where the most obvious suspect can't be the real killer . Or can he ? The climactic scene is the murder trial at the Old Bailey , and it just doesn't come off . It's badly paced and very static , betraying the stage origins of this material . The murderer gives an incredibly banal motive for the crime . . . and proceeds to whip out a pistol in the middle of the courtroom . I attended several trials at the Old Bailey in the 1960s and ' 70s , before metal detectors were standard equipment in courthouses . I suppose it's possible that a trial participant ( especially one who isn't the defendant ) could have smuggled a firearm into the Old Bailey in those days . . . and perhaps it was even easier in 1935 , when this movie was made . But I found the climax of this movie deeply contrived , not least because the set design only vaguely resembles the interior of the Old Bailey . But maybe that , too , was different in the 1930s . The popular character actor Ernest Thesiger is in this movie . Thesiger gave one of his very best performances in ' They Drive by Night ' , directed by the aforementioned Arthur Woods . Those of you who have savoured Thesiger's pull-the-stops-out turns in ' Bride of Frankenstein ' and ' The Old Dark House ' will have difficulty believing that this actor is capable of giving a dull performance . Overripe , maybe , but not dull . Well , in ' The Night of the Party ' , Thesiger's performance is dull and lacklustre . I was more impressed with Muriel Aked - - a tiny , bird-like character actress - - as the party's guest of honour . I'll rate ' The Night of the Party ' just . I don't recommend this movie to fans of Leslie Banks nor of Ernest Thesiger . I can't recommend it to Michael Powell fans either , unless ( like me ) you're a completist who wants to see as much of this great director's work as possible . Right , you've been warned . Next case !
It just goes round in circles , with a bustle on its bum .	I was very impressed with Jefferson Mays's performance in the stage play ' I Am My Own Wife ' , an apparently factual account of a German transvestite's struggle to survive and to maintain his / her transgender dignity during the oppression of the Third Reich . ' Memoirs of My Nervous Illness ' opens with those dread words ' based on a true story ' , and purports to tell the factual account of Daniel Paul Schreber , reportedly a real-life cross-dressing transsexual who was institutionalised in Leipzig in 1902 . ( I've never heard of Schreber , although Freud describes an anonymous similar case . ) By choosing to follow his stage triumph with this film , Jefferson Mays seems wilfully determined to be type-cast in period German transvestite biopics . . . and how many of those can there be ? Unfortunately , ' Memoirs of My Nervous Illness ' hasn't got one-tenth the compelling drama or human insight of ' I Am My Own Wife ' . The film's opening shot is promising . We see a figure walking away from us in period female clothing , presumably a woman . She ( ? ) passes a man whom we will later recognise as Dr Flechsig , an ' alienist ' . The doctor glances towards this woman's face - - shown to him but not to us - - as he greets her courteously and walks onward . Then he reacts , realising that all is not right . We see Daniel Schreber ( Mays wearing one of Kevin Kline's cast-off moustaches ) in bed with his wife . Lara Milian gives a dull and colourless performance in the latter role , but perhaps that's an intentional attempt to show the emptiness of her husband's heterosexual life . Schreber's voice-over confesses that he has suddenly found himself thinking it must be pleasant to be a woman submitting to intercourse . Submitting ? To judge from Schreber's body language , he's fantasising about being raped . Schreber is a respected citizen , a judge in Geneva bands . Yet he has increasing difficulty coping with his life , and he ultimately commits himself to Flechsig's institution . Here , Schreber becomes convinced that he is turning into a woman , and even that he has become pregnant through some sort of immaculate conception . He draws elaborate sketches which somehow seem too perfect - - no erasures , very few blottings - - to be credible . I really hoped that this film would say something interesting about gender roles , or transgenderism , as was the case in ' I Am My Own Wife ' . Some hope ! We see some ridiculous sequences in which Schreber feminises his body , puts on make-up and ponces about in female clothing . . . all of this while an inmate in a mental institution , remember . The bustles of 1902 looked ridiculous enough on women of that period : when Mays sashays across the room , half-naked but with a bustle on his bum , I could barely choke back laughter . Annoyingly , several scenes are repeated . . . sometimes from a slightly different viewpoint , sometimes exactly the same as before . I actually thought I'd nodded off and woken during the next screening of a sequence I'd already seen . As usual for modern American films in period settings , everyone's teeth are too good . When Mays screams in close-up , I could see the modern dental stoppings in his molars . For all the wrong reasons , this movie reminded me of Roman Polanski's ' The Tenant ' : both films depict a disaffected male protagonist who gradually finds himself becoming feminised , and both films use screams as dramatic events . . . but ' The Tenant ' tells an intriguing and coherent story , whilst ' Memoirs ' just goes round in circles wearing a bustle on its bum . This film is art-directed to a fare-thee-well : most of the art direction is impressive , but I was annoyed by some vintage type fonts which made the credits difficult to read . More positively , an attempt to replicate the typesetting in a 1902 newspaper is almost successful . The single worst flaw in ' Memoirs of My Nervous Illness ' - - allegedly set in German in 1902 - - is that all the actors except Mays speak in flat American monotones which constantly remind us that we're nowhere near Germany . The dialogue is necessarily in English . . . but whenever any of the actors speaks a German word , even something as simple as ' Herr ' , it sounds jarring in their American diction . It might have been a mistake for the actors to attempt German accents , in which case the rest of the cast should have done as Mays does here : speak the dialogue in a cultivated intonation which suggests the rhythms of German speech rather than American English . At the end of the movie , of course , we see a replay of the original encounter . . . but this time with a reverse-angle shot to reveal ( not remotely a surprise ) that the ' woman ' is Schreber in drag . The filmmakers seem to believe that , merely by choosing a transgender subject , they've done something daringly transgressive . That might have been true in 1902 ; it certainly isn't true in our current millennium . This movie has absolutely nothing to say about transgender or transvestite issues . It would have been nice if the film had at least pointed out one aspect of Schreber's situation : namely , that a transvestite in 1902 was more fortunate than his modern counterpart , since women's fashions of that period were designed to conceal the wearer's face and figure rather than reveal them . Unlike nowadays , in 1902 it wouldn't have been too difficult for a cross-dressed man to pass as a woman in public . Too bad that this movie pretends it has something important to say about sexual transgression , yet ultimately it just swanks about in circles . If you want to see a movie that says something deeply meaningful about transvestism , skip this mess and rent ' Some Like It Hot ' instead . I'll rate ' Memoirs ' just , mostly for the art direction . As I write this , Jefferson Mays has recently been signed to co-star in a Broadway production of R . C . Sheriff's ' Journey's End ' , one of my favourite plays . Here's wishing him luck in a drama that has an all-male cast , with no cross-dressing !
Shut your trapeze	" Bigger than Barnum's " is a hokey drama with a circus background . Like so many movies which use the circus as a setting , this one gives a highly inaccurate and unconvincing depiction of the culture of circus people . A travelling circus is a self-contained universe in microcosm , and filmmakers who have never lived among circus people will have difficulty depicting that universe properly . Robert Blandin is the youngest in a line of circus aerialists : his father and grandfather were high-wire walkers before him . ( The fictional name ' Blandin ' used here was probably inspired by Blondin , a real-life daredevil who once walked a tightrope over Niagara Falls . ) Robert's father Peter has been performing an act in which he carries a pretty girl on his back while walking the high-wire . When Peter falls ill , it's Robert's turn to perform the act . The girl in question is the beautiful young dark-haired Juanita . When circus owner Ranglin decides he can sell more tickets if the act is performed without a safety net , young Robert refuses to do it . . . and he's promptly ostracised as a coward by all the other circus folk . But the show must go on ( says whom ? ) . To protect the Blandin family's reputation , Peter performs the high-wire act with Juanita on his back , even though he hasn't recovered his health . Inevitably , Peter slips and falls off the high wire . Juanita manages to grab the wire and save herself , but Peter is permanently crippled . . . and the circus folk blame Robert's cowardice for Peter's injury . Juanita and Robert are estranged . SPOILERS COMING NOW . One dark night , a fire breaks out in the hotel where Juanita and Peter are staying . ( Since when do circus people have enough money to stay in hotels ? ) Juanita manages to save herself , but the crippled Peter is trapped in the burning hotel . He manages to drag himself upstairs to the roof . Conveniently , a telephone wire passes directly above the roof . Guess who redeems himself by walking across the telephone wire to rescue his father . Without a safety net ! This movie is completely unconvincing in its depiction of circus people . In real life , they don't take unnecessary risks , and don't ostracise other acts for refusing to take such risks . Ralph Lewis ( a tragically underrated actor ) gives an excellent performance in a badly-written role . Viola Dana ( who had a small amount of circus training in real life ) does surprisingly well in a predictable role . In the central role as Robert Blandin , George O'Hara is worthless . Ralph Ince , who directed the film , turns in a decent performance in a comedy-relief role . I'll rate this hokum .
' gay ' is hardly the word . . .	' The Gay Lord Quex ' ( stop laughing in the back , there ) is the sort of material that no longer appeals , as it's so deeply concerned with the class system . . . and with public perception being more important than justice . Sophie Fullgarney is a London manicurist whose young stepsister Muriel is engaged to the Marquis of Quex , a wealthy milord who has a reputation as a scoundrel . For Muriel , it's purely an arrangement of financial convenience . Sophie is engaged herself , to Sir Chichester Frayne the famous palmist . ( This character appears to be based on Cheiro , a palm-reader who was welcome in the highest levels of British society at the time that this film was produced . ) Without consulting Muriel , Sophie decides to save her stepsister by compromising Quex . When Quex accepts an invitation to spend the weekend at the country estate of the Duchess of Strood , Sophie insinuates herself into the household disguised as a chambermaid . All proceeds to plan , until Quex discovers an opportunity to compromise Sophie . Which one will tug the bell-cord first ? This story is dull and no longer relevant , if it ever was . The acting is stodgy and the directing is slow . There is no end of people going in and out of different doors , but none of it adds up to any amusement . Tom Moore is a bit too young and virile to be the gay Lord Quex . Arthur Housman , not yet typecast as a drunk , is impressive in a small role . I'll rate this movie .
Crane Wilbur should have sued .	Richard Connell was the author of ' The Most Dangerous Game ' , one of the most popular and most widely-anthologised short stories of the twentieth century . So I had high hopes for ' F-Man ' , a film for which Connell receives a story credit . Serves me right for getting my hopes up . The whole plot of this movie is ( ahem ) ' borrowed ' from ' The Monster ' , a 1922 play by Crane Wilbur that was filmed in 1925 . The only innovation is that Connell has moved the action out of a spooky old sanitarium into several new locations . Johnny Dime ( Jack Haley ) is a soda jerk in a drugstore in a hick town in Nevada , but he has dreams of being a G-man . He makes a pest of himself at G-man headquarters , until finally Chief Hogan ( William Frawley ) and Agent Cartwright ( Robert Middlemass ) decide to get rid of Dime by inducting him as an ' F-man ' : not quite good enough to be a G-man , geddit ? Dime spots a respectable businessman named Shaw who's a dead ringer for a fugitive on the Most Wanted list . We know that Dime has got the right man . . . but has he really got him ? The ending of this movie is the same as the ending of ' The Monster ' , although the villain ends up differently . I like Jack Haley - - I never met him , but I knew his vaudeville partner Benny Rubin , who often told me what a great guy Haley was - - and I really wish that Haley were remembered for anything at all besides playing the Tin Woodman . Among his other achievements , Haley was the singer who introduced ' Button Up Your Overcoat ' . But ' F-Man ' is no feather in his cap . The comedy is weak , the plot is predictable ( especially for anyone who's seen ' The Monster ' ) , and most of the performances are lifeless . William Frawley sleepwalks through a role that he could easily have played to perfection . Grace Bradley ( as the villain's moll ) and Adrienne Marden ( as Haley's love interest ) are so dull they barely registered on my memory . Sorry , Jack , but I'll rate this movie only .
Sorry , Charley	Charley Chase has some immensely loyal fans who will tolerate no criticism of their idol . Yet his work is highly variable , and I hardly ever laugh at Chase's work . In his very best movies , such as ' Mighty Like a Moose ' or ' His Wooden Wedding ' , I find myself impressed with Chase's professionalism rather than inspired to laughter . And Chase's worst comedies are , let's face it , very bad indeed . I had high hopes for ' Is Marriage the Bunk ? ' , not because of the outdated slang in its title but because of the directorial credit for the great Leo McCarey . He must have helmed this movie on an off day . Quite a few silent two-reel comedies - - not usually Chase's , though - - were effectively structured like a pair of one-reelers : two completely unrelated plots in the first and second halves , linked by some glib title cards and some pick-up shots . This two-reeler has that feel : it starts out being about one thing , then suddenly becomes about something else . Mrs Romaine Dressing ( is she from the Thousand Islands ? ) has two daughters , Sapho ( oh , dear ) and Sappie . Sapho has married a wealthy successful husband who's just bought a new car . Sappie is married to Charley . A title card identifies him as ' an entertainer ' , but his act apparently consists of imitating Charlie Chaplin . . . a piece of business which was very hokey indeed by 1925 . Right ; I realise that Charley's character here is meant to be a BAD entertainer . Still , it's deeply depressing to see Chase - - a talented comedian in his own right , but one very unlike Chaplin - - attempting an inept imitation of the Little Tramp . Chase and Chaplin had worked together at Keystone in 1914 - - you can see Chase in Chaplin's ' The Masquerader ' - - so it saddened and maddened me to see Chase reduced to doing bad Tramp imitations . There's potentially a funny plot here , with feckless Chase constantly being shown up by his wealthier and un-feckless ( fecked ? ) brother-in-law . Just when we think this is going somewhere , the plot changes . Turns out that Charley has a job after all : something to do with an office , and his boss MUST deliver some cash to the bank in a few minutes . Charley offers to save the day . We have here some potential for a thrill comedy in the style of Harold Lloyd ; in fact , Lloyd's ' Feet First ' used a similar premise . Speaking of feet : that must be why Chase interrupts his race against time for some unfunny business getting his corns treated by a podiatrist . Why is he doing this when he's aware of his boss's situation ? It looks like Charley is going to be the hero after all , until his flivver breaks down . Will his brother-in-law help him ? Damned if I know . This low-budget comedy seems to be cobbled together from several unrelated fragments . I didn't laugh once . I was pleasantly surprised to see Marie Mosquini's name in the opening credits - - she usually worked with Snub Pollard , not Chase - - so I was disappointed that she played neither of Mrs Dressing's daughters . She shows up very briefly in Charley's boss's office . The brunette Mosquini had dark exotic looks which were very unusual for her time ; unlike many other pretty actresses of the 1920s , Mosquini still looks quite pretty ( sexy , even ) by the tastes of modern audiences . Interestingly , silent-film actress Mosquini married electrical engineer Lee De Forrest , who was actively involved in the development of talking pictures . It's too bad that Mosquini appears for only a few seconds in this movie . I regretfully rate this one only . Chase , McCarey and all concerned have done better elsewhere .
Bebe's boo-boos	In 1921 , silent-screen star Bebe Daniels was arrested for speeding , and given a brief prison sentence . Her producer Adolph Zukor turned this into a publicity stunt , with Daniels photographed mopping her cell and redecorating . Zukor then rushed into production ' The Speed Girl ' , a star vehicle for Daniels , cannily cashing in on the publicity . Fade in two years later , and once again Daniels appears to be trading on her speed-girl reputation . . . this time in ' The Exciters ' . Daniels plays Ronnie Rand , a society girl with a reputation for fast cars and thrills . As this extremely contrived story would have it , Ronnie must marry before her twenty-first birthday in order to inherit the family fortune . Mind you , it doesn't matter whom she marries : she just needs to get married . So that's sorted , then . A pack of burglars with ludicrous costumes ( and bad dialogue in the inter-titles ) break into Ronnie's family's mansion . The leader of the crooks is suave Pierre Martel ( Antonio Moreno ) . Always eager for a thrill , Ronnie marries him : yes , she marries a total stranger whom she knows is a burglar . Lucky Pierre ! Ronnie figures the crooks will get sent to prison soon , so she can collect her inheritance while her husband Pierre is safely in the nick . SPOILERS COMING . After Ronnie marries Pierre , it turns out that he's actually a detective who infiltrated the gang . Mind you , he's leading the gang on their criminal forays . . . but he's a detective , so that's all right , then . Ronnie collects her inheritance , but the marriage is valid . As her husband , Pierre feels entitled to order her about ( this is 1923 ) , and he decrees that Ronnie is going to settle down and be a homemaker . She joyously agrees . Oh , blimey ! This movie is meant to be funny , but it's just bad . The plot is deeply implausible , the motivations of the main characters ditto . I'm tempted to rate this movie zero points , but I'm prejudiced in favour of Bebe Daniels . She and her husband Ben Lyon ( both American citizens ) chose to remain in London during the Blitz and the postwar deprivation . So , points , for Bebe's sake .
The princess should have drowned .	' Venus ' was made in France , but this movie fits squarely into the Italian film genre which has a name that translates into English as ' white telephone ' . A white-telephone movie is a film about superficial rich people who have plenty of leisure time , doing unimportant things in extremely swank surroundings . Princess Beatrice is the president of the Doriani Steamship Line . While cruising off the coast of Cyprus , she has a sudden yen to go water-skiing in a formal gown and string of pearls . ( As I said , this is a white-telephone movie . ) When she discovers that she's improperly dressed for water-skiing , she discards her gown but carries on in her pearls and her scanties . A sleazy passenger on the ship ( Maurice Schutz ) makes a lewd remark about this display in the presence of the ship's commanding officer , Captain Franqueville ( Charles Frank ) , who gallantly slaps the bounder . Said bounder promptly falls overboard . The captain duly lowers a lifeboat , but the cad drowns anyway . When the Princess learns that the captain has struck a passenger , indirectly causing the passenger's death , she promptly sacks Franqueville . . . not knowing that his action was in defence of her honour . ( Should that make a difference ? ) Later , in Cyprus , the Princess meets a handsome man and they're mutually attracted . But they don't know each other's names . Only when he expresses contempt for the name of Princess Beatrice Doriani for costing him his job does she realise that this is Captain Franqueville . Being deeply attracted to him , she decides to reveal her identity . . . but there's always a headwaiter , or some other interruption , to prevent this . ' Venus ' is painfully unfunny . A long series of deeply contrived interruptions prevent the princess from tipping her hand . It's very annoying at any time to watch characters behaving so frivolously and irresponsibly with so much wealth , but especially so in a movie made in 1929 , just a few months before the stock-market crash . The production budget might have been adequate for a story about middle-class characters , but is much too low for this story about conspicuous consumption and wealthy royalty . Some of the exterior sequences are well-photographed , especially the water-skiing sequence which requires a camera to keep moving at sea level without getting water on the lens . I never found Constance Talmadge especially beautiful , but her beauty here has faded considerably from her peak years . A more plausible script might have helped . I'll rate this movie .
What blue eyes you have , Stanley !	Nearly everything I was prepared to say about the early Stan Laurel comedy ' Just Rambling Along ' turns out already to have been said in the perceptive comments by IMDb reviewer " wmorrow59 " . Morrow is indeed correct that Laurel's business with the salt and pepper shakers is cribbed from a Chaplin gag in ' The Immigrant ' . Morrow is also correct that the cop in this movie is played by Noah Young . On my own , I'll note that ' Just Rambling Along ' was produced by Rolin Films , the production company in which Hal Roach was half-partner ( the ' Ro ' in ' Rolin ' was short for ' Roach ' ) . When Roach went into solo production , Noah Young came with him and remained a stalwart support for Harold Lloyd , Snub Pollard and other Roach comedians . However , with respect to reviewer Morrow , Laurel's stint as Chaplin's understudy in the Fred Karno troupe was hardly the low point of his career . After leaving Karno , Stan Laurel paid his dues in some pretty awful music-hall acts : " The Rum ' Uns from Rome " with fellow Karno alumnus Arthur Dandoe , followed by the even worse act " Fun on the Tyrol " featuring Laurel with two non-entities named Ted Leo and Bob Reed . During Chaplin's early film stardom at Keystone , Laurel toured American vaudeville with married couple Edgar & Ethel ' Wren ' Hurley ( both of them also from the Karno troupe ) in a turn billed as ' The Keystone Trio ' , with Laurel impersonating Chaplin's tramp , Wren Hurley as Mabel Normand and her husband imitating Chester Conklin as a Keystone Cop . The act split up when Edgar Hurley wanted to swap roles with Laurel . As reviewer Morrow correctly notes , when Laurel looks directly into the camera in close-up , the effect is genuinely eerie . Morrow does not give the reason for this : the pupils of Laurel's eyes were pale blue , and they happened to be precisely the colour that was insensitive to the early orthochromatic film stock . ( Actress Lee Remick's eyes were the same shade , but during her career a panchromatic film stock was used . ) When Laurel looks into the camera , his eyes look ghostly . . . and the effect is so weird , it negates any comedy . In a television interview decades later , shortly before his death , Laurel recalled being told that he would never make it as a film actor because his eyes were the wrong colour . However , from Laurel's behaviour during this interview , he clearly seemed to be unaware of the genuine technical problems incurred by his eyes , and he seemed to think that the complaint about the colour of his eyes was merely a pretext ( by people who thought he lacked talent ) to let Laurel down easily without pricking his vanity . Briefly glimpsed in ' Just Rambling Along ' is Marie Mosquini , a brunette beauty who - - unlike so many other 1920s actresses - - remains astonishingly beautiful by modern ( early 21st-century ) standards of feminine beauty . After playing against Snub Pollard in some of his best films , Mosquini married radio engineer Lee DeForest . . . who helped develop the talking-film process . ' Just Rambling Along ' contains some plot business that ( with my British cultural references ) I didn't understand , but which an American friend explained to me . I had often heard the phrase ' meal ticket ' as a slang term , but was unaware of its literal meaning . In ' Just Rambling Along ' , Laurel cadges a meal in a working-class restaurant that used the now-obsolete device known as meal tickets : each time he selects a dish , another charge is totted onto his meal ticket , with payment expected afterward . Chaos ensues ( but not much comedy , alas ) when Laurel's meal ticket is swapped for another with a higher total on it . I laughed precisely once during ' Just Rambling Along ' , when a cupful of water is thrown into Laurel's face and he pantomimes swimming away . Chaplin did that gag too . I'll rate this movie just 2 points in 10 , mostly for its historical significance .
The green eye of the yellow god-awful mess	I genuinely didn't understand this movie , but it was so fascinatingly bad that I carried on watching . ' Adventure Girl ' reminds me of an Ed Wood movie , because it attains his easy breezy cheesy sleazy level of ineptitude . This movie also reminds me of ' Perils of Nyoka ' , ' Sheena , Queen of the Jungle ' and the old Victorian music-hall recitation ' The Green Eye of the Yellow God ' . As far as I can tell ( and I could be wrong ) ' Adventure Girl ' , starring Joan Lowell , is based on a book she wrote called ' The Cradle of the Deep ' . Now here's where the confusion starts . IMDb lists that book as a novel , as in fiction . Ms Lowell's self-righteous narration in this movie seems to indicate that ' Cradle ' is non-fiction , and that this movie is her rebuttal to all the people who disbelieved the veracity of her book . I suspect that the truth is somewhere in the middle : it's my guess that ' Cradle of the Deep ' was published as fact , but was actually a cradle of lies and was freely denounced as such . There's nothing believable in this ultra-low-budget movie , which purports to be a documentary re-enactment of true events . Joan Lowell plays herself , or a fictionalised version of herself : a distaff version of Johnny Weissmuller's Jungle Jim . Allegedly , she went to Guatemala to steal ( I mean discover ) a fabled emerald that's been propping up the eye socket of a Mayan idol . I'm absolutely positive that someone connected with this movie has read the English poem ' The Green Eye of the Yellow God ' . Off to Guatemala sails Joan , with her handy crewmen Bill and Otto . Their sailboat gets caught in a gale and loses its mast . Bill gets blown overboard , and hardy Joan dives in after hm while the sailboat is caught in the gale and speeds away without them . Joan and Bill are forced to tread water in the Gulf of Mexico for two hours . Meanwhile , the camera is right there with them , steadfastly recording this . Eventually the merry crew end up in the Guatemalan jungle , where the natives immediately capture them and make plans to roast Joan at the stake . This sequence is gobsmackingly bad , with the ' natives ' staring into the camera and giggling in embarrassment whilst they mumble unga-bunga curses in the general direction of Joan . We are constantly aware of the camera ( and the cameraman ) grinding away while Joan is allegedly in dire need of assistance . Eventually , Joan gets into a bitch-slap fight with a Guatemalan jungle woman , who looks suspiciously Caucasian . All of this is offered in absolute earnest , yet all of it is howlingly faked and often hilariously so . Throughout the film , Joan's turgid narration insists that we recognise the ongoing fiasco as an accurate re-enactment of genuine events . This film rates perhaps , but I laughed so hard and so often that I'm willing to throw in two extra points . On the other hand , I don't want to encourage this sort of mendacious ineptitude . Split the difference and rate this rubbish .
It's movies like this one that give silent films a bad name !	I'm a passionate advocate on behalf of German Expressionist films , especially from the silent era . I'm still bitter about an incident at the 1982 World Science Fiction Convention in Chicago , when an audience full of idiots ( jaded by high-tech S / FX movies ) laughed at the cardboard sets in ' The Cabinet of Dr Caligari ' . Those morons didn't care that the high degree of originality and imagination in ' Caligari ' more than made up for its tiny production budget . ' Shadows ' , however , while firmly within the Expressionist genre , is too arty for its own good . While this film does have some merits , its flaws greatly outnumber and exceed its merits . All the actors perform their roles with hand-to-brow histrionics of precisely the sort which have given silent-film acting a bad reputation . Several of the actors in this movie have given good performances elsewhere , so I assume that director Arthur Robison deserves the blame for their mannered theatrics here . During one scene , when a swain aims a punch at his rival , the actor cannot simply throw a punch : he must put his fist up against the other man's face , and then shove . Alexander Granach , as a showman with a shadow box and shadow puppets , demonstrates some extremely deft hand shadows , apparently with no other props supplementing his hands . But , when the puppet-master isn't performing , Granach lurches across the screen like Igor the hunchback . Ruth Weyher is pretty and graceful but is given no opportunity to behave like a human being . This silent film was originally released with no intertitles . Several other silent features also eschewed captions - - ' The Last Laugh ' , " The Old Swimmin ' Hole " , ' The Last Moment ' - - but those films had linear plots which the audience could easily follow . The plot of ' Shadows ' is deeply confusing , made even more confusing by the arty pretensions , and the story would have been far easier to follow with some captions . A curator at the Murnau Archiv has told me that ' Shadows ' was given intertitles by several exhibitors when it was released outside Germany . The plot - - such as it is - - vaguely reminded me of Renoir's ' Rules of the Game ' and Bergman's ' Smiles of a Summer Night ' : in a swank country manor , some people with more money than sense amuse themselves at each other's expense . But here the cast members are introduced in arty tableaux that are more alienating than edifying . After the final tableau , we're treated to the odd spectacle of a single upraised finger casting a shadow on the screen . What does this mean , please ? Later , in hindsight , we understand that this signifies the beginning of the drama's Chapter One . ( I saw this film in London , where the audience burst out laughing at the start of Chapter Two , symbolised by a hand with TWO upraised fingers : in Britain , this two-fingered gesture has obscene connotations . ) The finger device is confusing , and adds nothing to the story . . . nor does the decision to divide the narrative into arbitrary chapters . The production design is impressive : judging by the furniture and clothes , this story takes place somewhere in Europe ( probably Germany ) circa 1830 : again , some titles would have helped . But Robison considerably weakens the effect of these wonderful costumes and sets by obscuring them with elaborate shadows , and by gimmicky effects such as raising and lowering a proscenium curtain in front of the actors . ( As if we need to be reminded that this very artificial story is merely a story ! ) Considerable talent , effort and expense were put into ' Shadows ' , to little effect . Rather a lot of today's movie-goers are sadly prejudiced against silent films , misperceiving them all to be crude and laughably overacted . Sadly , ' Shadows ' is precisely the sort of movie which would convince such people that all the negative stereotypes about silent movies are true after all . My rating for this failure : , mostly for the production design .
Well , shut their big mouths . . .	Joe E . Brown and Martha Raye were ( separately ) both known for their wide mouths , so I guess it was inevitable that someone would decide to team them on screen . Unfortunately , this movie isn't very funny . The cleverest thing about this movie is Joe E . ' s character's name : he plays a ham actor christened Marlowe Mansfield Booth , which is the name of a 16th-century playwright and two 19th-century actor / managers . Joe E . inherits a college ( don'tcha hate it when that happens ? ) . This is an American movie , so of course the ' college ' is merely a front for a football team . ( Classes ? What classes ? ) Inevitably , everything Joe E . and Martha need to accomplish depends on their team winning the Big Game . Inevitably , Joe E . goes into the game at the last moment . So far , so good : Joe E . Brown was an extremely athletic man who often played inept weaklings on screen , and several of his films relied upon his character suddenly developing athletic prowess at the climax . Unfortunately , in this movie Joe's success is more down to dumb luck than anything else . The number on Joe's football jersey is 13 . . . which tells you how obvious everything in this movie is . I have mixed feelings about Martha Raye . I consistently find her unfunny , and I dislike the characters she played . In ' Monsieur Verdoux ' , I kept hoping that Chaplin's attempts to murder her would succeed , and I was annoyed that she survived at the end . However , in the real world , Martha Raye risked her life to perform for American servicemen in combat zones during several wars , and she was a tireless advocate on behalf of Vietnam veterans . In the last years of her life , Martha Raye hoped to get a film made based on her experiences performing in the USO during World War Two . Unfortunately , a certain well-known ' actress ' ripped off the facts of Martha's life and made a flop movie that put paid to any chances of a straightforward Martha Raye biopic . So , I have a lot of sympathy for Martha Raye as a person even while I intensely dislike her as a performer . And she's extremely unfunny in this movie . Several reliable character actors are in ' $1 , 000 a Touchdown ' - Eric Blore , Tom Dugan , Matt McHugh , Jimmy Conlin - but none of them have any decent material . All of them have been funny elsewhere , but none are funny in this movie . I was grateful for the presence of tall shapely brunette Joyce Mathews as a campus vamp . I'll rate ' $1 , 000 a Touchdown ' .
Melvyn Douglas in drag IS a drag !	There's nothing amazing about ' The Amazing Mr Williams ' . Part of this movie's problem is its lead actor Melvyn Douglas . He was a lousy actor and lazy with it . For most of his career , he allowed his good looks , a glib manner and ( usually , but not in this movie ) some fine scriptwriting to make up for his lack of acting ability . I disliked Douglas as an actor before I knew anything about him as a person ; I've learnt enough about him to know that I also despise his politics . I'll give Melvyn Douglas credit for one thing : his chromosomes did produce the incredibly talented and sexy actress Illeana Douglas . Melvyn Douglas made this movie right after the brilliant ' Ninotchka ' . . . talk about a comedown ! ' The Amazing Mr Williams ' is allegedly a comedy , but I never laughed . Douglas plays a plainclothes detective on the homicide squad , named Kenny Williams . I never heard of a police detective named Kenny , but if they called him Kenneth Williams . . . well , what a carry-on . The whole city is in a panic because a serial killer is going about , killing women . No motive is given for this ; he just likes to kill women . The mayor ( Jonathan Hale , better than usual ) calls Williams on the carpet to account for his failure to catch the killer . SPOILERS APPROACHING . The cheap , vulgar , untalented and unattractive Joan Blondell plays the mayor's secretary . ( She doesn't sound literate enough to file a letter , much less type one . ) Blondell and Douglas squabble like a cat and a dog , so it's blatantly obvious they're going to end up together . At this movie's lowest point , Melvyn Douglas decides to draw out the killer by dressing up as a woman . You do NOT want to see Melvyn Douglas in drag ! He's well over six foot , and he doesn't even shave off that annoying moustache . The similarly-'tashed William Powell was an actor very similar in type to Melvyn Douglas ( but much more talented ) . When Powell disguised himself as a woman in ' Love Crazy ' , he had the integrity to shave off his moustache : a genuine sacrifice , as Powell needed it to grow in again for his next role . But Melvyn Douglas brings nothing whatever to his role in this movie , not even a razor . He plays his drag scenes with the same annoying smirk he used throughout the bulk of his career . On the plus side , ' The Amazing Mr Williams ' has several of those splendid supporting players who made Hollywood's movies of the ' 30s so delightful . Edward Brophy is brilliant here , touching and funny as a criminal who gets an unlikely furlough from his life sentence . The dyspeptic Donald MacBride is fine as a cop who gets mistaken for the killer , and is nearly lynched by a mob . Ruth Donnelly is splendid : as usual for her , but here she gets a chance to show her talents away from her usual orbit on the Warner Brothers backlot . Jimmy Conlin , Luis Alberni and the grinning Dave Willock are all fine in small roles . Barbara Pepper ( whom I usually dislike ) is good here too . The grossly unpleasant Maude Eburne gets some screen time ; I always loathe her , and she gives the same performance in every film . . . but some audiences enjoy Eburne's one-note performance very much , for reasons I can't fathom . If you're familiar with Hollywood character actors of the 1930s , and the roles they tended to play , one glance at IMDb's cast list will tell you who the murderer is . That's the problem with ' The Amazing Mr Wiliams ' : everything is too obvious . I'll rate this movie .
no breakfast at Tiffany's .	I admire any movie that tries to change the language of film , even though such efforts nearly always fail . 3-D was a fad that was almost never used properly ( ' Inferno ' being a rare exception ) . Smell-O-Vision and Odorama were never more than stunts . ' The Door in the Wall ' , with its fascinating use of Dynamic Frame , proved too unwieldy for exhibition on a large scale . ' Wicked , Wicked ' was filmed in something cried Duo-Vision . . . which means that , except for the opening credits , the entire film is shown in split-screen . Now , split-screen is a valid story-telling device when it's used intelligently and sparingly . A great example is in ' The Silence of the Lambs ' , during the exciting sequence in which Clarice Starling and a team of FBI agents are going to two separate houses simultaneously . But ' Wicked , Wicked ' has two things happening at the same go for the entire movie . Sadly , one of them is ( mostly ) irrelevant , and the other one is painfully trite . SPOILERS COMING THICK AND FAST . At the beginning of the movie , we see a woman seat herself at an organ and begin playing some Phantom of the Opera music , which she continues to play throughout the film . She's dressed in an elaborate formal outfit that would be appropriate for a concert-hall recital , yet she's all alone . Also , the actress cast in this role is so spectacularly ugly that I couldn't believe her looks were coincidental . I was positive she was going to turn out to be a supernatural witch , or something similar . No ; her looks are irrelevant . In fact , this woman and her organ music are completely irrelevant . She sits there fingering her organ through the entire film , yet she never interacts with any of the other characters , nor do any of them seem to hear her organ music . The scriptwriter just wants to have two events occurring simultaneously ( for the sake of the split-screen gimmick ) , so we get this irrelevant organ recital . The main plot concerns a resort hotel in a remote location . The very pretty Tiffany Bolling arrives as a black-haired nightclub singer who's been booked by the hotel . Her black hair doesn't match her fair complexion . Um , but some nutter is killing brunettes , so the local cop decides she ought to turn blonde as a matter of self-preservation . Bolling spends most of the flick as a blonde , and looks much prettier with long golden locks than with long raven tresses . . . but she looks a natural blonde who was pretending to be brunette , not the other way round . The identity and whereabouts of the psycho are no mystery , as we watch him ( on one-half of the split-screen ) through most of the film . Randolph Roberts plays a disaffected youth whose mother was mean to him , so now he's just gotta go slicing pretty girls . Guess who he's picked out as his next victim . Tiffany Bolling is no actress , but she's so damned pretty that I kept watching . Still , it's painful to hear her singing this movie's awful title song ' Wicked , Wicked . . . that's the ticket . . . ' on one side of the screen while Roberts flicks his knife on the other side of the screen . I kept expecting the old Warner Brothers cartoon gag where the character on one side of a split screen reaches across the partition to the other side . Character actress Madeleine Sherwood , whom I've always liked , is stuck here in a pathetic role as a sub-Tennessee Williams dowager who has fallen on bad times , and is desperately trying to avoid eviction from the hotel after her money has run out . If you're waiting for this subplot to link up with the psycho killer or his blonde prey , keep waiting . Soon after this , Sherwood's acting career declined to the point where she ended up doing low-budget commercials for Hansel & Gretel cold cuts . I used to confuse Madeleine Sherwood with silent-film actress Madeline Hurlock , who married playwright Robert Sherwood . ' Wicked , Wicked ' is written and directed by Richard L Bare . Despite this film , I've a lot of respect for Bare's career . He had extensive film and television credits - - including the entire run of ' Green Acres ' after the pilot episode , plus some classic ' Twilight Zone ' episodes - - and he also wrote an excellent textbook on film directing . He was probably hoping that ' Wicked , Wicked ' would be his prestige hit . . . but it's just boring and pretentious . I'll rate this movie : one point out of kindness to Bare , and one point because Tiffany Bolling is so sexy .
Turn over the page , boy . . .	' The Dalmasse Hotel Page ' stars Dolly Haas . Ach , does it ever . For a deeper analysis of Dolly Haas's life and career , see my IMDb review of her film ' Es tut sich was um Mitternacht ' . For purposes of ' Dalmasse Hotel Page ' , I'll repeat the gist of that review : Dolly Haas tended to play ' gamin ' roles : those allegedly cute waifs whom we're supposed to just cuddle into our hearts , but whom I usually want to punch in the nose . Haas ( pronounced ' Hoss ' ) was not physically attractive ( not to me , at least ) , and she had shoe-button eyes which seldom conveyed expression in any of her performances . It's probably appropriate that Ms Haas is remembered less as an actress in her own right than as the wife of the great caricaturist Al Hirschfeld . The fact that Hirschfeld often drew faces with shoe-button eyes leads me to speculate as to why he found Haas so appealing . In this movie , Haas plays a virginal waif who can't get any virginal waif jobs ( must be due to that recession in the German economy ) , so she disguises herself as a boy and gets a job as an hotel page at the Dalmasse . While Dolly Haas was certainly no bull-dyke , I never found her remotely feminine . Disguised as a boy , she manages to look utterly devoid of female traits without looking remotely male . It's not a pretty sight , folks . One of the guests in the Dalmasse is a wealthy middle-aged Baron ( played by Harry Liedtke ) who has attracted the attention of three American crooks . The crooks - two women and a man - are played by German performers . The attempts by Gina Falckenberg , Trude Hesterberg and Hans Richter to play American gangsters are , shall we say , very interesting . It's clear that somebody involved in the production of this film spent some time watching Hollywood gangster movies . The hotel detective ( Hans Junkermann ) recruits Dolly the page ' boy ' in a scheme to get the goods on the crooks who are scamming the Baron . When Dolly meets the Baron , she straight away falls in love with him . The Baron , of course , is completely fooled by Dolly's disguise , and he assumes that she is indeed a boy . Wait , it gets worse . The actor who plays the Baron is old enough to be Dolly's father , so the development of a romance between them is distressing even without the cross-dressing angle . Of course , the instant that the Baron learns ( from Dolly's mother ) that this boy is a girl , he reciprocates her romantic feelings so promptly that I couldn't help wondering how he felt towards Dolly when he thought she was a boy . Ach , du lieber ! Have I mentioned that this movie is a comedy ? I didn't laugh once . It's interesting to see that Germans had time for this sort of lumpenschmutz in the year that Uncle Adolph updated his résumé . The photography , sound recording and lighting are excellent , but there is some bad shot-matching in this film , and a few continuity errors . Director Victor Janson should have stuck to his career as an actor : he was very impressive in Ernst Lubitsch's ' The Doll ' . I'll rate this movie . Good-bye , Dolly . . .
The Bowery Boys win an Oscar ? Almost . . .	' High Society ' , starring the Bowery Boys , is a bit more serious than most of their films , but otherwise extremely typical of their output . . . except for one bizarre detail . The script of this Bowery Boys movie was nominated for an Oscar . Yes , it's true ! The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences actually listed this movie on the 1956 Oscars ballot to receive an Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay ! There's a catch , of course . Like every other Bowery Boys movie , ' High Society ' got an extremely limited release ( to road houses and neighbourhood cinemas ) , and then it vanished into oblivion pending its release to television . A few months later , MGM released a big-budget musical with a Cole Porter score , starring Bing Crosby , Frank Sinatra and Grace Kelly . This movie was ALSO titled ' High Society ' . ( Can you see where this is heading ? ) Several members of the Academy rather ignorantly nominated this MGM musical for Best Original Screenplay . But ' High Society ' ( the Crosby-Sinatra one ) was doubly ineligible for this award , as it was a remake of the Cary Grant-Katharine Hepburn film ' The Philadelphia Story ' , which in turn was adapted from Philip Barry's stage play . Any Oscar nominations for this movie's script should have been in the category of Best Screenplay Adaptation . On the other hand , ' High Society ' ( the Bowery Boys movie ) DID have an original story . . . terrible , but original . As bad as it was , this movie ( unlike the Crosby-Sinatra musical ) was eligible for the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay . When all those nominations came rolling in , some misguided schlub in the back room at the Academy allocated them to the Bowery Boys movie . I'd like to have seen the look on the faces of the four hacks who wrote this movie , when they got word that their Bowery Boys opus was up for an Oscar ! Now here's where it gets well and truly bizarre . Many Hollywood screenwriters have a perverse sense of humour . With a Bowery Boys movie on the ballot for best screenplay , there was a genuine risk that a significant number of screenwriters in the Academy would wilfully vote for this film , just to spite the Academy and watch some obscure hacks step up to accept the award ! Immense pressure was put on Edward Bernds and Elwood Ullman to withdraw their script from nomination . Alas , both of these poor deluded scribblers had faint hopes of some day winning an Oscar legitimately , and they didn't want to anger the Academy by accepting an Oscar they'd won under false pretences . With great regret , Bernd and Ullman withdrew their Bowery Boys epic from consideration . . . and never again in their careers were they within shouting distance of an Oscar . I really wish that this movie had won . Unfortunately , ' High Society ' ( this one ) isn't even a particularly good movie even by Bowery Boys standards . Bowery Boys fans will be disappointed to encounter fewer gags than usual here , and more sentiment . I'll rate this movie , plus a counterfeit Oscar .
Buster's heartbreaking decline	To be a Buster Keaton fan is to have your heart broken on a regular basis . Most of us first encounter Keaton in one of the brilliant feature films from his great period of independent production : ' The General ' , ' The Navigator ' , ' Sherlock Jnr ' . We recognise him as the greatest figure in the entire history of film comedy , and we want to see more of his movies . Here the heartbreak begins . After ' Steamboat Bill Jnr ' , Keaton's brother-in-law Joseph Schenck pressured him into signing a contract that put Keaton under the control of MGM . Keaton became just one more actor for hire , performing someone else's scripts . Then his alcoholism got worse . After ' Steamboat Bill Jnr ' , Keaton never again made a truly first-rate film . A couple of sources describe a would-be masterpiece comedy that Keaton claimed he almost got to make at MGM : a parody of ' Grand Hotel ' . Biographer Tom Dardis has offered convincing evidence that Keaton made up this story . The heartbreak increases because , among the many years of Keaton's long steady decline , he just occasionally came up with a good film . . . such as his short comedy ' Grand Slam Opera ' . I continue to search for the lost footage of Keaton's dramatic scene with Spencer Tracy in ' It's a Mad Mad World ' : a sequence in which embittered cop Tracy telephones an old retired crook ( Keaton ) and tries to recruit his assistance in stealing Smiler Grogan's cash . That footage is almost certainly gone forever , but I keep looking . ' Speak Easily ' , alas , is one of Keaton's films from the beginning of his decline . MGM were trying to build up Jimmy Durante ( who , coincidentally , played Smiler Grogan three decades later ) as a new comedy star . Unfortunately , MGM tried to build up Durante by teaming him with Keaton , whose style of comedy was simply incompatible with Durante's . ( I'm a fan of both . ) Throughout his career , Durante was a merciless scene-stealer : commendably , he knew that he was being built up at Keaton's expense , and Keaton was the only co-star whom Durante never attempted to upstage . Keaton was often cast as the victim of extremely cruel machinations . In ' Speak Easily ' , he plays a didactic and humourless Midwestern college professor named Post ( because he's as wooden as one ) who receives a letter informing him that he's inherited $750 , 000 , which he must travel to New York City to claim . Does he make a ' phone call to verify this ? Does he even check the postmark ? No ; he takes his life's savings out of the bank and rushes to New York . As soon as he's gone , Post's manservant confesses that he wrote the ( fake ) letter to jostle Professor Post out of his rut ! Post , who thinks he's a - millionaire , crosses paths with Jimmy Dodge ( Durante ) , who's trying to produce a musical revue but hasn't any money . The characters which these two brilliant comedians are playing onscreen simply fail to intermesh . Keaton is playing one of those eggheads ( like Mister Logic in ' Viz ' ) who intellectualises everything . Durante plays one of those annoying hepcats who is incapable of making any straightforward statement because the script requires him always to speak in slang . There's a painfully unfunny dialogue scene in which Durante is trying to talk to Keaton about money , but - instead of coming straight out with it - Durante has to use increasingly contrived slang terms like ' kale ' , ' cartwheels ' and so forth . . . while Keaton of course has no idea what Durante's on about . I'll give Keaton credit : his own dry and dusty prairie voice , his flat Kansas accent , is absolutely perfect for the character he's playing here . Sidney Toler , looking much leaner and more handsome here than he would be just a year later , is impressive as the excitable director of the revue bankrolled ( on tick ) by Professor Post . Henry Armetta , whom I've never found funny , is even less funny than usual here , offering a running gag with a stupid payoff . Thelma Todd impressed me here , in a more villainous version of the role she played in ' Horse Feathers ' ( a much funnier movie ) . Edward Brophy , one of my favourite character actors , is wasted . Part of the problem with ' Speak Easily ' is that supporting characters behave in completely inappropriate ways . Keaton's lawyer shows up at Durante's theatre with an urgent message for Keaton . . . but he isn't there , so the lawyer proceeds to divulge Keaton's personal business to the first total stranger he meets . ( Fire that lawyer , Buster ! ) In another scene , Professor Post - the guy who's perceived as bankrolling this musical - blunders into the chorus girls ' changing room , and all the chorus girls immediately squeal and cover themselves . I know for a fact that modern chorus girls would never react this way , and I seriously doubt that chorus girls in 1932 behaved that way either . . . certainly not in response to the ' angel ' controlling their show's pursestrings . SPOILERS COMING . About half an hour into the unfunny ' Speak Easily ' , the great Jimmy Durante seats himself at the piano , grins into the camera , and does that distinctive little shake of his head as he starts to play a tune . This is the moment when I thought that , at long last , this movie was finally going to settle down to its purpose of entertaining us . Alas , no . Most annoying of all is the ending of this film , which uses the single most hackneyed and implausible cliche in all of comedy : the one in which an utterly incompetent dimwit becomes a star comedian through his own ineptitude . ( Keaton would be forced to replay this cliche in a 1955 episode of ' Screen Directors Playhouse ' ; Chaplin had already used it in ' The Circus ' . ) I very nearly wept - in anger and sorrow - at the wasted opportunities in ' Speak Easily ' . Mostly out of respect for the work that Keaton , Durante , Toler , Brophy and Miss Todd have done elsewhere , I'll rate this movie .
I'll bet Hitler loved this movie .	I saw this German documentary in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone , Italy . The festival screened a print from a German collection ( the FW Murnau archive in Wiesbaden ) that had English intertitles . According to the programme notes at Pordenone , in 1925 the failing German economy had forced a major decline in feature-film production ( I hadn't noticed ) , and an attendant increase in documentary movies ( again , I hadn't noticed ) , which were cheaper to produce . The programme notes also stated that this film was so popular upon its original release that it was re-released a year later in a new edition , with substantial new footage added and previous footage removed . I'm a bit surprised that it survived at all in its original version . ' The Way to Strength and Health : a film of modern body culture ' is very much an artefact of the Naturist fad that swept Germany at this time . It was part of the same trend which helped the Nazis come to power , with their obsession for racial and physical purity and the beauty of the German countryside . This isn't a Nazi movie , but it comes directly out of the same school of thought which facilitated the rise of Nazism . There's lots of footage of naked young bodies here , most of them German or at least ( by Nazi definition ) Aryan . I felt very uncomfortable watching these sequences , because I felt that they were somewhat dishonest . Audiences for this 1925 movie were fully-dressed and anonymous in the darkness , while watching adults ( and teens ) of both sexes who are naked , performing gymnastics and other physical rituals . I couldn't help wondering how much of this movie's original success was down to sexual prurience and voyeurism rather than a sincere interest in health and fitness . Lest I seem hypocritical , I freely admit that I felt very aroused indeed at the footage of the very sexy young Leni Riefenstahl in this movie . At this late date , this movie's prime interest is historical . If you're interested in seeing naked bodies - - female or male , or both - - you can see far more attractive nudity on offer in other films . I'll rate this one just .
Good twist ending , not worth waiting for	' The Glass Alibi ' is a no-budget grade-Z film noir , featuring a clever double-twist ending that I genuinely didn't anticipate . I'll credit actor Douglas Fowley with one of the greatest film performances I've ever seen , as the excitable silent-film director in " Singin ' in the Rain " . Most of Fowley's many , many other film performances are too small to require much acting ability . In ' The Glass Alibi ' , although third-billed , he has the lead role . . . and his part is large enough to prove that he's a lousy actor when he hasn't got first-rate script and direction . Fowley gives a one-note performance here as a cynical newspaperman . Paul Kelly is one of those character actors whose real life is more interesting than the characters he played . Kelly tended to play incorruptible authority figures , but was more believable in rare outings such as ' The Roaring Twenties ' , in which he played a violent and utterly amoral criminal . In real life , Kelly did two years for manslaughter . Here , he plays an honest homicide detective who has known Fowley since boyhood . The most interesting credit in this movie is the director : W . Lee Wilder , in this film and others , showed absolutely no talent as a director . . . yet he was the older brother of Billy Wilder , one of the most important scripters / directors in the history of film . Apparently the brothers never got along : Billy often claimed that his entire family had been killed by the Nazis ( which might have been his way of denying all knowledge of W . Lee's existence ) . In the entire running time of ' The Glass Alibi ' , there is only one slight bit of directorial cleverness . Early in the film , a tight close-up shows Anne Gwynne on the phone , assuring her gangster boyfriend that she still loves him . . . while the camera pulls back to reveal Doug Fowley's head on her lap ! Maris Wrixon ( nice face , nice figure , hideous name ) plays a millionairess with only six months to live . Her performance is warm and vivacious , which is part of the problem : she shows no bitterness , none of the behavioural traits of the terminally ill that were described by Elisabeth Kübler-Ross . Wrixon's character has got one of those old-movie diseases that enables her to stay good-looking and energetic while assuring us that her days are numbered . When Fowley pretends to be romantically interested in her , Wrixon doesn't consider that he might have ulterior motives for marrying her . Anne Gwynne , whom I normally equate with good-girl roles , is splendid here as a tough tootsie . She performs one long scene in a tight-fitting dress that had me hoping she would sneeze . This film has NO production budget ! When the radio stations in this movie aren't broadcasting police bulletins , they're all playing classical music ( public-domain ; no copyright problems ) . Homicide cop Kelly works out of a room that looks like a bank executive's office , with a secretary at a separate desk : the filmmakers clearly weren't able to afford a convincing squad-room set . Wilder is the producer of this film as well as its director , so I'll give him the blame for its terrible look . There are a couple of good lines of thick-ear dialogue : " While he's on ice , we'll be dancing at La Paree . " After Fowley marries Wrixon with the intention of inheriting her millions , he decides she isn't croaking fast enough . He and Gwynne cook up a James M . Cain scheme to bump her off . I said there was a clever double-twist ending . Well , half right . The first twist completely surprised me ; it was unexpected yet utterly plausible . But after that one hit me , the second twist was obvious . There are good performances by George Chandler ( as a bartender who vaguely symbolises destiny ) and by Victor Potel as a petrol-station attendant whom Fowley deliberately aggravates , so that Potel will remember him later and provide an unwitting alibi . Paul Kelly phones in his performance ; he should have stuck to playing villains . I'll rate this movie only .
Don't quit your day job , Plimpton .	Somebody once described George Plimpton as " the professional amateur " , and it certainly fits . Plimpton was a journalist who tried his hand at several high-profile occupations for which ( as he readily admitted ) he was eminently unqualified - - quarterback , trapeze artist , race-car driver - - not expecting to succeed , but always producing a highly entertaining article or movie or TV deal from his account of his efforts . Plimpton was a weedy man of no discernible physique - - if he were shorter and wore glasses , he would fit the stereotype of what an author is " supposed to " look like - - so he made a point of attempting to succeed in highly physical and athletic jobs . One of Plimpton's passions was fireworks : living in New York City , where fireworks are illegal ( except under special licence ) , Plimpton had a political sinecure for the last couple of decades of his life as the professional inspector of all New York City events involving authorised fireworks . " Did You Hear the One About ? " finds amateur Plimpton in a less physical job than usual . He has decided to try his hand at being a stand-up comedian , performing a lounge act in a Las Vegas nightclub . We're shown nothing at all about how Plimpton gets booked as a comic with no previous credits ; presumably he worked out some sort of publicity deal with the nightclub . This documentary shows Plimpton attempting to acquire material , honing his delivery and his timing , getting advice from successful comedians , and eventually making his debut . Some very big names in American comedy make appearances in this documentary . . . but don't get your hopes up that you're going to see them perform . In a series of low-key conversations , Plimpton meets each comedian in turn , trotting out his pathetic little supply of jokes and then eliciting that comedian's advice on how to improve the material or his delivery , or both . Since none of these comedians are shown performing , I thought it was interesting that this documentary captured them as they actually appear offstage in real life . But this is no Candid Camera episode : each of the comedians is aware that he or she is being filmed , and so all of them to varying degrees remain " on " while Plimpton seeks their advice . Buddy Hackett , who played a coarse vulgar moron in his nightclub act , comes off as a coarse semi-vulgar moron in this documentary : if it's a performance , it's a very convincing one . Jonathan Winters is not one of my favourite performers , but he makes by far the most interesting contribution to this documentary . He comments to Plimpton that all successful comedians had tragic childhoods . Winters seems to be speaking candidly here , so I was expecting him to offer some evidence from his own childhood . . . but he doesn't follow up on his original comment . Winters does make a very bizarre suggestion for how Plimpton should open his nightclub act . Imitating a very young child , Winters leans round an imaginary proscenium , waggles his fingers , and tells the imaginary audience : " Hi ! Hi ! My name's George Plimpton ! We're gonna have fun ! " This documentary climaxes - - if that's the word - - with Plimpton performing his nightclub turn . I was expecting him to be either a huge hit or ( more likely ) a huge flop ; instead , he's simply a respectable success . One of George Plimpton's least endearing traits ( for me , at least ) was his extremely peculiar voice , which sounded a very bad attempt to imitate an upper-class English accent . When Plimpton did his amateur stints as a quarterback and a trapeze aerialist , his voice didn't much matter . Here , as a nightclub comic , his diction and his speech patterns are crucial . As a nightclub comic , Plimpton's a first-rate journalist . I'll rate this special . The brief appearances by the various comedians are only faintly interesting , since they aren't shown performing , and they offer very little useful advice about the art of comedy .
She's got a nice pair of eyes , too .	' Ankles Preferred ' is , as one might expect from its title , a frothy comedy . More unexpectedly , the entire film seems to cater for foot-fetishists . Madge Bellamy's attractive face and figure are prominently featured throughout this movie . . . yet the opening shot is a close-up of her trim ankles , and her feet - - more specifically , the sexual attractions of her feet - - are emphasised throughout the flimsy storyline . Bellamy portrays a model who is employed by couturiers Goldberg & McGuire . There is some very dated and embarrassing comedy centred on the contrast between these two ethnic stereotypes , the Jew and the Irishman . . . as well as the fact that they own a haut-couture boutique : hardly the sort of establishment which conforms to the working-class stereotypes of these two ethnic groups . Bellamy is paid to cavort in the shopfront window , attracting the attention of male passers-by . . . and the window display screens off her upper body , so as to emphasise her feet . This would make sense if Goldberg & McGuire were running a shoe shop , rather than a boutique . Handsome Lawrence Gray portrays the male romantic lead , with the unfortunate name Barney . Barry Norton , rather less handsome , is the villain who traduces and seduces the poor working girl . I'll rate this . It's very , very , very dated stuff . . . but the running emphasis on the leading lady's feet is astonishing and unusual .
This ' Glass ' is more than half empty .	' A Glass of Water ' is the extremely prosaic title of this elaborate Decla-Bioscop costume drama . I saw the film in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone , Italy ; they screened a print ( with the original German titles ) from the Murnau archive in Wiesbaden . This movie reminded me of an Ernst Lubitsch film , but unfortunately without the legendary Lubitsch touch . Like several Lubitsch movies , ' A Glass of Water ' is a comedy dealing with the amorous and sexual shenanigans of royalty and nobility . . . but the pacing and tone are much heavier and slower here than in a typical Lubitsch work . The action ( what there is of it ) takes place in the court of England's Queen Anne ( Mady Christians ) during the War of Succession . The central figure here is handsome and dashing John Masham , who is in love with young Abigail , a commoner . However , both Her Majesty and the Duchess of Marlborough ( Lucie Höflich ) have set their crowns and / or coronets for Masham , and are determined to get him into their panniers . Poncing into this intrigue comes a schemer whom the German intertitles identify as one ' Heinrich von Bolingbroke ' . I assume that this is actually Henry St John , first Viscount Bolingbroke : an actual historic figure from the time of Queen Anne . Given that this film was made by a German studio for a German-speaking audience , it makes sense that the title cards are written in German . However , since several of the main characters in this movie are ( apparently ) actual figures from English history , they ought to have been identified by their actual English names or titles , not German translations . Anyhow , Bolingbroke and the Duchess are rivals for the Queen's favour , so Bolingbroke comes up with a scheme to use Masham for his own ( Bolingbroke's ) benefit . It's no surprise that all ends happily for Masham and Abigail . I had difficulty staying awake through this movie . The opening credits identify it as based on a stage play ; apparently the play - - ' Le verre d'eau ' by one Eugène Scribe - - was written circa 1840 , and this movie certainly feels like it . ' A Glass of Water ' is creaky , dull and extremely stagey . The art direction , by the brilliant Hermann Warm and someone named Rudolf Bamberger , is elaborate and detailed : Warm and Bamberger go to great lengths to recreate the clothing and architecture of Queen Anne's time . Unfortunately , we have the usual problem of period productions : everything is too clean , and the actors ' teeth are too good ( even though this is a German film ) . The actresses are clearly unaccustomed to the elaborate and heavy garments of Queen Anne's time . A lot of effort went into this comedy , but to little effect . My rating : .
Dressler's swan song	" The Late Christopher Bean " is a weak drama , notably only as the last film of the beloved character actress Marie Dressler . Like Lon Chaney in his last film ( and for similar reasons ) , Dressler gives a poor performance here , because her body was riddled with the cancer that would soon kill her . But there are still a few flashes of her old brilliance . The Haggetts are a " respectable " family who have fallen onto hard times but are keeping up appearances . To make ends meet , they are forced to take in a lodger ( oh , the shame ! ) . The lodger is Christopher Bean , an obscure painter who shows no promise of artistic greatness . The snobbish Haggetts all look down on Bean , tolerating his presence only for the rent he pays . One of his paintings is pressed into service to patch a leaky roof . Bean's only friend in the Haggett household is Abby , the kind-hearted cook played by Marie Dressler . Eventually , Christopher Bean dies , broke and obscure . . . but not before Abby poses for a portrait . Bean bequeaths this last painting to Abby , who treasures the worthless artwork as a memento of her dear friend . All of the above takes place before the movie starts , as backstory . Time has passed . Christopher Bean's artistic talents have been recognised ( after his death , of course ) , and now his paintings are valuable . The Haggetts , who never had any use for Bean when he lived under their ( leaky ) roof , now decide that his last painting should belong to them rather than to Abby , because they are more " refined " than she is , and therefore they are better qualified to appreciate Bean's artwork . ( Of course , they only want his painting so they can sell it . ) Heart-of-gold Abby has no interest in money : she wants to keep the painting because it's her only memento of her friend Christopher Bean . The movie concerns itself with the Haggetts ' attempts to get the painting away from Abby . " Christopher Bean " makes some very obvious points which aren't necessarily true . ( Poor people are nicer than rich people . . . gee , are you sure ? ) I give this film , and one of those points is for Sam Wood's direction .
Not tonight , Napoleon .	Rachel Crothers was an extremely popular American playwright of the early 20th century , whose appeal faded before World War Two . ( Her name is mentioned in MGM's 1939 musical ' Babes in Arms ' , but only because lyricist E . Y . Harburg needed a rhyme for ' Marx Brothers ' . ) Crothers tended to write brittle comedies of manners about jaded socialites , and her work has dated so badly that it is almost never revived . Her most atypical work was her 1927 science-fiction play ' Venus ' , a bizarre comedy about a scientist who invents a formula that makes men more female and women more male : the play ends with two androgynous aviators boarding his-'n'-hers aeroplanes and flying to Venus . Even THAT play has dated . ' 39 East ' is a more typical Crothers comedy , with the misfortune to possess a premise very similar to that of the later ' Stage Door ' , a much better comedy . The title refers to a Manhattan boarding-house , a few blocks east of the Broadway theatre district . Penelope Penn is an ingenue from the sticks , the daughter of a country vicar ; she sang in his choir , and her voice is so good that she's come to New York City in the hope of getting a job in some big-city choir that will pay her enough money to put her younger brothers through college . Can anyone actually be that naive ? Anyway , Penelope Penn ( inevitably nicknamed ' Penny ' ) soon learns that big-paying chorister jobs are a bit thin on the ground . Conveniently , this goodie-good girl is also a helluva dancer , and she soon gets a job in the chorus line of a Broadway musical , produced by hotshot showman Timothy O'Brien . . . not enough to put her brothers through college , but enough to pay the rent at 39 East . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . The boarding-house is packed to the gills with curtain-twitching old biddies , who have nothing better to do than sit in the lobby and gossip about other people . Penelope is an attractive young maiden who works as a chorus girl , so the biddies make up their minds she must be a slut . ( The intertitles phrase this delicately but make the implications clear . ) Meanwhile , Penny crosses paths with a suave young man who rejoices in the name Napoleon Gibbs . He's the son of a wealthy and socially prominent family , and he's blazed a trail through all the sweet young things in Manhattan . Penny is attracted to Napoleon Gibbs ( possibly failing to notice his peculiar name because his wallet is blocking the view ) , so she agrees to meet him in Central Park . There's some amusing slapstick between Penny and Napoleon on a park bench . But some Hollywood set designer did a bad job here : the exterior sequences , supposedly filmed in Central Park in New York , look a lot more like Griffith Park in Los Angeles . Despite his family's wealth , Gibbs wants to collect another Penny : he gets a bit physical with our heroine , who flees in disgust , causing a faintly amusing run-in with a policeman . Meanwhile , the biddies at 39 East are planning their own amateur concert : this might have been funny in the original stage play , but in a silent film ( where we can't hear how bad they are ) it doesn't work . On the rebound from Napoleon's attempt to seduce her , Penny seeks comfort from O'Brien . . . who promptly makes his OWN attempt to seduce her , even though he's married . Just when Penny realises she can't trust ANY man , young Napoleon realises that he genuinely loves Penny , and she's more than just another notch on his bedpost . Happy ending , I guess . There are some good performances here , notably by Alison Skipworth as the droll landlady of 39 East , and by Luis Alberni ( bereft of his usual funny-foreigner accent in this silent movie ) . The plot is dull , unconvincing and clichéd , with two major problems that are never addressed . Firstly : even in 1920 , it's difficult to believe that any adult woman could be quite so naive and sheltered as Penelope Penn . ( The fact that her father is a preacher is no excuse : clergymen are familiar with sin , because they encounter it all the time . ) Secondly , because Napoleon Gibbs comes from a wealthy and prominent family , we can't help wondering if Penny's attraction to him mightn't be entirely romantic . The first problem worsens the second : as Penny is just too innocent to be plausible , I kept expecting her to turn out to be a gold-digger who is merely coming the raw prawn ( acting naive ) to snatch Napoleon's money . This turns out not to be true : she's the genuine article , which makes this movie very fake . I'll rate ' 39 East ' .
Bisected goulash can't make up its mind .	This Hungarian film was originally released in two parts ; I saw both parts ( in separate screenings ) in July 1996 at the Cinema Ritrovato festival in Bologna ; they screened prints with Dutch intertitles , on loan from the Nederlands Filmmuseum . Each half had a running time of 75 minutes , but there's a slight overlap of footage between the two release prints , and some now-read-on material in the second half : allowing for these , the total running time is still well over two hours . In the first half : Eva ( Melitta Mea ) , the orphaned heiress of a noble family , has been raised in a convent while the mines which constitute her family's fortune have been administered by Rudolf ( Kató Dömötör ) , her tutor . It's blindingly obvious that Rudolf can't be trusted . Sure enough : as soon as Eva attains legal age and is prepared to claim her title to the mines , Rudolf tries to provoke the miners into a rebellion by sabotaging their work conditions and making it seem that this is Eva's fault . Meanwhile , Eva has met the leader of the miners : Jora ( Emil Fenyö ) , a mysterious man who seems to possess psychic abilities . Get this , now : Jora claims to have spent his entire life in the mines , where he was ( he says ) raised by a witch . The miners attempt to kill Eva , and there are some exciting scenes of a conflagration as Jora rushes to save her . . . but then Rudolf frames Jora as a criminal , and has him put into prison . End Part One . Still with us ? In the second half , Eva gets Jora out of chokey , but he is betrayed by an exotic temptress and he must flee the country . ( Why doesn't he just go live in the mine again ? ) Eva suspects that Jora is of noble birth , and she tries to determine his origins . Rudolf pays a stranger , clearly identified in the title cards as an ' Italian ' ( played by Karoly Latjthay ) , to destroy all records of Jora's origin . However , the Italian sells the information to Robertson ( Emil Fennoy ) , an English detective in Eva's employ . Ouch ! To say that this movie isn't logical would be unfair , since it's quite similar in spirit to ' The Exploits of Elaine ' and several other American cliffhanger serials which frankly aren't very logical either . However , this Hungarian movie is harmed by the fact that there seem to be supernatural elements in the plot line , but we can never be certain just how much of the foofaraw is genuinely supernatural and how much can be explained otherwise . One thing which profoundly annoyed me is the elitist assumption at the centre of this movie : Jora seems to be more refined , more intelligent , more noble ( in the figurative sense ) than other men , so the blue-blooded Eva snobbishly assumes that Jora must be of noble birth in the literal sense . . . and of course she's right . I'll rate this goulash .
Ahoy , Captain Nemo	' Ebb Tide ' is based on a novel begun by Robert Louis Stevenson and completed by his stepson Lloyd Osbourne . I tried reading it once , but found it too dull for me . This movie is more interesting ( largely due to the presence of two attractive young actresses ) , but not very believable . The stars of this film are James Kirkwood and Lila Lee , in real life a married couple whose son later wrote ' A Chorus Line ' . I only poorly remember the source novel , but this film ' Ebb Tide ' doesn't much seem to resemble it . This movie seems more like a disguised version of ' 20 , 000 Leagues Under the Sea ' , with all the action set above the ocean's surface . Robert Herrick ( Kirkwood ) is a disgraced and dissipated Englishman who has washed up in Tahiti . Close to hand is his comrade Huish : that's not an English name , but Huish is apparently a Cockney because actor Raymond Hatton's dialogue is rendered in Alf Doolittle-style intertitles . Hoping for a meal ticket , the two of them sign aboard with drunken old Captain Davis ( well played by George Fawcett ) . Davis is a rummy old seadog whom nobody will trust with a ship , yet for some reason he's recently been engaged to ferry a cargo of booze . Unknown to Herrick , Davis's backers are only interested in barratry . They expect the old drunk to sink the ship so that they can then claim an insurance loss . When Davis's incompetence threatens to scuttle the ship , Herrick's quick action manages to make the ship run aground instead . . . on a conveniently uncharted island . The island is run by Richard Atwater ( Noah Beery ) , who rules the natives like a great white bwana . The natives supply him with pearls , which Atwater manages to sell for whacking huge gobs of lolly in some distant port . ( How does he do this while remaining on an uncharted island ? ) Like Captain Nemo , this man Atwater has deliberately isolated himself from civilisation yet manages to amass a large amount of wealth . Also like Captain Nemo , when Atwater acquires some unexpected guests ( Herrick and Huish ) he has no intention of letting them return to civilisation . Years ago , when Atwater came to this island with his young wife and their infant daughter Ruth , his overseer tried to seduce Atwater's wife . So , Atwater killed the bloke and now he won't trust any other white man ever again . Thus , his refusal to release Herrick and Huish . Meantime , his infant daughter Ruth has grown up to be a very attractive young woman indeed . And Robert Herrick is the first white man she's clapped eyes on in years , apart from her father . Significant glances ensue in the close-ups . Lila Lee and Jacqueline Logan ( as a Tondelayo girl ) are both quite pleasant to look at , and George Fawcett is impressive in a role that easily could have been overacted . Once the vast engine of the story's premise is trundled into place , the plot becomes very predictable . ' Ebb Tide ' is left high and dry ( though there's plenty of booze on screen ) . I'll rate this movie .
Double-crossing cross-dresser .	This is a weird movie . Actually , any movie about cross-dressing is automatically weird , but this movie is weird even by cross-dressing standards . The hero's name - - at least when he's wearing trousers - - is Dick Browning , which prompted me to think of several cheeky puns while I was watching his antics in skirts . Young Dick Browning's parents are wealthy , but - - after Dick's father suddenly dies - - Dick learns that three crooked stockbrokers have swindled him out of the family fortune . ( A stockbroker would actually be crooked ? Gasp ! ) Dick manages to scrape up enough dosh to support his destitute elderly mother . When she dies , Dick naturally takes the most obvious course open to him : he dresses up as a woman and cries himself Mary Brown . As ' Mary ' , Dick uses his feminine wiles to rob two of the three stockbrokers . Meanwhile , he meets the fair Betty , niece of the third crook . Dick falls in love with Betty , who doesn't seem to wonder why ' Mary ' is so attentive . SPOILERS COMING . This movie manages to have it both ways . On some level , we sympathise with Dick's criminal campaign ( since he's only robbing other crooks ) , but we also want him to be honest . Conveniently - - after Dick plans the robbery of Betty's uncle , but before he can do the deed - - a crook named Weasel gets a jump on him by breaking into the uncle's house himself , then killing the uncle when he's discovered . So it's Weasel who gets led away in handcuffs . ( I was hoping Dick would get nicked while disguised as Mary : he would have been taken to the women's prison , where the matron would have had a surprise . ) Even more conveniently , Betty then inherits her dead uncle's wealth and marries Dick , apparently because he and she are the same dress size . During this dull drag turn , my mind had plenty of time to mull irrelevant questions . For instance : since Dick Browning doesn't want the crooks to rumble his disguise , why does he name his female identity Mary Brown , a surname that will remind his prey of their previous victim ? I was thinking about this sort of thing because the movie itself was so uninteresting . In the lead role as Dick Browning , Casson Ferguson overacts shamelessly . Matters get worse when he disguises himself as Mary : Ferguson is only slightly passable as a woman , and his histrionics bring his female characterisation dangerously close to burlesque . Whenever a male actor wears female disguise , the audience's first impulse is to laugh . When the man isn't a very good actor to begin with - - as is the case here - - a dramatic portrayal becomes dangerously bathetic . ' Alias Mary Brown ' is meant to be a drama , not a comedy , but I laughed several times during this drag act . If you're looking for a plausible drama , keep moving . And if you're aroused by movies involving transvestism , be advised that there's nothing especially appealing about Casson Ferguson's female antics here . This isn't so much ' Some Like It Hot ' as ' Some Like It Lukewarm ' . I'll rate ' Alias Mary Brown ' just .
Don Knotts is Andy Griffith's wife ; Jim Nabors is their son !	Since this one-off TV special teams Andy Griffith , Don Knotts and Jim Nabors , you would be justified in assuming that they appear here as their Mayberry characters : Sheriff Andy , deputy Barney and grease-monkey Gomer ( who left the lube rack to join the Marines ) . You would be justified , but you would be mistaken . This is an interesting attempt to give three familiar performers a chance to demonstrate their acting abilities in roles outside their usual range . . . though still firmly within the bounds of comedy , of course . No dramatics here . Basically , this special is a bunch of unrelated skits , with no recurring characters . One skit , early on , is astonishingly similar to a couple of the later but more famous sketches by Monty Python's Flying Circus : the notorious dead-parrot sketch , and ( even more so ) the cheese-shop sketch . Don Knotts plays the feckless customer who wanders into the General Lee Dry Goods Store , run by Griffith . It got that name because , whatever the customer wants , " we General Lee don't have it " , Griffith explains smarmily . Anyone who saw " A Face in the Crowd " is aware of how effective good ol ' Andy can be at playing sleazeballs . He's very good here , but the sketch isn't funny . Still , it eerily prefigures Monty Python's cheese-shop sketch : Griffith seems to be maintaining a shop for the express purpose of not selling anything . The climactic sketch here is deeply weird : a family picnic , starring Griffith and Knotts as husband and wife ( ! ) and Nabors as their bratty little son , who seems to be about eight years old . Knotts , in elaborate female disguise , is actually far more convincing here as a woman than Nabors is as an underage boy . Unfortunately , the material isn't funny : husband Andy Griffith and wife Knotts ( Donna ? ) get into an argument over the fact that she's older than he is ( they agree that she's older , but disagree about how many years ) , while " Junior " Nabors keeps trying to show them the various dead skunks and other roadkill he keeps finding . Since each of these three performers was hugely successful playing one particular character ( well , maybe two in Griffith's case ) , and since the teaming of the three of them here was certain to remind audiences of those three Mayberry characters , I felt that they deserve some credit for attempting to expand their range here . Unfortunately , the script material is fatally unfunny . You'll get a few seconds of shock value from seeing Knotts as a passable woman and Nabors as a ( not so passable ) little boy , and a few more seconds ' shock value from realising how closely the Monty Python cheese-shop sketch ( written after this special first aired ) resembles the General Lee sketch performed here . That's about all you'll get , though . My rating for this one : a mere . These fellers did better work elsewhere .
The mortgage on the old homestead	I'm not a huge fan of cowboy movies . . . and if more cowboy movies were like this one , I wouldn't like them at all . Buck Jones ( billed here as Charles Jones ) gives a good performance , but he plays a hugely implausible character . Jack Mills ( Jones ) and his buddy Loupel ( also cried Jack , but nicknamed " Bud " ) are both in love with Jean Ross ( played by the dull Betty Bouton ) . Confronted with a pair of Jacks , Jean chooses Bud . Jack loves Jean so much that her happiness is more important to him than his own , so he chivalrously stands aside . Bud and Jean get a humble homestead and settle into housekeeping , but they soon have trouble paying the mortgage , which is held by a banker named Rand . The title cards cry him " Banker Rand " as if ' Banker ' was his name . For the sake of the young married couple - - really for Jean's sake - - Jack stages a hold-up to kill the banker . Jack is duly charged for the crime . But now , get this : Jack's buddy Bud can be just as self-effacing as Jack , and Bud gallantly takes the blame for Jack's crime . SPOILERS NOW . Bud dies , leaving his wife a widow with their young son Jack Junior . So , with Bud taking the rap for Jack's crime ( which he committed for Jean's sake ) , Jack marries Jean and adopts her son as his own . Goldang it ! I guess there's some sort of Code of the West that makes this stuff plausible to somebody out there . I give a lot of credit to Buck Jones because he was a hero in real life : he died rescuing other people from a nightclub fire . But this movie is just cowpoke nonsense , and I'll rate it only .
Small-time true-crime , facts fudged .	CONTAINS SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . ' Chicago Joe and the Showgirl ' is based on the true story of Karl Hulten and Elizabeth Jones . Hulten was a Swedish-born American GI stationed in England during WW2 . Jones was a Welsh-born woman who had drifted through several professions , including striptease . When Hulten and Jones met ( in October 1944 ) , they embarked on a crime spree that lasted for only a few violent days . This is the same premise that's been told better elsewhere . Hulten and Jones had the same dynamic as Bonnie and Clyde , or Starkweather and Fugate ( the couple who inspired the movie ' Badlands ' ) . A cheap psychopath meets a girl who wanted some thrills . She's aroused by the danger he represents . Her arousal emboldens him to increasingly violent acts . ' Chicago Joe and the Showgirl ' opens with an unseen American narrator informing us portentously that this story is absolutely true , and that nothing has been invented nor changed . This sort of statement activates my baloney barometer , but I felt better when I saw David Yallop credited as scriptwriter . Yallop is a brilliant journalist who has authored several true-crime books , impeccably researched and scrupulously accurate . As the opening credits rolled , I recognised the voice of the narrator : he is John Lahr , an American journalist based in London , likewise noted for scrupulous accuracy in his writing . Lahr does not appear on screen in this film , perhaps because his somewhat comical facial features would remind audiences of his father Bert Lahr . ( Coincidentally , the two stars of this film - - Kiefer Sutherland and Emily Lloyd - - also had actor fathers . ) I'm sure that Yallop knows far more than I do about the Hulten / Jones case , yet I spotted two inaccuracies . When Hulten and Jones first meet , he invites her to pick out a well-dressed woman whose fur coat Jones fancies , which Hulten then steals for her . Later , as they seek greater thrills , their crime spree escalates until Hulten murders a cabdriver . In real life , the coat Hulten stole off a woman's back was white ermine ; in this movie , it's a darker fur . More crucially , the film reverses the order of these incidents : in real life , Hulten stole the fur after he murdered the cabbie , with Jones eagerly witnessing both crimes . I assume that the filmmakers deliberately reversed these incidents so that the couple's crimes would build up to the homicide that got them nicked . Emily Lloyd ( Welsh by name but not by upbringing ) makes a creditable effort to copy the working-class Neath accent of Elizabeth Jones . ( Ironically , the real Betty Jones was not very good-looking , even by 1940s standards ; the real Karl Hulten was far more handsome than Kiefer Sutherland . ) Sutherland gives an impressive performance ; in early scenes , he strides through London in a lieutenant's uniform and returns the salutes of enlisted men . Later , we learn that he's actually an AWOL private . This film's art direction is elaborate , yet wretched . Kiefer Sutherland's performance as a 1944 psychopath is compromised by his 1990 hairstyle . ( U . S . Army soldiers in WW2 were not issued styling mousse . ) Emily Lloyd and all the other women in this film have coiffures and make-up reflecting somebody's 1990 notion of 1940s retro , rather than actual 1940s styles . Women in wartime Britain had to improvise cosmetics or do without ; it would have been nice to see some mention of that here . Yet I was impressed by a brief scene of an elaborate multi-tiered wedding cake . . . made of cardboard , with a secret compartment containing the real and far less impressive ( wartime ) cake . At one point , the killers duck into a cinema to watch ' Double Indemnity ' . ( Was this movie screened in wartime England ? ) I dislike movies in which the characters attend a ( better ) movie that conveniently reflects their own situation . After the couple are arrested , the British authorities hand over Hulten to the U . S . Army for military trial . The film gets this detail right : Army lawyers deposed Hulten , then chose to give him back so the Home Office could try him in Crown Court . The movie's climax is utterly laughable , featuring the collision of two old-movie clichés . A line of helmeted and bewhiskered British bobbies ( out of ' Dixon of Dock Green ' ) face off against a line of trenchcoated American reporters with snap-brim trilbies and elaborate flashbulb cameras ( out of ' The Front Page ' ) . I expected the bobbies to twirl their truncheons and mumble ' Here now , what's all this ? ' while the reporters picked up candlestick telephones and shouted ' Get me Rewrite ! ' Actually , this last scene isn't meant to be realistic : it's shown from Betty Jones's viewpoint , and she's now entertaining delusions of showbiz glamour . Still , this climax reminded me of several much better films - - the musical ' Chicago ' , ' King of Comedy ' and especially ' Sunset Boulevard ' - - in which a delusional criminal basks in imaginary stardom while Justice closes in . At the end , Lahr's narration returns to tell us the outcome : Hulten was executed in HM Prison Pentonville a few weeks before V-E Day . Betty Jones was given a long prison sentence , and eventually paroled . The grim truth is that this ' wild ' couple , often deemed the British version of Bonnie and Clyde , were two very common criminals indeed . So were the real Bonnie and Clyde - - in their entire crime career , Bonnie and Clyde never stole as much money as Jesse James grabbed in a single hold-up - - but at least Bonnie and Clyde were brilliant at self-promotion , and they'll be famous for a long time . Hulten and Jones were cheap and worthless , and they deserve to be forgotten . So does this movie , which I'll rate .
Liza with a Zzzzzz . . .	' The Dangerous Christmas of Red Riding Hood ' was originally aired on ABC-TV on 28 November , 1965 . . . almost a month before Christmas . The material really has nothing to do with Christmas , and it's obvious that a few Yuletide details have been bunged in just to make it likelier that this production would be optioned and scheduled as a ' Christmas ' special ( which it really isn't ) so as to be more commercial and get higher ratings . The script by Robert Emmett isn't very good . . . but the score is by the great Jule Styne and Bob Merrill , the same team who wrote the songs for ' Funny Girl ' . This isn't one of Styne's best scores ( nor Merrill's ) , but anything written by Jule Styne is worthy of notice . This is a musical retelling of the Red Riding Hood story . . . told from the viewpoint of the wolf ! That's a very clever idea ; unfortunately , it's the only really clever idea in this production . The wolf ( renamed here Lone T . Wolf ) is played by Cyril Ritchard , which is part of the problem . Ritchard was an extremely effeminate performer . His effeminacy was an asset in some roles , such as when he played Captain Hook ( on a ship at sea with all those pirates , whoops ! ) or when he starred as Kreton the alien in ' Visit to a Small Planet ' . But here , his prissy demeanour makes the big bad Wolf seem merely ridiculous . As the wolf , he wears a frock coat and gloves plus a furry headpiece that makes him look like something out of ' Cats ' . . . plus a long bushy tail that makes him look like Basil Brush gone grey . Even worse are the scenes in which Ritchard's wolf gets dressed up in Granny's nightdress . Drag humour isn't funny if the man wearing women's clothes is just as effeminate WITHOUT the women's clothes . Worse luck , the story is told in flashback . Lone Wolf ( Ritchard ) is describing his version of events to the other wolves . . . who are played by Eric Burdon and the Animals . Get it ? The wolves are played by the Animals . Ha bloody ha . It might have been amusing if the Animals had got out their instruments and played ' The House of the Riding Hood ' , but no such luck . Red Riding Hood is played by Liza Minnelli . I've always disliked this performer due to her extreme archness , but I recognise her talent without enjoying it . In flashbacks , Ritchard's wolf explains that Red Riding Hood was the actual villain , and that everything which happened was her fault , not his . The woodsman ( Vic Damone ) turns out to be Prince Charming , making this production seem like an early version of ' Into the Woods ' . The best things in this production are the Styne / Merrill songs , especially " You'll Need a Song " ( sung by Damone ) and ' Ding-a-Ling ' ( sung by Minnelli and Ritchard while the wolf is pretending to be Granny ) . I'll rate this production , and most of that's for the score .
He could have stayed there .	This film's portentous title implies that it's the story of a man who returned from the dead , or at any rate from some undiscovered bourne . In fact , it's a character study dealing with the moral regeneration of a protagonist who starts out unsympathetically , and who is intended to earn our sympathy . The attractive and classy Dorothy Mackaill plays a nightclub chantoosey whose stage name is Marcelle , apparently because of her marcelled hairdo . It's explained ( in some clumsy inter titles ) that she isn't really a nightclub singer ( you could've fooled me ) ; she's only deigning to warble because her poor aunt Isabel needs the money . George O'Brien plays Henry Potter , the spoilt playboy son of New York shipping magnate Thomas Potter . There are some awkward flashback scenes , depicting Henry's childhood relationship with his father . Now that Henry's an adult , Thomas offers him $500 and a railway ticket to San Francisco , where a job in the father's district office awaits the son . Playboy Henry takes the money and the ticket , and duly arrives in Frisco , but never shows up for his job . Henry and Marcelle meet , but before they can lock tonsils he falls afoul of a press gang and gets abducted by Captain Gallon , who apparently never heard of the metric system . Henry has been shanghaied to ( go ahead , have a guess ) Shanghai . This is fairly plausible ; rather less plausible are the Chinese characters played by white actors with sellotaped eyelids . Plausibility breathes its last dying gasp when Henry crosses paths with Marcelle again , now slumming in a Chinese opium den . ( Apparently they got fed up with her in Frisco . ) SPOILERS COMING . It seems that Marcelle has a substance-abuse problem , which explains why she's in the opium den . But Henry has no cause to criticise , as he has a wee problem with alcohol . Together they manage to kick their habits , but not before Henry slashes Marcelle's pretty face with a riding crop . Having waved bye-bye to the bloated corpse of credibility , they both get clean and sober , and the final fade-out finds them in Honolulu , raising pineapples . This movie's script is rubbish , but George O'Brien goes a considerable way to transcend the material . In ' Sunrise ' , O'Brien played a man who attempted to murder his wife , yet who afterwards managed to convince her to trust him again ; more astonishingly , he also convinces the audience to accept his sincere penitence for this rash act . In ' The Man Who Came Back ' , O'Brien's considerable talent as an actor goes far to render this ridiculous material almost plausible . . . almost , but not quite . There are several good performances in supporting roles : Ralph Lewis and Emily Fitzroy both deserve to be better known , and Cyril Chadwick and Harvey Clark are excellent here . Dorothy Mackaill is pleasant enough to look at , but not much of an actress . I'll rate this tosh 3 points in 10 .
Combustible flapjacks .	' Wandering Papas ' is the barely-relevant title of this comedy starring Clyde Cook . A former vaudeville performer ( as ' the Kangaroo Boy ' ) , Cook's dazzling acrobatic abilities could have made him the equal of Lupino Lane , Al St John and even ( as an acrobat , at least ) the great Buster Keaton . In ' Wandering Papas ' , annoyingly , he's given no chance to display those talents apart from a brief sequence in which he hops about like a rabbit . At the climax , there's an unfunny ' impossible ' gag when Cook runs in midair ( held aloft by a piano wire ) . Most of the slapstick on offer here could have been performed by Cook's fellow Australians , Snub Pollard or Billy Bevan , without relying on Cook's athletic virtuosity . At several points in ' Wandering Papas ' , Cook seems to be imitating Chaplin rather than developing his own character . During his brief career as the star of comedy shorts , Cook usually - - as he does here - - wore an over-sized brush moustache which I find annoying to look at rather than funny , due to its extreme and intentional asymmetry . The location is a work camp in the wilderness ' where men are men and women are scarce ' . The only woman hereabouts is pretty actress Sue O'Neill . Astoundingly , a title card introduces her as Sue " Bugs " O'Neil . Was this some sort of in-joke ? There's nothing " bugs " about her performance here . Elsewhere , the local dog is oddly cried Rosemary . Sue is the daughter of the Mad Hermit , who can't remember what he's mad about . Clyde ( Cook by name , and cook by nature ) is the chef for the labourers , who are tired of beans and want him to stravage up some gourmet cuisine . The leader of the work gang is played by Oliver Hardy , who's quite good here . . . yet not very funny because he's given so little material . But he has one moment of impressively subtle acting during the breakfast sequence , as he mutely pleads for cook Cook to give him an extra portion of flapjacks . When one explodes in his face , Hardy's deadpan ' take ' is priceless . SPOILERS COMING . Much of the ( fairly indifferent ) comedy occurs at the climax , when Cook and the hermit are trapped in a cabin that's teetering off a cliff . Say , didn't Chaplin and Mack Swain do this scene a year earlier , in ' The Gold Rush ' ? Director Stan Laurel stages the sequence well , with an intriguing angle shot of Cook sliding downhill away from the camera . . . but , well , Chaplin should have sued . When the hermit eventually falls , he plunges into deep water that simply wasn't there in the previous overhead shots . Clyde Cook kindly granted me an interview about a year before his death ; I deeply wanted to like this movie , but it's not very funny . The same talents and the same budget could easily have made a much funnier film than ' Wandering Papas ' . Good job Stan Laurel gave up directing to concentrate on gag construction and performing . I'll rate this one barely . . . and one point is solely for Hardy's reaction to that exploding flapjack .
187 miles from Moose Head , Alaska . . .	' Klondike Fury ' is the overwrought title of a Poverty Row film that takes place mostly indoors . The opening shot is a laughably fake studio set-up of a miniature ' plane flying past some papier-mache mountains . The very few ' exterior ' shots of the Klondike terrain are clearly filmed indoors , on a level floor , as cornflake snow drifts straight downwards ( no wind ) and the actors ' breath stays resolutely unfogged . The script is based on a magazine story filmed previously ( as ' Klondike ' ) and now radically altered . The original story and previous film version featured a tough-tootsie Alaska heroine , a quick-frozen piece of hoarfrost . Here , she's been thawed out into a dimpled ingenue . The two-man ' plane crashes in the middle of the Klondike . According to the dialogue , we're " 187 miles from Moose Head , Alaska " ( yeah , but I'll bet there's a Starbuck's nearby ) . Conveniently , the only cabin within a 200-mile radius just happens to be near the crash site . The pilot dies , but the injured passenger has just enough strength to stagger across the tundra ( a few steppes ) into the cabin , where he promptly collapses . Conveniently , this cabin also contains the only blonde woman within a 200-mile radius : Peg Campbell , an orphan who's lived here ever since a tree killed her father . ( Don't ask . ) Peg has been in this isolated cabin since infancy , but she has a California accent and a steady supply of attractive outfits , and her makeup and hairstyle are impeccable . Peg is played by Lucile Fairbanks , a mildly pretty but untalented actress . Stacked like cordwood in this cabin are a bunch of picturesque characters spouting faux-folksy dialogue . ( The place also seems to have electric lights , central heating and plenty of groceries , although these issues are never addressed . ) SPOILERS COMING . The injured passenger has a Dark Secret , which he eagerly reveals in cheap flashbacks . He is John Mandre , a brilliant surgeon whose friend Carl Langton had an inoperable disease . ( The dialogue keeps mentioning this disease without ever describing it or naming it ; I diagnose Lazy Script Syndrome . ) Against the advice of his colleagues , Mandre operated on Langton . When Langton dies anyway , there are accusations that Mandre intentionally killed him to have a clear path to Langton's pretty wife . Naturally , Mandre confronts these accusations by chucking his medical career and heading for Moose Head , Alaska . ( Mandre is played by Edmund Lowe , a former silent-film star whose career was in sad decline at this point . ) Now grab a snow shovel and clear a path for the coincidences . Among the inhabitants of this cabin is handsome young invalid Jim Armstrong , who - gobsmackingly enough - has the exact same rare medical condition that Carl Langton had , which we now learn is a tumour of the thalamus . ( ' That's a part of the brain , ' says Dr Mandre , proving he didn't skip classes in medical school the day they studied brainology . ) Mandre decides to redeem himself by performing precisely the same surgery on Jim that he performed on Carl , even though this isolated cabin has no medical equipment and no health insurance . Had enough coincidences yet ? Wait , there's more ! The two surgical operations have another parallel too , because Jim accuses Mandre of intending to kill him on the operating table so that Mandre will have no competition for Peg's affections . Since Mandre is clearly operating on Jim's brain to achieve his own spiritual redemption ( with a chance to save the patient's life being merely a bonus ) , it's extremely obvious how this film ends . There's precisely one surprise on the way to that ending . I've seen a hundred bad movies in which a desperately ill or injured person holds the hero at gunpoint , reeling off a long monologue in a fevered delirium . . . only to collapse just before pulling the trigger . We get that scene here , in a confrontation between Jim and Mandre . . . but , impressively , the scene ends in an unexpected and original manner . That's the only originality hereabouts . I sat through this Arctic argle-bargle for one reason only : the presence of Clyde Cook in a supporting role . The Australian-born Cook was formerly a vaudeville acrobat of astonishing skill , known as ' the Kangaroo Boy ' . He performed on Broadway during the 1919 Actors Equity strike , and he had a respectable career in silent films as the only slapstick comedian whose acrobatic pratfalls equalled the abilities of Buster Keaton and Lupino Lane . I interviewed Cook about a year before he died ; he had a long and fascinating career . Here in ' Klondike Fever ' , 187 miles from Moose Head ( and considerably farther from Brisbane , Australia ) , Cook speaks his few lines of dialogue in a Brizzo accent . He plays a crusty codger named Yukon , although nobody explains why a guy named Yukon is speaking Strine . ( Maybe he took a wrong turn at Wooloomooloo . ) Also lurking amongst the icicles is veteran character actor Vince Barnett , who supplemented his income between film gigs by hiring himself out as a stooge for some of Hollywood's legendary practical jokes . We also get Marjorie Wood ( in flashback ) mispronouncing the name ' Frankenstein ' . The film ends with Dr Mandre returning to his old surgery , while Arthur Gardner as a would-be funny ethnic sign painter named Tony exults : ' You betcha my life ! ' Hand me my snowshoes , Nanook : I'm heading back to Moose Head . I'll charitably rate this movie , mostly because it revives my fond memories of meeting Clyde Cook .
Kill the clown next , please .	' Shadow of the Circus Ring ' is a turgid drama set against the background of a German circus . This stodgy talkie has the feel of an EA Dupont film , but without Dupont's splendid visual sense or directorial pace . The director , Heinz Paul , shows no flair for the material . Several other directors could have heightened the unreality of the circus sequences - - a few who come to mind are Tod Browning , Herbert Brenon , Michael Curtiz and the brilliant Fritz Lang - - to move this story into melodrama territory and make it more interesting . As it is , it just lies in the sawdust . Artonis is an acrobat ( stiffly played by Karl Ludwig Diehl ; we never see him doing anything acrobatic ) employed in the circus owned by Elvira Starke . Apparently he confines his acrobatics to the bedroom , because he's carrying on two separate affairs on the trot : one with his boss Elvira , and one with the circus's beautiful equestrienne Kitty Rallay . ( I couldn't take that name seriously ; it reminds me too much of Kitty Riley , the overstuffed ingenue in the Old Mother Riley comedies . ) Someone shoots Artonis dead , although I'm surprised that he stopped moving long enough for a bullet to hit him . A police detective ( Georg Schnell ) then spends the rest of the movie questioning suspects and seeking evidence . At the end of the movie , we learn whodunnit but we don't much care . In 1967 , while working for Billy Smart's Circus in England , I was peripherally involved in the making of ' Berserk ! ! ' , a horror / mystery film that took place in a circus troupe , and which incorporated footage of Billy Smart's acts into the implausible plot . I'd thought at the time that ' Berserk ! ' was inept , but it's a masterpiece of craftsmanship compared to ' Schatten der Manege ' . There's some good footage of several circus acts here , but that footage is never properly interpolated into the story of the murder investigation . Much of the photography is appropriately stark and moody , but the pace of this film is poor and most of the actors give bad performances . My rating for this : barely .
I couldn't believe it .	' The Unguarded Hour ' takes its title from the existentialist premise ( expounded in this film's dialogue ) that every man's life contains an interval in which circumstances conspire to deprive him of all his defences , leaving him a pawn of fate . How true , how true . I'm a great fan of the films of Sam Wood , a craftsman who remains sadly underrated . Even film historian William K Everson insisted on knocking Wood and calling him untalented . Contemporary reports indicate that Wood was a racist and an unpleasant man who founded some very dubious political causes , yet his films consistently show solid proficiency and some subtle symbolism . Regrettably , ' The Unguarded Hour ' contains some howlingly unlikely plot twists , a few extra-long coincidences and some very implausible motivations , including one plot twist at the end that's fatally contrived . SPOILERS COMING . Sir Alan Dearden is a promising young barrister , of whom great things are expected . He is currently prosecuting Samuel Metford , a meek little man charged with pushing his wife off the white cliffs of Dover . Oddly , the trial drags on for many days even though there are no witnesses . Metford's pathetic defence is that he warned his wife to keep away from the cliff's edge , and an unidentified woman passed by as he said this . But the woman can't be located , so Metford has no witness . Sir Alan confides all this to his beautiful wife Lady Helen . The unknown woman is in fact Lady Helen . Sir Alan has been blackmailed by Lewis , a scoundrel who possesses letters written to the oddly named Diana Roggers ten years before he married Lady Helen . If those letters were to resurface now , the embarrassment would put paid to Sir Alan's career . When Lady Helen passed the Metfords , she was en route to paying Lewis £2 , 000 for the letters . Now she daren't come forward , lest the information come out . ( Amazingly , she won't even tell her husband ! ) Matters get worse when extremely contrived circumstances make Sir Alan a suspect in a new murder . Lady Helen wants to clear him but she can't . Then , at the end , Sir Alan is cleared by the unlikeliest person in this film , the one who has the most to gain if Sir Alan is not cleared . ' The Unguarded Hour ' is entertainingly told but is a complete load of cobblers . If Loretta Young weren't so beautiful , I would never have sat through this rubbish . The film boasts some excellent production values , and quite a few of those great supporting actors from Hollywood's golden age . Henry Daniell is especially hissable as the blackmailer . But this is implausible rubbish . I'll rate ' The Unguarded Hour ' .
A slaughter , a daughter and overripe ham .	I viewed a print of ' I Am the Man ' that had been intended for exhibition in Belgian cinemas : the original intertitles had been cut out , and other footage with French translations inserted . Also , a crucial shot of a suicide note had been removed , and new footage of a French translation inserted . I've learnt from past experience with silent films ( a much more modular art form than talkies ) that this sort of editing can also mean that other mischief was done : intertitles and dialogue rewritten entirely rather than merely translated ; entire sequences transposed ; and so forth . If my description of this film contradicts an English-language version of the same movie , blame the Belgian editor . James McQuade ( Lionel Barrymore ) loves his wife passionately , but is also prone to jealousy . When he convinces himself that his brother Robert has cuckolded him , James shoots his brother dead . . . supposedly in white-hot rage , yet cool and careful enough to arrange manners to conceal his own guilt . Purely by circumstance , the evidence falsely implicates Corinne Stanton , a pretty young lady who is a complete stranger to McQuade , so he's perfectly willing to keep schtum and let her be executed for his crime . But wait a minute . . . SPOILERS COMING . At nearly the last moment , McQuade learns that Corinne is his own daughter ! Huh ? Where'd that come from ? Is Lionel Barrymore pulling daughters out of his . . . never mind . This movie would make a great double-feature with ' West of Zanzibar ' , in which Barrymore seems to cuckold Lon Chaney , producing a daughter by Chaney's wife , but then it turns out that Barrymore's daughter is really Chaney's daughter . Can't tell the daughters without a scorecard . Just when I thought this movie couldn't get any stupider , it defies my expectations . Barrymore decides to save his daughter by confessing to the crime . Fair enough , but does he burst into the courtroom with a climactic confession ? No ; he sits quietly at his desk and scrawls out a note bearing the terse message " JE SUIS L'HOMME " . ( This is a French-language print ; I assume that American movie-goers saw " I AM THE MAN " . ) And then he tops himself . Huh ? Wha - ? Hoohaha ? Mind you , Barrymore's suicide note gives no details whatever that would help acquit his daughter : he might easily prove her innocence by divulging facts known only to the police and to the real murderer . But does he ? Mais non ! He scrawls that single cryptic phrase , and then he kills himself . . . thus ensuring that he has no further ability to save his daughter . If he was truly concerned for her well-being , he would have confessed in person and taken his punishment . . . or he could have taken a slow-acting poison , staying alive long enough to free his daughter but then cheating the hangman . As it is , Barrymore endangers his daughter by committing suicide to escape a death sentence . Huh ? Anybody home , then ? I'm reminded of another weird movie in which Barrymore commits suicide after a long separation from a daughter who didn't know him : ' The Devil-Doll ' . That movie and the aforementioned ' West of Zanzibar ' were both directed by Tod Browning , who was often accused of making implausible movies . . . but both of those films , combined , have less implausibility than ' I Am the Man ' . It doesn't help that Barrymore gives a performance here that's right out of the Robert Newton Overacting Academy . The production values in this movie ain't much , neither . I'll rate this fiasco just barely .
Shirley Temple's evil twin	Jane Withers's film career had the bad luck to occur at the same time as Shirley Temple's , and under contract at the same studio ( Fox ) . Both of these child actresses were very similar in their talents and appeal . But Shirley was much prettier than Jane , and just that bit more talented as an actress , singer , dancer and impressionist . When they appeared together in ' Bright Eyes ' , it made perfect sense to cast Shirley as the good-girl orphan and Jane Withers as the spoilt brat . In adulthood , Jane Withers had some minor fame as a character actress ( most notably in ' Giant ' ) and she had steady employment for many years in a long-running series of commercials as the dungrareed Josephine , a ' lady plumber ' who encourages her clients to use Comet cleansing powder . ( Were any little girls ever inspired by Josephine to become plumbers ? ) Another problem with Jane Withers's child-actress career is that she had second choice of Fox's songwriters , scriptwriters and directors , with Shirley always getting first pick . ' 45 Fathers ' is typical of Jane's star vehicles . . . meaning it's very sub-Shirley . In this one , Jane plays a bubbly orphan whose father was a member of the Rod & Gun Club . The by-laws of the club state that , if any member's death leaves minor children surviving , the membership as a whole are to adopt the orphans if no family member comes forward . So , the Rod & Gun Club collectively adopt little Jane . Unfortunately , all the clubmen are a bunch of old codgers . Of all these geezers , it falls to Bunny Carothers to be the one actually to take Jane into his home . With a name like Bunny Carothers , I thought he'd be hanging about with Raffles the cracksman . . . but that's another film . Bunny's nice young nephew Roger lives with him . Roger has a girlfriend Elizabeth who's just a gold-digger . When he wises up and gives her the brush-off , she sues him for breach of promise . . . expecting to get some of old man Carothers's Bunny-money . It's no surprise that little Jane puts everything right . There's nothing here that you won't get more enjoyably in a Shirley Temple movie . Shirley's speaking voice and singing voice are pleasanter to hear than Jane's , and Shirley's smiling face is easier on the eyes than Jane's . I was hoping the members of the Rod & Gun Club would change the title of this movie to ' COLT . 45 fathers ' : in the last reel , they would take the shotguns out of their gun racks and start gunning for little orphan Jane . ( And they could save a few cartridges for bit player Chester Clute . ) Oh , well . I'll rate this movie .
When love came borscht-ing in	This movie's alternate title ' Krasnaya Derevnya ' translates literally as ' Red Village ' but it also means ' Beautiful Village ' . . . because , in Russian , the word for the colour ' red ' ( the most fleshly and sexual colour ) also connotes physical beauty . It's no coincidence that the Soviet communists ( the Red Russians ) co-opted this colour for their political movement , making themselves the most ' beautiful ' faction in Russia . In this movie , the Red Village is definitely ' red ' in the communist sense . The print which I viewed had a title which translates as ' Golden Lights ' . The movie's opening sequence takes place in 1921 , towards the end of Russia's civil war , as the Red Army are vanquishing the last Menshevik forces of the White Guard along the western frontier . This movie clearly depicts communists as virtuous , selfless and heroic . . . whilst portraying White Russians as misguided fools at best or counter-revolutionary traitors at worst . Cut to the present ( 1935 ) , and now we're in a Byelorussian village where the Soviets have erected a huge dynamo . The man in charge of this powerhouse is something of a dynamo himself : a handsome dedicated young communist engineer named Kovalyov . Little does he know that his assistant machinist Ivanovich is a traitor . Ivanovich was a prosperous landowner before the revolution , in which his property was seized : now he remains secretly loyal to the Menshevik cause while pretending to be a collectivist labourer . Handsome young engineer Kovalyov is in love with another handsome engineer : a dedicated young woman named Marina . Ivanovich sabotages the dynamo in a manner that looks like an accident , knowing that Kovalyov will be blamed for inefficiency . Kovalyov is demoted and Marina is given his job . Intriguingly , Kovalyov's love affair with Marina suffers when she is placed in a position of authority over him . Meanwhile , Ivanovich is planning to sabotage the dynamo once for all , which will set back the collective's Five-Year Plan . . . ' Golden Lights ' is blatant Soviet propaganda , but the characters actually retain some interest as human beings even though each character in this story is a vehicle for agitprop . The filmmakers clearly realised the necessity of putting some genuine entertainment content into this piece of propaganda . There are several enjoyable sequences , depicting the villagers engaged in singing and dancing . Rather less successful are the comedy-relief sequences featuring Marina's father Aleksandr , who is an eccentric inventor . This movie was made in Russia in 1935 , so it's hardly a spoiler to tell you that the communist forces emerge triumphant , and this is depicted as a ' happy ' ending . As much as I despise communism , I'll rate this movie for its small but genuine entertainment value .
Turgid mellerdrammer from a mail-order school .	Turner Entertainment have a print of ' Judgment of the Storm ' , but this movie's gestation is far more interesting than the movie itself . By the 1920s , movies were big business , and many Americans believed there was big money in writing screenplays ! Several mail-order companies made considerable money catering for this delusion , selling screenplay-writing correspondence courses . One such company , the Palmer Photoplay School , whose bursar was apparently embarrassed that none of his alumni had achieved wealth as screenwriters , proceeded to bankroll a film based on a script treatment by one of their own students : one Ethel Styles Middleton . Amazingly , this movie also spawned a novelisation published by Grosset & Dunlap , written by one Roy Mason . ( A real author , or a house pseudonym ? ) What a turgid melodrama ! The story is set in Darienne , a college town which ( as a shot of a railway timetable informs us ) is 49 minutes by rail from New York City . Of course , all we ever see of academic activity is a brief glimpse of the football gridiron . Hard-working ploughboy Dave Heath ( Bruce Gordon ) is the sole support of his widdered mother and four siblings , but his spoilt brother Bob doesn't care that Dave works like a slave . The two youngest Heaths are insufferable twins Paul and Patsy , who speak their dialogue in twee intertitles . Paul is played by young Frankie Darro , the real-life son of circus performers . In this movie's first reel , we see Darro perform a spinning headstand : he later performed this same stunt in the last reel of ' Wild Boys of the Road ' , but here he does it while balanced on a ledge . The family's dimpled ingenue is sweet Mary , who's in love with campus hero John Trevor ( Lloyd Hughes ) , whose wealthy widowed mother has been away in Europe these past three years . Erm , not quite : actually , Helene Trevor is half-owner of a " Temple of Chance " . . . an illegal gambling den . The dialogue is careful to establish that Helene doesn't WANT to be a crook : she inherited the business from her late husband , but she " loathes " it and wants to get out . Still , she uses the money to put John through college . The viper in this brew is rich boy Martin Freeland , who could attend Harvard or Yale but who allegedly attends Darienne solely to be near Mary Heath ! Sorry , but actress Lucille Ricksen quite fails to radiate any appeal strong enough to make this plausible , and Mary clearly doesn't fancy Martin . She has eyes only for John , who doesn't suspect how his mama makes her moolah . When Martin learns the truth , he arranges for John to meet Mrs Trevor in her den of iniquity , in a sequence that reminded me of the similar meeting in " East of Eden " . SPOILERS NOW . Anna Q . Nilsson , in a small role as a casino vamp , triggers a fight causing John accidentally to kill Dave . Awash in remorse , John abandons his own life's plans to take Dave's place and support the Heaths . There's lots of fist-to-forehead histrionics here , and overwrought title cards : " Will sorrow give Dave back to us ? Will it harvest the grain - - will it feed the children ? " In his death scene , actor Bruce Gordon can't simply die : he has to do an entire " I'm shot ! " swooning routine . Later , Helene Trevor saves the lives of Bob and the twee twins , believing that she has doomed herself in the bargain . Her intertitles fairly drip with lavender and old lace : " Tell their mother - - I send her three - - for the one I took . " Not half ! It's a shame that Lloyd Hughes is now remembered solely for ' The Lost World ' and ' The Mysterious Island ' , in which he was upstaged by , respectively , a brontosaurus and a race of underwater midgets . Hughes was occasionally a good actor ( as in ' Hail the Woman ' ) , but in ' Judgment of the Storm ' he gets caught up in the orgy of overacting . My rating for this turgid bathos is only , mostly for the art direction .
Titter ye not much ; they didn't do well .	Bruce Forsyth and Frankie Howerd are two giants of British television comedy . Forsyth is still going strong as I write this , while the late Mr Howerd ( " oh no , Missus ! " ) remains popular in repeats and his films . But they had two vastly different performance styles that didn't mesh well . Although they teamed up for some variety broadcasts , the best portions of each such offering were Bruce's and Frankie's solo monologues , rather than the sketches in which they attempted to play off each other . This special is hardly the best example of either man's work , although they come off fairly well in their respective solo turns . The oddest moment occurs just after the opening , when Bruce - - lithe , glib and pencil-slim - - informs the audience that he and Frankie both had to get medical examinations for insurance before they could film this special . ' Now , I keep myself fit , ' says Bruce , clearly delighted at his own figure . . . but he then explains that Frankie had some problems . Cue the unfunny comedy sketch , in which Frankie Howerd , playing himself as a physical wreck - - hardly a stretch - - enters the doctor's surgery for a check-up . Bruce Forsyth , in a lab coat , plays the doctor . . . but he looks and sounds exactly like Bruce Forsyth , which is a bit confusing . These two comedians did their best work separately , and I don't recommend this team-up unless you're a completist . I'll rate it , only because I'm a fan of Forsyth .
Faintly amusing	As a female comedian , Cicely Courtneidge's performing style was somewhere between those of Lucille Ball and Carol Burnett . Like both of them , Courtneidge tried to get laughs out of elaborate costumes , in her case involving ludicrous over-sized hats . As with Joan Davis ( who was much funnier and far sexier ) , Courtneidge's comedy routines often involved dancing and slapstick . Her stage and film comedies always involved extremely contrived plot lines . Her career peaked at roughly the same time as Bea Lillie's , and these two performers were frequently compared . But in fact Bea Lillie's most famous routine - - the ' double dozen double damask dinner napkins ' - - was originated by Cicely Courtneidge ( which explains why Lillie never performed this routine in Britain ) . Courtneidge's usual sidekick in her antics was her husband Jack Hulbert , who complemented her in roughly the same way that Desi Arnaz backed Lucille Ball . Hulbert was dark , handsome , urbane , and made some attempt - - never successful - - to keep his wife's antics earthed in reality . Very late in her life , Cicely Courtneidge gave a deeply touching dramatic performance in ' The L-Shaped Room ' , as a wistful old lesbian from the variety halls . Regrettably , this one good performance was preceded by several decades of daft slapstick . It's not surprising that the Monty Python gang used Cicely Courtneidge's name to get a cheap laugh in one of their comedy routines . ' Along Came Sally ' lacks Jack Hulbert but is otherwise absolutely typical of Courtneidge's work . She plays Sally Bird , an Englishwoman who combines the worst traits of the characters played by Gracie Allen ( she's brainless ) and Lucille Ball ( she's got the showbiz bug but is utterly untalented ) . Sally applies for a job in a London nightclub , only to discover that some American gangsters ( with guns ! ) are trying to take over the joint . Of course , she decides to stop them . Somehow , this involves her pretending to be a French performer from the Folies Bergere , cried Mademoiselle Zaza . That name is funnier than anything else in this movie . The most interesting thing about ' Along Came Sally ' is this film's depiction of American gangsters , with all the English stereotypical perceptions of such characters . The gangsters are played tolerably well by American actors , including Sam Hardy as the gang's leader . One of the henchgoons is well-played by Ben Welden , a semi-Edward Brophy character actor from America who got his start in British films before showing up at Warner Brothers . Less well-cast here is Hartley Power , an American character actor long resident in Britain , who usually played ineffectual roles . It doesn't much help that the American gangsters ' dialogue is filled with Anglicisms . As ' Zaza ' , Courtneidge's attempts at a French accent are laughably bad without actually being funny . This entire movie bears an odd resemblance to the Groucho Marx / Carmen Miranda movie ' Copacabana ' , made a few years later . I'll rate ' Along Came Sally ' , mostly because I'm a fan of 1930s comedy in general . This film is firmly in that mode , but not nearly up to the high comedic standards of that decade . For some reason , ' Along Came Sally ' is listed on IMDb as ' Aunt Sally ' . In Britain , an ' Aunt Sally ' is any empty personality that exists for the sole purpose of being knocked down or ridiculed . Well , that description fits this movie .
Little Annie Fanny's inspiration	' Jane ' was a very popular comic strip in wartime Britain . Drawn by Norman Pett , it began its long run in the Daily Mirror in 1932 as the misadventures of an innocently sexy young blonde . In 1938 , with Don Freeman writing the continuities , ' Jane ' gradually became more suggestive and then finally quite lewd . Many of Freeman's gags featured Jane caught in a state of undress . . . or caught in some mishap which tore off her clothing . Sometimes the situation would get downright sadistic : I recall one comic strip in which Jane fell through the roof of a caravan but got stuck at waist level , with her skirts outside the caravan . . . so that the men inside the vehicle had a fine view of Jane's underpants . The ' joke ' in the strip was always secondary to one more excuse for showing Jane stripped to her undergarments or altogether nude . The comic strips in British newspapers were always more explicit than American ones : often , poor Jane would end up entirely naked , or wearing only her knickers . . . the angles of Pett's artwork would always show us Jane's nudity whilst strategically concealing the most ' naughty ' bits . In the same way that Little Orphan Annie confided her thoughts to her mongrel Sandy , Jane's intimate confidant was her pet dachschund Fritz ( an odd choice of breed and name , considering the anti-German sentiments of wartime ) . During the war years , Jane's popularity reached an all-time high among British servicemen . The nearest American equivalent of ' Jane ' would be Milton Caniff's character Miss Lace in ' Male Call ' . . . but , unlike Jane , Miss Lace usually kept her clothes on , and ' Male Call ' was available only for servicemen , whereas Jane's nudity was on display in the Daily Mirror for any schoolboy who had the price of a paper . ' Jane ' was actually very similar to the Playboy feature ' Little Annie Fanny ' , in that both comic strips were basically an excuse to depict a sexy woman with her clothes missing . In 1982 , when I interviewed Harvey Kurtzman and Will Elder at Elder's house in Englewood , New Jersey , I pointed out the similarities between their creation ' Little Annie Fanny ' and the earlier ' Jane ' . Kurtzman admitted that he was familiar with ' Jane ' . . . until he saw where the conversation was leading , and then he changed the subject . Inevitably , many British males wanted to know if Pett's voluptuous creation was based on a real woman . Supposedly , he had used his own wife as his original model . When a theatrical producer decided to mount a stage vehicle based on ' Jane ' , the role went to Christabel Leighton-Porter , a shapely blond with no real acting experience and no singing ability . The act opened with Miss Leighton-Porter's delightful physique shown in silhouette , then the scrim rose to reveal her attributes while she chanted ( not sang ) : " I'm Jane , Jane : the model , that's plain . I can't sing , I can't even croon . And the dog that I fondle is also a model that you've seen in a famous cartoon . " For the stage act , Fritz was played by a stuffed toy ( like the cat in a Puss in Boots panto . ) ' The Adventures of Jane ' is the film version of the stage show based on the comic strip . It suffers from certain problems : Jane's peak years were during the World War , so she's already begun her decline . Also , the story lines in the comic strip were always mere excuses for Jane to lose her clothing in compromising positions and get caught totally naked ( or nearly so ) in the presence of appreciative men . In 1949 Britain , the film censors were much stricter than the newspaper censors . Consequently , we never see the lovely Miss Leighton-Porter stripped down to nearly the degree of nudity that was a daily event for the newsprint version of Jane . This film is directed by Alf Goulding , an Australian who had some impressive credits : he had previously worked with Laurel & Hardy and with Roscoe ' Fatty ' Arbuckle . Sebastian Cabot , an English actor who had his best successes on American television , plays a small role here . But ' The Adventures of Jane ' is lacklustre . I'll rate this movie , and one point is in appreciation for Jane inspiring all those brave English servicemen to ( dare I say it ? ) keep their peckers up .
Some funny stuff , but not enough to justify the rest .	Many of Tex Avery's cartoons at Warner Bros were parodies of the short subjects that ( in those days ) were screened during a trip to the movies before the main feature . ' The Isle of Pingo Pongo ' is a parody of travelogue movies : specifically , the ' Going Places ' shorts that Lowell Thomas narrated for Universal . Since modern viewers of this toon are unlikely to be familiar with the original material being parodied , a large amount of the humour is lost . There are also references in this 1938 cartoon to other cultural fixtures of that time , such as the then-popular ' Life Goes to a Party ' feature in Henry Luce's weekly magazine , and the wildlife documentaries of Martin and Osa Johnson . Perceptive modern viewers will sense that something is being guyed here , but will be frustrated because they probably don't know the source material . Some of the material here is worse than it needed to be . There's a rather strained gag , depicting a ship taking a circuitous route across a map of the world from the United States to Africa . But the gag is not made funnier by the map's gross inaccuracy . Would it have hurt Leon Schlesinger's production schedule to include an accurate map of the world in that shot ? This cartoon has provoked some controversy for racist content . Sure enough , we get the usual dumb jokes about African natives with pneumatic lips and bones in their topknots . I found the jokes mostly so weak that they aren't malicious , but also so weak that they aren't funny . What did offend me here was the narrator's continuous referrals to these African caricatures as ' savages ' and ' aborigines ' . Even some brilliant Warners toons are seriously weakened by bad running gags ending in limp finishes : a classic example of this problem is ' The Dover Boys ' , featuring innovative animation , a clever and unusual premise , but an incredibly bad running gag leading into a weak fade-out . Here in ' The Isle of Pingo Pongo ' we seem to have one more example of that same problem , with Egghead ( Tex Avery's proto-Elmer Fudd character ) periodically showing up with a violin case and asking the unseen narrator ' Now , boss ? ' . ' Not yet ! ' the narrator tells him each time . I had very low expectations for a funny pay-off gag , but I was pleasantly surprised . Lowell Thomas's travelogues always ended in a deep cliché of his own creation : " And so , as the sun sinks slowly in the west , we bid a fond farewell to . . . " . My former mother-in-law recalled for me that , as a moviegoer in the 1930s , she would hear members of the audience reciting these overly-familiar words along with Thomas's narration . In the last few seconds of its screen time , ' The Isle of Pingo Pongo ' goes a considerable distance towards redeeming itself with a juicy parody of Thomas's sign-off , giving Egghead a closing gag that turns out to be surprisingly very funny indeed . Unfortunately , modern viewers who aren't familiar with the clichés being parodied here won't get the full effect of the good jokes , but WILL get the full effect of the racial stereotyping . Under the circumstances , my rating for this bad ' un is just .
sexual Orient-ation	I have mixed feelings about the career of playwright A . R . Gurney . I dislike his plays - - which tend to deal with the manners and morals of brittle WASPs - - yet I admire how well he has handled his career as a dramatist . Gurney's most successful stage work is ' Love Letters ' , which consists entirely of a man and a woman reading documents directly to the audience , with no dramatic interaction . The brilliantly unorthodox format of ' Love Letters ' has made this work a magnet for big-name film / TV actors who lack the discipline of stage dramatics yet who hunger for a little experience in live theatre : ' Love Letters ' can be staged with no rehearsal or blocking , as the cast members spend the entire ' play ' sitting down and reading aloud their dialogue off printed pages . So , I commend Gurney's ingenuity without much admiring his writing . The TV production of ' Far East ' is a realistic tele-version of a Gurney stage play . The action is set at a U . S . Navy base in post-war Korea ( 1954 ) . The military dialogue is highly convincing , prompting me to wonder if Gurney ( born 1930 ) did military service in this place and time . Sparky Watts ( a self-assured performance by Michael Hayden ) is one of two young officers newly posted to the Korean naval base . He straight away makes a bad impression on his C . O . , Captain Anderson ( underrated character actor Bill Smitrovich , giving the best performance hereabouts ) . Anderson is aggrieved by Watts's priorities . Watts is eager to go to Hiroshima so that he can visit the memorial to the Hibakushi ( the civilian war casualties , killed by the atomic bomb ) , yet Watts came to his Korean posting by way of Hawaii , and he made no effort to visit the memorial to the American servicemen killed at Pearl Harbour . ( I agree with Anderson on this one . ) Watts meets Anderson's wife Julia , and Gurney writes a compelling depiction of an officer's wife who has no career of her own , whose life is entirely devoted to her husband's needs and his career . Julia Anderson flirts with Watts in a manner that seems highly manipulative : she wants to arouse him sexually , yet she clearly intends to remind him that she is ' off limits ' to Watts , since he is her husband's subordinate officer . Actress Lisa Emery is extremely compelling and sexy in this role , yet I found her utterly unbelievable as a 1950s Navy wife . . . possibly due to her attractive 21st-century hairstyle . I mentioned that there were two new officers reporting . The other is Bob Munger , a clean-cut farmboy . Munger is played by Connor Trinneer , who took this role immediately before he was cast as Trip Tucker in ' Star Trek : Enterprise ' . Trinneer has impressed me in that SF series , yet he gives almost exactly the same performance here in ' Far East ' , forcing me to wonder how wide his range actually is . Annoyingly , Gurney uses the term ' far East ' here in the same way that Robert Towne used the term ' Chinatown ' in his grossly overrated screenplay for that film : in the xenophobic sense of some utterly alien place where conventional ( Caucasian ) rules no longer apply . There's a bizarre scene in which a Japanese dance instructor in Korea teaches white Americans to dance a Latin mambo . The background score of 1940s and ' 50s popular songs throughout is impressive . ' Far East ' starts to drag when Gurney gets portentous . SLIGHT SPOILERS COMING . Captain Anderson , briefing his staff on recent events in French Indo-China , tells them they'd better get used to calling the place ' Viet Nam ' . ( Hmm . . . ) One of the officers turns out to be gay , which didn't impress me as a dramatic development . ( Whenever an American play features a clean-cut handsome intelligent young man with a Deep Secret , it's always the same old surprise . Just once , I'd like to see an American play in which a fat moronic slob turns out to be gay . ) I wanted to empathise with this character - - it must have been terrible to be a gay man in the 1950s , especially in the military - - but it turns out that he gave up some military secrets to avoid being blackmailed by the North Koreans . Sailor , I don't care what you do in your hammock . . . but if you betrayed the U . S . government to a communist regime , you should rot in prison . Andrew Benator is excellent in his one scene as the military lawyer giving counsel to the defendant . At one point , to extricate himself from a mild dilemma , Watts announces that he's in a relationship with Sachiko , a Japanese waitress at the officers ' club . ( Sachiko is played by an Oriental-American actress with the peculiar name Miou . . . just Miou , which I guess makes her half as talented as the French film actress Miou-Miou . ) We've been given absolutely no foreshadowing of this relationship , so I assumed that Watts made it up in order to avoid another entanglement . Then , when the relationship turned out to be genuine , I assumed it was merely sexual . . . as Watts shows absolutely no indication of any emotional or romantic interest in Sachiko . Once I accepted that the relationship was a romantic one , it still seemed unconvincing . Gurney seems to be dredging up issues such as interracial romance and homosexuality merely because these are Very Important Subjects . . . but neither of these themes is a big deal in the 21st century , so Gurney has to keep his action in 1954 where these issues still had some shock value . Has nobody told Gurney that ' South Pacific ' already handled the interracial story much more intelligently ? I'm impressed with the realistic staging of this production , although the interior sequences in military installations looked much too roomy and modern . There are just a few minor details of set dressing ( manual typewriters , for instance ) to suggest that we're in the 1950s . When the story is over , everything we've seen seems entirely pointless . I'll rate ' Far East ' , mostly for its crisp direction and camera-work .
How Swede it is ? Not much !	CONTAINS SPOILERS . ' Girl Becomes Maidservant ' is the intriguing title of this by-the-numbers Cinderella story . Alva Rosengren is the daughter of a well-to-do Stockholm family . Hoping to find herself , and to make her own way in the world , she goes off into the countryside and gets a job as a housekeeper to the Allards , a rural family . The master of the house is Karl-Axel , played by an actor well into his fifties . Alva , on the other hand , is played by an attractive actress in her twenties , so I naturally assumed that the Allard household would have a young man Alva's age ( presumably Karl-Axel's son ) who would be Alva's love interest . Some hope ! She falls in love with the squeaky Axel , who is a big wheel hereabouts but who is also older than the actor who plays Alva's father . There's some rather lumpen comedy relief , provided by the actress who plays Hildegard , the Allard family's cook who is built along the dimensions of a Swedish meatball . Karl-Axel has a brother Algot , roughly his own age , who has acquired a wife Laura : as with Karl-Axel and Alva , the wife is young enough to be the husband's daughter . ( What is it with those Swedish blokes ? Is it something in the glögg ? ) Sister-in-law Laura is meant to be very unpleasant , but I'd rather spend a cold Nordic evening with her than with Alva . All the ' plot twists ' in this movie are about as subtle as the Northern Lights , but not nearly so beautiful . There is some nice exterior photography , though . . . but the pace of the ' comedy ' sequences makes this movie slow viewing indeed . Yumpin ' yiminy ! I'll rate this movie , mostly for the performance of attractive Hjordis Petterson as the sister-in-law , and Ay tank Ay go home now .
After you , m'sieur Raoul . . .	Raoul Walsh was one of the greatest directors in film history , yet his autobiography ' Each Man in His Time ' is quite dull . . . indicating that Walsh's visual sense was greater than his story sense . The opening titles of ' Hot for Paris ' give Walsh a credit for writing the scenario , but ' credit ' might be the wrong word . The many merits of this film are fatally compromised by a terrible storyline . Victor McLaglen is the mate aboard a ship that's just arrived at Le Havre . He's been here before , of course , and his reputation has preceded him . . . so when a prat named Pratt starts pursuing McLaglen , he naturally assumes that Pratt ( Lennox Pawle ) is seeking compensation for one of McLaglen's stosh-ups . In some very clumsy expository dialogue , we learn something that McLaglen doesn't know . . . because if he knew it , there'd be no movie . In his previous visit , McLaglen bought a lottery ticket . Now he's hit the jackpot , and Pratt wants to give him the cheque for his winnings . Because we know this , it's immensely frustrating to watch McLaglen constantly evading the man with the lolly . El Brendel , as McLaglen's sidekick , is saddled with some of his trademark " yumpin ' yiminy " dialogue . Even more wretchedly treated here is Fifi D'Orsay , a Canadian actress whom Fox lumbered with a French screen name ( and a cod French accent ) in an attempt to pass her off to American moviegoers as a Parisienne . In this movie , off-key D'Orsay plays a doozie of a floozie who mangles English like she's in one of those Franglish routines by Miles Kington . Raoul Walsh's dialogue and direction require D'Orsay to speak implausibly fractured English in a bad French accent . This is the first time I've ever felt sorry for a Canadian . Victor McLaglen usually played two-fisted brawlers who didn't take guff from anybody . In a better McLaglen vehicle than ' Hot for Paris ' , McLaglen would stand still long enough to find out what his pursuer wants , confident that he can handle any trouble . So , in this movie , it's intensely annoying ( and implausible ) that the huge brawny McLaglen keeps ducking the much smaller and older Lennox Pawle , who is clearly no physical match for him . The art direction and editing are better than usual for Fox in this period , and when there's some action in this movie ( which isn't often ) Walsh's instincts are sure . But the script and dialogue ( especially D'Orsay's ) are so wretched , and the terrible story premise is so poorly sustained , that I can't get enthusiastic for this movie . Walsh and McLaglen were usually dynamite together , but here they're just a damp squib . Still , I'll give Raoul Walsh some credit for making this movie at all : he wrote and directed ' Hot for Paris ' shortly after the accident that cost him an eye and ended Walsh's promising career as an action star . ( In the last years of his life , tragically , Walsh lost all the sight in his remaining eye . ) Out of great sympathy and respect for the rest of Raoul Walsh's great career , I'll rate this clinker ' Hot for Paris ' a very lukewarm .
Aaaah , shaddap ! Oh , yeah ? Yeah !	' Is Zat so ? ' was originally a stage play co-written by James Gleason , who played one of the lead roles in the play's Broadway run . Anyone who's seen Gleason's memorable screen performances as a wise-cracking Brooklynite can easily imagine him speaking this movie's title phrase . But James Gleason isn't in the film's cast , and his character isn't the one who speaks this line . ( And the movie is silent , anyway . ) Gleason's stage role has been given to Edmund Lowe : a very different type from Gleason , but more leading-mannish . As played by Lowe , the character is something of a spiv . In the other lead role , George O'Brien is very well cast , in a part that makes splendid use of his impressive physique . Wiseguy promoter Hap Hurley ( Lowe ) is riding a tram when the brawny motorman gets into a fight with a lorry-driver and lays him out cold . Hurley is impressed with the motorman's fighting technique , and offers to represent him as a prizefighter . The pug's name is Ed Cowan ( played by O'Brien ) , but he's nicknamed ' Chick ' . O'Brien is quite funny in this role ; he shovels bananas into his face in a style that reminds me of Kevin Spacey's performance in ' K-PAX ' . Whenever Chick has no intelligent response ( which is quite often ) , he falls back on his catchphrase ' Is zat so ? ' This is conveyed in the intertitles , but O'Brien's slow look of incomprehension ( each time Chick drawls the words ) is hilarious . Until they can get a boxing bout , Hurley and Chick get jobs in a posh Fifth Avenue mansion : Hurley as butler , Chick as footman . Douglas Fairbanks Jnr , near the beginning of his career here , is very impressive as a drunken playboy . His sister Sue is bullied by her husband Robert , so Hurley and Chick teach Doug to beat up the cad . Meanwhile , as if they weren't in enough trouble , Hurley falls in love with the household's secretary , while Chick falls for the nanny who supervises Sue and Robert's bratty son Jimmy . SPOILERS COMING . I found this entire movie immensely contrived . The two separate relationships between the main characters ( as prizefighter and manager , and then as uncouth servants in a posh household ) never mesh properly . Why would two such people apply for these jobs , and why would they be able to obtain them ? Eventually , Chick gets to contend for the lightweight championship . The bout is staged mostly offscreen ( reflecting this story's origins as a stage play ) , but there is some cinematic vitality in the climactic scene in which Sue and little Jimmy listen to the fight on the radio . And of course Chick wins and becomes champ . That ' of course ' points to the problem here , which is that this very contrived story is also extremely predictable in its contrivances . Despite several good performances ( especially O'Brien's ) , I'll rate this movie just . It might have been more interesting , and funnier , if James Gleason had reprised his stage role .
Destination Zero	George Antheil's music for ' Ballet Mecanique ' appears to be one of those artistic works that provoked audiences to violence . The original orchestration included such unorthodox musical instruments as a typewriter and an aeroplane motor ! Reportedly , during the premiere of Antheil's music , the audience broke out laughing when a man in the stalls raised his cane with his handkerchief tied to it . . . as the white flag of surrender . I've never enjoyed the paintings of Fernand Leger . In this film , he does some stop-action animation with a cut-out puppet that crudely resembles Chaplin's Little Tramp character . This must have been somewhat confusing for French and Belgian audiences in 1924 . In its original release , this film's French title was " Charlot présente le ballet mécanique " . . . referring to showman Andre Charlot , who financed this film's French distribution . But in France , Chaplin's Little Tramp character was also known as Charlot . . . so the presence of that puppet in this movie must have seemed a cheat : an attempt to advertise a ' Chaplin ' movie that doesn't actually have Chaplin in it . Besides that puppet , we get a lot of brief film clips of mundane objects photographed in unusual ways : often through prism lenses that multiply and distort the image . There's also some extremely crude symbolism here : Leger keeps showing us close-ups of a naught or a zero ( from a newspaper headline ) , and intercutting these with close-ups of an illustration of a horse-collar . He cuts from one to the other , back and forth , until even the thickest viewer will twig the Freudian reference to a piece of female anatomy . ( No , that's not my dirty mind : it's really in the movie . ) We also see several other numerals in this movie - - some of them mirror-flopped - - but Zero seems to be the one that symbolises the proceedings most effectively . There's an ongoing theme of swinging and spinning , since most of the moving objects in this movie are either oscillating or revolving . All in all , this film is an interesting experiment but it would have been more effective at shorter length . I liked the music better than the images . My rating : just .
Milk of amnesia	SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . ' The Notebook ' is the 17 , 329 , 587th movie about a woman choosing between a reliable steady guy who sincerely loves her and a macho jerk . It's also the 17 , 329 , 587th movie in which ( big surprise ! ) she chooses the macho jerk , and we're supposed to applaud that decision . This movie's one slight twist in the moss-encrusted formula is a flashback framing device , which supposedly makes it more difficult for us in the present to guess which choice she made in the 1950s . Gena Rowlands ( who pronounces it ' jenna ' ) plays a woman with Alzheimer's Movie disease , which is different from real-life Alzheimer's disease because it only makes her forget things in the service of the plot line . Real-life Alzheimer's patients , tragically , forget their toilet-training and stuff like that . Gena Rowlands is all glammed-up here , remembering everything except minor details like which man she married . When the script calls for her to have a convenient resurgence of memory , here it comes bang on schedule . When the script calls for an equally convenient loss of the same memory , there it goes . Due to the flashback structure , the major roles are split between young actors ( playing the leads in the 1940s and ' 50s ) and senior-citizen actors as the same characters in the present . Gena Rowlands shares her role with the much younger Rachel McAdams as Allie Hamilton . Unfortunately , Ms McAdams has two very prominent birthmarks which have no counterparts on Ms Rowlands . . . making Allie Hamilton the world's only woman whose body has FEWER spots as she gets older . There is anachronistic dialogue in the flashback scenes . The 1940s sequences are production-designed within an inch of their lives , but they don't look like the actual 1940s . Everything is too bright , too colourful , with no sense of wartime shortages or rationing . As usual in Hollywood movies , we get the past as Hollywood wants it to be , not the past as it actually was . I cringed during one scene in an upscale nightclub in the southern United States in the 1940s , in which an African-American bandleader grins his approval while black and white couples share the dance floor . There may have been a few lower-class roadhouses in the Jim Crow south where the races mingled , but it did not happen in upper-class establishments like the one shown here ! Noah Calhoun , the macho jerk , not only places himself in danger but also endangers everybody else ( first on a ferris wheel , then by grabbing the brake of a bus while it's in motion ) , and we're meant to admire this guy . Later , in the 1950s , he sports an incredibly ridiculous sensitive-guy beard that's right out of the 1980s or later . Any white man who wore a beard like this in the southern United States in the 1950s would have been carried out of town on a rail . Sam Shepard does his usual posturing and preening . James Garner plays the older version of one of the two rivals for Allie's affection , and we're not supposed to know whether she chose irresponsible jerk Noah or steady reliable Lon . Sorry , but movie heroines always make that choice the same way , so the suspense level is zero . I will give director Nick Cassavetes some credit : he's actually interested in telling a story about human interaction , unlike his father John Cassavetes who specialised in pretentious acting-school exercises in which nothing ever happened . Unfortunately , the story in ' The Notebook ' is a very predictable one . This movie is soppy , sloppy , floppy and choppy . I'll rate it .
It's petrified , but no ' Forest '	' Blind Alley ' was a live-television drama , transmitted in the very early days when television was still experimental . Fortunately , a kinescope recording was made of this drama , which I was able to view . Due to the technical limitations of early tv , this is a slow and static production , filmed entirely on one set , with the camera immobile . It's obvious that ' Blind Alley ' was chosen for this technical experiment due to the nature of its story : ' Blind Alley ' depicts a prolonged hostage situation , so there's a plausible reason why all these people stay in the same room instead of going elsewhere . Unfortunately , ' Blind Alley ' is much less interesting than several other hostage dramas - most notably Robert Sherwood's ' The Petrified Forest ' - which would have told a better story within the same technical and budget limitations . Dr Anthony Shelby ( Maurice Wells ) is a college professor , who lives with his wife Doris ( Katherine Warren ) in a secluded country house . They hear a radio bulletin , announcing that fugitive Hal Wilson is at large and looking for someplace to hide out from the cops . But the Shelbys live in such a remote location , surely they needn't fear such vulgar intrusions . Just then there's a knock at the door . Guess who's coming to dinner . In bursts gangster Wilson ( Charles Furcolowe ) with his mugs named Buck and Nick ( or maybe Nuck and Bick ; the sound recording's not so good ) and his cheap moll Maizie . Actress Kay Loring , as Maizie , spends most of her on-camera time pretending to chew gum , but it's obvious she isn't actually chewing any . Wilson announces that he and his gang are going to be staying a while , so everyone might as well get cosy . Oh yeah , did I mention that Dr Shelby just happens to be a criminal psychologist ? How convenient . And likewise conveniently , Wilson is afraid that he might be losing his sanity . Well , well ! Shelby offers to treat Wilson by subjecting him to hypnotherapy , then proceeds to psychoanalyse him . SPOILERS COMING . It turns out that Wilson was severely abused in childhood by his father , likewise a criminal . In his youth , Wilson grassed on his dad to the cops , resulting in his father's death . . . an event which Wilson has felt guilty about ever since . ( But obviously not guilty enough to stop him from following in his dad's fingerprints , I mean footsteps . ) Shelby then smugly diagnoses Wilson as ' a classic case of Oedipus complex ' : apparently , Wilson subconsciously wanted his father to die , because Wilson was sexually attracted to his own mother . Faced with this revelation , gangster Wilson has only one possible course of action : he whips out his gat and commits suicide . The other gangsters meekly surrender to the ( offstage ) police . Maizie actually stops chewing gum for a few seconds . I'm trying to go easy on ' Blind Alley ' , as its most glaring flaws are down to its extremely low production budget and its extreme technical limitations . But , as I said , a much better story could have been dramatised within those same limitations . ' Blind Alley ' is a laughable melodrama . My cultural references are British , so I couldn't help laughing when the gangster villain in this thick-ear drama was referred to as ' Harold Wilson ' . Still , coincidental names aside , this story is ludicrous . It's radically irresponsible for Dr Shelby to offer a glib diagnosis of someone he's only just met . Despite the unusual nature of this particular doctor-patient relationship ( Shelby is held at gunpoint by Wilson's thugs , and understandably wants to gain the upper hand ) , I still found their interaction implausible . Also , there are legitimate reasons why Wilson , in his youth , would have been motivated to betray his abusive and dishonest father , so all the claptrap about Oedipal urges doesn't carry any weight . I'll rate this chamber drama , mostly because I'm very interested in the early days of television and I want to be sympathetic to any surviving artefacts of that era .
Kelly is smelly , just like an old welly	In ' Kelly the Second ' , Patsy Kelly meets an Irish lorry-driver who rejoices in the name Cecil Callahan , and she trains him to become a prizefighter . This is a Hal Roach feature , so its production budget is at the bottom of the barrel . You might expect all parties concerned to set their sights on appropriately modest goals . Hell , no ! Patsy trains Cecil to be the heavyweight champion of the world , and before the end of the film he gets a crack at the championship . But we know in advance that we're not going to see a realistic depiction of a heavyweight title bout on screen , because this movie's budget won't stretch that far . Cecil is played by Guinn Williams , a fine character actor whose immense size typecast him as hulking thugs of less intellect than the hero . I'll admit that my interest in Guinn ( real name Gwynn ) Williams isn't entirely objective : my own name , Gwynplaine , is occasionally mistaken ( usually by Americans ) for a female name : I wish that Guinn Williams - a huge , macho actor - were better known , so that the gender of my own name would be a bit less cryptic to some people . Personal motives aside , Guinn Williams was a talented and versatile actor ( within his physical range ) who never got the lead roles he deserved . Williams spent most of his career playing the roles turned down by Nat Pendleton . There are funny performances in ' Kelly the Second ' by Edward Brophy and Billy Gilbert . Pert Kelton is vulgar ( as usual ) , but brunette Rosina Lawrence is winsome and pleasant . Slapsie Maxie Rosenbloom ( whose acting talents were underrated ) is effective and funny as a rival pugilist . Charley Chase was already well into his dipso decline at this point ; Hal Roach seems to have stuck him into this film simply because Chase was available and under contract . I'll rate ' Kelly the Second ' .
flying McGuffins	' Air Hawk ' is a stunt film , in which the plot exists largely as an excuse for the stunt sequences . Fortunately , the stunts are enjoyable enough to justify this structure . ' Air Hawk ' looks and plays a lot like those feature-length assemblages of movie serials . CONTAINS SPOILERS . Al Wilson stars as Al Parker , alias the Air Hawk , who appears to be some sort of airborne private eye . ( This movie has the weak logic of serials , too . ) He's on the trail of Robert McLeod and his gang of thieves , who are plundering a platinum mine . When John Ames , the mine foreman , tries to stop McLeod's men , they kill him . Ames's beautiful daughter Edith tries to keep the mine going in his stead . ( Surely a mine foreman is merely an employee , with no personal stake in the enterprise ? ) Parker and Edith fall in love , but happiness cannot be theirs until the final reel . Meanwhile , the crooks kidnap Edith , and Parker has a fistfight with McLeod up in the clouds , on the wing of an old-fashioned aeroplane . And of course , Parker solves the murder . As I said , this whole movie exists just for the stunt sequences , which are well done , but the story feels like just a bunch of stunts strung together . A few witty intertitles are credited to Della M King , whom IMDb credit as the film editor . The decision to make the McGuffin a platinum mine , rather than a gold or silver mine , is interesting but ultimately irrelevant . I'll rate this movie .
Some hicks from the sticks with an I . Q . of six .	Robert Warwick was a silent-film leading man who interrupted his career to serve in the Great War . Moderately handsome , Warwick's greatest asset was a cultured voice that was completely useless in silent films . . . and by the time talkies came in , Warwick was too old for leading roles . He had a long career in minor character parts , occasionally using his mid-Atlantic accent to play Englishmen . ' In Mizzoura ' is a silent , so Warwick was spared the necessity of attempting a hayseed accent . He plays the sheriff of Bowling Green , Missouri : a sleepy little burg , right enough , until the arrival of ' slick city feller ' Robert Cain who is wanted for train robbery . Hero and villain are both in love with Eileen Percy , the daughter of the local blacksmith . There's a lot of rootin'-tootin ' shootin ' , and a bunch of tarry-hootin ' , plus a telltale bloodstain on a cupboard door . Eventually the sheriff allows the thief to escape into the canebrakes , for noble reasons which are misconstrued . Beanpole actor Victor Potel provides some comic relief as a local yokel , but much of this movie is unintentionally funny . I'll rate it just .
Dead dad didn't die . Did he , daddy ? Did he ?	A recurring theme in movies of the 1920s and ' 30s was the one about the man who simply walks away from his own life and starts over again under a new identity . . . occasionally by stealing the identity of a dead man , but often without benefit of any sort of I . D . documents at all . In those days , before Social Security numbers , such an option was possible . The silent-film comedian Larry Semon may be an example of this : for many years , it was understood that Semon died suddenly ( at age 39 ) after declaring bankruptcy ; there is now speculation that Semon actually conspired with his relatives to falsely declare his own death so that he could start over in some other profession . Nowadays , with biometric I . D . cards and computerised fingerprint databases , the plot line about the ' dead ' man who starts over is no longer plausible . ' The Quitter ' is a small-town drama . Years ago , courageous editor Ed Tilford founded the Forest Park Free Press , an independent weekly newspaper . In 1918 , Tilford went to France to cover the war . . . and was reported killed in action . For the past 15 years , his widow Cordelia has struggled to keep the paper going while raising her two sons . The poor widow has managed to put her older son Russell through college , and now her younger son is nearing college age . . . but he keeps getting into fights with the local louts over the dubious virtues of his girlfriend Annabelle . We're given to understand that the older son is his mother's pride and joy , whilst the second son is the black-sheep scapegrace . The older son is played by William Bakewell , who usually portrayed patrician villains and spineless cads . Sure enough , Russell Tilford is a snob , who ingratiates himself into high society while shunning his poor old widowed mother . Eventually , Russell takes over the Free Press , which his father founded as a working-class paper . Russell turns it into a high-toned society sheet , but nearly bankrupts the paper in the process . . . bringing disgrace and ruination to his mother . SPOILERS COMING . Oh , yeah . Turns out Ed Tilford didn't die after all . Back in the trench Frenches ( I mean , the French trenches ) he traded identities with a dead man , and he's been living incognito ever since . Nice husband and father , eh ? It's no surprise that the younger son defends the family honour . Much of this movie is obvious , and quite a bit of it is implausible . Veteran character actor Charley Grapewin gives a fine performance in a badly-written role as Ed Tilford , the forgotten man . I kept wondering if the heroine's name ' Cordelia ' was meant to hold some Shakespearean symbolism , but the mother in this movie resembles several other Shakespearean characters ( such as Gertrude in ' Hamlet ' ) much more nearly than she resembles the Cordelia in ' King Lear ' . I'll rate ' The Quitter ' . This is one story that's very unlikely to be modernised .
Dieterle's brilliant , but not here	SPOILERS SPOILERS William ( Wilhelm ) Dieterle was a brilliant director whose career is long overdue for appraisal . He was also a talented actor in German silent films : fortunately , he switched over to directing before the sound revolution . ( As a director among the Europhile producers who ran Hollywood's studios , Dieterle's thick German accent was an asset . . . if he had been an actor in Hollywood during this same period , his accent would have been a serious drawback . ) Among his many excellent films , Dieterle directed the Charles Laughton remake of ' The Hunchback of Notre Dame ' . Simon Callow , in his splendid biography of Laughton , makes the bizarre statement that Dieterle did not have any personal eccentricities : if this were true , Callow would not have needed to say it . But for all his talent , Dieterle was a very eccentric man . Among his other penchants , he was a profound believer in numerology , and he allowed his wife to cast the horoscope for each of his films . . . often changing the shooting schedule so as to begin filming on a more astrologically favourable date . ( Jack L . Warner hated this , but Warner tolerated Dieterle's foibles because of Dieterle's unquestioned talent . ) When Dieterle was assigned to direct Paul Muni and Bette Davis in ' Juarez ' , numerologist Dieterle refused to begin filming scenes with the traditional shout of ' Action ! ' . . . because ' Juarez ' and ' Action ! ' both have six letters . I shan't discuss Dieterle's habit of always wearing white gloves . ' Das Geheimnis des Abbe X ' ( ' The Mystery of Monk X ' ) is co-directed by Dieterle , and he also plays the leading male role of a young Catholic monk who is also an amateur detective . None of the characters in this movie have names , which makes it difficult for me to synopsise the tangled plot . The monk has a brother ( i . e . a male sibling , not a priest ) whom he hasn't seen in many years , but they correspond regularly . When the brother's letters stop coming , the monk makes inquiries and learns that his brother has disappeared mysteriously . . . and the clues point to murder . When the monk investigates the disappearance , he meets his brother's beautiful young wife ( the darkly exotic Italian actress Marcella Albani ) and he immediately falls in love with her . I said that she was the brother's wife . . . but could she possibly be his widow ? SPOILERS COMING . The wife of course promptly falls in love with her monk brother-in-law ; apparently she never loved her husband to begin with . But she respects his priestly vows of chastity , so she doesn't let on that she loves him . Instead , the wife ( now accepted as a widow ) marries her late husband's neighbour , solely as a chance to get access to his land so she can look for clues to her husband's murder . Sure enough , she discovers that the neighbour murdered her husband . Meanwhile , the neighbour decides to abduct his wife's son , who is the neighbour's stepson and the monk's nephew . ( Are you getting all this ? ) When the monk tries to rescue the nephew , the neighbour drowns . Happy endings all round . This movie features some spectacularly beautiful exterior scenes ( in what looks to me like Bavaria ) and some impressive footage of St Peter's and the Vatican in Rome . But this movie is less than the sum of its parts . I'll rate this Teutonic twaddle . If there's any justice in the world , William Dieterle's career is due for a major reappraisal . . . but not based on this movie .
What the hell is THIS ?	This is one of the weirder films I've ever seen . Even the title is odd . I viewed a print in which the opening credits show the title as ' 6 - x 11 ' - - with a case fraction , which is not how I've typed it here - - yet for some reason IMDb have spelt out the title in words . Anyway , the title refers to the print format of a photograph . The photograph is crucial to the plot , but the size of the photo is irrelevant , so my guess is that the Epstein siblings ( director Jean , scriptwriter Marie ) just chose that title as an attention-getting gimmick . The last thing this movie needed was one more attention-getting gimmick . SPOILERS COMING . The story itself is very straightforward : so simple , in fact , that it could have been staged as a ballet or a dumb-show with no dialogue whatever . A handsome and sensitive young man falls in love with a beautiful dancer . She betrays him , so he commits suicide . . . which , in this movie's atmosphere , seems to be the most logical course for him to take . The dancer blithely moves onward to her next victim . . . a slightly less handsome doctor . Neither of them knows that the doctor is the suicide's brother . But then the doctor finds a photo ( guess what size it is ) among his brother's effects . The piccie shows the dancer , so at once the doctor twigs the lot . There's a tragic ending , but none of these characters seem to deserve a happy ending . This movie is filmed in a very stark mise-en-scene , rather like a minimalist version of that great German expressionist film ' The Cabinet of Dr Caligari ' . Unfortunately , the actors in this French silent employ very stylised acting techniques , almost as if they were intentionally evoking the modern perception of silent-film acting as overripe histrionics . That decision just doesn't work at all . You can make a film with stylised sets and stylised lighting - - as was done here , and as was done brilliantly in ' Caligari ' - - because the audience will realise that these were intentional choices , even if they were choices mandated by budget restrictions . But it's extremely risky to have film actors use stylised acting techniques - - as is done in this French film , but was NOT done in ' Caligari ' - - because the audience will assume that the actors were simply not capable of more naturalistic technique . Sadly , this film is one of the countless dramatic works which take the very misogynist attitude that a sexually desirable woman is a predator , a destroyer of men who deserves to die . The people who create such stories are usually heterosexual men who are afraid of their own sexual urges , but I've encountered a few dramatic works of that type which were authored by homosexual males who had their own problems with women . Which brings me to the single most distressing ( and weirdest ) aspect of this film . . . . . . namely , its production design . The actors playing the two brothers wear poncy cosmetics ( lipstick , nail lacquer , shaped eyebrows ) that make them look a right pair of drag queens , and they also wear skin-tight garments . There may be some women who are turned on by men who look like this , but the audience for such theatrics seems to be mostly gay males . I know nothing at all about the private life ( or sexual orientation ) of Jean Epstein or his sister Marie ; based on viewing this one film , they both seem to be deeply frightened of female sexuality , deeply hostile towards women , and deeply interested in eroticising the male face and physique in a manner that doesn't appeal to me as a typical ( ? ) heterosexual male , and which is unlikely to appeal to most other men or women , straight or gay . I suspect that the Epsteins have chosen here to cater for their own personal tastes : unfortunately , they've done so to the exclusion of any other audience for this film . Some movies that are deeply weird also manage to be brilliant . . . such as ' Caligari ' , ' Just Imagine ' , the Martian sequences in ' Aelita ' and the very wonderful ' The 5000 Fingers of Dr T ' : the latter is one of my all-time favourite movies . This ' 6 . 5x11 ' , however you typographise it , is just self-indulgent rubbish . On a scale of 10 , I'll give it 3 points purely for technical proficiency . Sadly , I can't even call it the weirdEST film I've ever seen . I know that I don't want to see it again .
Get out and walk .	Although ' The Great Race ' is one of my favourite movies ( and , in my opinion , the funniest comedy ever made ) , in general I dislike movies about auto races . . . and especially movies such as ' The Four-Wheeled Terror ' in which the autos are racing through open countryside rather than a purpose-built race track . Those roads are meant for regular vehicles and pedestrians , not for a few juiced-up idiots who get their joys from breaking the speed limit and endangering public safety . However , ' The Four-Wheeled Terror ' does offer a few pleasures : more than usual for a Larry Semon film . We get a brief performance by heavyweight champion Jim Jeffries , well-cast as a blacksmith . Semon has an interesting and atypical gag near the beginning of this comedy short : he sees his reflection in a mirror with a horizontal crack , and in the broken glass the middle of his reflection's face is missing . Semon plays a racecar driver here . For implausible reasons , some gangsters decide to nobble his car . . . using bombs if necessary . There are some semi-amusing title cards parodying the poetry of Robert W Service , so ( in the service of parodying Service ) Oliver Hardy's villain is cried Dangerous Dan McGraw , while Dorothy Dwan is the lady that's known as Lou . In real life , Dwan was Semon's wife as well as his leading lady in some of his films . There are two pleasant surprises here . Semon's race car prominently displays the number 14 , rather than the more obvious 13 . Also , although many Larry Semon films feature gratuitous and unfunny racist gags about cowardly black men , here Semon's co-driver is played by a black man who actually portrays a fairly realistic human being . The black man is Spencer Bell , who appeared in some other Semon films under the unfortunate monicker G . Howe Black . This time round , Semon seems to be trying more for thrills than for comedy . . . taking a leaf from Harold Lloyd ? So , I'll forgive ' The Four-Wheeled Terror ' for its lack of humour . Unfortunately , I didn't find it very thrilling either . . . and ( as usual in a Semon flick ) most of the stunt work is unconvincing . The final gag was unpleasant to look at . This one rates just .
Awake at a wake ; or , a bier and a beer .	Hell's Kitchen was - - and remains - - the nickname of a neighbourhood in Yorkville , Manhattan . In the late nineteenth century , and for some decades thereafter , Hell's Kitchen was a slum . . . with all the usual traits of that grim term . The predominant ethnic group in the neighbourhood were the lower-class Irish . ( James Cagney was born and raised in Hell's Kitchen . ) The nickname survives : perhaps ironically , since ( as I write this ) Hell's Kitchen is now an extremely yuppified neighbourhood with very high rents . This short film from circa 1900 is cried ' A Wake in " Hell's Kitchen " ' , with the nickname in inverted commas . Perhaps the film-makers didn't want to imply that this monicker is the neighbourhood's REAL name . . . or perhaps they just wanted to distance themselves slightly from the word ' Hell ' , still somewhat shocking in sedate 1900 . We see two men sitting next to a coffin on a table , quaffing what seems to be beer . ( The Biograph catalogue's synopsis contradicts itself , describing this stuff as both ' beer ' and ' ale ' . ) Nearby stands a grey-haired woman , presumably the widow . I noticed straight off that this ' woman ' is actually a male actor in a frock and a wig . . . not that the disguise is hard to penetrate . Unless this movie is documentary proof of a same-sex marriage in 1900 , I figured there could only be one reason for the cross-sexed casting : the ' widow ' would be involved in some slapstick gag more suited to a brawny male than to some delicate actress . SPOILERS COMING . Sure enough . While the widow's back is turned , the dead man sits up in his coffin . He looks round , and sees the widow's stein of brew . He sups the lot , and then he lies down in his coffin again . Is this the world's first zombie movie , depicting a dead man rising from his bier to drink a beer ? Maybe the ' dead ' husband was merely dead drunk , and now he's awake at a wake . Anyroad , his widow , I mean his wife ( the other guy ) comes back , sees that someone has nicked her drink , and starts berating the two drunks , I mean the mourners . From this high-minded acme of cerebral discourse , the movie degenerates into a slapstick argument , with the widow ( a man , remember ) getting pushed into the coffin on top of her dead husband , who rises to protest . Why does this film's title specifically site the action in Hell's Kitchen , rather than a generic lower-class district ? I'd mentioned that the denizens of Hell's Kitchen were Irish-American . Clearly , this film is attempting some ethnic humour , with the Irish as the target : we're meant to believe that the Irish are too stupid to tell a drunkard from a corpse , that Irish wakes are just an excuse to drink booze , and that Irish gatherings turn into brawls . Also , judging from the looks of that widow , apparently we're meant to believe that Irishmen have ugly wives . Faith and begorrah ! I found this movie to be quite mean-spirited , and only vaguely funny . It could arguably be considered a drag comedy , since the female role is played by a man . My rating : just .
The acting drags , the plot drags , the drag drags .	' Maid to Order ' is a low-budget comedy , not especially funny , of interest only because it's a sound film starring Julian Eltinge , who was primarily a stage performer . Eltinge was a female impersonator , probably the most successful of them all . ( Unless those rumours are true about a certain actress . ) Eltinge began his stage career as a child performer , in girls ' roles . As a star performer , he usually played men in stage farces who ( for contrived reasons ) masqueraded as women . But Eltinge often played genuine women as well . Photographs and reviews of the time indicate that , as a young man , Eltinge was very convincing in his disguises as attractive young ladies . ( Female fans often asked Eltinge for fashion and beauty tips . ) But by the time Eltinge began his film career , middle age had set in , and his female impersonations began to look somewhat matronly . Eltinge was approaching fifty when he filmed ' Maid to Order ' , so his girlish soubrette days were long past . Here , he plays a fictionalised version of himself , now equipped with an interest in police work and detective stories . The police are trying to catch a gang of smugglers who are bringing diamonds into the country concealed in coffee tins . ( I guess the cocaine smugglers aren't worth bothering with . ) The leader of the gang is a notorious femme fatale who is on her way Stateside to oversee the operation . . . until a cable arrives from Scotland Yard , notifying the local police that she's been nabbed . Conveniently , none of the local gangsters know what their henchwoman looks like . So , of course , you can guess what happens next . The police persuade Eltinge to infiltrate the gang by impersonating the she-gangster . I was more interested in hearing this movie than seeing it , for two reasons . Eltinge , at this point in his life and career , was not very pretty . In ' Maid to Order ' , he's much more heavy-set than he was in his silent films , and this is especially evident in his neck and his face . Men's and women's faces age differently , and Eltinge looks more male here than in his earlier films . But it was his voice that I wanted to hear , to determine how convincing Eltinge's vocal masquerade was . Based on this movie , it wasn't very good . In his female disguise , Eltinge resorts to the same falsetto range that most male comedians use when doing drag routines . I'll give him the benefit of the doubt by assuming that , in his younger days , Eltinge was more adept at speaking in a female voice . Here , he uses a European accent for his drag scenes : the accent isn't especially convincing , but it helps distract us from the male register of his voice . ( This is the same reason why Dustin Hoffman used a Southern accent for his female scenes in ' Tootsie ' . ) Eltinge should have followed the example of Lon Chaney , who very convincingly impersonated an old woman in ' The Unholy Three ' . For that talking film , Chaney created a female voice by speaking quietly and enunciating very precisely . . . without resorting to falsetto tactics . ' Maid to Order ' has a profoundly contrived set-up : couldn't the cops find a policewoman to decoy the smugglers ? Tough guy Al Hill and nervous little George E Stone are good in their roles as two crooks , but this movie is about as plausible as a Three Stooges short . . . without being nearly so funny . ' Maid to Order ' is crudely shot and badly paced , filmed on a poverty budget . Out of respect for Eltinge's long stage career , I'll rate this dragging drag act .
I've found a French letter !	I've handled quite a few reels of nitrate-stock film from the days of silent movies and the early talkies . On more than one occasion , I've encountered a silent film from which a sequence was deliberately cut out . Unless this was an intertitle , the missing footage almost invariably turns out to have been an insert shot of a handwritten note , a typed letter or a newspaper article . In silent-movie days , in order to exhibit films in foreign-language markets , the original insert shot of a piece of text had to be removed , a substitute ( in the new language ) made and photographed , and then sufficient footage of the new image spliced into the print . Thus , for instance , we now have Lon Chaney's silent film ' The Unknown ' ( copied from a French print ) missing the original shot of Chaney's blackmail letter , and Laurel and Hardy's silent short ' Duck Soup ' ( copied from a French-language print found in Belgium ) missing the original newspaper article about the forest-fires . In both of these cases ( and many more recovered silent movies ) , a new image had to be constructed , shot , and edited into the film for modern reissue . I screened the Library of Congress print of ' The Little Darling ' : an acetate dupe made from a paper print . For some reason , the paper print - - especially made for copyright registry in the Library of Congress - - is missing the shot of the letter which triggers the plot of this brief film ; without the text of that letter , all that follows is confusing . Fortunately , I've also seen ( in Europe ) a print which includes several feet of an insert shot : a French-language version of the letter that's missing from the Library of Congress print , so I understood the plot which follows it . IMDb's synopsis of this movie ( probably from a vintage film exhibitor's catalogue ) is accurate . A boarding-house landlady receives a letter from her cousin ( that's the one we're missing ) , which announces that the cousin is sending her " little darling " to visit the landlady , arriving on this afternoon's train . ( At least , this is the text of the French version . ) The boarding-house's many bachelors - - all of them believing the " little darling " to be a child , and all of them amazingly paternal - - run out and buy various toys and a pram for the new arrival . They carry all this lot to the railway station . Off the train steps the " little darling " : a very pretty Mary Pickford , who's 17 years old and nobody's baby . Collapse of several stout parties . Mack Sennett is briefly glimpsed in this crude comedy as one of the burlier bachelors , clutching a jumping-jack toy . Before founding the Keystone studio in Edendale , Sennett had served as D . W . Griffith's apprentice at Biograph in New York City , and Sennett often paid tribute to his mentor . Pickford's sister Lottie is glimpsed here in the shop sequence . I was annoyed that several of the actors in ' The Little Darling ' perform directly to the camera , emoting in precisely that exaggerated style which has given silent-film acting a bad name . I'll rate this quickie just .
A mouse and a camel	This was a quickie TV special , made to profit from the popularity of Olympic figure skater Dorothy Hamill . I'll declare quite openly that figure skating doesn't remotely interest me unless I find the female skater very sexy , such as Belita or Sonja Henie or the early Tonya Harding . I respect Dorothy Hamill's achievements , and she seems earnest and sincere , but her bland personality puts me right off . If Gene Kelly hadn't been in this special , I wouldn't have watched it at all . There's a low-key opening number , with Hamill skating languidly while the offscreen Kelly sings a lullaby about ' a girl from Riverside , Connecticut ' ( that would be Hamill ) , so you know the next line of the lyric will end in ' etiquette ' . Gene Kelly had previously proved his ability on roller skates ; here , when he takes to the ice , he shows an easy grace . . . but he's clearly not in Hamill's league . A 6-year-old figure skater named Carrie Weber also demonstrates her abilities . She shows some presence , and her skating is impressive . . . but , like Kelly , she pales in comparison with Hamill . There's a weird exhibition here , in which Weber stands at rinkside and calls out skating manoeuvres while Hamill performs them . In addition to her distinctive short hairstyle ( shown to advantage here ) , Hamill was apparently best known for inventing a skating manoeuvre called the Hamill Camel . At Carrie Weber's command , Hamill demonstrates her Camel . I'm damned if I see the point of this thing . It doesn't remotely resemble a camel : I assume that this name was chosen only for the rhyme . Several of Hamill's other moves and combinations are far more impressive , so what's the point of this so-called Camel ? Later , Kelly joins Hamill in ice-skating versions of a couple of his famous numbers from his MGM glory days . I was hoping we'd see " Singin ' in the Rain " with ice cubes instead of raindrops . Instead , Hamill and Weber perform ' The Worry Song ' . This was the song which Kelly had originally sung in ' Anchors Aweigh ' , memorably dancing with an animated cartoon of Jerry the Mouse ( from Tom and Jerry ) . Here , we have little Carrie Weber togged out in a mouse costume ( looking too cute for words ) skating alongside Hamill while the latter sings Kelly's former lyric . It would have been very impressive indeed if Weber could have duplicated Jerry's cartoon dance steps from the movie , but the bulky mouse costume suppresses her movements considerably . I'll rate this sporadically interesting special , but people who like ice skating will likely rate it higher . I prefer Belita .
The priest gets hot under the collar .	I saw this short romantic drama at the 1998 Cinema Muto festival in Pordenone ; they screened a print from the Library of Congress with the original intertitles missing . There don't seem to be wards any more . Even Robin the Boy Wonder is no longer Batman's " youthful ward " . Old-time novels , plays and films are chock-full of plot lines about wards ( usually female ) and their guardians ( usually male ) . For those who came in late : a ward is a minor who is legally in the custody of an adult guardian who is not the ward's natural parent , yet who has also not formally adopted the minor . The guardian is responsible for the ward's welfare until adulthood . In old-time mellerdrammers , the guardian also has responsibility for a fortune that the ward is meant to inherit on reaching adulthood . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . I was distressed by " His Ward's Love " for the same reason that I dislike so many other old-time ward-guardian stories : once again , the male guardian falls in love ( or in lust ) with his female ward , to the extent of wanting to marry and / or have sex with her . This troubles me for a couple of reasons : a ward is by definition a minor , and therefore should not be the target of lustful urges . Also , the guardian is the surrogate parent . . . making such a relationship tantamount to incest . I suppose that this is why , in all these stories , the emotional object is always an unadopted ward rather than a formally adopted stepdaughter : to distract us from the incestuous overtones . In " His Ward's Love " , the man who loves his own ward is a reverend , which only made things worse for me : priests are certainly entitled to have romantic or sexual urges , but they're supposed to be able to deal with them intelligently . Here , the Reverend Howson is aware of his urges but at least he manages not to give in to them . Griffith stages the first sequence so that the beautiful young ward ( Florence Lawrence ; a bit too old to be playing minors ) casts a long glance at the reverend , with an expression of ardour on her face , while he is turned away . This is meant to notify us that she has romantic feelings for HIM , making it all right that he reciprocates . But Florence is the reverend's unofficial daughter ; is it not possible that the love she feels is for him as a father figure , rather than as a husband ? The reverend's friend Gerald Winthrop ( handsome Owen Moore ) shows up in the reverend's garden , hoping to court Florence . The reverend encourages her to go to him . So we're meant to feel sympathetic towards the reverend : he loves her , yet he unselfishly tries to guide her into another man's arms . SPOILERS COMING . In a surprisingly fetishistic ending , Florence sees the reverend kissing an item that she dropped . . . so at once she Knows All . They discover they love each other , and here comes the fade-out . Diabetes alert ! Audiences in the lavender-and-old-lace era likely thought that this movie was deeply romantic . I found it well-made and adequately acted ( in outmoded dramatic techniques ) , but it distressed me for the reasons I've noted . I enjoy many old-fashioned films because they convey the charm of their era , so I seldom mean it disparagingly when I say that a movie is ' old-fashioned ' . In this case , I do mean it that way . My rating for this one : just . It's taken me longer to write this review than it took me to watch this brief movie .
Meyer leaves much to desire	The terribly tragic years of the Second World War held a few minor comforts . One of the few positive ( unintended ) results of the Third Reich was the flood of European character actors who spent the war years in Hollywood , in some cases continuing their careers there after V-E Day . These include Victor Francen , Marcel Dalio , S . Z . Sakall , and Sig Arno . Although Arno was a starring comedian in pre-war German films , in Hollywood his thick accent limited him to supporting roles . Still , he carved out a respectable career ( usually playing comic waiters with funny accents ) , and many Hollywood films of the 1940s would be less enjoyable without Arno's expert comic timing . ' Keine Feier ohne Meyer ' ( the title is funnier than the movie ) is one of Arno's starring roles . The title literally means ' No Fire without Meyer ' , but in this case ' Fire ' is meant in the figurative sense of ' excitement ' . It's a comedy , but the humour falls uneasily between slapstick and farce . Arno plays Meyer , a Jewish marriage broker in Saxony who is secretly saving for himself his best client : the beautiful daughter of the local burgomeister . The daughter is played by Dina Gralla , whose Polish accent is quite thick . . . and at variance with the German character she's portraying . Her father is played by the Anglo-German actor Ralph Arthur Roberts , whose accent varies uncertainly between British and German . Vocally ( but not physically ) , Roberts reminds me of another Anglo-German actor : Henry Victor , best known as the strong man in ' Freaks ' . Victor could have had a fine career in Hollywood or Britain , if only he'd been able to keep his accent on the English side of the Channel . . . instead of wavering back and forth between his two homelands . Ralph Arthur Roberts ( what a name ! ) has the same problem in this film . The sound recording is very bad , so the mishmash of accents makes things even worse . The pacing of the film is very slow , which is especially disastrous due to the lowbrow nature of much of the ( unfunny ) comedy here . The director Carl Boese shows no flair for comedy . There are a few very nice exterior shots of a seashore and a lake , with some interesting sunlight effects , and Dina Gralla backlit against the splendid German scenery . Boese should have kept away from comedy films , and devoted his talents to the ' mountain ' film genre ( with its emphasis on nature and the German landscape ) which was so popular in German cinemas at this time . I'll rate ' No Fire without Meyer ' , and 2 of those points are for Sig Arno's performance .
What's black & white and Red all over ?	' Russian Question ' is flat-out Soviet propaganda , with all the clumsiness of that regime's usual cinematic agitprop . What makes this movie slightly more interesting than its brethren is that , whereas most Russian propaganda movies extol the alleged virtues of the Soviet " worker's paradise " , this one sets out to slag the United States . The central character in ' Russian Question ' is an American ( played by a Russian actor ) . Even more originally , rather than depict this American as a stereotyped capitalist , he is depicted as heroically in sympathy with the Soviet agenda : those OTHER Americans are the problem . Harold Smith ( the name suggests an Everyman ) is a crusading American journalist who has gone to Moscow to see for himself the truth about the Soviet regime . This being a Soviet movie , of course he's favourably impressed . When he returns Stateside , he receives a job offer from a publisher named MacFerson . The latter is very obviously based on William Randolph Hearst , and possibly also based on a couple of other tabloid publishers such as Bernarr MacFadden . ( Notice the similar surnames : MacFadden , MacFerson . ) The publisher , being a capitalist , is only interested in selling newspapers . . . and is perfectly willing to disseminate lies rather than the truth , if lies will sell more papers . Oh , and he's also interested in starting up a war . . . because nothing else sells more newspapers . MacFerson offers Smith lots of rubles ( I mean dollars ) to write a book about the Soviet Union , but he wants Smith to depict the Soviets as war-mongers . Smith refuses to see the Russians as war-mongers when he recalls how bravely the Red Army fought against the Nazis . ( Huh ? The fight against the Nazis was justified , but that hardly proves that the Russians were pacifists . ) When Smith refuses to lie for MacFerson , the latter uses his media influence to slander Smith as a traitor to the United States . . . slandering him so deeply that even Smith's wife Meg falls for the lies , and deserts him . The Russian actress playing Meg is tricked out in enormous shoulder pads , an elaborate peplum , and hair pulled back so severely , I had difficulty perceiving her as an American . SPOILERS COMING . There's a ' happy ' ending . . . by which I mean , an ending that suits the Soviet agenda . Eventually , Smith realises that the problem isn't merely MacFerson but rather the entire Wall Street-Washington axis , of which MacFerson is a mere cog . Smith proclaims that the real enemies of the United States aren't in the Soviet Union . . . they're in ( wait for it ) Washington ! Pass the borscht , comrade . According to the film's credits , this movie is based on a Russian stage play , by one Konstantin Simonov . I can well believe it : despite some elaborate sets , much of this film is directed as if it were a filmed stage play rather than a motion picture . What really annoys me is that this movie actually does what it accuses Uncle Sam ( or Aunt Sally ) of doing : lying to the public in order to tar the republic on the other side of the Iron Curtain . We see here sequences of the American media - - a very UN-free press - - suppressing Smith's efforts to tell the truth . . . when in fact this is exactly what the Soviet government were doing at this time to samizdat publishers . Indeed , a post-glasnost Russian cultural official has told me that Simonov later recanted everything said in this movie . There's no question about ' The Russian Question ' : it's lies , all lies , and it doesn't even tell those lies very gracefully nor credibly . My rating for this agitating agitprop : just , mostly for the impressive production design .
Low-key character study	' A Man Called Adam ' was tailor-made as a vehicle for Sammy Davis's talents as a dramatic actor . He should have chosen a better script , with a more sympathetic role . The main character in this movie wallows in self-pity , and then turns out to do so for the wrong reasons . As a movie , ' Adam ' is slow and boring . As a showcase for some jazz performances , ' Adam ' is considerably better . In addition to some splendid trumpet solos by Nat Adderley ( dubbing for Davis's character ) , there are superb performances by Louis Armstrong and Benny Carter , which almost ( but not quite ) redeem this movie's considerable flaws . Also on hand is Mel Odious , I mean Mel Torme , exhibiting his usual smarm . This movie's painfully low budget actually works in its favour . Leo Penn's low-key direction skilfully captures the down-and-dirty world of a jazz musician : the brassy nightclubs , seedy hotel rooms , fly-blown booking agencies and jam sessions . Adam Johnson ( Davis ) is a talented jazz trumpeter whose career is going nowhere fast . We're given to understand that he's a victim of racism , and in 1966 this is certainly plausible . But a lot of Adam's problems are his own fault . He walks out on a club date at the last minute - - a cardinal sin - - and quarrels with his honest and hard-working agent . Adam also has a drinking problem , which I found slightly disingenuous . In real life , quite a few jazz musicians have substance-abuse problems , but the substance is usually drugs . . . not alcohol . Judging by this movie , you'd think that booze is the most lethal substance in the nightworld of jazz . SPOILERS COMING . Eventually , in a well-acted scene with Cicely Tyson , Adam reveals his big secret . He used to have a wife and child , but they both died in a car accident while Adam was driving . . . he feels guilty that he survived and they didn't . Ever since , he's been taking it out on himself and everyone else . I found this movie dishonest . I accept that there were many reasons for a black man in 1966 to be angry and resentful , but Adam seems to be angry for all the wrong reasons . In the novelisation of this film , there's a chapter in which Adam spitefully plays slow jazz when a white customer wants something up-tempo . This whole film is like that , with Davis giving us something that he knows we don't want . On the positive side , Sammy Davis and Tyson give excellent performances with the bad material given them here . Ossie Davis ( no relation ) is less impressive . A lot of actors owed their success to some physical quirk : for Ossie Davis , it was an extremely deep and resonant voice . He has little else to offer here . I was pleasantly surprised by the performance of Peter Lawford as Adam's agent . I've always considered Lawford a no-talent , who got by with a handsome face , a charming manner , a pleasant speaking voice and some Camelot glamour by way of his marriage to JFK's sister . Here , for perhaps the only time in his career , Lawford gives a layered and nuanced performance in a credible role . He and Sammy Davis were good friends and Rat Packers offscreen : perhaps their genuine affection enabled Lawford to do the scene here where he and Davis are at each other's throats . I was also pleasantly surprised by a scene in which Adam plays a jazz duet with white trumpeter Vincent , played by Frank Sinatra Jnr . It's no revelation that Frank Sinatra Jnr's chief claim to fame is his father's name . Here , he actually shows some talent in his own right . . . synch-playing to someone else's dubbed trumpet music , but showing easy rapport with Davis . I wish that this entire film could have matched the panache of their sequence together . I recommend ' A Man Called Adam ' for some fine jazz music , but not otherwise . My rating for this movie is .
Did they ever untie Winifred ?	' Old Mother Riley Headmistress ' ( this title has no comma in the opening credits ) has a higher budget than most instalments in the ' Old Mother Riley ' series . These films starred Arthur Lucan in panto-drag as Irish scrubwoman Daphne Snowdrop Bluebell Riley , and Lucan's wife Kitty McShane as Mother Riley's daughter . Like some other British comedians ( George Formby , Frank Randle ) , Arthur Lucan's films were far more popular in northern Britain than in London and the south . The Mother Riley films were also popular with children , as Lucan's drag routine was ( usually ) too innocent to raise the spectre of transvestism . ' Old Mother Riley Headmistress ' is a bit naughtier than usual for this series , due to the setting . . . which places Old Mother Riley in a gymslip among dozens of nubile young ladies . The Dublin-born Kitty McShane's accent varied wildly from thick brogue to shopgirl Estuarine throughout the series . In ' Headmistress ' , she settles for a slight Irish lilt . Mother Riley works in a laundry owned by her sister-in-law Jemima Murphy . Kitty Riley is the choir mistress at St Mildred's Seminary for Young Ladies . We see McShane unconvincingly attempting to conduct the ( excellent ) girls ' choir . When she leaves the room , they carry on singing in tempo without her , proving she was never needed . The vicious French instructress Mam'selle Leblanc has contrived to get Kitty sacked . . . until Aunt Jemima carks it , bequeathing the laundry to Mother Riley , who mortgages the laundry to buy the seminary and instal herself as headmistress . I'm a fan of the " St Trinian's " comedies , so I hoped that St Mildred's would be filled with naughty schoolgirls in gymslips . The girls at St Mildred's are all in their teens and wear pretty frocks , not matching uniforms . They all gang up on a girl named Winifred who has a speech impediment . I was annoyed that ALL the schoolgirls ( except Winifred ) are extremely pretty : how realistic is that ? Also , Winifred is played by an attractive girl ( Diana Connell ) made to look unattractive with thick specs and an ugly hairstyle . There's a sequence in which the schoolgirls taunt Winifred while she's bound and blindfolded . I found this rather kinky , yet I was disturbed by it : the audience are clearly meant to approve while the pretty girls bully poor Winifred . The tone of the schoolgirl sequences is all very jolly hockey-sticks and Enid Blyton . All the Mother Riley films have bad direction and poor editing . ' Headmistress ' features a sequence in which Mother Riley plays ' The Minstrel Boy ' on a piano while a bust ( of Shakespeare ? ) above the piano comes alive and speaks to her . This could have worked if the director had shown us the inanimate bust , and then shown it opening its eyes and speaking . Annoyingly , we see this bust for the very first time as it starts speaking , and this is very confusing . SLIGHT SPOILERS . ' Headmistress ' places heavy reliance on undercranking ( speeded-up action ) , which I've never found funny . This is especially dire in a bizarre scene in which Kitty encourages Mother Riley ( a man in drag , remember ) to twirl in her elaborate new dress . But the jokes are a bit cleverer than usual for this series . When a Latin-speaking lawyer arrives , Mother Riley tells him ' pro bono Pimlico ' ( a pun on a working-class London neighbourhood ) . She introduces ' his workshop , the Mayor ' whose name is Weston , and he's ' a super mayor ' ( a pun on the seaside resort Weston-super-Mare ) . When Mother Riley is embarrassed , she asks : ' Is my Rhode Island Red ? ' The climactic sequence , in which the seminary catches fire , features an impressive optical wipe that changes shape like a flame . The dialogue establishes that all the girls went home for the hols before the school burns down . ( But did they ever untie Winifred ? ) Oh , yes . We get that annoying cliche about the worthless piece of property that's suddenly valuable because the railway want to build a line through it . I've seen this cliche in several Yank cowboy movies , but this is the first British movie in which I've encountered it . The cliche makes no sense : if the railway need a particular piece of land , the government would exercise the law of eminent domain to seize the land at less than market value . The people who make money from a new railway line are the people who own the land next to ( not ON ) the rail line , and who get rich by building hotels or restaurants that cater for the rail travellers . Speaking of cliches , we also get that British thick-ear cliche : the gang of Cockney spivs with a toff as their " guv'nor " . None of the ' Mother Riley ' films are very funny , but ' Headmistress ' is more enjoyable than most because of all those attractive teenage seminary girls , who sing very prettily . No schoolgirl uniforms , worse luck , and only Mother Riley wears a gymslip , but we get to see the lasses briefly in form-fitting P . E . clothes and short-skirted band uniforms . At the very end , there's a clever coup de theatre which changes Mother Riley's laundry into a railway station . I'll rate this series entry , which is higher than most of the Mother Riley films deserve . Recently , I was told by Roy Hudd - a veteran of the old-time English variety halls ( vaudeville ) - that , when the Old Mother Riley films were being made , Arthur Lucan always arrived at the movie studio in full ( female ) costume and make-up , and he remained in character until he went home ( still in drag ) . Allegedly , he didn't want anyone to know how he looked out of costume , so that ( when he wasn't working ) he could visit the local pub or chip shop without being recognised as a celebrity . I don't know if I believe this story , but it does explain why I've never seen a photograph of Arthur Lucan in which he is not wearing his Irish scrubwoman disguise !
Ay tank Ay go home now . . .	I recently attended an exhibition of European films from several nations , in various languages . This film grabbed my attention in the programme listing because of its unusual numeric title : in Swedish , ' 65 , 66 and Me ' . I assumed that it would be a movie about convicts , or just possibly robots . . . at any rate , the characters would have serial numbers . Intrigued , I attended the film . I was only mildly impressed . It turns out to be a service comedy : rather the Swedish equivalent of ' Buck Privates ' or ' Carry On , Sergeant ' . Petrus ( # 65 ) , Pelle ( # 66 ) and Karl-Alfred ( # 67 ) are all yokels conscripted into the same platoon of the Swedish army . Because they have consecutive serial numbers , they are always together in close formation on parade , they bunk alongside one another , they mess together , and so forth . They become friends , and then start collaborating in practical jokes and rowdy antics . Most of this allegedly ' army ' comedy is actually concerned with the adventures of our lads on a furlough . Fair enough ; a lot of American and British comedies with military themes took this same tack . Our three Swedish meatballs take their back pay and go to town on a spree . They latch onto some blonde flickas in cute dirndls . This movie reminds me of ' On the Town ' : it's similar in mood and subject matter , without being nearly so well-paced nor so disciplined . I also didn't find this comedy to be very funny . Maybe that's down to my difficulties with the Swedish language , but perhaps not : even the slapstick and visual humour didn't quite work for me here . I'll rate this move .
This Bavarian cream is mostly froth .	This movie's title translates literally as ' I Know You Not and Love You ' , but should be rendered as ' I Don't Know You , and Yet I Love You ' . Either way , it's froth , German-style : not quite on the level of operetta , but set in that same artificial and twee realm . This movie is a semi-musical : it likely would have been more enjoyable if it had been done as a full-scale musical . It feels like an operetta , even though there isn't nearly enough singing here to qualify as one . Typically in operettas , the hero is either a struggling composer in his twenties or a successful composer in his thirties . Here we have the latter : Willi Forst portrays a composer who has attained commercial and artistic success , but who is just lately undergoing the musical equivalent of writer's block . . . until he sees a magazine photo of the daughter of a wealthy Bavarian family ( Magda Schneider ) . Her beauty inspires him to compose new melodies . But there's only so much inspiration in a magazine photo . To get to the source of his inspiration , Forst applies for a job as the butler in her parents ' mansion . ( What's the German for ' Hoo boy ' ? ) Conveniently , her parents are looking to hire a butler . Implausibly , Forst gets the job without any sort of references or screening . I suspect that wealthy Germans in 1934 were very careful about whom they brought into their households as servants , but what do I know ? Anyway , the movie tries to get some dramatic and comedic tension out of this contrived situation : Forst is romantically and sexually attracted to Schneider , but she thinks he's a mere lowly servant . Ach du lieber , if only he could tell her that he is a wealthy composer ! I was more interested in another conflict here , which the movie barely acknowledges : how will Forst find time to write his melodies whilst employed as a butler ? I'm intrigued that German audiences were watching this sort of thing in 1934 , when Hitler was riding a wave of optimism for Germany's economic recovery . . . and at a time when his more extreme policies had not yet manifested . I'll rate this froth . Do I hear goose-stepping in the distance ?
Lionel Barrymore is shaggier than the dog	The script and direction of this MGM movie ' The Thirteenth Hour ' are credited ( ? ) to Chester Franklin , whom I've never heard of . . . but I kept checking the credits to see if perhaps this movie was actually scripted and directed by Tod Browning , who was under contract to MGM at this same time ( and who frequently worked with Lionel Barrymore , the star of this film ) . Browning was notorious for building films around set-pieces : sequences which provoked unusual images onscreen , but which didn't necessarily build to a coherent plot or narrative . At one point during his MGM years , Browning tried to get front-office approval for a movie starring Lon Chaney as a mad surgeon who grafts gorillas ' heads onto women's bodies and vice versa , which would certainly make for some interesting film footage : the project was deep-sixed because Browning couldn't come up with any plausible reason for WHY Chaney's character would be doing such a thing . This whole movie is just like that . ' The Thirteenth Hour ' is completely implausible , and seems to have been cobbled together as an actor's exercise . . . giving Lionel Barrymore thin excuses to ponce across the screen in weird get-ups , while giving director Tod Browning ( oops , I meant Chester Franklin ) pretexts for interesting visual compositions which don't fit into a coherent storyline . This is meant to be a spooky suspense film , but I kept laughing . Barrymore plays Professor Leroy , who lives in a Charles Addams-style house , chock-full of trap doors , secret panels , and galloping furniture . . . all of which he operates via a switchboard . You might guess that a chappy like Leroy would have no need of a hobby , but you'd be wrong . Periodically , Leroy goes forth to commit a moonlight murder , which he is always careful to perpetrate at one o'clock in the morning . ( Hence the movie's title . ) Now get this : the way Leroy looks when he commits the murders is his TRUE appearance , whereas the rest of the time ( when he's not killing anybody ) he's always whiskered up in some ridiculous disguise . This reminds me of Tod Browning's ' The Blackbird ' , in which a criminal spends his off-hours disguised as his own ( nonexistent ) twin brother , the local do-gooder . To supply an alibi for his murderous meanderings , Leroy keeps a wax dummy of himself . When he takes off his disguise to commit murder , Leroy attaches the disguise to the dummy and leaves it propped up in the window so that all the neighbours will see that Leroy was home at 1 . 00am when the murders took place . Brilliant , eh ? SPOILERS GALORE . For some reason , Professor Leroy needs a secretary . He brings into his home an innocent brunette named Mary ( of course ) who knows nothing of his criminal career and who betrays him accidentally . I kept thinking of Tod Browning movies such as ' The Big City ' and ' The Unholy Three ' , in which the criminal endeavour disguised as a legitimate business is accidentally exposed by the only honest employee who's oblivious to the criminal shenanigans . The cops suspect Leroy of the murders . . . but this is one of those movies where the cops are all morons , so Leroy fools them easily . Well , all except one . Detective Shaw has an Alsatian named Rex , and the police dog is brainier than everybody else in this movie . Guess who solves the case . ' The Thirteenth Hour ' is unintentionally funny . I'm a Tod Browning fan , so I was gobsmacked to discover a film which apparently wasn't made by Browning yet which apes his distinctive style so thoroughly . Unfortunately , this movie has most of the flaws of Tod Browning's movies with very few of their merits . ' The Thirteenth Hour ' is very nearly MGM's most incoherent and implausible production of 1927 , edged out narrowly for those dubious honours by ' London After Midnight ' . Even the usually reliable MGM stalwart Polly Moran falls below her usual standard in this movie . I'll rate ' The Thirteenth Hour ' .
Yassuh , me no like-um !	" Womanhandled " stars Richard Dix as Manhattan playboy Bill Dana ( no relation to the 1960s TV comedian of that name ) . While visiting Central Park , he rescues bratty little Percival ( Eli Nadel ) from the lake - - some nice location shooting here - - and then he meets the boy's aunt : the blonde and beautiful Molly ( Esther Ralston ) . Striking up a conversation with Molly , Bill mentions that his Uncle Lester owns a ranch out west . This leads Molly to believe that Bill is a rootin'-tootin ' Westerner . . . and she's impressed . Of course , Bill doesn't set her straight on her mistake . This being a very contrived comedy , Bill goes out west to Wind River , Texas , hoping to get some genuine cowboy experience so he can impress Molly . At Uncle Lester's ranch , he discovers that all the cowboys have left to get jobs in cowboy movies ( which pay better ) , and taken their horses along . Bill and Lester manage to round up a few swaybacked nags ( with clearly visible ribs ) and a few two-legged varmints to play cowboy . Comic actor Tammany Young looks absolutely hilarious in an ill-fitting cowboy get-up . Bill's got some cowboys , he's got some horses . Now he needs Indians . Bill prevails upon the African-American laundress and her family to slap on some warpaint and pretend to be Red Indians . At this point " Womanhandled " enters the delirious realm of double-decker racial stereotypes . There's some " yassum " dialogue in the intertitles while these stereotypical blacks impersonate stereotypical Amerindians . Of course , Bill says that they're Blackfeet . Just when Bill is all set to play cowboy , suddenly Molly shows up with her bratty nephew and her strait-laced Aunt Clara in tow . This is a pretty good set-up for a comedy , but after setting up its premise the film dissolves into dumb jokes . Gregory La Cava , an expert comedy director , is saddled with poor material here . There's some ' book-end ' material at the start and close of the movie , involving a couple of vaudeville-ish comical tramps who live in Central Park . I really dislike it when humour is at the expense of homeless people . I'll rate " Womanhandled " .
Where have you gone , Mister Robinson ?	Edward G Robinson is remembered for playing snarling gangsters and other tough guys , but in real life he was a very cultured man , a collector of art and antiques . ( Robinson acquired a Van Gogh before that artist was well-known . ) ' Thunder in the City ' is a low-budget film that Robinson made in England , playing a fairly normal person for once . I wanted to like this movie , as it brought back memories for me of the one occasion when I met Robinson ( in London , when he was buying antiques in the Portobello Road ) . Sadly , despite the presence of an excellent cast and a good performance by Robinson , this film is not very entertaining . Despite its low budget , ' Thunder in the City ' opens with an extremely impressive montage by Ned Mann , and offers several other impressive montages throughout the movie . Those montages are the best things in this film . The single biggest problem is that ' Thunder in the City ' ( with its overly dramatic title ) can't seem to figure out what sort of movie it wants to be . This material has the general pacing and feel of a comedy , but it isn't funny , and it's not quite engaging enough to be a drama . A previous IMDB poster has compared this movie to ' Beat the Devil ' . Sorry , but ' Thunder in the City ' hasn't got one percent of the wit of that film . Robinson takes centre stage as Dan Armstrong , a high-pressure publicity agent in charge of the New York campaign for a motorcar called the Straight 8 . ( He doesn't seem to be bothered that the car has an illegible logo . ) When the ad campaign fizzles , Armstrong's bosses pressure him into resigning because they haven't the bottle to sack him outright . One of Armstrong's bosses tells him that he could learn from the example of the English , who were so efficient in acquiring Suez . ( No comment . ) This prompts Armstrong to recall his prankster grandfather , an Englishman who fled to America in disgrace after he stole a mummy out of the British Museum and smuggled it into the front bench in the House of Lords . Now , Armstrong conveniently recalls that he still has relatives in England , and even though he's never met them he assumes they'll be delighted if he pops round for a visit . ( Frankly , Edward G Robinson doesn't look as if his ancestors came from the sceptred isle . ) Armstrong's relations are the Duke and Duchess of Glenarvon , lounging about in Challoner Hall , which has been the family home for 20 generations . They've got titles and bloodlines but no money . ( This is the most plausible part of the movie . ) When they learn that Armstrong is coming to visit , they assume he's wealthy and that he plans to buy Challoner Hall . Young relative Dolly eagerly hopes that she'll be able to land a rich husband . ( Dolly is played by Elizabeth Inglis , who would soon land a very rich husband indeed ; in real life , she married the president of NBC television and became the mother of Sigourney Weaver . ) When Armstrong shows up on their doorstep , we get the usual hackneyed ' Our American Cousin ' situations , contrasting a brash Yank with some buttoned-up British bluebloods . When the Glenarvons inquire into the fate of Armstrong's grandfather , Robinson has the only funny line in this movie : " It was his ambition to be an inmate in every state in the Union . But he died before he got to South Dakota . " Armstrong has a ' meet cute ' scene with Lady Patricia : nice work by her stunt double here , as Lady Pat falls off her horse . Lady Patricia is supposed to be an English blueblood , but she's played by untalented Austrian actress Luli Deste with an accent full of wienerschnitzel . There's a line of dialogue to explain that Lady Pat has spent a lot of time in Vienna . Luli Deste's scenes are so painful to watch ( and listen to ) that she ruins the few merits this film possesses . The movie would have made more sense if Elizabeth Inglis and Luli Deste had swapped roles during rehearsal . Learning that the Glenarvons ' investments are all tied up in Rhodesian mines , Armstrong whips up a publicity campaign for a ' miracle metal ' called Magnalite ( it might as well be McGuffinite ) that these mines allegedly produce . Soon , he has a veritable South Seas Bubble on his hands , as English working-class folk ( with bad Cockney accents ) queue up to invest their savings in this sure-fire deal . ( When you see Sid , tell him not to bother . ) Speaking of bad accents , the English actors who play Americans in this film ( mostly in the early scenes ) aren't very believable . Veteran film composer Miklos Rozsa has never impressed me , yet here he surpasses himself by bringing in every possible musical cliche . When Robinson arrives in England , the soundtrack plays ' Land of Hope and Glory ' . When he visits a funfair , the soundtrack plays ' The Loveliest Time of the Year ' . . . the same waltz music that shows up in almost every movie featuring a scene at the circus or carnival . The ending of the film manages to be very sudden and extremely muddled . There are good things in ' Thunder in the City ' , but they're few and far between . Nigel Bruce gives a good performance as the Duke of Glenarvon ; I wish I could say as much for the annoying Constance Collier as his wife . I've savoured Ralph Richardson's distinctive performances elsewhere , but here he merely takes up space . Fans of Edward G Robinson who want to see this movie should be forewarned that Robinson does nothing here that he didn't do much more skilfully in almost any of his Hollywood films . I'll rate ' Thunder in the City ' only , mostly for those delicious montages - which belong in a better movie - and for that one impressive stunt-doubling when Lady Patricia comes a cropper .
Counterfeit count and no-account countess	" L'Épervier " is well-directed and visually interesting , yet ultimately this is a very unsatisfying film . It offers us good-looking people wearing expensive clothes in sophisticated settings , and seems to expect us to be satisfied with these . But none of the characters are sympathetic , and their activities are not engaging . Charles Boyer , in an early role , stars as Count George de Dasetta . . . although his title is probably fake , as the Count and his wife Marina make a dishonest living as full-time card sharps . ( Marina , the Countess , is played by Natalie Paley , an attractive young woman whose real-life bloodlines were impressive , yet whose acting talent was minimal . ) George and Marina live in luxury from the proceeds of their crooked card games , until Marina becomes attracted to handsome young diplomat Rene de Tierrache ( played by Pierre Richard-Willm , another performer whose good looks exceed his talent ) . VOICI LE SPOILER , TOUT DE SUITE . Although de Dasetta is a crook through and through , he sincerely loves his wife . Believing he's lost her forever , he attempts to kill himself . ( This scene is vaguely ironic , as in real life Boyer later topped himself . ) Marina is likewise a crook , but she likewise sincerely loves her husband . After her fling with Rene , the two crooks are reunited . They deserve each other . I didn't care about any of these people . The movie features some impressive locations in Paris , Biarritz and Rome , but . . . ultimately , so what ? I don't identify with any of the characters in this film , and I don't aspire to be like them . There's a good performance by the English character actor George Grossmith : not the author of ' Diary of a Nobody ' , but his same-named son who appeared in the George Edwardes plays . I'll rate this movie , and that's only because it looks so nice .
I'm with it , but this movie's without it	In the days when travelling carnivals and circuses were common in America , these shows would often pick up temporary employees along their tour routes . The temporaries might be performers , or might be day labourers ( roustabouts ) , or might be entrepreneurs ( not always honest ones ) selling candy or cheap toys , or running some sort of game ( usually a con , such as three-card monte ) and hoping to make some money for their own pitches from the rake-off of customers who came to see the circus or carnival . Because people who travelled with the circus or carnival were constantly encountering new people , and couldn't always be certain if the newcomers were carny folk or ' civilians ' , they developed the habit of asking ' Are you with it ? ' . . . meaning , ' are you part of this travelling show ? ' . Veteran circus people and carny folk knew what this question meant , but civilians were more likely to reply : ' Am I with WHAT ? ' . This is why someone who is knowledgeable or avant-garde is described as being ' with it ' . ' Are You with It ? ' is a pleasant low-budget musical with a carnival background and no impressive songs . Donald O'Connor plays a rather stiff young nerd named Milton who has a high I . Q . and is very good at maths ( he uses a slide rule while he talks ) , but who is out of touch with his emotions . He loses his job and falls in with some troupers from a passing carnival , including flashy Vivian ( Olga San Juan , cheap and vulgar ) and fast-talking carny pitchman Goldie ( Lew Parker , giving a deft performance of such skill that I'm amazed he didn't go on to a greater career as a character comedian ) . The script forces O'Connor to play a character that's a very poor choice for the protagonist in a musical comedy . About twenty minutes into the movie , some music starts playing and Milton taps one foot idly . Then he breaks into a spirited tap dance , casually explaining that tap dancing is merely a physical application of elementary scientific principles . I didn't like this , me . Donald O'Connor is a brilliant dancer , one of the best who ever performed in films . . . so it's utterly implausible that a wonk like Milton ( who shows no interest in having a good time ) could attain such a level of dancing skill simply by applying his intellect . ' Are You with It ? ' is enjoyable but hardly memorable . O'Connor's dancing is excellent ( as always ) , and he's in better singing voice here than he was in several of his other ( better ) musicals . But the songs which he's singing and dancing aren't especially good . George Balzer , who worked on the script , wrote some of Jack Benny's funniest radio and tv material . . . but you'd never know it from what's on offer here . Veteran comedian Walter Catlett has almost nothing to do in this movie , and he's easily upstaged by Lew Parker . I'll rate ' Are You with It ? ' : that's one point for Lew Parker's performance , and one point for each of Donald O'Connor's tap-dancing feet .
Less unusual than he usually is .	' Horoscope ' is one of the short movies made by underground filmmaker Richard Kern . All of Kern's movies are unusual : intentionally transgressive , and often violent . But ' Horoscope ' is unusual by Kern's standards because it's LESS unusual than usual , for him . There's very little transgression , and the mood is ( by Kern's standards ) sweet-natured . Typically , Kern's eroticises the female body : on the rare occasions when his films feature erotic male images ( as in ' Submit to Me ' ) , those images are usually briefer and less intense than female-centred images in the same film . ' Horoscope ' , unusually ( perhaps uniquely ) for Kern , features more male than female nudity . Holly Adams plays an attractive but rather repressed young woman who shambles homeward from her dull office job , checks her horoscope ( not very promising ) and promptly falls asleep in front of the tv . Two naked young men appear in her living room and begin dancing naked for her pleasure . I assumed that this was a sexual fantasy the woman was having in her dream state , but the film's structure is so illogical that there's no way to be certain of this : perhaps these naked men have actually teleported into her flat , just for the hell of it . The men dance for the woman for a while , and then eventually she joins them and they all have fun together . As this is a Kern film , I was expecting gunshots or bloodshed or both , but these things don't happen . A surprisingly pleasant film from this unusual director . It's rare for a male underground filmmaker to make a movie in which male characters cater for a female protagonist's sexual fantasies , instead of just the other way round . I'll rate ' Horoscope ' . Kern was a unique and talented filmmaker who could have become a major director if his talents had been channelled more carefully .
Great gimmick , feeble film	' Always Together ' is a low-budget Warner Brothers drama with one of the cleverest gimmicks I've ever seen in any movie . That gimmick is probably the only reason why you'll want to see this film . Unfortunately , the gimmick is used in the service of a turgidly dull and unsympathetic plot line . If only this gimmick had been saved for a better movie ! The plot is simple , dull and implausible all at the same go . Jane and Don are impoverished newlyweds . Although they badly need funds , Jane is convinced that money is the root of all evil . A wealthy eccentric , dying from one of those convenient B-movie diseases , bequeaths a million smackeroonies to Jane . She accepts the aforementioned smackeroonies with unlikely reluctance , but without telling Don . Then the dying millionaire recovers , and he wants his money back . The lead roles in this film are played by actors who never attained stardom , mainly because ( how can I put this tactfully ? ) they stink . As the millionaire with the boomerang bankroll , Cecil Kellaway is a bit less twinkle-twee than usual . Ernest Truex ( who usually annoys me ) is impressive in a supporting role . A special dungeon in the deepest circle of Hell is reserved for Chester Clute , the most annoying actor in the entire history of Hollywood , who plays here a ( much too long ) brief role in the proceedings . Oh , yeah : that gimmick . Like the character played by Mia Farrow in ' The Purple Rose of Cairo ' ( a much better movie than this one ) , Jane tries to forget her troubles by going to the movies . Conveniently , the actions of the characters she watches on screen at the matinees seem to parallel the situations which Jane is experiencing in her own life . Now here's the great part : the characters in these films-within-the-film are played by actual movie stars , instantly recognisable . Humphrey Bogart does a brief scene , weeping near a windowpane . Errol Flynn gets a look-in , as do Alexis Smith and Jack Carson . ' Always Together ' is a Warners film , so it's not surprising that the actors in these films-within-the-film are all actors under contract to Warners : the impressive part is that they're all Warners STARS , rather than merely contract players . This reminds me of a running feature in the TV series ' MASH ' , which was produced by 20th Century-Fox : whenever the ' MASH ' unit had a movie night , the movie was always ( by some amazing coincidence ) an old 20th Century-Fox film . This sludge was written by Henry and Phoebe Ephron , a couple of hacks who were deservedly forgotten . . . but who are now well-known again due to the recent prominence of their daughter Nora Ephron . I'll rate ' Always Together ' , solely for the brief performances of the famous actors in the films-within-the-film .
Oh , golly ! Where's Ollie ?	Before the days of home video , Stan Laurel's pre-Hardy comedy ' Kill or Cure ' was known - - to the extent that it was known at all - - only because a few sequences were included in Robert Youngson's compilation film ' Laurel and Hardy's Laughing 20's ' . Youngson knew what he was doing : the best gags in ' Kill or Cure ' were brought intact into his compilation , while the rest of this only mildly funny comedy remained on Youngson's cutting-room floor . Laurel portrays a commercial traveller , hawking a patent medicine cried Professor I . O . Dine's Knox-All : that name is the funniest joke in this movie , which ain't sayin ' much . I should point out that this movie dates from 1923 , the shank of Prohibition . During Prohibition , quite a lot of Americans purchased patent medicine if it had ( ahem ! ) ' medicinal ' properties , so - - if Knox-All contains alcohol - - Stan's job in this movie is less desperate than the one which he and Ollie famously had in ' Big Business ' , selling Christmas trees in the summer . Too bad for this movie that it's not nearly so funny as ' Big Business ' . We see Stan ( but don't hear him , in this silent film ) delivering a spirited sales talk to a man who seems to be paying attention . . . until we learn that they're standing outside a deaf-mute institution , and this man is deaf . A haughty woman emerges from the gates : Stan quickly tries to engage her attention by wiggling his fingers at her . Of course she's not deaf , and she promptly whacks him with her umbrella . I found this sequence offensive , NOT because it involves deaf people ( the deaf aren't the butt of the joke ) but because it abets the very widely-held misconception among hearing people that they can communicate with the deaf by merely waggling their fingers randomly and performing Charades without actually learning the highly complex grammar of sign language . More amusingly , a spinster in this movie has a pet canary named Rudolph ( as in Valentino ) , and there's a gag involving trick photography to enable a man to hide behind an object that's narrower than his body . I've seen this device in several cartoons and live-action movies but ' Kill or Cure ' is , I think , the earliest movie to use it that I've seen so far . Stan Laurel , an under-rated actor , does one bit of physical business here that's worthy of Chaplin or Keaton , in which he conveys his emotions - - and a change in his demeanour - - while walking away from the camera with his back to us . Still , Laurel never really became a first-rate comedian until he united with Oliver Hardy to form the greatest comedy team ever . ' Kill or Cure ' barely rates .
Kilted Colman , creepy Cody	Ronald Colman is fondly remembered for his beautifully modulated voice , so it's surprising that he played starring roles in silent movies , in which his voice was irrelevant . According to Garson Kanin , Colman almost left Hollywood when talking pictures came in , because he feared that his voice wasn't good enough for talkies ! Blanche Sweet has the title role in ' The Sporting Venus ' , but Ronald Colman has more screen time in this silent romance . He portrays Donald MacAllan , a Scottish doctor in 1914 , and Colman actually plays a few brief scenes in a tartan kilt ! ( I'm a MacIntyre myself , but I'm not an expert on the minor tartans , so I can't tell if the kilt that Colman wears in long shot is the authentic MacAllan . After I saw this movie , I looked at the tartan pattern in an advert for MacAllan Highland Malt Whisky ; it didn't match Colman's tartan , but that proves nothing . ) MacAllan is in love with Lady Gwendolyn , a wilful heiress who spends half her time in athletic pursuits and the other half in gambling sprees , squandering her family fortune . ( Blanche Sweet - - Sweet by name , sweet by nature - - usually played treacly ingenues , so it's interesting to see her in a more vivacious role . ) Lady Gwendolyn returns MacAllan's affection , but they're not formally betrothed . From out of the gorse-bushes and across the moor comes Lew Cody in Snidely Whiplash mode as Carlos , the Prince of Portugania . ( He probably lives next-door-over from the Emperor of Portugallia , the character played by Lon Chaney in ' The Tower of Lies ' . ) The prince is a pauper , having squandered the Portuganian exchequer . . . so he sets his sights on Lady Gwendolyn's bountiful bank-balance . After Archduke Ferdinand goes Sayonara at Sarajevo , MacAllan joins the British Expeditionary Force and heads for France so that he can become an Army surgeon . This leaves the coast clear for Carlos to woo Lady Gwendolyn with one hand whilst twirling his moustaches with the other . Carlos has no money to spend on Lady Gwendolyn ( and very likely he's a cheapskate anyway ) , so he resorts to ridiculous ruses such as plying her with bouquets that his manservant has stolen from cemeteries . Ah , romance . . . MacAllan comes home on furlough , traumatised by his ordeal in the trenches . Knowing that MacAllan is his chief rival for Lady Gwendolyn's hand ( and her handy money ) , Carlos uses false evidence to convince MacAllan that Lady Gwendolyn is now his fiancée . MacAllan staggers off to the Somme like an insomniac , vowing never to see Lady Gwendolyn again . Months pass , and it certainly seems like it . His valour in battle as a field surgeon inspires MacAllan to make a name for himself ( after the Armistice ) as a society doctor . In jig time , he makes enough wampum to buy the mansion of Sir Alfred and Lady Grayle , who are Lady Gwendolyn's neighbours . Will true love triumph ? Who cares ? Colman's performance as the noble selfless MacAllan is impressive , especially as he can't rely on his splendid voice to aid his characterisation . Blanche Sweet is quite good in an atypical role ( less blanched than usual , and not nearly so sweet ) , but her character is extremely unsympathetic : Lady Gwendolyn is splurging her fortune in the casinos whilst men are dying at Ypres . Blanche Sweet is not likely to appeal to modern viewers : beak-nosed , flat-chested , emaciated to the point of anorexia . Yet in this film I found her quite sexy in her haughty performance , tiara firmly in place . Josephine Crowell , as a peeress , is so coarse and unwatchable that I fast-cranked her scenes through my Steenbeck viewer . Comedy stalwart Hank Mann does well in a comic-relief role as Cody's flunky , but Mann seems to be in a different movie from everyone else . Mann's comedy bits badly clash with the rest of this weepy film . ' The Sporting Venus ' is a poor sport indeed , and I'll rate this movie . Later in his career , Ronald Colman would do a far , far better thing than this .
How can I put this delicately ?	I find Emma Thompson extremely sexy , not merely because of her classic English-rose beauty and her physical grace , but also because of her keen intelligence and sense of humour . ' Thompson ' was meant to be a showcase for her talents as a comedian , dancer and scriptwriter , in a format permitting her and her friends to put on a wide range of accents and disguises . Unfortunately , an utter lack of discipline queered the project . . . and , frankly , it was only Ms Thompson's charisma and physical appeal that kept me watching this dull tosh . Part of the problem is that Thompson seems to have caught here a dose of Tracey Ullman Disease : she seems to be more interested in impressing us with what a wide range of characters she can portray , with different accents and physical crotchets , rather than developing any of those characters in a funny skit . Also , Thompson seems to be borrowing half a leaf ? only half of one ? from the Monty Python lads , by larding these sketches with high-end intellectual references . The Pythons did that too , but they were careful to balance the Proust references with low comedy and cheeky bawdiness . Ms Thompson seems to be pitching her jokes at Mensa . I did enjoy the musical sequences , in which Thompson dances gracefully to the simple accompaniment of a piano . These sequences are evidently ad-libbed . . . or , maybe not . It's clear to me that Thompson and her accompanist have carefully planned and choreographed the beginning of each routine , as well as its ending , leaving the middles to be entirely free-form . Unfortunately , this becomes a bit too obvious when each dance sequence fills its allotted time , and Thompson and her pianist make a lurching transition from total improv to tightly-rehearsed finale . I watched every episode of ' Thompson ' , but frankly I did so only because I enjoy listening to Emma Thompson's voice and watching her face and body . The script material on offer here , alas , just isn't interesting . And Imelda Staunton ceased to be funny when she left " Is It Legal ? " . I'll rate this ill-thought experiment just . A much earlier British series ? " What's On Next ? " ? had a similar format , but was much funnier .
I don't mean to be mean to Armenia , but . . .	I saw the Armenian comedy ' Shor and Shorshor ' in October 2007 at the Cinema Muto festival in Pordenone , Italy ; the festival screened a new 35mm print struck from a 28mm diacetate . I didn't think much of this film : it's an extremely crude comedy ; so very crude that I was surprised to learn that its year of production was 1927 rather than circa 1912 . Readers of this site may feel that I'm unfairly comparing an Armenian movie to contemporary product from Hollywood ( or Britain ) made on a much bigger budget , with higher production values . In fact , although I recognise that Armenian film-makers in the 1920s did not have loadsadosh , there were quite a few other nations in Central Europe ( and Asia ) making far more sophisticated movies by 1927 , often with no more money to spend than was splashed out here . IMDb's synopsis is accurate . The two friends get drunk and have various hallucinations , including an appearance by the Devil . ( Priests don't come off very well here either . ) Inanimate objects misbehave , but who cares ? Georges Melies was doing this sort of thing much better back in 1903 . In fact , the Devil had a more interesting costume in Melies's movies too . I'll rate this one just barely ; I would have rated it even lower , but I expect that this movie deserves extra credit for being made in such an impoverished place . And the exteriors offer us a few pleasant views of the Armenian countryside .
Bolshevik borscht	The Hollywood producer Sam Goldwyn had a Greta Garbo complex : for well over a decade , he made repeated attempts to find some exotic European actress whom he could lure to Hollywood and mould into the next Garbo . He brought several would-be Garbos to Hollywood , but none of them ever clicked . The least unsuccessful of these was Anna Sten , who was pretty and somewhat talented but definitely no Garbo . Several years after Sten's career failed to take off , Goldwyn was still importing new Garbo wanna-be's . . . with the result that one of them became known as " Goldwyn's Last Sten " . ' Zemlya v plenu ' is intended as a starring vehicle for Anna Stein ; she is pretty and personable here , but hardly a great actress . Yakov is a poor sharecropper who comes back from the war and marries his childhood love , the illiterate peasant girl Maria ( Sten ) . When Yakov tries to lease an acre of land from the local nobleman ( a Baron who is literally a land baron ) , the Baron rents to Yakov and Maria the acre which is at the very bottom of his valley . . . so it is full of all the boulders and stones which have rolled down both sides of the hill . When Yakov falls behind on the rent , the Baron forces Maria to come to his estate and work as a nurse-companion for his adult daughter Anya . Still working the farm , Yakov sends letters to his illiterate wife , telling her how terrible things are . Maria asks Anya to read the letters for her . Anya wants to keep Maria with her on the manor , so she maliciously deludes Maria . . . pretending to read the letters aloud but actually inventing new text in which Yakov reports that everything is tickety-boo down on the farm . Eventually Anya's husband tries to rape Maria . When she defends herself , the Baron and his household close ranks round his son-in-law ( can't have any scandal , you know ) , and Maria is falsely denounced as a prostitute . When the news reaches Yakov , will he still love her ? When I saw this movie , I understood Ira Gershwin's line about " more skies of grey than any Russian play " . This is a Russian soap opera , full of gloom and doom and mutterings . Sten's performance is good , but nowhere near Garbo's standards . The actor who plays Yakov is good , although he overdoes his peasant get-up . Mikhail Markov is excellent as the lip-curling Baron . The actor playing the son-in-law is competent , whilst the actress portraying Anya overacts horribly . Much of the content is intended as communist propaganda : we're clearly meant to see how terrible things used to be in Russia during the bad old days of the White Russian aristocracy . There are some beautiful exterior shots in this movie , and the lighting and art direction are excellent . I wish that the various talents involved in this film had been able to collaborate on better material . I'll rate this movie . Pass the borscht , comrade .
Gobbledygook up the yin-yang .	' The Reincarnation of Karma ' is a weird film , right enough , but some of its weirdness is down to incoherence rather than the film's exotic subject matter . The synopsis already posted on this movie's IMDb page is accurate , but it's also much clearer than the movie itself . That's because some of the action is repeated . The first time we see it , there's an implication that it's merely a dream rather than actual events : the second time , we see it in flashback , which implies that the events actually happened . As you might guess from its title , this movie is a chop-suey of a couple of different Oriental belief systems . Early on , we meet Courtenay Foote ( what a name ! ) as Karma ( what a name ! ) , the long-haired priest of a temple filled with robed female acolytes . When one particular priestess with an unspellable name ( Rosemary Theby ) gets the hots for him , Karma shouts ' Great Buddah ! Save me from this woman who tempts me ! ' Huh ? Eh ? Despite his name , Karma doesn't seem to be a Buddhist , and Buddhism ( unlike several other religions ) has no teachings against sexuality , so there's no reason why Buddha should intervene in the monkeyshines . Later , we see Foote again as a modern westerner who of course is the reincarnation of Karma . I was vaguely impressed by how the torch-lit set was photographed , and also impressed by how the set for the ancient temple in the prologue was re-dressed as the same temple ( thousands of years later ) in the present , now in ruins . Rosemary Theby was a prolific silent-film actress who is now remembered ( if at all ) only as WC Fields's wife in ' The Fatal Glass of Beer ' . Flat-chested , beak-nosed , she isn't conventionally sexy or glamorous . Yet here and in a couple of other films ( notably as the enchantress Morgan Le Fay , in the 1921 ' A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court ' ) Theby displays some genuine allure . It's a shame that she wasn't born 20 years later ; she might have had an interesting career in early talkies . But ' The Reincarnation of Karma ' is mostly gobbledygook with a yin-yang flavour , and I'll rate it barely .
' Dangerous Hours ' ? More like ' Dangerous Howlers ' .	The best thing about the movie ' Dangerous Hours ' is its title . I've never made any secret of the fact that I despise all forms of communism , especially the Soviet variety , and that I also despise movies which depict communism favourably . Well , ' Dangerous Hours ' is fervently anti-communist , and yet it delivers its message so dishonestly ( and manipulates the audience so egregiously ) that I very nearly felt sorry for the communists ! I certainly felt sorry for the actors lumbered with playing Trotskyites in this inept movie . Handsome but bland Lloyd Hughes plays John King . With a name like that , you know he's a crusading idealist . He observes a picket line at a silk factory , and then notices that outside agitators ( redlegs ? ) are infiltrating the union . When John tells a policeman that these agitators are merely trying to uplift humanity , the cop ( in a nicely cynical line ) replies that they can do it someplace further up the street . Along comes exotic blonde Sophia Guerni . With a name like that , you know she's a slimy foreigner . Sophia has a penchant for wearing heavily frogged shirts of the style usually favoured by Volga boatmen ; the rig makes her look like Eugene Onegin . Enticed by Sophia , naive John involves himself in the workers ' struggle , not realising that he's merely being duped by the bolshies . Into this borscht bounds a bolshevik who rejoices in the monicker Boris Blotchi . With a name like that , you know he's a filthy agitator . Boris is Blotchi by name and blotchy by nature . He's also a Russian communist who has come to the United States with the specific agenda of organising American labourers away from their legitimate grievances and into a movement to overthrow democracy . He and Sophia are in cahoots . . . I mean , they're comrades in the revolution . SPOILERS COMING . It's clear to us ( but not to John ) that the coldly beautiful Sophia is interested in him only because she can exploit him as a dupe . But the rather less exotic May Weston is attracted to John unselfishly . . . and May is 100 % yankee-doodle American . It's no mystery how this movie will end , but before it gets there John is embroiled in a climactic strike action that turns into a riot . ' Dangerous Hours ' does address real issues . When this movie was made ( 1919 ) , organisations such as the International Workers of the World were trying to organise and unionise American labourers . . . but those organisations were heavily infiltrated by communists and other agitators who had their own agenda that contradicted the workers ' interests , and most Americans ( including the labourers ) wisely mistrusted such organisers . Unfortunately , ' Dangerous Hours ' makes no attempt to address the issues honestly . This movie's intertitles constantly editorialise , telling the audience how we're supposed to think at every point in the narrative . As a staunch advocate of democracy , I'm always annoyed when dramatic works which advocate democracy don't trust their audiences or readers to think for themselves . All of the communist characters in this film are stereotypes , and the actors depict them accordingly . The bland Lloyd Hughes is now remembered only for ' The Lost World ' and ' The Mysterious Island ' , two science-fiction films in which he was easily upstaged by ( respectively ) a runaway brontosaurus and a horde of platypus humanoids . In the early sequences of ' Dangerous Hours ' , Hughes's blandness actually works in his favour ; we accept him as a blank slate on which the wily Sophia can write her agenda . Later in the film , when John King recovers his wits and his conscience , Hughes is less believable . Interestingly , two years after starring in ' Dangerous Hours ' , Lloyd Hughes gave possibly the best performance of his career in ' Hail the Woman ' : in a supporting role , again as a naive young man who is easily led ( this time by his father ) yet who again recovers his integrity and his courage by the final reel . ' Dangerous Hours ' and ' Hail the Woman ' were both scripted or co-scripted by C . Gardner Sullivan ; I suspect that Hughes's vastly superior performance in the latter film was down to the expert direction of John Griffith Wray . . . a much better director than Fred Niblo , who helmed ' Dangerous Hours ' . Wray's premature death was a great loss to the cinema . Some of the other reviewers on IMDb seem to feel that I rate movies based on whether or not they stroke my own personal predilections . If that were true , then - - since I'm extremely anti-communist and pro-democracy - - I had ought to give high marks to ' Dangerous Hours ' . In fact , although I agree with this movie's politics , I dislike its weak story telling , its dishonest depictions of communists , and its inability to trust the audience to think for ourselves . My rating for this one : just , mostly for the production values . Pass the borscht , comrade .
No midgets , no ventriloquists .	I sought out ' The Branded Man ' because it was based on a story by Tod Robbins , author of some grotesque fiction . I was disappointed twice over : firstly , this story contains no homicidal midgets , schizophrenic ventriloquists , nor any of the other bizarre elements in Robbins's best work . Secondly , even on its own merits , this story isn't much more than prosaic . Here goes . Fred Colgate is a simple homespun man who happens to be immensely rich , thanks to a convenient inheritance . ( In real life , Tod Robbins inherited money as a young man , and married a couple of millionaire heiresses . ) As part of his inheritance , Fred finds himself the landlord of a block of flats . While inspecting his property , he meets one of his tenants - - the mercenary Eleanor - - who straight away vamps him and marries him . But Eleanor isn't faithful . When Fred catches her vamping another man , he's so humiliated he abandons his business and runs away , leaving everyone to assume that Fred is dead . He's not dead : he's just in Mexico , where he's decided to start all over as a prizefighter . ( Andy Clyde , usually a performer in comedy roles , is excellent as his trainer . ) Meanwhile , Fred has a reunion with sweet Louise , who knew him when he was poor . . . and now that he's poor again , she loves him . SPOILERS COMING NOW . Eleanor is murdered by her lover , leaving Fred free to reclaim his abandoned identity - - and his money - - and to marry Louise . I found this movie more than somewhat implausible . Its title refers to the fact that Fred feels branded , stigmatised by his wife's infidelity . But why should her behaviour be a reflection on him ? I was never able to respect the leading character in this movie , because he felt guilty for events that weren't his own fault , and he didn't stand up to defend his reputation . It doesn't help that the art direction and production values are so poor . Sadly , I'll rate this movie just , for the good performances of Andy Clyde and Gordon Griffith despite a badly-written script .
Love barges in , but the lovers are in Seine .	I saw ' La Belle Nivernaise ' in October 2005 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Sacile , Italy . Having seen many silent films from many nations , I'm accustomed to the difficulties of reading intertitles in a foreign language . I'm also acquainted with the more disorienting experience of viewing a silent film which possesses translated titles rather than the originals . . . for example , screening a print of a Hollywood-made silent film with its original English-language titles removed and Italian titles ( with inaccurate translations ) spliced in . The Sacile festival screened a print of ' La Belle Nivernaise ' which had been restored by Cineteca del Comune di Bologna from two different sources . . . so some of the intertitles were the original French ones , and others were Spanish translations . I found this deeply distracting , since I had to keep shifting mental gears between different languages . Je non puedo parlez Españçaise , oui ? Worse luck , I strongly dislike films with irrelevant or deliberately misleading titles . Movie-goers in 1923 were probably meant to assume that ' La Belle Nivernaise ' is the film's heroine : in fact , that's the name of the barge owned by the Louveau family in this movie . The film makes an attempt to depict the river Seine ( with its canals ) as a character in this story in its own right , much as the Mississippi is a character in ' Huckleberry Finn ' . Unfortunately , this dead-earnest movie hasn't one-twentieth of the power of Mark Twain's novel . Still worse , the entire movie seems to be edited to the dead-slow pace of the river . IMDb's synopsis of this film is accurate . The exterior photography is quite beautiful , and the very impressive editing features several imaginative match cuts . The actors , all unknown to me , give believable performances within the slow-paced and depressing mise-en-scene of humble peasants . Unfortunately , all of this movie's considerable merits are in the service of a gloomy and depressing story . SPOILERS COMING : Eventually the adopted boy Victor weds his beloved Clara , and it's implied that they live happily ever after : Monsieur Louveau even gives them their own barge , christened ' La Nouvelle Nivernaise ' ! The ending is meant to be romantic and hopeful , but I found it somewhat distasteful . Victor , after all , was raised under the same roof as Clara , more or less as step-siblings , so the ending felt to me as if he was marrying his sister . Those crazy French . . . Apparently this film was a commercial and artistic flop at the time of its original release , and I don't much wonder . According to the programme notes at Sacile , even this film's director Jean Epstein regretted the movie's dead-slow pace when he attended a public screening . I'll rate this treacle-slow tragedy just , for its technical proficiency . If you want to watch an exciting movie about bargemen , see ' Young Adam ' .
Not what you Frink it is	' The Merry Frinks ' sounds like it's about a vaudeville act . Actually , this is one of the more obscure examples of a comedy subgenre that was popular in the 1930s : a ' wacky ' family with several different eccentric personalities all living under the same roof . Well-known examples of this subgroup are ' You Can't Take It with You ' and ' Three-Cornered Moon ' . ' The Merry Frinks ' is more plausible than either of these , but not much . I really dislike Aline MacMahon . She was an extremely plain-featured character actress whose performances I've always found very mannered and unrealistic . I've never understood why some people value her so highly . In his book about pre-1945 movie stars , film historian David Shipman devotes a chapter to MacMahon . . . but she was definitely a supporting actress , not a star , despite what Shipman says . And yet in ' The Merry Frinks ' she is cast in the central and largest role , for one of the very few times in her film career . ( Another starring vehicle for MacMahon was ' Once in a Lifetime ' . ) Hattie Frink ( MacMahon ) has the thankless task of slaving for her family of oddball no-hopers . These include her husband ( the annoying Hugh Herbert ) , who keeps getting sacked for drunkenness ; her eldest son Emmett , a radical lawyer ( Allen Jenkins , cast against type in a role that should have been played by Wallace Ford ) ; her truant son Stinky ( the excellent Frankie Darro ) ; and her meddlesome mother-in-law . Rich uncle Newt ( the great Guy Kibbee ) shows up on the Frink doorstep , expecting Hattie to cook his favourite meal for him . She does , and it kills him . . . but he dies happy . Then it turns out that Newt has left all his millions to Hattie , with the proviso that she must leave her family in order to collect the dosh . She scarpers off to Park Avenue and takes up with a gigolo ( Ivan Lebedeff ) . Meanwhile , chez Frink , Hattie's family are forced to fend without her . . . and they appreciate her at last . This story could have been quite funny , but it's too unpleasant . ' The Merry Frinks ' reminds me of that intentionally awful Monty Python sketch about the world's most disgusting family . We're expected to empathise with Hattie Frink , but I didn't care about her nor anyone else in this movie . Will Hattie give up her millions to move back home with her ingrate family ? The ending is both highly predictable and extremely implausible . On the way to get there , we do see one extremely impressive tracking shot ( by the underrated Arthur Edeson ) which required a very complicated ' wild ' interior set of the entire Frink house . Elsewhere , the photographic effects seem to be more complicated than necessary . This film reminded me of several WC Fields movies ( such as ' Man on the Flying Trapeze ' ) in which he's put upon by his entire family , the difference being that in this case the victim is the materfamilias . I'll rate this movie only . At the risk of being ungallant , I'll say that one reason I found this movie so unpleasant is because Aline MacMahon is so ugly . If a more photogenic actress ( such as the underrated Ruth Donnelly ) had been cast in the main role , I would have found the movie much less painful to watch . There's nothing very merry about the Frinks .
not so much ' Blind ' as ' Dumb ' .	This movie's title pays tribute to the deity of Justice , when it should have spent some time at the altar of Credibility . The underrated character actor Ernest Torrence plays ' Big ' Bill Devens , a railway navvy whose wife Eileen leaves him to marry a more promising man named Clayton . . . abandoning her infant daughter Moira in the process . Fade in years later , and former labourer Big Bill is now the president of the railway , having risen to that position through graft . His daughter Moira has grown up to become the exquisitely beautiful blonde Esther Ralston . Meanwhile , Eileen Clayton has fallen on hard times . Aware of her former husband's success , she goes to see him in the hope of a hand-out . There's a painful scene in which mother Eileen and daughter Moira cross paths in the waiting room but don't recognise each other . Moira is here to see Hugh Dillon , her father's handsome lawyer . SPOILERS COMING . Then comes a killing by Kelling . Big Bill's associate Henry Kelling shoots him dead , and Eileen Clayton is arrested for the deed . So far , Dillon has been a civil lawyer , but now he jumps the bar and becomes a criminal-defence advocate so that he can represent Eileen Clayton . Dillon is the only one who knows that Mrs Clayton is Moira's mum . For love of Moira , he decides to save her mother from the electric chair . Since Eileen Clayton clearly had no qualms about abandoning her own daughter , why should Dillon attach any significance to the maternal bond ? This movie is full of characters I don't give a damn about . Esther Ralston is extremely beautiful in this film , but her role has the least to do ( and is the least well-written ) of the main characters in this story . The actor Charles Lane who plays the judge during the trial sequence is not the famous sourpuss character actor of that name . I'll rate ' The Blind Goddess ' .
Unsavoury slavery ; not enough bravery .	After I saw this movie , my brain wanted to wash its hands . I used a hand-held Steenbeck viewer to watch ' The White Slave ' , and some of the antics in this crude movie were so repulsive I nearly dropped the Steenbeck . ' The White Slave ' is immensely racist : it's one of those antebellum mellerdrammers that celebrates slavery - - specifically , the enslavement of blacks by southern whites - - as an institution to be cherished rather than reviled . A title card ushers us into the Terrebonne plantation in deepest Louisiana . Salem Scudder ( Herbert Barry ) is the kindly southern overseer who presides over the slaves . Also on the plantation is young Zoe , who looks white ( portrayed by white actress Clara Kimball Young ) , but who is actually one-eighth Negro : the offspring of an encounter between the now-deceased " massa " ( a judge , no less ) and one of his quadroons . As anyone knows who has seen ' Show Boat ' , Zoe is technically black and is therefore a slave . A slave boy named Paul ( played by white actor Kenneth Casey in blackface ) is murdered by Jake McCloskey ( William Ranous ) , the former overseer . . . who is actually a Northerner , and is therefore ( in this story ) automatically a villain . McCloskey frames a Red Indian named Wah-No-Tee ( George Streaton ) for the crime . Wah-No-Tee is depicted as a stereotypical ' noble red man ' , but at least this is a positive stereotype rather than a negative one . McCloskey lusts for Zoe , announcing to us in a title card : " I'll have her if it cost me my life . " Just in time , along comes the late judge's handsome nephew Peyton ( Earle Williams ) back from Paris , where he's been studying French women . The plantation is financially bankrupt ( as opposed to the rest of this movie , which is morally bankrupt ) and the bailiffs are about to auction all of its assets . . . meaning , of course , the slave labour . The man who makes the winning bid for Zoe will be legally her owner ! Will she be purchased by the noble Southerner or by the foul Northerner ? Who cares ? This movie is racist drivel . Lurking in the canebrakes are annoying actress Lillian Walker as a brainless southern ingenue named Dora , and an apparently genuine black actor ( unnamed in the titles ) as Old Pete , the faithful old Negro whose greatest pleasure am to serve de white folks . What really angered me about this agitprop film is that , like ' The Birth of a Nation ' ( a much better movie ) , it never questions the morality of slavery . The damsel in distress here , Zoe , is a white woman in every sense except for the legal technicality which defines her as black and therefore as property . ' The White Slave ' works itself into a froth over the unfairness of fair Zoe being treated as chattel , but doesn't have any objection to the fact that Old Pete , young Paul and the other blacks are slaves . Nor is there any concern that Wah-No-Tee is deemed inferior to his white neighbours , although ( SPOILER coming now ) at least there's enough justice here for Wah-No-Tee to receive a last-minute reprieve from a lynching . This movie is badly photographed and statically paced , with tableau stagings on unconvincing sets that make the action ( what there is of it ) seem more stagebound than necessary . Clara Kimball Young's ethereal beauty comes through in a couple of close shots - - her husband James Young was this movie's director - - but some of the other actors are lighted so poorly ( in blocking so badly staged and filmed ) that I could barely make out their faces . . . although I did spot the Vitagraph logo in a couple of the on-screen tableaux . Some of the costumes are impressive , but - - since this drama supposedly takes place in the early 19th century , and most of the characters are skint - - that workmanship actually worked against the story's credibility . My rating for this racist mess : just barely .
Shearer becomes a Cody pendant	' His Secretary ' is a comedy starring Norma Shearer . . . which is a bad combination to be getting on with , as comedy was never Shearer's strong point . ( In her most successful comedy , ' The Women ' , she plays her central role entirely straight . ) But ' His Secretary ' is an MGM film , and Shearer was at this point Irving Thalberg's favourite ( and later his wife ) , so she was quids-in to get the role . Our story begins at the firm of Colman & Sloden . Fat middle-aged John Sloden is busy in his office . Busy kissing his very pretty blonde flapper secretary Clara , that is , until Mrs Sloden arrives . Clara gets the sack very quickly , and Mrs Sloden demands that her husband engage a new secretary who is much less attractive . Well , ' much less attractive ' is a good description of Norma Shearer . Here , she's cast as Ruth Lawrence , a plain Jane with bobbed hair and very demure clothes which emphasise that Miss Shearer's figure strongly resembles the Norfolk Broads , only slightly flatter . Sloden takes one look at Ruth and vows he wouldn't kiss her for $1 , 000 . She's hired ! But Sloden's younger partner is David Colman . Ruth gets taken on a business trip to Washington , DC . . . and it IS a business trip , all perfectly respectable . But while there , Ruth gets herself a makeover , then proceeds to vamp Colman . Since Colman is played by movie-star handsome Lew Cody , the ending is obvious . There's a good performance by Estelle Clark as another secretary for the firm . Less welcome here is Karl Dane as the company's porter . Dane's part is irrelevant to the plot line ; he's clearly been written in as comic relief , but he isn't funny . And this movie is meant to be a comedy , so why does it need comic relief ? Dane became a star at MGM in the late silent era , only to have his career ruined when talking pictures revealed his thick Danish accent . He ended up operating a hot-dog barrow outside the front gate of the studio where he'd been a star . After a few months of flogging his weenies , Dane committed suicide . However , I don't think the problem was entirely down to Dane's accent . From what I've seen ( and heard ) of his career , he simply wasn't a very talented actor , and this became more obvious when talking pictures brought a more naturalistic style of acting . I'll rate ' His Secretary '
Eugene O'Neill did it better .	' Anna Lucasta ' was originally a stage play with a white cast , filmed in 1949 . A few years on from its debut , the play's original author ( Philip Yordan ) re-staged it with all the roles played by African-Americans . This was considered something of a gimmick at the time , but the gimmick was still fresh a bit later when Pearl Bailey played the Jewish matchmaker Dolly Levi in an all-black Broadway production of ' Hello , Dolly ! ' And before ' Anna Lucasta ' , there was Bizet's opera reworked with African-American characters as ' Carmen Jones ' . I'm hugely a fan of Sammy Davis Jnr , who plays the male lead in this all-black remake , so I was curious to know why his ghost-written autobiography ' Yes I Can ' made almost no mention of ' Anna Lucasta ' . Now I know . The film is not very good . As young sailor Danny Johnson , on leave and looking for some lovin ' , Davis is physically well-cast but gives a poor performance . He would later prove himself a dramatic actor of considerable subtlety , but at this point in his career Davis was primarily a musical performer , and in ' Anna Lucasta ' he seems desperate for an excuse to burst into song or dance . With no music cues to fall back on , Davis overacts shamelessly here . The title role is played by Eartha Kitt , whom I've always found painful to watch . She really overdoes the feline routine . It was acceptable when she played Catwoman ( literally a comic-book character ) or in ' Shinbone Alley ' , in which Kitt actually played an alley cat , but ' Anna Lucasta ' is a serious drama requiring some subtlety , and the words ' Eartha Kitt ' and ' subtle ' don't fit into the same sentence . I got a big laugh a few years ago , when Eartha Kitt was exposed as a pretentious know-nothing . In 1998 , she made a public statement that she was a lifelong devotee of astrology : she had scrupulously followed her horoscope , and it had guided her through her successful career . Shortly after she made this statement , someone located Eartha Kitt's birth certificate . . . and it turned out that , all these years , she'd been following the horoscope for the wrong birth date ! Anna Lucasta is a small-town girl whose father Joe is outraged at her moral lapses , so he orders her out of his house . Then he hypocritically tries to reconcile with her for selfish reasons , hoping to marry her off to Rudolph , the son of Joe's evil crony Frank . In the important role of pious Rudolph , actor Henry Scott is too stolid and stodgy . If he had been a bit more energetic , and Sammy Davis had been a bit less energetic , this would have been a better film . And it's never explained how the shifty Frank has produced such a goody-goody son . The primary blame for this film's flaws should go to author Philip Yordan , who adapted his own script for the screen . ' Anna Lucasta ' comes off like a poor imitation of several Eugene O'Neill plays , specifically ' Anna Christie ' . . . which even has a similar name . Changing the characters into Negroes ( to use the 1959 terminology ) gave roles to some black actors but was not otherwise a good idea . ' Anna Lucasta ' takes place in a sleazy semi-noir universe , in which a sexually attractive woman can only be a slut or an outright whore . By populating that universe with African-Americans , and excluding any positive role models - - there's not one genuinely sympathetic character in this entire piece - - Yordan has ( perhaps unintentionally ) implied that humanity's negative traits are typified by black people . I'll rate this movie . Much as I dislike Eartha Kitt , she has done better work elsewhere . So has Sammy Davis Jnr .
There are already quite enough pirates along the Potomac .	' The First Kiss ' is proficiently directed and beautifully photographed among Maryland's riverside locations , but is harmed by Fay Wray's lacklustre performance and by a ludicrous script . When I saw the retro comedy ' Movie Movie ' ( 1978 ) , I laughed that Harry Hamlin's character ( a prizefighter with jurist aspirations ) was able to get through law school ' as fast as possible ' so that he could become an instantaneous district attorney and personally prosecute the movie's villain . But ' Movie Movie ' was intentionally ludicrous ; here , we have a drama in which Gary Cooper's three layabout brothers suddenly acquire ambition and become a doctor , a lawyer and a clergyman with the same miraculous speed that Hamlin became an instant D . A . The Talbot family of Maryland were once respectable but have now gone far down the social scale . The family's paterfamilias , identified in the titles as ' Pap ' , is an old drunkard . Three of his four sons are worthless skivers : one of them has a girl's name ( Carol ) and is played by a male actor ditto ( Leslie ) . The only ambitious one in the bunch is the other brother , Mulligan Talbot ( Gary Cooper ) , who plies the shoals of Maryland as an oyster dredger ! ( Does he put the oysters into Mulligan stew ? ) And there's yet another brother , Lawrence Talbot , who ran off to Wales to become a werewolf . ( Oops , wrong movie . ) SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . Mulligan is in love with Anna Lee ( Fay Wray ; attractive here , but giving a dull performance ) , whose family are farther up the social ladder than the Talbots . Anna Lee's parents disapprove of them getting married , because Mulligan's family are trash . As if to verify that point , Pap Talbot drops dead with a whisky flask in his hand . Mulligan pledges to upgrade his family by putting his brothers through medical school , law school and divinity school . But t'ain't easy to do this on an oyster dredger's wage packet . So he decides to raise the tuition money by becoming a river pirate . . . conveniently vowing to give back the money after his brothers graduate . Does anyone see what's wrong with this plot line ? Miraculously , Pirate Cooper doesn't get caught until the very moment when his brothers have earned back their tuition . . . and , just before he can make good his thefts , Cooper gets arrested . But now he's got a priest , a doctor and a lawyer in the family , so guess what happens . The authentic locations and excellent photography are assets , but basically this is a movie in which three borderline hillbillies become instant graduates of law school , medical school and divinity school . Huh ? My rating : just barely .
Life terrible ? No , but this movie is .	A consistent gimmick in American comedy films and cartoons is the practice of giving them titles that parody recent dramatic releases , even when there's no other similarity between the serious film and the comedy . Charley Chase's 1925 comedy " Isn't Life Terrible ? " parodies the title of a D . W . Griffith drama from the previous year , " Isn't Life Wonderful ? " . . . but the two movies are otherwise dissimilar , with unrelated plots . After some early unfunny gags involving Fay Wray and fountain pens , Charley prepares to embark on a cruise with his wife , their young daughter and his work-shy brother-in-law . The latter is played by Oliver Hardy without a moustache ; regrettably , Hardy has very little to do in this movie and is given no chance to be really funny . The name of Hardy's character , Remington , is funnier than anything he does here . Charley's little daughter ( Mary Kornman ) is about nine years old . Just before they board the ocean liner , Chase accidentally loses Mary and unknowingly acquires a little Negro girl about the same age ( played by an uncredited child actress ) . There's an unpleasantly unfunny sequence in which Charley and his wife nonchalantly stroll the deck with ( they think ) their little daughter in tow , oblivious to the rude stares of busybodies wondering how this white couple have acquired a black daughter . Oddly , after Chase and his wife embark with the black girl , their daughter Mary is left alone on the quay : she isn't with the black girl's parents , and they don't seem concerned with locating their own daughter . By omission , this movie manages to imply that black parents don't care about their own children as much as white parents do theirs . I was very impressed with the personable acting of both the child actresses in this movie , making me regret that the black girl remains unidentified . She and Kornman are a couple of cute little charmers , and both of them wear fetching costumes . But the movie has a serious flaw . If this situation occurred in real life - - a child is left behind when her parents go on a trip , and another child is separated from her own parents - - the participants would be deeply concerned , and preoccupied with putting things right . In this movie , annoyingly , once Charley discovers he's got the wrong girl , he more or less treats this as a fait accompli and doesn't seem particularly concerned about Mary . There are some gags that could have been quite funny , premised on the notion that the ocean liner is so decrepit it's literally falling apart . Charley leans on a bulkhead and it falls overboard , a lifebelt sinks , and so forth . These gags are well-done , but I kept expecting the characters to return to the problem of the swapped daughters . . . which never really does become a major plot point in this ill-thought comedy . I was reminded of a similar situation in Buster Keaton's ocean-liner comedy ' The Navigator ' . Keaton filmed an elaborate sequence ( ultimately scrapped ) that drew huge laughs from preview audiences when shown out of context as a preview trailer , but which wasn't funny when included in the complete movie . . . because at that point in the story , Keaton's character had priorities that should have deterred him from this particular activity . Chase's character has a comparable conflict in " Isn't Life Terrible ? " , but doesn't confront it properly . There's a brief but effective performance by Lon Poff as a " chips " ( ship's carpenter ) who looks like Death warmed over . I would have rated this movie about , but I'll give it an extra point - - 3 in 10 - - for the charming screen presences and acting talents of the two child actresses seen here . Don't expect to laugh much during " Isn't Life Terrible ? " .
Murky turkey , herky-jerky	' Accomplice ' is a low-budget noir caper film , starring Richard Arlen after his career was long past its peak . I always liked Arlen ; during the peak years of his career ( late silent era to mid-30s ) he was almost the exact equivalent of the modern Harrison Ford : an action hero , in the classic adventurer mould , who still had credibility as a serious actor in thoughtful dramas . ' Accomplice ' , regrettably , was made ( on a VERY low budget ) after Arlen's energies had run out , and it's a poor example of his craft . Private detective Simon Lash ( Arlen ) is contacted by Joyce , an ex-girlfriend who jilted him at the altar . Joyce is played by Veda Ann Borg , who always looked trashy , and who gives a mechanical performance in this movie that makes me wonder if she's related to the Borg Collective ( in Star Trek ) . Joyce's husband Jim has been suffering from bouts of amnesia , and now he's gone missing altogether . Jim was a bank executive , and Private Eyelash ( I mean , private-eye Lash ) is a cynical sleuth , so he naturally assumes that Jim's ' amnesia ' was a pretext for embezzling bank funds . But then Lash investigates , and no funds are missing . Then , of course , he investigates a little more , and . . . ' Accomplice ' sets up an interesting premise , but the script gets murkier ? and the characters ' motivations more contrived ? as it proceeds . Noir films usually take place in a world where everyone is corruptible , everyone is motivated solely by self-interest , and the very few people who don't conform to those rules are subsidiary characters who get exploited or bumped off very early in the proceedings . ' Accomplice ' , however , belongs to that dismal subgenre which I call ' goodie noir ' , in which everybody in the world is a crook or a scoundrel EXCEPT the hero , who is always motivated by purely virtuous instincts and decency . I find this sort of story utterly implausible . Down these mean streets a man must walk , yadda yadda . ' Accomplice ' is made even more painful because it's made on a wretchedly small budget . The film's director Walter Colmes ( who ? ) shows an Ed Wood-like penchant for setting up his camera at the most ludicrous angle , over and over . We get too many car chases in this movie , and in each car chase we get lots and lots and lots of close-ups of spinning tyres . Ed Wood was an angora fetishist ; is it possible that Walter Colmes was a rubber fetishist ? The ending of ' Accomplice ' is extremely contrived . Former silent-film star Francis Ford ( John Ford's older brother ) gives a welcome performance in a supporting role . I'll rate ' Accomplice ' .
Don't bother to ' Floss '	' The Mill on the Floss ' was one of the lesser novels by Mary Ann Evans , who wrote under the male pseudonym George Eliot . I tried to read this dull and very turgid novel years ago , but was unable to finish it . I'll review this film version solely on its own merits , as I don't know how faithfully it follows the original novel . The film's opening credits are printed in an Old English typeface that suggests the mediaeval period , and so it's a very poor choice for a film with a 19th-century setting . ( On the other hand , about halfway into the film , we see a close-up shot of a handbill advertising an estate auction . This handbill is set in authentic Victorian type fonts , and looks very convincing . ) Most of this film is extremely convincing in its depiction of the architecture and clothing of early 19th-century England . The precise location of this film's story is never disclosed , but - judging by the actors ' accents - I'd place it as somewhere in the Cotswolds , perhaps Warwickshire . The plot , what there is of it , involves a mill that changes hands a couple of times ( over a couple of decades ) between two rival families , one wealthy and one working-class . I disagree with another IMDb reviewer who claims that James Mason has only a small role in this film . Mason has the largest and most central role in this drama , as the scion of the wealthier family . As the spoilt and petulant Tom Tulliver , Mason is darkly brooding and impetuous . His performance here belongs in a better film : it made me want to see ' Wuthering Heights ' recast with Mason as Heathcliff . As this is a multi-generational saga ( something which George Eliot did much better in ' Middlemarch ' ) , several of the main roles in this film are split among two actors apiece : child actors in the prologue , adults in the main narrative . The prologue of this film features a very well-written scene , establishing Tom Tulliver as wilful and bully-ragging from an early age , and young Philip Wakeham as decent and thoughtful . Through hard labour , Philip has earned a halfpenny : Tom tries to bully it away from him , but is unwilling to take the coin by brute force : he wants Philip to give it to him . All the child actors in this movie , male and female , are talented and attractive . Unfortunately , all of the children speak their dialogue in posh plummy-voiced accents that are utterly unlike the accents of the actors and actresses who play those same roles as adults . This discrepancy calls attention to the staginess of the material . Regrettably , none of the later scenes are as good as this prologue . The climax features a crowd of labourers in a rainstorm , much better paced and photographed than the earlier scenes . But modern viewers ( in Britain , at least ) can no longer take this sort of material seriously . By now , practically every British comedian has done a " trouble at t ' mill , squire " comedy routine , parodying precisely this subject matter , so I had difficulty watching this movie with a straight face . The character actress Martita Hunt is good in a small role , but the opening credits ( in that Old English typeface ) misspell her forename as ' Marita ' . I'll rate this dull movie : one point apiece for James Mason's performance , the early scene with the children , and the authentic Victorian typesetting in that auctioneer's handbill .
Just a Mini Ha-Ha .	Amazingly enough , here's a Daffy Duck cartoon that actually gives him a backstory ! According to ' The Daffy Duckaroo ' , it seems that our Merrie Melodies mallard WAS a big singing-cowboy star , but he gave it up because ( as he says ) " I want to be a lone . . . ranger . " If this premise had come along a few years later , when audiences were much more familiar with Daffy - - and more aware that his lust for fame and fortune vastly surpasses his singing ability - - nobody would believe it . But this is a comparatively early Daffy toon , when the character was still developing , so . . . what the heck . Riding along through the Painted Desert , Daffy encounters a winsome Amerindian maiden , a sweet Sioux who pitches woo to him while speaking in a prole Jewish accent . ( Not a Brooklyn accent , as somebody else has claimed on this site . ) She holds up a sign marked " DO NOT DISTURBUM " . But along comes her boyfriend , a huge Red Indian with a big beezer named Little Beaver ( an obvious reference to the ' Red Ryder ' B movies ) . For some reason , Daffy decides to dress up like a squaw to take the squawk out of this guy's tomahawk . Heap ugh ! I try to make allowances for earlier generations ' taste in humour . The Warner Brothers cartoons have an ongoing motif of female impersonation , which can be very funny unless ( stand up , Bob Clampett ) it gets too fetishistic . And I also understand the Looney Toons ' penchant for racial humour , regrettable as it is . But when those two themes both happen at the same go , I stop laughing . When Bugs Bunny impersonates a Japanese woman ( in ' Bugs Bunny Nips the Nips ' ) or here , where Daffy pretends to be an Amerindian girl , I find the racial impersonation ON TOP OF the sexual impersonation to be just a bit too distressing . Daffy Duck en femme simply isn't as funny as Bugs Bunny in that same mode . Daffy dressed as Minnehaha rates , at best , a mini ha-ha . SPOILERS COMING : Warner Brothers toons from the World War Two era tend to finish with a gag that was very topical at the time , but which is incomprehensible to modern audiences . ( Such as a reference to ' A cards ' . ) In ' The Daffy Duckaroo ' , a fast-paced chase sequence abruptly peters out with a wartime shortages gag about rubber tyres , ending in a very weak joke about a putt-putt : a vehicle designed for low fuel consumption , in the days of severe petrol rationing . Since wartime shortages and rationing were far worse here in Britain than in Daffy Duck's America , I just can't laugh . Daffy dropped a brick this time , and I'll rate this cartoon just .
. . . and I'll be Enemy # 6001 .	I'm intrigued that Paul Kelly and Tom Neal are both in the cast of ' 6000 Enemies ' . Kelly and Neal both had prolific careers in tough-guy roles , but they are now remembered largely for the fact that , in real life , both of them ( separately ) did prison time for manslaughter . The fact that ' 6000 Enemies ' is a prison movie lends an air of irony to Kelly's and Neal's presence in this film . As it happens , though , they have no scenes together . ' 6000 Enemies ' has a premise fairly similar to that of the Howard Hawks film ' The Criminal Code ' , but it takes that premise in a different direction . Steven Donegan ( Walter Pidgeon ) is a tough D . A . who has shown no mercy to the thousands of criminals he has sent to prison . Racketeer Joe Silenus ( Harold Huber ) frames Donegan on a bribery charge ; for good measure , Silenus has also framed pretty Anne ( Rita Johnson ) on an embezzlement charge . Donegan has urged no mercy for convicted criminals , so now that he is ( falsely ) convicted he finds himself on the receiving end of the same tough sentencing policy . Donegan and Anne are sent to the respective his'n'her hoosegows , but it's clear they're going to end up as each other's ball-and-chain . Disbarred D . A . Donegan finds himself doing hard time in a penitentiary where all the other convicts want to kill him . ( Hence the film's title . ) The scenes of prison life are even less realistic than usual for prison movies from this period . The movie climaxes with a prison break ( I shan't tell you if it's successful ) , but at this point all credibility has long since gone over the wall . In a small role as a petty thug , Frank Lackteen briefly displays his famous cheekbones and swarthy complexion . Esther Dale gives her usual " I've seen it all , dearie " performance . I'm always glad to see Nat Pendleton , Grant Mitchell and Raymond Hatton , but their performances here are more lacklustre than usual for these fine character actors . Paul Kelly has very little to do here , and Tom Neal even less : the irony of their presence in this prison flick far outweighs their actual performances . I'll rate ' 6000 Enemies ' only . Better make that 6 , 001 enemies . . .
This uncle isn't funny	I'm always intrigued whenever a film director remakes his or her own work . What do they want to do differently this time ? ' Der Onkel aus Amerika ' ( ' The Uncle from America ' ) , directed by Carl Boese , is a remake of his 1931 film ' Man Braucht kein Geld ' . Each film gives an interesting depiction of Germany ( and its relationship with the United States ) at their respective moment in time : the 1931 version shows Germany on the brink of Nazism during the throes of Depression which was largely caused by American financiers , whilst the 1953 remake depicts post-war West Germany rising from the ashes ( literally ) under partitioning and U . S . military supervision . Both films have nearly identical plots . In the remake , Thomas Hoffmann is a German expatriate who has reportedly made his fortune in America : now he is returning to his hometown for a visit . Schmidt is the head clerk at the local bank , which is on the brink of failure due to wartime problems and irresponsible speculation before and after the war . Schmidt believes that wealthy Hoffmann will invest in local industry ( and deposit money in the bank ) to save both the bank and the town . In the event , it turns out that Hoffmann is a failure and a fraud . Nevertheless , because Hoffmann is perceived to be rich , his mere presence attracts money : businessmen want to invest in his prosperous American businesses , unaware that those businesses are nonexistent . All is well until Hoffmann decides to turn honest and reveal the truth . . . German comedies usually manage to be unfunny , and this movie is meant to be a satire , which is even worse . The movie tries to make all sorts of clever comments about the United States , and big business , and German society , but most of these jokes fall flat . Still , this film is an interesting document of its time . I'll rate ' Der Onkel ' .
Beware of Greeks with Italian accents .	Some animation fans have a very high regard for the output of the short-lived Van Beuren studio . Van Beuren toons tend to be brightly coloured and upbeat , yet I dislike them : they're poorly animated and their stories have very little real conflict . I much prefer the cynicism and violence of the Warner Brothers cartoons , or even the leering vulgarity of the Fleischer studio's output . I agree with IMDb reviewer " CC the Movie Man " that there's very little Greek content in this toon , although " CC " is incorrect when he refers to one of the characters as ' Hercules ' . That character is in fact Mercury ( identified as such in the dialogue ) , who has a hot date tonight with Venus . But Mercury and Venus were the ROMAN versions of those deities ; why didn't this toon identify them by their Greek names , as Hermes and Aphrodite ? The main character in " It's a Greek Life " is a centaur : a figure from Greek mythology , right enough , but this centaur speaks in a Chico Marx accent and he works as a cobbler , a job which ( in ethnic stereotypes ) is associated with Italians . Along comes Mercury , who looks like a character out of Italian comic opera , and speaks accordingly . ( ' Mama mia ! ' ) This version of " Mercury " looks and sounds amazingly like Piccolo , the Italian chauffeur in Klaus Nordling's comic strip ' Lady Luck ' . . . but that strip wasn't published until World War Two . Mercury wants the centaur to repair his winged sandals so they'll be in good nick for his date tonight with Venus . The centaur , who has always wondered what it's like to fly , slips the sandals onto his own forehooves . Chaos ensues . Like all the Van Beuren output , this toon is too slight to merit deep analysis . Young children can enjoy it with no foreknowledge of classical mythology . The animation is better than usual for Van Beuren's standard , but that's not saying much . The Italian stereotypes , annoying in themselves , are even more annoying because these characters are allegedly meant to be Greek . I'll rate this toon barely .
Sorry , Damon . . .	Damon Runyon's short story ' Butch Minds the Baby ' is probably the funniest thing Runyon ever wrote ; it's certainly one of his most widely anthologised stories . I have a fairly low threshold for Runyon's world : I find most of his fictional characters extremely contrived and implausible , and I strongly dislike his penchant for lower-class characters who speak without contractions . . . such as saying ' I am not ' instead of " I'm not " or " I ain't " . Most working-class people I've encountered ( in anglophone cultures , at least ) use contractions constantly . I had keen hopes that this movie would be as funny as the story it was based on , but ( as Runyon might say ) such is not the case . Some of the changes in this film version were completely unnecessary , and weaken the original material . The film also suffers from the casting in the central role of Broderick Crawford , whose comedic talents are nil . Susie O'Neill ( the very beautiful and sexy Virginia Bruce ) is a widow with an infant son . As she must work to support herself and baby Michael , she frequently entrusts the child to big-hearted Aloysius Grogan , better known as Butch : a former safecracker who swears he has gone straight . . . but he stays in touch with his crooked buddies . In fact , now Butch's buddies want to enlist him in a payroll heist . This is a nitro job , and Butch is the only one who can handle the nitroglycerin properly . The problem is , the money will be in the safe for one night only . . . and this is the night that Butch minds Susie's baby . Butch can't get another sitter on short notice . . . so , off he goes to explode the safe , with a tube of nitroglycerin in one hand and the baby under his arm . Complications ensue . Unfortunately , they aren't nearly as funny as in the original story . Among other things , the baby starts playing with the nitro . . . but this is easy to do on the printed page . On the screen , the infant actor fails to perform on cue . . . and to see an actual baby handling explosives - - even fake explosives from the Props department - - is much less hilarious than reading this about a fictional baby . Dick Foran is the handsome cop who takes an interest in Susie and in Butch's extracurricular activities . Of course , Butch has a clever alibi : any man who carries a live baby in his coat can't possibly be out cracking safes , right ? This being a Damon Runyon movie , we get the usual rogues ' gallery of overly-contrived mugs and thugs . The funniest of these is Shemp Howard as Squinty , who is so myopic he can't recognise anyone until they're right in front of him . Albert S Rogell offers his usual leaden direction . This one barely rates . Sorry , Damon . . .
Hocus pocus , fix the focus	' Ching Ling Foo ' was the stage name of Chi Ling Qua , a native of Peking who studied the stagecraft of illusionists in his native China , then performed those tricks with tremendous success for audiences in Europe and America in the late Victorian and early Edwardian era . Ching always made it clear that his magic tricks were conjuring illusions , but they were so far ahead of anything performed by western magicians at this time that his magic tricks seemed very nearly supernatural . Among his other tricks , Ching exhaled smoke and fire , and produced a 15-foot long ( telescoping ) pole from his mouth ! His most popular trick went as follows : he would display both sides of a silk cloth , drape it across the stage , then whisk it away to reveal a large basin filled with water . After splashing some of the water into the footlights , he would cover the basin with the cloth , then whisk it away once more : the water had vanished , and now a boy stood up inside the basin . Ching never revealed how this trick was done , although some modern magicians could likely duplicate it . In his own era , Ching had many imitators but no equals . ' Ching Ling Foo Outdone ' is a crude silent movie which evokes the great Chinese illusionist in its title , but he does not appear in this film . Instead , a simply-dressed ( Occidental ) magician displays an empty cloth , spreads it on the floor , then removes it to reveal a washtub filled with water . He places the cloth on this , then whisks it away to reveal several geese swimming in the tub . He shoos away the geese , then makes the tub disappear : a grinning boy takes its place . In theory , this is a duplication of Ching's most famous illusion , made slightly more difficult by the addition of the geese . But Ching's trickery ( in front of live audiences ) was seamless , whereas - from our modern viewpoint - the trickery in this film is very obvious indeed . It relies upon jump cuts ( the same gimmick used 60 years later in the TV series ' Bewitched ' ) . The magician freezes his position for a few minutes ( and the camera stops grinding ) while stagehands shift the props onstage . . . then the action starts again . Georges Melies was doing much cleverer tricks with this same gimmick in France at this same time . I'll rate ' Ching Ling Foo Outdone ' . Its historical value as an example of early cinema is negligible . As a film record of a Victorian conjuring act , this film has no value at all . . . because it relies upon trick photography instead of genuine stagecraft .
Wanna buy a dead duck ?	Joe Penner was an extremely untalented and physically unappetising man who starred in a few low-budget comedies . Basically , Joe Penner was Lou Costello without the sex appeal . ( Or Frankie Howerd with less effeminacy . ) If Penner is now remembered at all , it's only because he was the source of a catchphrase that continues to resurface : ' Wanna buy a duck ? ' This was Joe Penner's most significant contribution to comedy , but even this was only down to a process of elimination . The Hungarian-born Penner started out in American burlesque as a baggy-pants stooge , but he failed to get any laughs . He developed the gimmick of walking out on stage carrying a random prop , and interrupting the straight man to ask him : ' Wanna buy a ( whatever object Penner was carrying ) ? ' Time after time , this business got no laughs . Eventually , Penner came out onstage clutching a wooden hunting decoy , and he asked the straight man : ' Wanna buy a duck ? ' This got a huge laugh , and a star was born . . . very briefly . Penner parlayed that one gag question into a brief career as a radio and film comedian . On the radio , Penner developed one other catchphrase that was briefly popular : ' You nassssssty man ! ' Penner merits a footnote in animation history , as his vocal schtick was the inspiration for Warner Brothers ' early cartoon character Egghead , who eventually evolved into Elmer FuddJoe Penner's best film was ' The Boys from Syracuse ' , in which he played a dual role via trick photography . But the merits of that film are largely due to the Rodgers and Hart score and several other cast members , not Penner . ' The Day the Bookies Wept ' ( great title , lousy film ) is more typical of Penner's output . This story is an attempt at imitating Damon Runyon's distinctive universe of gamblers and wise guys , but it's far below Runyon's standard . A fleet of cab drivers have decided to pool their savings and invest in a racehorse . But the nag they end up with is named Hiccough , out of Bourbon , by Distillery . ( That's the funniest gag in the picture . ) It turns out that Hiccough always runs dead last , at least when he's sober . Ah , but when Hiccough drinks beer . . . he becomes the fastest thing on four legs ! Penner plays a pigeon-breeder who implausibly ( and ineptly ) gets hired as the horse's trainer . He decides to run Hiccough as a long shot and then get the horse drunk so he'll win at long odds . Movies about animal abuse are very seldom funny . ( And I know for a fact that horses will strenuously refuse alcohol . ) The best and funniest performance in this film is given by veteran comic actor Tom Kennedy . Thurston Hall is welcome , as a blowhard named Colonel March ( no relation to Boris Karloff's one-eyed detective of that name ) . I'll rate this movie , mostly because I'm a sucker for 1930s movies full of character actors with Brooklyn accents .
Kelp beyond help ; Art Carney didn't need this .	During the late 1940s and early ' 50s , a popular children's programme on American radio was ' Land of the Lost ' , in which a boy and a girl travelled through a magical underwater kingdom ( the realm of lost toys ) guided by a talking fish named Red Lantern . The series was so popular in its time that the very early EC Comics ( before ' Tales of the Crypt ' ) launched a comic-book adaptation . The series was meant for VERY young children , and surviving recordings of the transmissions are of interest to modern listeners only because Red Lantern was voiced by a rising young actor named Art Carney , who would soon go underwater again as Ed Norton the sewer worker . Paramount , which always seemed to produce the dullest cartoons with the worst animation , launched a short-lived series of cinema toons inspired by the radio programme , and scripted by that programme's creator Isabel Manning Hewson . The participation of Hewson , a radio scripter , probably explains why this cartoon's story doesn't feel like a cartoon story at all . . . except for one vaguely amusing gag when the underwater kids ride a taxi CRAB , geddit ? Billy and Isabel , two insufferably twee kiddywinks , are fishing in a dinghy . Isabel calls attention to her costume jewellery : a cricket-shaped pin named Happy Go Lucky . This immediately pops off and falls into the water . Cue the arrival of Red Lantern ( not voiced by Art Carney , alas ) , who gives the kids some magic seaweed which will enable them to breathe and speak underwater . Hey , kids , don't you know you shouldn't take seaweed from strangers ? SPOILERS NOT WORTH SPOILING . Red Lantern escorts the kids to the underwater Land of the Lost Jewels , where they meet ( in a surprisingly adult gag ) Diamond Jill , a Mae West lookalike . Happy Go Lucky ( now a talking cricket ) has been consigned to this place , since his pin apparently contains a valuable emerald . However , this turns out to be mere costume jewellery , so he ends up in the Land of the Lost Toys instead , much to the delight of himself and the kids . The cricket sings a song , ' Happy Go Lucky ' , which sounds suspiciously as if it were written for some other plot line and bunged into this one . I find it annoying ( although very plausible ) that the denizens of the Land of the Lost Jewels would want to keep Happy Go Lucky against his will - - thinking he's valuable - - but would then do a volte-face when they learn he has no intrinsic worth . I was also somewhat dismayed that the animators of this cartoon have contrived to draw the little-girl character Isabel ( a Little Audrey lookalike ) so that her underpants are exposed at every possible opportunity . This cartoon is garishly coloured and badly animated - - up until Disney's ' Little Mermaid ' , underwater toons were always notoriously difficult to animate - - but at least this cartoon does represent some sort of record of an important radio programme ; I'll rate the toon just .
Spot the hidden " V " s	O . Henry's short story ' The Green Door ' is not among his best-known tales , but it's one of my favourite O . Henry stories ( marred only by some unfortunate racial dialect ) . Rudolf Steiner is a shy piano salesman who longs for adventure . He seems to get some one night in Manhattan's theatre district , when he spots an odd-looking man handing out business cards advertising the services of a local dentist . When Steiner tries to walk past without receiving a card , this man slips him a card reading only ' The Green Door ' . All the other pedestrians are given cards bearing a dental advert . Intrigued , Steiner walks past again , and once more he - - and he alone - - is given a card reading ' The Green Door ' , while everyone else is given an advertisement for the dentist . What's happening ? Eventually , Steiner finds a green door . Behind the green door is . . . no , not Marilyn Chambers , but a fair damsel in distress . Eventually , in one of O . Henry's more plausible twist endings , Steiner discovers the circumstances that sent him to this lady's rescue . This low-budget silent film of ' The Green Door ' was made by Thomas R . Mills , an English-born actor-showman who appears to have made a speciality of adapting O . Henry's stories for the screen . . . possibly because O . Henry's well-made plots were very popular and ( most importantly ) in the public domain . It looks like a photographed play , with very few cuts and some very stagey camera set-ups . Intriguingly , the producers of this movie ( who helped themselves to O . Henry's story without worrying about petty details such as copyrights ) went to a great deal of trouble to protect their ownership of the film prints . At several points in this story , a large serif letter " V " ( the logo of the Vitagraph Company ) is ' hidden ' somewhat obtrusively in the set dressing , to discourage other film distributors from copying this movie and re-releasing it ( with new credits and intertitles ) as their own work . I had more fun spotting the hidden " V " s than watching this movie , even though the source story is one of my favourites . I'll rate ' The Green Door ' .
Parley-voo les Garcons aux Bouwerie ?	Sometimes it's hard to tell one Bowery Boys movie from another . They tend to have similar plots , similar settings and interchangeable titles . This 1944 movie is named ' Block Busters ' , but the plot of this movie doesn't fit that title any more aptly than the plots of half a dozen other Bowery Boys movies . The new kid on the block has come here all the way from France . His name is Jean , with the French pronunciation ' Zhawn ' . He's played by an American teenager with a French accent that sounds supiciously faux , but we can tell he's French because he constantly wears a beret . At least this lad is a genuine teenager , unlike Mugs and Glimpy and Butch , who are all pushing thirty and look it . This movie was made in 1944 : Jean is a wartime refugee , which raises the question of why Mugs and Glimpy and Butch aren't in the army . SPOILERS COMING . Of course , Jean doesn't fit in . . . and of course it's up to the Bowery Boys to set things right . Mugs tells Jean to get rid of his beret , and also suggests that Zhawn should change his French name to the more American pronunciation ' Jeen ' . ( Yeah , but ain't dat a goil's name ? ) Eventually Mugs and Gimpy teach the beret-boy to play baseball , and everybody gets along toot sweet . The most interesting thing about ' Block Busters ' is the supporting cast . Not the French kid , played by an untalented actor . ' Block Busters ' features the only appearance in the entire Bowery Boys canon of silent-film comedian Harry Langdon , in a supporting role as a local meddler . Unfortunately , Langdon has nothing funny to do here , and he plays an unsympathetic character . This was Langdon's last film to be released during his lifetime . Minerva Urecal , a harridan who worked with Lou Costello and other major comedians , is prominently featured here . The baseball game features an appearance by Charles Murray Jnr , son of one of the most beloved silent-film comedians , who had a long career at the Keystone studio . ( Murray Senior was extremely popular among his peers in the industry . ) Unfortunately , the son didn't inherit his father's talent or his father's naturally funny physical appearance . ' Block Busters ' is one of the more realistic Bowery Boys movies ( if you can ignore the ages of the ' teenage ' actors ) , but it's not especially funny and its plot falls short of a gripping narrative . I'll rate this movie .
Feat of clay .	Some of my American friends are huge fans of the Gumby animation shorts by Art Clokey , which don't appeal to me at all . Invariably , it turns out that these people first encountered Gumby when they were small children . I never even heard of Gumby until I was well stuck into adulthood and I had already encountered more sophisticated ( and more recent ) examples of stop-action animation and claymation . Still , even by the standard of their own time - - the 1950s - - the Gumby toons aren't very impressive . Norman McLaren and George Pal were already doing far more sophisticated stop-motion animation and pixilation , in McLaren's case with no bigger a budget than Clokey's . The wistful title ' Gumbasia ' suggests that Clokey wanted this to be his equivalent of Disney's ' Fantasia ' : an art film with images and sounds but no story . Seen from a modern viewpoint , this is a very primitive example of claymation from the prehistoric Plasticine Era . Against a soundtrack of some jazz-ish riffs , we see bits and blobs of clay rolling about aimlessly . At several points during an early sequence , we see a sphere of clay ( and its shadow ) rolling across a blank background ; there's no other object in the frame , so there's no relative motion . I suspect that Clokey achieved these shots in real time , merely panning the camera past a static ball of clay and then allowing the editing to imply that the clay is rolling past a static camera , a stop-motion effect that would have taken much longer to film . At the end of this sequence , two blobs of clay roll towards each other and colllide : this bit was definitely filmed in stop-motion . Despite its brevity , I found ' Gumbasia ' completely unengaging right up until the very last shot , when a crude clay face suddenly winks its eye at us and smiles . For that brief instant , this film came alive for me , with this clay face far more engaging than all the blobs and balls which have preceded it . This only proves that film is most interesting when it's about human beings ( or characters we can accept as human substitutes ) rather than special effects . Mostly for its historic value , I'll rate ' Gumbasia ' .
Undistinguished extinguisher .	The print I viewed of this film ( at the 2006 Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy ) had opening credits which gave its full title as ' THE Magic Extinguisher ' ( my emphasis added ) , which makes more sense than merely ' Magic Extinguisher ' . The titular object isn't really an extinguisher : it's a magician's prop in the shape of a snuff-cone or a sugar-loaf , only much larger . By placing this over-sized snuff-cone over various animals , the conjuror ( Sam Dalton ) transforms them into animals of other species . For the last transformation , he climbs under the snuff-cone himself . This is just one more ' trick ' film of the sort being done at this time by Georges Melies , although Melies's films were far more elaborate and fantastic . Effectively , this is merely a photographed version of a stage conjuror's act , made less impressive because we know that the trickery is achieved by jump cuts in the camera rather than any sort of stagecraft . This movie was made by the Williamson Kinetograph Company , which made quite a few ' trick ' films of this sort ( all featuring Sam Dalton ) , but which also ground out low-budget ( and lowbrow ) comedies and mellerdrammers . Any films from this very early period have some historic interest , but the Williamson Company's output appears to be in every way less distinguished than comparable films made elsewhere at this time . ' The Magic Extinguisher ' has less historic value than other output from this same production company , as the only camera set-up here is a theatre backdrop , and therefore we get no glimpses of the real world of 1901 England . I'll rate this movie .
Which key gets me out of here ?	George M Cohan's success as a songwriter and performer has obscured the fact that he also wrote or co-wrote many plays , most of which were very successful in their day . But Cohan's plays have dated badly . He relied heavily on one very contrived device . Most of Cohan's plays feature a wide assortment of very old-fashioned stock characters , contrasted with a wise-cracking slang-slinging protagonist ( often played by Cohan himself ) who speaks directly to the audience , and who comments on the stiffness of all the other characters in the cast . ' Seven Keys to Baldpate ' , which Cohan adapted from a novel by Earl Derr Biggers - - now remembered as the creator of Charlie Chan - - is the only Cohan play which is still revived with any frequency . Even this one is squeaky and creaky . The story has been filmed ( to date ) seven times under its original title , with some disguised remakes such as ' House of Long Shadows ' and Gene Wilder's wretched ' Haunted Honeymoon ' ( which ripped off its one and only funny gag from the unjustly obscure comedy ' Murder , He Says ' ) . This 1935 edition is probably the best film version , which isn't saying much . It modernises the material somewhat , deviating significantly from Cohan's original play . Gene Raymond portrays a novelist who comes to the old abandoned Baldpate Inn so as to get some peace and quiet while he writes a novel . He expects to be left alone because he possesses the one and only key to Baldpate . . . so nobody else can get in . But then a succession of oddball characters show up , each one weirder than the last . . . and each one possesses what he or she claims is the one and only key to Baldpate . There's a ' surprise ' ending that's quite obvious , especially if you've seen ' Haunted Honeymoon ' . The best performance in this 1935 movie is by Henry Travers , as a crusty hermit who's misogynistic with it , and who is busy writing a manuscript denouncing womankind . ' Hey , mister ! ' he shouts , interrupting just as Gene Raymond is about to smooch bland leading lady Margaret Callahan . ' If I start a sentence with the word ' women ' , do I hafta use a capital W ? ' That's a typical example of the weak humour on offer here . Cohan's original play ended with a startling piece of meta-fiction , a coup de theatre in which we learn that the events we've just witnessed are actually the contents of the novelist's manuscript , which he has already written . It would have been an improvement if this 1935 film version had attempted something like that , instead of the flat obvious ending which this movie has . I'll rate it , mostly for its fine cast of supporting actors .
Tin Pan Alibi	' June Moon ' was originally a 1929 Broadway comedy by George S . Kaufman and Ring Lardner . I've never understood why Ring Lardner is so highly regarded . Whenever anyone praises Lardner , they always make a pretence of searching through his entire body of work to find just the right line that epitomises Lardner's style . . . and then they always , always , ALWAYS come up with the same example , namely : " ' Shut up , ' he explained . " Big deal . That's probably the funniest line Lardner ever wrote , but unfortunately that line isn't in ' June Moon ' . Lardner didn't seem to like the stage very much : he wrote a playlet called ' The Tridget of Greva ' ( never intended for actual performance ) which intentionally violates several basic rules of stagecraft . The opening scene depicts three fishermen seated in rowboats in the middle of a lake . One man gets out of his boat and he crosses to another man's boat . . . remember , this is a stage play . This movie ' June Moon ' is the first film version of Kaufman and Lardner's play . ( It was remade as ' Blonde Trouble ' . ) ' June Moon ' might have worked better as a musical . As it is , it's nearly a musical because songs are integrally important to the plot . Fred Stevens ( played by Jack Oakie ) is a callow guy from Schenectady who comes to New York City with dreams of making it big as a Tin Pan Alley lyricist . Fred's dialogue perpetrates several malapropisms , which should tell you his skill as a word-smith . When Fred reaches the big city , he teams up with Paul Sears , an older and more experienced songwriter . Paul was a success a few years back , but inspiration has left him and he's fallen on lean times . Now Paul hopes to make a comeback by pooling his talents with Fred's , as the songwriting team Sears and Stevens . But Paul's cynical wife doesn't think he'll amount to anything ever again . ( As the wife , Wynne Gibson has some brittle dialogue , and one funny exit while dancing a Maxiford shuffle . ) Throughout the movie , we hear snatches of songs by Fred or Paul or both . The music and lyrics for these songs were written by Ring Lardner . Some of Lardner's songs are intentionally bad . . . such as Paul's big hit song from a few years back , which goes : ' Paprika , Paprika , spice of my life . . . ' Hoo boy . Most of the wisecracks go to Gibson ( as Paul's disillusioned wife ) and to Harry Akst as Maxie , an accompanist at the music-publishing house where Paul and Fred work . Paul is played by an obscure actor named Ernest Wood ; he gives an impressive performance with only a few good lines . In the lead role as Fred , Jack Oakie seems to be rehearsing here for his later ( but funnier ) role in the movie ' Tin Pan Alley ' , again as a struggling lyricist with more enthusiasm than talent . The stage-bound origin of this material is obvious , but I was impressed by several travelling shots : one of them up the gangway of a railway carriage , another one back down the same gangway in the opposite direction , and later a very complicated travelling shot when Oakie and Frances Dee try to have a conversation in a series of rehearsal rooms , getting evicted from each one in turn . Frances Dee , always an underrated actress , is fine here as the ingénue who encourages Fred to stick to his ideals . The direction ( by veteran comedy director Eddie Sutherland ) is much better than the material Sutherland's got to work with here . I'll rate ' June Moon ' .
The Tannoy is annoying .	' The Beautiful Fraud ' is a romantic drama with strong comedy elements . Billie Dove , who never especially appealed to me , portrays Millicent Howard : the hat-check girl in the restaurant of a posh Manhattan hotel . Millicent ( what an unattractive name ! ) has social pretensions , so she claims to be living at the hotel while she seeks a wealthy husband . She is abetted in her ruse by the hotel's switchboard operator ( amusingly played by Yola d'Avril ) . Whenever a ' phone call arrives for Millicent's ( nonexistent ) hotel suite , the switchboard girl routes the call to Millicent at the hat-check station . In traditional Cinderella fashion , Millicent appropriates an elaborate formal gown that belongs to a genuine hotel guest : the haughty Mrs Gillespie . Naturally , mayhem ensues . Millicent attracts the unwelcome attention of the lecherous Mr Claverhouse , whom she cries ' Porterhouse ' . SPOILERS COMING . The romantic interest is supplied by Lloyd Hughes , a handsome actor who generates very little screen presence . ( His most famous film is ' The Lost World ' , in which Hughes was easily upstaged by a plasticine dinosaur . ) After a misunderstanding , Hughes flees the New York hotel for Grand Central Station , intending to take a southbound train . The climax is faintly amusing , with Millicent confessing her love to him without realising that the station's Tannoy is switched on , so that her words are heard all over the terminal . This device is not very effective , because the movie is silent . . . so we have to imagine that we're hearing her voice amplified . On the other hand , if this movie were a talkie , then the device still wouldn't work . . . because then she would hear her own amplified voice , and she would know what's happening . This inept climax emphasises that this entire film doesn't really work . I'll rate ' The Beautiful Fraud ' .
A truffle , a trifle .	I'm trying to think of a British or American film figure whose career is similar to Sacha Guitry's , and the nearest I can get is Preston Sturges . . . who was himself quite French-influenced , having spent his formative years in Paris and being a lifelong Francophile . Guitry was an original . An extremely prolific playwright , working in various forms but favouring naughty farces , he was also an actor and director , often starring in his self-directed plays and films . I'm only slightly familiar with his work , but people who know far more about him than I do have told me that ' Ils Étaient Neuf Célibataires ' is his best film . It's certainly a distinctive work , though I found it only sporadically funny . ' They Were Nine Celibates ' ( as I translate the title ) finds Guitry running a matrimonial agency in Paris . Half of his clientele are attractive young foreign ladies who want permanent resident status in France , and are willing to marry total strangers to get it . ( Shades of Gérard Depardieu in ' Green Card ' . ) Each of these ma'mselles is a clearly defined national type . We get an exotic Chinese dancer ( played by someone cried Princesse Chio ) , a strait-laced English Rose , a brassy American chanteuse , and so forth . Conveniently , all of these women are quite good-looking . Even more conveniently ( and implausibly ) , all of these women are well-heeled . . . financially , I mean . This last detail makes it hard for me to believe that they have no better alternative than Guitry's matrimonial agency . The other half of Guity's clientele ( the bachelors ) are elderly pensioners , all native Frenchmen . It's understood that this is strictly a business arrangement : the husbands give their wives French citizenship in exchange for access to their wives ' money . It's agreed that the husbands won't be given access to anything else ( nudge , wink ) of their attractive young wives ' assets . Ostensible hilarity ensues when the elderly husbands ( being French , after all ) decide they want the physical pleasures of their marriages . Meanwhile , Guitry has picked out the best bride for himself : a Polish countess . This film has dated badly , and I can't help noticing that it was made in 1939 : when people in France - - and in Europe generally - - had more pressing matters to occupy their attentions . I can see why a countess would be eager to get out of Poland in 1939 , but why would she move to Paris ? It would make more sense for her to reach Le Havre and board a transatlantic steamship . The most interesting thing about this movie is the sexy ma'mselles . . . partly because of their sex appeal , but largely because they represent the French perception of other nationalities . The Englishwoman represents the French stereotype of prim repressed Britons . The brassy chanteuse epitomises the French perception of all extrovert Yanks , and so forth . I'll rate this French trifle .
The manly art of fisticuffs .	This crude early film was shown at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy , in October 2006 . The very earliest film-makers ( such as Birt Acres , who made this film ) often used their cameras to record sporting events : this saved them the cost of hiring actors and staging scripts , and early nickelodeon customers would gladly pay to watch films of sporting events which they hadn't seen in person . Boxing matches were especially well-suited to the new medium , as these featured plenty of action but kept the combatants combined in a small area ( the boxing ring ) directly in front of the primitive movie camera , which ( of necessity ) was stationary . Birt Acres , the American-born film pioneer in Britain , is known to have filmed at least two boxing matches in . The other one is apparently lost . This one was filmed at the military tournament ( an athletic competition among the British armed forces ) near Cardiff in August 1896 . ( IMDb give a release date of January ' 96 , which I believe is an error . ) Cardiff is one of my favourite cities , so I was keenly disappointed that this film offers no real nineteenth-century glimpse of that metropolis . However , we do see corner men , a referee and the ringside spectators in addition to the pugilists . One of the boxers is an army sergeant named Pope ( no forename recorded ) , the other a sergeant-instructor ( presumably of boxing ) named F . Barratt . Damned if I know which is which . One boxer knocks down the other . Damned if I know which . The fight itself ( we see about a round and a half ) looks genuine enough . . . until we come to a knockdown which looks suspiciously staged , as if Acres wanted to make sure that his audience got a good solid ending with a ( literal ) punch . As neither of these two combatants is important to the history of boxing , and as the rules of boxing in the 1890s are already well documented , this film's historical significance is minimal . But then , I'm not especially a fan of boxing . I tend to be fascinated by all movies that were made before 1900 , but this one fascinates me a lot less than most from that period . Perhaps this brief film rates some significance as the very first fight scene in movie history . I'll rate it .
Blondell is phony baloney as a girl named Tony	I saw ' Broadway Bad ' in May of this year , at the Cinevent festival in Columbus , Ohio . If I hadn't been attending the festival anyway , I would never have bothered to see this movie , as it stars an actress whom I loathe : Joan Blondell . Always cheap , vulgar , squawk-voiced and unattractive , Blondell is in her usual mode here . She manages to look a bit different this time round , but only because this movie was made at Fox ( Blondell's usual studio was Warners ) . . . so the lighting , costumes , hairstyles and general ambiance are a change of pace for her . The storyline - concerned with morals , reputations and sexual hypocrisy - is something more typical of Warners than of Fox . Blondell plays a chorus girl named Tony . ( Is that short for Anthony ? ) In the 1930s , chorus girls were generally perceived to be of low virtue ( and some of them certainly did fit that description ) , but we're given to understand that Tony is a good girl for all her brassy behaviour . She gets a proposition from playboy Craig , who is wealthy in his own right , but she turns him down to marry Bob , who's even wealthier but only because he's the scion of a prominent family . Apparently , Tony is genuinely in love with Bob ( rather than gold-digging his folks ' money ) , yet she remains friendly with Craig . When Bob catches Tony with Craig once too often , he divorces her . In order to obtain the divorce , Bob's father's lawyers ruin Tony's reputation . As she's now been branded as a bad girl , Tony decides to cash in on it . She straight away becomes a Broadway star by trading in on the public perception that she's a slut . ( Oh , so that's how it works ! ) I forgot to tell you about the baby . . . I mean , the scriptwriters forgot to tell you about the baby . All through this argle-bargle , Tony has secretly had a baby . Apparently she was with some other man before Craig and Bob . We never do find out who this man was , nor the precise nature of Tony's relationship with him - were they married ? is he dead ? - nor anything that would enable us to decide how much of our sympathy Tony deserves . Bob's rich parents find out about the baby , and they assume that Bob is the father . They sue Tony to acquire custody of the child . The courtroom scenes degenerate into soap opera . Expect some big revelations that you really won't care about . Ginger Rogers is quite good as Tony's friend , a chorus girl named Flip Daily . ( She must be an acrobat . ) I would rather have seen this movie with Ginger Rogers in the lead , as she was vastly more talented than Blondell and certainly easier on the eyes and the eardrums than Blondell ever was . I'll rate ' Broadway Bad ' , mostly for its proficient photography and efficient direction by the underrated Sidney Lanfield . There are some good supporting performances . Rogers is excellent , as is Ricardo Cortez as the semi-caddish Craig . ( Over the course of his career , Cortez made an interesting and graceful transition from shiekish leading man to cynical hero to amoral cad to outright villain : at this point , he was in his early cad phase . ) Joan Blondell , as usual , stinks . The lighting on the Fox sound stages doesn't conceal Blondell's facial moles as well as the lighting at Warners did .
Brazil , where the nuts come from .	I saw ' The Destiny ' in July 1996 at the Cinema Ritrovato festival in Bologna ; they screened a restored print with the original Portuguese intertitles . This creaky melodrama is an extremely silly film , and I sat through it only because I've seen very few Portuguese silent films and I'd wanted to get a better sense of that nation's film product from the silent era . ' The Destiny ' reminds me of ' Last Year at Marienbad ' for all the WRONG reasons . We see some beautiful , well-dressed people in a posh locale : their backgrounds are an enigma to us , and also to each other . Unfortunately , all similarity ends there . ' Marienbad ' was intentionally cryptic for the sake of being cryptic : the makers of ' The Destiny ' clearly want to pull a succession of rabbits out of their figurative hat , astonishing us with a series of surprising revelations . . . but the end result is merely ludicrous . The story ( such as it is ) takes place among a colony of Portuguese aristocrats in Brazil . The pillar of this community is Countess Maria Da Silva Oliveira . The colony's languid existence is disrupted by the arrival of an elderly blind man ( Antonio Pinheiro ) who seems to harbour a dark secret . Then comes the even more sudden arrival of a mysterious black-clad middle-aged lady ( Maria Branco ) who - - get this , please - - has amnesia . SPOILERS NOW . In the course of determining this lady's identity , the countess discovers that the amnesiac is her own ( the countess's ) mother , and the blind man is the amnesiac's father , therefore her own ( the countess's ) grandpa ! What's the Portuguese for " hoo boy " ? Further , it develops that various relationships between various members of the colony are not what they seem . It turns out that each and every member of the colony is in some manner a mere ( gasp ! ) pawn of Destiny . Oh , blimey ! Here we have an early example of what would later become known in Italy as a ' white telephone ' movie : a film concerning itself with the idle rich , and expecting the rest of us to give a hoot about their alleged problems . Since ' O Destino ' was made for a Portuguese audience , it's not surprising that all the characters are Portuguese , but I was annoyed that the film-makers chose to set this story in a Portuguese colony in Brazil , thus giving it an imperialist undertone that was possibly not intended . It was difficult enough for me to care about these wealthy layabouts , but I had even less enthusiasm for them when I realised that their leisure was probably obtained from the toil of Brazilian peons . This film's message is that each of us is helpless in the face of Destiny . Fair enough , but I was annoyed that the film-makers chose to use a colony of wealthy aristocrats as their microcosm to symbolise all of humanity . It would have been a more humanist - - and more interesting - - drama if they'd chosen a broader cross-section of Portuguese society for their cast of characters . My rating for this one is only , and that's mostly for the production design and photography .
Strictly from hunger .	Warner Brothers ( consistently the studio with the best animation ) produced some very funny cartoons featuring caricatures of real people . . . for instance , a couple of Loony Toons starring a worm who looks and sounds like Jerry Colonna , which I laughed at when I watched them . ' Pleased to Eat You ' is a one-off cartoon by Paramount - - consistently the studio with the WORST animation - - and in this cartoon the two main characters are both caricatures of real people : Jerry Colonna and Bert Lahr . Yet , watching this cartoon , rather than laughing , I felt outraged by the brazen rip-offs of these actors ' personalities . Why the double standard of my reaction ? Probably because the Warners toons were funny , while this one isn't . Here we have a cartoon lion who sounds amazingly like Bert Lahr's famous portrayal of the Cowardly Lion in ' The Wizard of Oz ' . . . only this lion's gimmick is that he's ravenous rather than craven . He's named the Hungry Lion , which made me wonder if anyone involved in this cartoon had actually read any of the Oz books . After ' The Wizard of Oz ' , the next Oz novel which features the Cowardly Lion teams him with another huge feline named the Hungry Tiger : this cartoon's ' Hungry Lion ' feels suspiciously like a conflation of the two . Oddly , having decided to make this cartoon's main character a rip-off of Lahr's very famous portrayal , the animators ( and the voice actor ) don't go to the same histrionic extremes that Lahr did ; perhaps they had a failure of nerve . The Hungry Lion hears a radio commercial by a zoo keeper who looks and sounds like a bad imitation of Jerry Colonna ( voiced by someone vastly inferior to the faux Colonna at Warners ) , seeking animals for the Who's Who Zoo . ( That name is as funny as most of the gags in this cartoon ; not much . ) The lion moves into the zoo , hoping to cadge free meals . Mildly amusing chaos ensues . The one thing that most impressed me about this semi-ambitious cartoon is that some of the dialogue is in rhymed couplets . This device could have been very effective if it had been used through the entire cartoon ; unfortunately , it comes and goes arbitrarily . This toon has glimmerings of being head-and-shoulders above the typical Paramount cartoon ( which isn't saying much ) , yet ultimately isn't very funny nor innovative . My rating : .
Worthless layabouts , but we're meant to like ' em .	Let's keep this quick and painless . ' Riders Up ' stars Creighton Hale and George Cooper as a pair of compulsive gamblers who live in Kate Price's boarding-house , but who are always behind on the rent . ( As I said , they're compulsive gamblers . ) Hale's character is nicknamed the Information Kid , because he allegedly always has " inside dope " on upcoming races . . . yet , as I said , he's always behind on the rent . This is one of those deeply annoying movies about men who shirk their responsibilities , but we're expected to like them because they're charming and clever . Whenever the landlady corners Hale and Cooper and she starts to speak ( demanding the rent ) , they pop some salt-water taffy into her mouth , or pull some other lurk . Ethel Shannon plays the landlady's daughter , who's also the boarding-house waitress . Improbably , she and Hale are sweet on each other ; in real life , a woman like this would know better than to encourage a man like him ! Eventually , Hale and Cooper get a tip on a horse that can't possibly lose . ( Where have I heard THAT before ? ) So , they ' borrow ' their landlady's silver tea service , and they pawn it in order to bet the lot on the horse . Guess what happens . And then guess what happens after that . This scenario brought to you by Script-o-Matic . There are a couple of good performances here , especially by Robert Brower as a grizzled railbird , and by former Keystone Cop Hank Mann as another roomer in the boarding-house , who ( unlike our alleged heroes ) is always prompt with his rent . And there's the problem : we're meant to like the characters played by Hale and Cooper , but I despised them . Say , fellows : ever heard of getting a job ? My rating for this one : barely .
Twinkle , Twinkle , little star quality : VERY little .	The funniest thing in this movie is its title . ' The Golden Fleecing ' has a similar premise to Danny Kaye's unfunny comedy ' The Man from the Diner's Club ' : a gormless hero , on behalf of his employer , extends financial obligation to a gangster , then must imperil himself implausibly in order to undo the damage . But ' Diner's Club ' , as dire as it was , managed to be much more plausible than ' The Golden Fleecing ' . Lew Ayres was a slightly talented dramatic actor with no flair for comedy ; his success in a supporting role in the comedy ' Holiday ' was down to Ayres's willingness to give a passive performance for a firm-handed director while allowing much more talented actors to play off him . Here , in ' The Golden Fleecing ' , Ayres plays a schlub insurance salesman named Henry Twinkle : I guess that this name is meant to be funny , but somehow I'm not laughing . ( When I said he was a schlub insurance salesman , I didn't mean he sells schlub insurance : I meant he's a schlub who has a job as an insurance salesman . ) Henry is engaged to Lila ( the attractive but untalented actress Virginia Grey ) , and they hope to get married if only Henry sells a few insurance policies . Henry sells a life-insurance policy to a man named Gus Fender ( played by Lloyd Nolan , whose face does indeed resemble a bashed fender ) . Henry is pleased with the sale . . . until he learns that Fender is a gangster , and rival gangsters have put a price on Fender's head . If this were real life , Henry's boss could just cancel the insurance policy on a technicality . But this is a movie , so . . . exit credibility , upstage left , while implausibility runs riot . In order to keep Fender from getting killed , Henry gets involved in some criminal schemes which become increasingly felonious and decreasingly plausible . Meanwhile , Lila can't figure out why Henry is acting so weird , and of course he can't tell her . Listen , sister : when you decided to marry a guy named Twinkle , you should have been prepared . Part of the problem with ' The Golden Fleecing ' is that Fender is so unlikeable , we actually want him to get killed off . . . even though this would mean ruination for Henry . Lloyd Nolan was a very talented actor ( more so than Ayres ) whose unpleasant physiognomy kept him typecast nearly always as crooks or unsympathetic heroes . There are some good supporting performances here . The trim and muscular Nat Pendleton ( a former Olympic athlete ) plays a guy named Fatso . Leon Errol plays a character named Uncle Waldo : just the idea of Leon Errol playing somebody named Uncle Waldo is funny , but Errol has little to do in the role . Spencer Charters , Ralph Byrd and the great William Demarest are excellent in small roles . It's nice to see Ralph Byrd playing a role that isn't Dick Tracy . I'll rate this weak movie .
Archie Leach's weirdest film	Some movies take place in their own weird universe , but they usually proclaim that weirdness in the opening frame . ' People Will Talk ' starts out looking like a conventional Cary Grant comedy ( from his middle period ) but it becomes gradually weirder in subtle ways . I wasn't surprised to learn that this movie is a remake of a German stage play ; some of the events in this movie would be vaguely plausible if they took place in Germany between the wars . But when set in an American college town in 1951 , these situations are very unbelievable indeed . Cary Grant plays a brilliant surgeon named Dr Noah Praetorius . Of course this puts me in mind of ' Dr Pretorius ' , the mad scientist played so brilliantly by Ernest Thesiger in ' Bride of Frankenstein ' . But even if ' Bride ' had never been made , there's something very mad-scientist about the name ' Noah Praetorius ' . It's a very conspicuous name . Late in this movie , Cary Grant's character casually mentions that his forename was originally Ludwig , but he changed it to Noah . ( As if the name ' Noah ' is any less conspicuous than ' Ludwig ' . ) This is just one minor example of the many weirdnesses on offer here . SPOILERS COMING . Dr Praetorius marries Deborah , one of his medical students . Isn't that a breach of ethics ? Deborah is played by dull untalented Jeanne Crain . She and Praetorius ' meet cute ' when Deborah faints , believing herself to be pregnant . Praetorius assures her she's not pregnant . Three months later they're married : when Deborah realises she's pregnant now , she assumes she's carrying Praetorius's child . Erm , no : turns out she really was pregnant the first time , and Praetorius deliberately lied and told her she wasn't pregnant so she'd feel better . Smooth move , doc . After Praetorius reveals this deception , he's surprised when Deborah gets angry . I dislike films in which an extremely accomplished protagonist , whose career puts major claims on his time and energy , also has a hobby which requires large commitments of time and discipline . Dr Praetorius is a surgeon , but as a hobby he conducts an amateur symphony orchestra ! Walter Slezak - with his Austrian accent , unkempt hair and baggy sweater - is cast as a physicist who plays bass viol in Grant's amateur orchestra . Despite the English surname of Slezak's character , his role seems to be based on Albert Einstein : an unkempt physicist who played amateur violin . The orchestra scenes in this movie are wretched , and Grant deserves most of the blame . This is Grant's second consecutive movie in which he plays a surgeon . To prepare for his role as a brain surgeon in ' Crisis ' , Grant went to considerable trouble to learn how to handle surgical instruments convincingly . In ' People Will Talk ' , Grant handles a conductor's baton in a manner that shows he has absolutely no knowledge of conducting . He keeps changing tempi , and his down beat doesn't synch with the actions of the onscreen musicians . In several scenes set outside the rehearsal hall - notably when Grant goes to visit Jeanne Crain's uncle's farmhouse - the orchestral music on the soundtrack is so obtrusive that I actually thought Dr Praetorius's orchestra were following him ! This wouldn't be much odder than anything else that happens in this film . MORE SPOILERS . Finlay Currie ( whom I worked with in the mid-1960s ) plays Grant's mysterious companion Shunderson , and there seems to be something fey about him ( in the Scottish sense of that term ) . This is especially strong in a scene in which Currie is able to calm a dog simply by staring at him . The whole movie is so weird , I thought that Currie's character might turn out to be a supernatural entity ( like Ian Hunter in ' Strange Cargo ' ) . Get this : Shunderson is a dead man walking . Years ago , he was sentenced to death and executed , and his body was delivered to Dr Praetorius for dissection . But Shunderson really wasn't dead after all ( except in the legal sense ) , so Dr Praetorius revived him and Shunderson has been living with Praetorius ever since : a man with no legal identity and no means of support . This situation might be vaguely plausible in Germany circa 1925 , but it's completely unbelievable in 1951 America . Also , it emphasises the ' mad scientist ' aspects of Cary Grant's role . Dr Praetorius has a secret too : years ago he ran a butcher's shop , but his customers were outraged to discover that their local butcher was actually a qualified surgeon . Again , this would be somewhat more plausible if it were set in Germany in 1925 . During the Weimar period , when food shortages were rampant in Germany , there was a scandal when it turned out that several butcher shops replenished their stock with human flesh . Much of the dialogue in this movie sounds as if it were translated ( badly ) from a German original . So many weird little touches in this movie go nowhere . The dialogue tells us that Deborah was born in London , yet there's nothing remotely English about Jeanne Crain's portrayal . Her father and her uncle are played respectively by Sidney Blackmer ( very good , as usual ) and Will Wright . . . but these two actors - playing brothers who grew up together and live together well past middle age - are radically disparate in their physical appearances , body language and speech patterns . Hume Cronyn , under heavy makeup , is excellent in a badly-written and unsympathetic role , as a college dean who tries to censor Praetorius . All the villains in this movie are a bunch of Aunt Sallys , crudely set up to be easily knocked down by Praetorius's witty comments . . . which aren't so witty after all . Joseph L Mankiewicz , who wrote and directed this movie , has done brilliant work elsewhere . . . but he badly stumbles in this movie . I'll rate ' People Will Talk ' . An interesting attempt at something different , but only slightly successful .
Jumping Gemini	Oh , blimey ! This is one of those movies about identical twins : one good , one evil . How often does this actually happen in real life ? High-society hostess Evelyn Trevelyan ( a name which almost rhymes ) is happily married to Adam Trevelyan . . . never suspecting Adam's secret , namely that he has an evil identical twin brother Allan . Of course , as soon as Evelyn learns about this brother-in-law , who until just now was utterly unknown to her , guess who shows up on her doorstep . Confusions between good brother Adam and bad brother Allan promptly ensue , made more complicated when Allan deliberately impersonates Adam . Allan has been squiring a floozy named Gwen ; when Evelyn sees Gwen in the arms of Allan ( who looks like Adam ) , she assumes that her husband is unfaithful . This movie is meant to be a comedy , but the best jokes are in the gaggy title cards written by comedy veteran Ralph Spence . Lew Cody , an actor who has never previously impressed me , actually manages to turn in two different performances as the twins , so that we can tell which one is actually onscreen in any given shot . ( Except when the script requires us to be intentionally confused . ) The most interesting thing about this movie is the crude process photography which enables Lew Cody to interact with himself in double-exposure . Most of the film is lighted normally . . . until both of Lew Cody are onscreen in the same shot , at which point suddenly the set is lighted from the sides , so that one Lew Cody doesn't throw shadows where the other Lew Cody will be standing ( in the other half of the exposure ) . At one point , Adam hands a piece of paper to Allan ( or maybe it's just the other way round ) : in order to achieve this stunt , the set dresser conveniently places a table lamp in precisely the right spot to obscure the physical contact between the two characters played by Lew Cody . This is an MGM film , so ( as usual for that studio ) the set design and art direction are contractually credited to Cedric Gibbons , but were actually done by one of his assistants . . . in this case , Richard Day . ' Adam and Evil ' is slightly funny , but not nearly so funny as it seems to fancy itself to be . It would have helped if the two main characters hadn't been named Adam and Evelyn . ' Trevelyan ' just makes everything worse . Rating : .
He likes her duchy .	' Young April ' seems to be an attempt to cash in on the success of the Ruritanian romances such as ' The Prisoner of Zenda ' and ' Beverly of Graustark ' that were so popular in the 1920s . Much of the plot of this film manages to be both contrived and predictable . . . yet the actors give appealing performances , and there is some amusing contrast between go-getting Jazz Age Americans and stodgy European bluebloods . Bessie Love plays Victoria Saxe , a slightly tomboyish student at Miss Penny's seminary for girls in America . She is visited by two dignitaries from an obscure European monarchy ( why didn't they just call her on the Saxe-o-phone ? ) , who inform Vickie that she has inherited the title of Grand Duchess of Saxeheim , and must return home immediately . ( Why didn't she know that she was heir to the title ? ) Fortunately , a sizeable amount of money comes along with the title . I was expecting a twist ending , with the foreign currency - - Spezonian spondulicks - - turning out to be utterly worthless in real dollars , but this doesn't happen . Vickie invites her chums Maggie and Jerry to accompany her on a trip to Saxeheim . En route to Saxeheim , they plan to stop off in Paris and do plenty of shopping ! Meanwhile , back in the kingdom of Futtbuckia , we meet Prince Caryl , who is betrothed to the Grand Duchess by one of those old-fashioned morganatic marriages . Caryl is a playboy who has managed to squander five million kronen ( two bucks , American ) . He knows that the grand duchess's wealth could get him out of hock , but he assumes that she's a dowdy old dowager , and he doubts that her dowry is worth it . The prince swans off to Paris , where he meets unaffected American girl Vickie Saxe . Hey presto ! Love at first sight . Never suspecting that this is ( by an amazing coincidence ) the woman he's already engaged to marry , Caryl breaks his engagement to the grand duchess , and renounces his claim to the throne , in order to marry the woman he loves . ( Is this just a trick to get out of paying back the five million kronen ? ) Complications ensue . The script is embarrassing , but most of the cast give delightful performances . Prince Caryl and his father the king are played respectively by Joseph and Rudolph Schildkraut , son and father in real life . Their chemistry in their scenes together is impressive , and funny . Also impressive is Bryant Washburn as Caryl's uncle . There's some physical comedy involving a hand grenade . I was amused at several points in this silent film by some clever intertitles , which purport to show dialogue in Caryl's native language . . . and which rapidly dissolve into some very slangy American wisecracks . There are many enjoyable bits in ' Young April ' , but the central situation manages to be deeply contrived and clichéd , so I'll rate this comedy only .
Counterfeit conflagration	The Yorkshire-born showman J . Stuart Blackton was an important figure in the early history of American movies . Most of his early films were newsreel-style records of actual current events . . . but their historical value is compromised , because Blackton's films are often re-enactments ( often blatantly faked ) of these incidents , filmed days or weeks after they occurred . ' Battle of Santiago Bay ' purports to depict an actual incident in the Spanish-American War : a sea battle off the coast of Cuba . However , the entire film ( made several weeks after the battle ) is so blatantly faked that by modern standards it is downright laughable . Blackton and his cameraman partner Albert E . Smith obtained photographs of the ships which had participated in the battle , including the U . S . S . ' Iowa ' , the U . S . S . ' Illinois ' , and the Spanish fleet . They carefully cut out the ships from the photos ' backgrounds , and glued these to small wooden blocks . In their tiny 10'x12 ' studio in a Brooklyn office building , they floated this bogus navy in a canvas water-tank and filmed the ' battle ' , while stagehands standing out of camera range blew cigarette smoke towards the camera . None of the ' ships ' actually fire their guns ; the crude models weren't sophisticated enough for this . Viewed today , ' Battle of Santiago Bay ' is blatantly phony . Some of the ships are not parallel to the camera's focal plane , so it's obvious that they're two-dimensional cutouts . The smoke of the ' artillery fire ' is moving towards the ships from out of frame , rather than emerging from the gundecks . The water in the ' bay ' is slopping back and forth like water in a bucket , with no whitecaps or tidal patterns . Were audiences in 1898 actually fooled ? Considering the extreme novelty of the new Vitascope invention , maybe they were . Even if they weren't , this film catered for their war-thirst and gave them an excuse to cheer the images on screen . An early precedent for much of what was to follow . I'll rate this early movie . Ship ahoy !
His hand bone's connected to her thigh bone	' The X-Ray Fiend ' is a very short film produced and directed by the Victorian showman George Albert Smith . This is a ' trick ' film : one of many such films made before 1910 , inspired by the movies of Georges Melies , in which the very thin plot of the film is merely a vehicle for trick photography . ' The X-Ray Fiend ' is more interesting than most other films of this genre , because it deals with a recent scientific discovery . Wilhelm Roengten had discovered x-rays in November 1895 ( about sixteen months before this movie was made ) : ' The X-Ray Fiend ' deals satirically with Roentgen's discovery at a time when it was still new and miraculous . In this short film , a young couple are embracing : this by itself was a fairly strong image for the sedate filmgoers of 1897 . They are so rapt in each other's attentions that they fail to notice a bizarre-looking professor who arrives , toting a weird apparatus which he aims at them . This turns out to be an x-ray projector . When the professor switches it on , the outer bodies of the man and woman turn invisible , and now we see their skeletons . The two skeletons are still embracing , blissfully unaware of their transformation . It would have been more interesting if the x-ray projector had worked more gradually , so that we first see the couple's clothing fading away to reveal their naked bodies underneath . . . followed by the fading of their flesh to reveal their musculature , and only then skeletonising them . No such luck . This is a crude film , with trickery that is very obvious from our modern standpoint , but it has some historical value , and it's so bizarre that it still retains some humour . I'll rate this movie .
Chopsticks and choo-choos	' Fleuchtlinge ' translates into English as ' flightlings ' or ' refugees ' . From a modern viewpoint , it's easy to dismiss this movie as German propaganda , 1933 vintage . Actually , it's a fitfully suspenseful action drama which depicts its German protagonists ( and Germans in general ) more sympathetically than denizens of China and the Soviet Union . ( As much as I despise Nazis , the communists were worse . . . so I have no problem with that equation . ) The action takes place in 1928 , so technically none of the characters here are citizens of the Third Reich . . . but the tone of German nationalism and chauvinism throughout this film is heavy indeed . Hans Albers plays a German who served in the Kaiser's army during the Great War . Now , in 1928 , seriously disillusioned , he lives in China : still serving the German government as an attache in Nanking . Albers has been dutifully serving the Manchurian empire . . . but now the Kuomingtang uprising has begun ( actually , it started in 1925 ) and things are getting hot and spicy . There's a settlement of German citizens in Nanking ( or at least , there's one in this movie ) , and its residents ask Albers's help to get to Manchuria , where the emperor's forces are still in power . Albers declines , until he gets into a dispute with a local commissar . This causes him to realise his true loyalties . From this point , ' Flightlings ' becomes similar to ' Von Ryan's Express ' , with the escapees being Germans . Albers and the other Germans hijack a railway train , and they highball for the border . SPOILERS COMING . There is some action and some tension - movies set on moving trains are pretty much boredom-proof - but it never quite gels . Kathe von Nagy is dull as the female lead , although her character shows some ingenuity instead of being a mere helpless damsel . Karl Rainer gives a good performance as a Tintin-like young German who gets killed during the escape . Another refugee ( Franziska Kinz ) gives birth in the freight van , and her newborn son is hailed as a fine new German citizen . The whole film appears to have been filmed in Germany , even though much of it takes place in provincial regions of China and Russia . As there were not many Chinese actors on offer in UFA's casting pool , all the troublemakers in Nanking are depicted as Russians ( played by German actors ) . I admit that I don't know much of the history of this case , but I suspect that the filmmakers are overstating the Soviet Union's role in China's revolution for reasons of racial convenience . The photography by Fritz Arno Wagner is absolutely impeccable throughout . The direction varies widely from taut suspense to slack longueurs . It's distressing to see a German film that's so blatantly propagandistic , made slightly before Hitler really got going . Hans Albers gives a good performance in a badly-written role : he seems to be imitating some of those strong silent Gary Cooper he-men who were just a little too iconic to be plausible . I'll rate this movie .
Intemperate Temperance lecture	Once again , a movie that was ' lost forever ' turns out merely to have been mislaid . ' Pied Piper Malone ' was in the Gosfilmofond archives in Russia , and has now returned to circulation . Having visited Gosfilmofond , I know for a fact that a large number of Hollywood silent films - - and quite a few British silents - - are carefully preserved there . Because the Soviet Union didn't recognise free-world copyrights , the cultural commissars had no qualms about obtaining prints of English-language films and ' forgetting ' to return them . After talkies arrived , this practice declined somewhat due to the difficulty of dubbing a soundtrack for Russian audiences . A couple of other IMDb reviewers have written ecstatic reviews of ' Pied Piper Malone ' , but they are largely reacting to the premiere of its rediscovery , rather than the film itself . ' Pied Piper Malone ' is proficiently made , and features some beautiful scenery , but is simply not a very good film . It moralises too much , and several characters are stereotypes . The film is set in the coastal town of Oldport , a God-fearing community . Jack Malone ( Tom Meighan ) is considered the black sheep of his large family : his many brothers and sisters have chosen to get married ( no , not to each other ) , settle down in Oldport and have children , whereas Jack has gone off to sea as Captain Clarke's junior officer . Meanwhile , all of Jack's many brothers and sisters have produced many sons and daughters . Whenever Jack returns to Oldport , he is the centre of attention among his dozens of nieces and nephews , who dote on him and follow him everywhere . ( Maybe because he buys them ice cream . ) Jack is known as Pied Piper Malone : an odd choice of nickname , since the original Pied Piper STOLE the children . Oldport is a blue-nosed village , where everyone is aware of the evil of John Barleycorn . . . and yet for some reason there's plenty of Prohibition hooch hereabouts . The booze is supplied by bootlegger Charles Crosby ( Cyril Ring ) , who dispenses it via the barber shop . Guess what's in the bottle marked ' Bay Rum ' . Unfortunately , Jack's employer - - kindly sea-dog Captain Clarke - - has a drinking problem . The script's back-story is careful to establish that Clarke first started drinking to dull the pain from an arm injury . When Clarke falls off the wagon , Jack has the bad luck to walk him past the local church just as the Sunday service is letting out . Everyone sees them ; Clarke is now stigmatised as a drunkard , and Jack - - through a misunderstanding - - is perceived to be a drunkard too . Everyone shuns him , even his formerly loyal girlfriend Patty . Well , not everyone : the children are still loyal to Pied Piper Malone . This movie is bilge . It places a tremendous stigma upon alcohol and alcoholism . I see nothing particularly wrong with drinking unless the alcohol encourages the drinker to drive while intoxicated , or to commit violent acts , or do some other harm to other people . This movie was made during deepest Prohibition , and I recognise the heavy hand of scriptwriter Booth Tarkington , well known for his ultra-conservative outlook . It doesn't help that Meighan is a stolid actor , giving a stiff and mannered performance . My favourite part of this sanctimonious Temperance lecture was when I spotted future character actor Brian Keith among the children following Meighan about . George Fawcett gives a sympathetic performance as Captain Clarke , and Cyril Ring is hissable as the villain with the bootleg hooch ( a smuggling Ring ? ) . . . but there's not very much to enjoy here . I welcome this film back from the lost , and rate it .
' The Guttersnipe ' is utter tripe .	I screened a print of ' The Guttersnipe ' that had a reel missing , so I missed an important plot point . . . or maybe this movie's script just didn't bother to resolve it properly . The story appears to take place in the United States , but the main character works as a chambermaid for an English milady ( Carmen Phillips ) and a milord ( Edward Cecil ) . Or maybe this is just one of her fantasies . . . because the heroine of this movie is a female Walter Mitty , prone to flights of fantasy . Mazie O'Day ( played by Gladys Walton ) is a prole young woman who is addicted to the tales in a pulp magazine cried ' Sloppy Stories ' . She models herself after the ( unrealistic ) heroines in this magazine's pages , and she consults the stories before making decisions in her own life . As in Harold Lloyd's ' Girl Shy ' , which featured frequent cuts to the text of a book written by Lloyd's character in that film , here the audience are repeatedly subjected to insert shots of the ( intentionally ) wretched prose in the stories that Mazie reads . She fantasises that she will one day meet a handsome wealthy nobleman who will take her away from her squalor . Meanwhile , in reality ( I think ) , Mazie toils as a lady's maid , combing the long raven tresses of Lady Clarissa . I'm usually a sucker for any movie in which a woman in a maid's uniform tends the hair or clothing of her mistress . Unfortunately , Gladys Walton isn't very good-looking ( nor a very good actress ) and she wears in this movie one of the most unattractive maid's uniforms I've ever seen . One night , returning home to the slum walk-up where she lives with her parents ( Walter Perry and the excellent Kate Price ) , Mazie encounters some hooligans attacking a top-hatted gentleman . Just like in the pulp stories ! Mazie consults the latest issue of ' Sloppy Stories ' and decides that she must intercede . She rushes into the fray , and uses her long fingernails to repel the ruffians . SPOILERS COMING . Unfortunately , it turns out that the top-hatted toff is merely a soda jerk ( Jack Perrin ) returning from a fancy-dress party . However , Mazie and Tom ( that's his name ) are swiftly attracted to each other . But then Tom gets arrested for passing counterfeit money . He's innocent , naturally , but he can't prove it . Mazie consults her pulp magazines , and decides that ( of course ) she must personally track the counterfeiters to their lair and force them to confess . There's an exciting but implausible climax as Mazie sets out to round up the counterfeiters single-handed . Despite the missing reel , I saw enough of this movie to realise that it isn't very good . Since this is a comedy , I was willing to overlook the plot's implausibilities in exchange for some good laughs . . . but the comedy wasn't very funny . Part of the problem with this movie is the leads : Gladys Walton and Jack Perrin are not particularly attractive here , and neither of them is a particularly good screen actor . My rating for ' The Guttersnipe ' is just .
' Golf ' takes a mulligan .	I was pleasantly surprised to spot my friend Joe Rock in a supporting role in this Larry Semon movie . Joe Rock kindly permitted me to interview him in his home a few years before his death . Rock was a real utility man in the early days of American films . With time out for combat service in the Great War , he put his extremely comical features to use as an actor in comedy shorts , and had even more success as a writer , producer and director . He deserves some sort of prize as the Academy Award winner who had to wait the longest to receive his Oscar . Joe Rock won a Short Subject Oscar for his documentary film ' Krakatoa ' , but was in Europe when the award was announced . When he returned Stateside , poor record-keeping left him unable to prove that he was the film's producer , so the Academy refused to release the Oscar trophy . More than thirty years later , while moving an old filing cabinet , Rock discovered some business documents which enabled him to prove that ' Krakatoa ' was his film . . . and to claim his Oscar several decades late . Unfortunately , this movie ' Golf ' isn't nearly as interesting as Joe Rock's career . Off the screen , comedian Larry Semon was an excellent amateur golfer , even introducing Oliver Hardy ( his second banana in this film ) to the sport . It would have been nice if Semon had taken advantage of this movie's theme to show off his prowess on the links . Instead , we get a dumb racist sequence featuring a black man frightened of a ground squirrel in a bag . There's also a very Semonesque sequence featuring an enormous vase teetering on a too-small stand . Larry Semon's universe is full of items stacked precariously high , teetering dangerously . . . but ( predictably enough ) always falling and smashing eventually . Semon often gave himself a love interest in his films , but here the leading lady is cast as his sister . She's Lucille Carlisle , a pert flirt . Carlisle does a neat bit of physical comedy involving a door . Later , Oliver Hardy has one nice piece of volte-face acting when he barges into a room , all bombast and bluster , then he instantaneously morphs into a courtly gent ( resembling the ' Ollie ' of Hal Roach films yet to come ) when he sees there's a lady in the room . Normally , I'm very glad to see Vernon Dent , a prolific and talented but sadly under-rated supporting comedian who came to a tragic end . ( Dent , a victim of diabetic retinopathy , spent his last years in poverty and total blindness . ) Unfortunately , at this point in their respective careers , Dent and Oliver Hardy are almost exactly the same size and shape . . . and they're cast in similar roles in ' Golf ' , so this movie has one big blusterer too many . The film ends with Hardy getting kicked in the face by a mule . . . an image which left me wincing rather than laughing . ' Golf ' had a lot of potential , but it ultimately takes a mulligan . My rating : just .
a sour Lemmon	Each year since 1973 , the American Film Institute have given their Lifetime Achievement Award to a prominent film star or director . The choice of whom to honour has been motivated by various factors . . . such as whose name will sell the most tickets . The guest of honour must be alive , and must be willing to attend in person and give an acceptance speech . The first four annual awards were given to male recipients : in 1977 , the AFI decided it was time to honour a woman , but their committee's first choice ( Katherine Hepburn ) refused to accept the award in person , so they gave it to Bette Davis ( who apparently didn't mind being second choice for an award based on gender ) . Cary Grant had a standing offer to receive the AFI award , but he was never willing to make an acceptance speech and so he was never chosen . The 1986 award went to Billy Wilder . I take a back seat to no-one in my admiration for this director / screenwriter , yet I find him a faintly surprising choice for AFI's Lifetime Achievement Award . Wilder directed some very popular films ( and co-wrote a few that he didn't direct ) , but he's not a household name in the way that a couple of other directors are . As is typical of the AFI tributes , there are some clips from the recipient's movies , as well as testimonials from people who worked with him . Among the speakers here is Fred MacMurray , who spent most of his career playing genial nice-guy roles that required no great acting talent , but who on two occasions - - ' Double Indemnity ' and ' The Apartment ' , both directed by Wilder - - played nasty characters , in roles which gave MacMurray a chance to display genuine dramatic ability . Wilder is the only director who ever stretched MacMurray's talents . . . yet , regrettably , MacMurray says nothing of particular interest here . A truly bizarre testimonial is offered by Jack Lemmon . Although the dynamically talented Lemmon would surely have achieved stardom anyway , he became a star in Wilder's ' Some Like It Hot ' , and most of Lemmon's best roles were in Wilder films . In his long career , Wilder worked with more than his share of temperamental and unreliable performers ( notably Marilyn Monroe ) . . . but Lemmon proved to be reliable and even-tempered , prompting Wilder to comment : ' Happiness is working with Jack Lemmon ' . So , you might expect Lemmon to return the compliment here by offering a billet-doux to Billy Wilder . Instead , oddly , Lemmon rattles off a list of actors whose careers were ended or ruined after working for Wilder . I suppose that Lemmon was trying to be funny here , but his speech hits all the wrong notes and leaves a sour taste . One of his comments is especially odd . Lemmon asserts that ' the actor who starred in " One , Two , Three " ' never made another film . . . yet Lemmon never names the actor . In fact , it's James Cagney . . . who didn't actually end his career with Wilder's comedy ' One , Two , Three ' but who did wait 20 years before starring in another film ( ' Ragtime ' ) . Cagney had died shortly before the AFI tribute to Wilder , which may be why Lemmon decided not to mention Cagney's name in this ill-thought comedy schtick . Still , Lemmon's speech hits a lot of wrong notes , and it's a strange choice . The AFI tributes have always featured an uneasy mixture of old-time Hollywood names who are unknown to modern TV viewers alongside big names of current Hollywood who will pull in the viewers but who have nothing to do with the guest being honored . That policy is even more awkward than usual in this Wilder tribute , in the form of Whoopi Goldberg and Jessica Lange : two actresses who are very well-known just now , but who have absolutely nothing to do with Wilder . Annoyingly , both of these women get up and coo about how much they admire Wilder's work , and how eager they are to work with him . I find this phony effusion extremely annoying and pretentious . When this tribute was made in 1986 , Wilder was able to work but couldn't get financing for any new projects because he was considered a has-been . Goldberg and Lange , on the other hand , were extremely bankable . If either of these dames had sincerely been interested in working with Wilder , all they had to do was make one phone call and get Wilder's next project greenlighted . It's painfully obvious that these two women are just interested in getting some face time at an AFI tribute , with no interest in actually honouring Wilder . Because of my great fondness for Wilder's films , and my huge admiration for the man himself , it pains me to say that this is one of AFI's less stirring tributes , and I'll rate it only .
Franco-American spaghetti	I dislike children's movies like " The Happy Road " which romanticise the experiences of runaway children . In kids ' movies , runaways tend to have lots of fun and get into little or no danger , having adventures with picturesque hobos and indulgent old ladies . I dread the thought of what might happen to a mildly troubled child nowadays who sees one of these unrealistic old movies and decides to solve his ( or her ) problems by running away from home . . . into the clutches of crack addicts and perverts . Gene Kelly was an ardent Francophile who seriously compromised his great career at MGM by doing several dodgy projects which gave him an opportunity to work in his beloved France . " The Happy Road " is one such project . It's a decent little film , proficiently made . . . but if Kelly had decided not to make this movie , there would probably be one more great or near-great MGM musical among his credits . The movie opens nicely with the distinctive voice of Maurice Chevalier on the soundtrack , singing the indifferent title song . ( We never see Chevalier in this movie , and we never hear him again after the opening credits . ) Kelly plays Mike Andrews : a widowed entertainer , an American in Paris ( oops , wrong movie ! ) who is the star of a big nightclub act . . . although , judging from the seedy little nightclub where we see him rehearsing , maybe he's not such a big star after all . Mike has a son Danny , about 10 years old , whom he's dumped in a boarding school in Switzerland . ( I wonder if this is the same boarding school in Switzerland where Sylvester Stallone hid from the draft board during the Vietnam war . ) One of Danny's schoolmates is Janeane Duval , a French girl his own age . Conveniently , Janeane has no father because her mother is divorced . ( Hmm : a single father , a single mother . . . I wonder how this movie will end . ) Mike decides to run away to Paris so he can live with his father , not bothering to realise that his father chose to get rid of him in the first place . ( Kelly's screen character here is less sympathetic than perhaps Kelly intended . ) Janeane wants to run away to Paris too , so she can be with her mother . But Janeane is afraid to run away by herself ( smart girl ) ; she wants to come along with Danny so he can protect her ( stupid girl ) . Danny is in the ' girls have cooties ' stage , so he wants nothing to do with Janeane . . . but she speaks French and he doesn't ( this is a boy attending school in Switzerland , remember ) , so he reluctantly decides to let Janeane come with him . . . especially since she kindly baked him a chocolate fairy cake . ( Which he immediately scoffs at the very beginning of their journey . ) When the school notifies Danny's dad and Janeane's mum that their brats have taken French leave , the two parents join forces to find their children . Along the road , Danny and Janeane meet other Eurobrats who help them . Most of the plot devices in this movie are both extremely implausible and highly predictable . Also , the child actors are given some annoyingly " wise " dialogue about global politics and other deep subjects . Michael Redgrave gives a semi-comic performance as the commander of a British regiment on field manoeuvres , and Roger Van Doude is quite funny as a Clouseau-like gendarme . There's a truly bizarre performance by a small boy in the brief role of an English peer . The child actors who play Danny and Janeane are surprisingly competent . Gene Kelly's direction is workmanlike : not nearly as skillful as his direction on some later big-budget Hollywood films . I'll rate ' The Happy Road ' . I recommend it for children , but only if an adult guardian explains to them that runaway children in the REAL world usually have a lot less fun and a lot more danger . UPDATE : IMDb reviewer ' Hemingway and the Sea ' calls me ' under-educated with an innate dislike for this type of movie ' . Actually , I'm SELF-educated , and I've an innate dislike for any movie ( such as this one ) which depicts runaway children having romantic adventures with helpful strangers and picturesque tramps . The children in the audience need to know that running away from an abusive environment ( to anywhere but to the authorities ) can put them in deadly danger . Also , ' Hemingway ' accuses me of making ' political statements ' about Gene Kelly . I merely called Kelly a Francophile : that's a social statement . Gene Kelly was very clear about why he left the Arthur Freed unit at MGM : by spending a year in France and London , Kelly was able to take lawful advantage of a loophole in the U . S . tax code . But in that wretched year , Kelly made two very weak French films and an unfinished British production . If he had stayed at MGM , we might now have one more Gene Kelly masterpiece on a par with " Singin ' in the Rain " or " An American in Paris " . My opinion of ' The Happy Road ' remains unchanged .
Art Carney lets it all hang out ; Lucy wets the bed .	I'll say straight off that I've never been a Lucille Ball fan . But I'll give her some credit , or rather half-credit , for attempting to do something different here . The TV movie ' Happy Anniversary and Goodbye ' was Ball's one-off attempt to portray a credible human being , rather than her usual wacky redhead . Unfortunately , ' Happy Anniversary and Goodbye ' wasn't quite serious enough to be a genuine drama , and it wasn't funny enough to be a comedy either . Ball and Art Carney play Norma and Malcolm Michaels , a middle-aged married couple in midlife crisis : their anniversary is coming up , but he's decided he's tired of her and he wants a divorce . She feels similarly , and she agrees to a trial separation . Carney has really let himself go here . The former beanpole of his Ed Norton days is gone forever . In an early scene in the couple's bedroom , Carney's paunch is quite visible . This opening scene is unpleasant for other reasons too , with Ball's and Carney's characters insulting each other ( very bitterly , not amusingly ) and no real chemistry between them as performers . Norma decides she's still young enough and attractive enough to make a new start . . . so she heads for Las Vegas , where she meets quite a few handsome men . ( Lucille Ball briefly ogles Arnold Schwarzenegger here ! ) Eventually she meets smooth-talking Peter Marshall , who sweet-talks her into his hotel suite . ( Marshall is excellent here . ) We can tell he's a playboy stud because he's got a waterbed . And he's ready to make Norma his next sexual conquest . . . Ball actually does some good acting here , conveying her character's conflicting moods . We sense that she wants to jump into the sack with Marshall . . . partly to spite her husband Malcolm , and partly to prove to herself that she still has some sexual appeal . Yet she also conveys that , on some level , she still loves her husband and doesn't want to cheat on him . The reason why I give Lucille Ball only half-credit rather than full credit for trying something new here is because she clearly didn't trust herself to pull it off , and she decided to add some ' insurance ' in the form of her usual so-called ' wacky ' Lucy antics . Norma is wearing high heels when Marshall tries to get her into his waterbed . She can't get past him , so she jumps ONTO the waterbed and runs across it in her high heels . Of course , the waterbed springs several leaks . Marshall and Ball are running round in circles ( or rectangles , rather ) on top of the waterbed while it spews improbable gallons of water onto both of them , as if they're performing " Singin ' in the Rain " . It's only vaguely funny . I was hoping that Desi Arnaz would show up with his Cuban accent , shouting " It sprung a lick ! " . Instead , the ending we get is very obvious indeed . I was also annoyed by the presence of untalented performer Sid Gould . In real life he was Ball's cousin-in-law , which is the only possible explanation for why she often gave this grossly unfunny man small but showy roles in her productions . I'll rate ' Happy Anniversary and Goodbye ' just barely . Nice try , Ball .
Beware of Froggie the Vampire !	David Devant was one of the three great music-hall illusionists of Victorian England . His near-contemporaries Nevil Maskelyne and George A . Cooke specialised in large-scale effects that took up an entire stage ( usually the Egyptian Hall in London ) and which could be viewed from the most distant seat in the gallery . Conversely , David Devant often worked in miniature : many of his magic tricks involved small props such as newspapers , balls , hats , rabbits and doves . Devant's career peaked during the ' spiritualism ' craze , when self-described clairvoyant mediums made money with their alleged ability to summon the departed spirits of their gullible clients ' dead loved ones . Devant used his experience as a conjuror to expose these frauds , often duplicating their effects with no supernatural help . ' The Great London Mystery ' , a silent serial , is one of the very few chapter plays produced in Britain , although many American serials were exhibited in British cinemas . ( I have my own fond memories of a tiny cinema in Victoria Station which , as recently as 1979 , was still showing American serials from the 1930s : one chapter each week , in proper sequence , with a full programme of short subjects . ) I was recently able to view an incomplete version of ' The Great London Mystery ' which was discovered in Cornwall , near where this serial was originally filmed . One surviving reel , identified as " Chapter 12 " , has end titles which imply that this was the serial's final chapter . Devant stars as a character named ' the Master Magician ' , although it's established early on that he's a conjuror , an illusionist : he doesn't claim any supernatural abilities . Much like Mandrake the Magician in the American comic strip , this fellow uses his fake magical powers to stop real spies and criminals . Devant gets a chance to use his magic wand against a French femme fatale named Froggie the Vampire . ( I well and truly LOVE that name ! ) Mam'selle Froggie is a vampire in the Kipling sense , not the Bram Stoker sense . In this role , a sloe-eyed and slow-motioned actress named Lola de Liane ( who ? ) vamps until ready and slinks like a minx . The head villain in this serial is a downmarket Mister Wu knockoff named Ching Ling Fu , played by a white actor with sellotaped eyelids . Ching Ling Fu claims to be a master of Oriental magic , but all of his sorcery is fake . . . and easily exposed by Devant . The only genuine touch of supernaturalism here ( at least in the incomplete chapters which I screened ) is supplied by the victim of one of Ching Ling Fu's surgical experiments : a man with monkey glands , who has naturally acquired some simian characteristics . Lester Gard ( who he ? ) overacts horribly in this role , although his makeup is interesting . Have a banana ! I had difficulty following the plot , as the reels which I screened were non-consecutive . The three villains ( he , she and it ) pool their talents to rob and debauche Lady Doris Stapleton , whose hairstyle leaves much to be desired . As in many serials , the plotline is extremely episodic , without a continuing story arc . In several cases , I couldn't verify the proper order of the reels which I screened . . . but it didn't seem to much matter . Most of the set-pieces in this movie are concerned with fake seances or some other ' supernatural ' event which invariably turns out to be fraudulent : the script was clearly written to play to Devant's strengths and his personal crotchets . This movie has a dodgy sense of England's geography . Lady Doris seems to live in the Home Provinces , judging from how quickly the Master Magician travels back and forth between her manor and his headquarters in a theatre in London's West End . . . but the exteriors in this film were clearly shot in Cornwall . There are exquisite exterior sequences , showing the beautiful Cornish countryside as it was in the days of George V's reign . There are several extended shots of beautiful craggy hills and rolling valleys , and I think I even glimpsed a chough ( a native Cornish bird ) winging across the screen during one sequence . The scenes which take place in London are much less convincing : mostly some interior sequences which could have been filmed anywhere , and some very brief stock footage of the Angel of Christian Charity ( in Piccadilly Circus ) and Shaftesbury Avenue . I'll rate ' The Great London Mystery ' , mostly for its historical value .
This is what happens when you swallow some bull !	Here's a film within a film ! In 1907 , the Gaumont Films company in France made a slapstick comedy ( silent , of course ) with a title that would translate from the French as ' A gentleman who ate some bull ' . I'm aware of at least one ( incomplete ) print of that original film , which was screened in October 2007 at the silent-movie festival in Pordenone , Italy . That print is in Australia's National Sound and Film Archive . In 1933 , a Ukrainian named Eugene Deslow got hold of that film - - not the Australian print , though - - and added an introduction plus a soundtrack , the latter consisting of commentary narrated by the single-named actor Bétove . ( A possible pun on ' Beethoven ' ? ) I'll describe the original 1907 movie first before getting to that narration . A Parisian hostess serves her dinner guests a dish containing bull-flesh . It goes down a treat for everyone except one particular gent . ( He must be a Taurus . ) Conveniently , there are a pair of cattle horns on the hostess's wall ; this man takes them down , attaches them to his forehead , and begins pawing the carpet as if he were a bull . He charges the hostess and her maid , terrifies the guests , wrecks the house and then rushes out into the street , where he terrorises the neighbours . Well , we all know that the best bullfighters come from Spain . There aren't many Montmartre matadors . A telegrapher sends an urgent message to Madrid : calling all bull-fighters ! A veritable parade of matadors come poncing through the streets of Paris , ready to do battle with the bull-man . SPOILER NOW . After a slapstick bullfight , he is subdued and arrested . Apart from the bizarre premise , there are some interesting visual compositions here . It's very strange ( and funny ) to see a whole squadron of bull-fighters marching through the streets . Most impressive is the sequence in the telegrapher's office . Here we see some early stop-motion animation , as each of the letters of the Morse code transmission ( in French ) appears on strings ( telegraph wires ? ) suspended across the top of the set . Now , the 1933 version : Deslaw clearly wanted to put his imprint on this footage , but the result is not entirely a success . As I listened to Deslaw's wise-cracking commentary ( voiced sarcastically by Bétove ) , I was reminded of those 1960s silent-film compilations by Robert Youngson , in which Youngson substituted his own comments for the original title cards . I was also reminded of ' MSFT3K ' : a series which I despise , in which a couple of clever-dicks make fun of the previous crude efforts of film-makers who did the best they could . It's a VERY cheap shot to ridicule a 1907 film for its crudity , but that's basically what Deslaw is doing here . I'll rate the original 1907 film : this 1933 reworking rates barely a 4 .
" Keep young and beautiful . . . "	I saw ' Hairpins ' at Cinefest 2006 in Liverpool , New York ; it was a last-minute substitute for a James Kirkwood movie I'd lot rather have seen instead . A great deal of the narrative in ' Hairpins ' implies that a woman's worth is based on her physical appearance . I'd like to hope that this sort of story wouldn't be made nowadays , but I'm not so sure . Matt Moore plays a successful young lawyer with the unlikely name Rex Rossmore , whose career is on the rise . His wife Muriel ( Enid Bennett ) is idle and dowdy with it , having nothing to do all day , and doing it while lounging about in a shapeless garment which I would have called a dressing-gown , but which this movie's intertitles identify as a ' kimono ' . Muriel is always leaving a trail of hairpins as she slouches her way through the Rossmore home with cleansing cream on her face . Rex feels that his legal practice requires him to make a regular appearance in all the best night spots in town , but he also feels that his dowdy wife would not make a good impression . . . so his companion for these jaunts is his secretary Effie ( the delectable Margaret Livingston ) . Realising that she's going to lose her husband , Muriel decides to drink prussic acid . . . until she catches a glimpse of herself in the mirror , and realises what a dull and unattractive corpse she'll be . Hoo boy . Muriel decides she needs a total makeover . Taking advice in behaviour from the worldly Mrs Kent ( Grace Morse , quite good ) and ditto in fashion from Hal Gordon ( William Conklin ) , Muriel completely changes her appearance . . . and even learns to smoke ! At a Jazz Age party , she crosses paths with her husband . . . who is scandalised when he realises that this hot mama is his own wife . SPOILERS COMING . This sanctimonious movie tries to have it both ways . After telling us for six reels that a woman is no more than what she looks like , now we have the redemption scene in which Rex tells his wife he loves her for herself , and doesn't care what she looks like . The happy couple decide to spend more quiet evenings at home . . . but Rex buys Muriel a fancier kimono . I well and truly wondered about the mind-set of the people who made this movie . ' Hairpins ' was released shortly after American women got the vote : I wonder if the men who wrote , produced and directed this movie felt some need for a backlash . ' Hairpins ' indicates that women are useless except as arm candy ( the Rossmores ' housework is done by the maid ) , and they have an obligation to look good so as not to let down their menfolk . Part of this movie's problem is the casting ; Enid Bennett is an attractive woman who has clearly gone to some effort to look dowdy and plain , so it's no real surprise when she turns into a glamour girl . I would have been more impressed if the film had cast a genuinely plain actress ( such as Norma Shearer ) and then given her the glamour treatment . As usual for a Thomas Ince film , this movie's intertitles are far more elaborate than they really needed to be . I'll rate ' Hairpins ' just .
This is no ' Cabaret '	' I Get Out and You Stay Here ' is a German screwball comedy ( or is that an oxymoron ? ) from 1931 . The year is significant . At this point , Germany has recovered ( somewhat ) from the crippling economic problems of the 1920s that gave German film goers nothing to laugh at , but Hitler is still not yet in charge . . . and not yet politically dominant enough to inflect the proceedings of this film . Based on what we see here , Berlin in 1931 was a pretty nice place to live , and ( for all I know ) perhaps it was . . . at least for people with a few deutschemarks . The very attractive ( and very Aryan ) actress Camilla Horn plays the floor model in a very swank boutique in Unter den Linden , Mittel Berlin . Her job enables her to wear beautiful gowns and expensive furs , but she isn't paid much . She's engaged to a handsome young driving instructor ( Hans Brausewetter ) , and it's understood that they'll marry as soon as they get a bit of money . But no pfennigs are on the horizon . Camilla's employer ( Margo Lion ) locates a rich sucker , I mean a customer : a wealthy baron , very well played by Theodor Loos . Camilla's job requires her to be squired about at posh nightclubs and restaurants by the baron and other rich men , while wearing her employer's expensive outfits , in the hope of making some sales . Naturally , this leaves poor Hans at home all alone with his engine idling , adjusting his stick shift . Of course Hans jumps to conclusions about Camilla's stage-door Johanns . But German sex farces ( such as they were in the 1930s ) were actually somewhat prudish , so there's never any doubt that Camilla is remaining chaste . Even with her boyfriend , she follows a Hans-off policy . It's no surprise that there's a happy ending for these lovebirds in 1931 Berlin , but modern viewers are grimly aware that things won't be so nice for them in a few years . On the positive side , I did enjoy the exterior shots of Berlin . But the scenes in nightclubs and restaurants appear to be staged , featuring dress extras on a movie set , so anybody hoping to see any Christopher Isherwood-style footage of Berlin nightlife will be disappointed here . I'll rate this movie , mostly for the actors ' ability to rise above the poor script .
. . . but don't come too often	' Come September ' is an amusing bit of trifle that falls well short of hilarity . One major flaw in this film ( for modern viewers ) is that it stars Rock Hudson as a ladies ' man : a casting decision which is apt to provoke unintended laughter . But fair do's here : at the time this film was made , Hudson gave some very successful portrayals of swinging bachelors in sparkling sex comedies that are still enjoyable today , even with our hindsight knowledge of Rock Hudson's private life . So , the problem with ' Come September ' isn't the casting of Hudson in the lead role . It's down to a bad script , slow direction and an awkward premise . Hudson portrays a millionaire playboy named Robert Lawrence Talbot . Well , that name alone is a problem : I sat through the whole movie wondering if he was related to Lawrence Talbot out of the Wolfman movies . All through this movie , I kept expecting the full moon to rise and turn Rock Hudson into a werewolf . Gina Lollobrigida - - quite sexy here , but her sexiness wasted on Rock Hudson - - plays an Italian peasant named Lisa Fellini . That name set off my alarm bells . It's as if some American screenwriter said : " We need a good Italian name for this character . Hey , what's the name of that Italian movie director ? Fellini ? We'll call her Fellini ! " Right , that's the names sorted . Talbot ( Hudson ) is an American millionaire who owns a gorgeous Italian villa by the sea . He also has a gorgeous Italian mistress ( Lollobrigida ) , whom he keeps ensconced in said villa . So far , so good . Now here's where the plot goes pear-shaped : Talbot enters this mansion ( and this mistress ) on a regular basis , but only ever in September . ( Hence the title : ' Come September ' , geddit ? ) Eleven months of each year , Talbot is dallying elsewhere . He's perfectly willing to leave Gina Lollabrigida twiddling her thumbs ( or whatever she twiddles ) for eleven months at a time , and likewise he doesn't spare a thought for the villa during those eleven months either . Yet , every September , he expects the villa and his mistress to be ready and waiting for him , just as when he left . Right there , I had serious difficulty empathising with Hudson's character in this film . A major-domo named Clavell ( played very well by Walter Slezak ) keeps the villa in good nick during Talbot's absence . Anyway , that's the backstory . After pulling this September routine for so many years , this year Talbot decides to show up in July . . . two months ahead of schedule . Much to his surprise , Talbot discovers that Clavell is running the villa as a swank hotel - La Dolce Vista - and that the place is full of guests . . . who are paying their lodging fees to Clavell , not to Talbot . Under the circumstances , I couldn't much blame Clavell for doing this . This film provides an interesting look at Joel Grey in a very early role , when he was still young and athletic . Brenda de Banzie is good as the chaperone for some girls . Bobby Darin and Sandra Dee are bland and boring . A pity that this movie isn't very good , nor especially funny . But there are some nice shots of the Italian countryside ( and some dodgy process photography ) . I'll rate ' Come September ' .
Some Turks eat garlic . . .	' Dracula in Istanbul ' deserves credit for an honest title , at least . This Turkish-made film sticks fairly close to the original plot of Bram Stoker's novel ( greatly simplified ) , apart from moving the action to Istanbul in the present day ( 1953 ) , presumably as a budget-saving device and in order to make the film more ' relevant ' to its target audience . . . much as the Hollywood version of H . G . Wells's ' War of the Worlds ' moved the action to modern Los Angeles . Dracula is played here by Atif Kaptan , who was apparently ( I'm told ) a horror-film veteran in Turkey , somewhat equivalent to Peter Cushing . He plays Count Dracula in impeccable ( modern ) formal dress : white tie and tails . He is also completely clean-shaven and slap-headed , looking vaguely like a cross between Max Schreck in ' Nosferatu ' and Kojak . The English characters in Stoker's novel are Turkish here , with appropriate name changes . The most significant change in the storyline is the conversion of demure ingenue Mina Seward into a fleshly cabaret dancer named Guzin , erotically depicted by Annie Ball . She gives an intriguing performance , turning me on more than somewhat , but this alteration weakens the story . Much of the horror in Stoker's novel comes from the contrast between the virginal Mina and the profane unholy nature of the undead . In this Turkish film , the Mina character Guzin is already depicted as a ' bad ' girl , so somehow it doesn't seem quite so shocking when Dracula threatens to recruit her into the undead's legions . This film was made on a laughably low budget , only a bare notch above the Ed Wood level . Yet the lighting and photography impressed me , and the Turkish locations are very interesting . I wish I could say I was impressed with the actors ' performances : perhaps Turkish cinema audiences actually prefer a more stylised acting technique than I'm accustomed to viewing . I'll rate this Turkish delight .
Lubitsch as Mr Doubtfire	' Wo Ist Mein Schatz ? ' ( roughly , ' Where's My Sweetie-Pie ? ' ) is a very early comedy written and directed by and starring Ernst Lubitsch . Although Lubitsch went on to become one of the most important directors in movie history , this early effort is nothing much . In fact , ' Where's My Sweetie-Pie ? ' has almost the exact same premise as ' Mrs Doubtfire ' , but without the cross-dressing . Lubitsch plays a young husband ( named Ernst Lubitsch ! ) who must contend with an overbearing mother-in-law and a wife who expects him to stay at home . When Ernst receives a letter informing him that he must come to the chess club that night for a championship match , I assumed that this was a ruse contrived by Ernst's cronies so that he could go out for a night of drunken carousing . I was wrong : Ernst really does go to the chess club that night . . . in a room with no booze , no cigars , and no sexy jungfrau . . . and he really does play a chess match . ( Although he doesn't follow regulation play : Ernst picks up a chessman and moves it , then changes his mind and moves another one instead . This is against the rules . ) Ernst's wife ( named Louise , like the actress who plays her ) throws him out and divorces him . Ernst sends her a letter , declaring that he's going to commit suicide . Reading the newspaper in his club , Ernst spots an advert with his wife's address : she wants to engage a manservant . Ernst's hairdresser kits him out in a ginger wig with a fringe that makes him look like Graham Chapman in a Monty Python sketch . Then Ernst goes to his own ( former ) home , where of course his wife and mother-in-law don't recognise him . They promptly hire him as a combination porter , footman and butler . Complications ensue . This movie is amusing but clumsy . In one scene , when Ernst sabotages a spoon so that it will leak , we see a long , long , LONG close-up of Ernst nobbling the spoon . When Louise acquires a would-be suitor who looks at least 70 years old , Ernst chucks him down the staircase . Because the scene is clearly genuine ( no stunt double , no trick photography ; Ernst is really throwing an old man down the stairs ) , this action is disturbing rather than funny . I'm very much a fan of Lubitsch , but even at this early stage in his career he was doing much better work than this film . I'll rate this movie .
Don't try this at home , kids !	Whenever I hear a reference to ' the Little Rascals ' , I cringe . This is partly because I just don't find those kids very funny , but largely because there never really was a ' Little Rascals ' movie . Hal Roach's long-running series of low-budget kiddie comedies were actually called the ' Our Gang ' shorts ( ' Our Gang ' being the title of the first film in the series ) . For some reason , the movie prints that have been syndicated for television were retitled ' Little Rascals ' . If you own any movies with ' Little Rascals ' in the credits , you've got a TV print . ' Big Ears ' is one of the few sound-era Our Gang shorts that has never , to my knowledge , been shown on television . A previous IMDb reviewer says that this is because the storyline involves divorce , a traumatic subject for young children . Well , divorce is mentioned in the dialogue , but that's not why ' Big Ears ' is too touchy for television . The central character in ' Big Ears ' is little Wheezer , one of the more annoying kids in Our Gang ( which is saying a lot ! ) . The title ' Big Ears ' doesn't actually refer to over-sized lugs . It's the nickname for somebody who pokes his ears into conversations where he shouldn't be listening . Wheezer overhears his parents having an argument , in which they consider getting divorced . With the typical logic of childhood , Wheezer decides to feign illness in the hope that his parents will be concerned about his health and forget about divorcing . Wheezer's buddy Stymie believes that Wheezer is actually sick , so he raids the medicine chest for something to dose him with . This sequence is the reason why ' Big Ears ' is never shown on TV . The kids watching at home might get the idea that it's fun to grab random items out of the medicine chest and swallow them . I laughed as Stymie treated Wheezer's nonexistent illness with hair oil and other noxious substances . . . but this is definitely not something that impressionable kiddiewinks should be watching . At one point , Wheezer's father ( played a bit too prissily by Creighton Hale ) refers to African-American child Stymie as ' the little pickaninny ' . A very few of the Our Gang films have racist plot lines - - notably the notorious ' Kid from Borneo ' - - but many of the Our Gangs had casual examples of racial stereotyping that are tossed out at random . This is one such example , but it only lasts a few seconds in ' Big Ears ' and could easily have been cut out . The real problem is the medicine-chest sequence , which is the only part of this movie that I laughed at . I do like the fact that the Our Gang comedies showed white and black kids playing together as equals , in a time when racial segregation was taken for granted . . . but there's still plenty of racial slurs in these movies . I'll rate ' Big Ears ' .
Thinly-plotted thick-ear	CONTAINS SPOILERS . ' King Solomon of Broadway ' is one of several low-budget movies that tough-guy actor Edmund Lowe made in the waning days of his career , teamed with director Alan Crosland . . . whose career was also in a downhill phase at this point , but who might have made a comeback had he not died in a road accident . A cliché that I really dislike is the one about the macho drifter who wins some immensely valuable piece of property in a card game . How often does this happen in real life ? We're supposed to accept that this guy just naturally wins card games by virtue of being nervier than everybody else . This time round , the cliché character is nicknamed King Solomon , because of his alleged wisdom . His girlfriend is named Sheba . ( Geddit ? ) Actually , the cliché gets a slightly realistic variation this time . King Solomon is ostensibly the owner of a nightclub which he supposedly won in a card game . The twist is that the real owner of the nightclub is gangster Ice Larson . Solomon is fronting for Ice because of Ice's criminal record . I found this plausible , having encountered some similar situations in real life . Another twist that lifts this movie out of the cliché is the fact that , for once , the macho drifter isn't quite so lucky . King Solomon , who's allegedly a wise man , turns out to be just a wiseguy . He gets into a poker game with some rival gangsters , and ( surprise ! ) he loses . He bets the deed to the nightclub , which he doesn't actually own . Surprise ! He loses again . Rather than admit he's skint , Solomon gives the goons an I . O . U . to the property . Now he's got to get that chit back . Rather implausibly , Solomon tries to get back into the game with a Michigan roll . For those who came in late , a Michigan roll is a bankroll with a big bill on the outside , and all the rest are $1 bills . Solomon's version is even worse : a $100 bill on the outside , and all the rest is blank paper . ( Maybe he's planning to say the green ink faded . ) The gangsters fail to fall for this folding-money foolery . Much of the action ( ? ) of this movie occurs in the nightclub , which supplies an excuse for some musical numbers . These are provided by Pinky Tomlin , an energetic performer who should have made more movies . Tomlin reminds me of Kay Kyser : both were bespectacled genial guys who were talented musicians but preferred to flavour their music with comedy . Unfortunately , Tomlin's material isn't very good here . . . and he co-wrote it , so he deserves some of the blame . Solomon's girlfriend Sheba ( hoo boy ) is played by Dorothy Page , an actress I've never seen before . She's quite pretty , but she looks remarkably like Loretta Young . . . unless perhaps the makeup artist and hairstylist are deliberately trying to make her look like Young . From what's on offer here , Dorothy Page didn't have even a fraction of Loretta Young's acting ability and screen presence . Charley Grapewin plays a twee codger who doesn't resemble anybody you'd ever meet in real life . Matters are not helped by a ( mercifully ) brief appearance by African-American actor Fred Toones , supplying some alleged comedy relief . You could start a good argument over whether or not Fred Toones was more annoying than Stepin Fetchit . They both played ' yassuh ' roles , but Toones tended to throw in some effeminacy . There are a few good points in ' King Solomon of Broadway ' but they're far between . I'll rate this thinly-plotted thick-ear movie .
I just can't get Inuit .	I was able to screen an incomplete print of this early talkie , which features some impressive use of music and ambient sound . The star of the film is Lenore Ulric , who was a popular actress on Broadway ( often co-starring with her husband Sidney Blackmer ) , yet who never caught on in movies . . . probably because , although she possessed some glamour , she was not conventionally beautiful . The villain in this film is well-played by Ullrich Haupt , making this the only film in history to feature an actress named Ulric and an actor named Ullrich . The action takes place in Alaska in 1898 during the Klondike Gold Rush . Lenore Ulric plays Talu ( short for Tallulah ? ) , the offspring of an Eskimo woman and a white man . Despite being half-caste , somehow she's managed to harpoon a husband : Lanak , a full-blooded Eskimo . Matters are not helped by the fact that Lenore Ulric wears neatly-tailored furs in this film while her fellow Eskimos clump about in crude skins . Also , she attempts an accent in some scenes but not in others . Along comes a trading vessel , captained by Jones with Duke as his first mate . ( Some weak comic relief from Louis Wolheim . ) Talu , who hopes to get an igloo with a white picket fence , stows away on Jones's ship and then becomes his mistress . Little does she know that Lanak is in cold pursuit , following her by kayak . There's a reel missing , but when the snow settles we're in Nome and Talu is now a dance-hall girl . I was hoping she would perform under the stage name Eskimo Nell . The other dance-hall gals shun her because of her mixed blood . The climactic showdown gave me frostbite . Warren Hymer is one of my all-time favourite character actors : I was pleased to see him here in one of his earliest roles , but disappointed that he had so little to do . Based on what I saw , I'll rate this movie 4 in 10 . Lenore Ulric's acting technique was better suited for the stage .
' Flat ' is the word for it .	Critics tend to ignore director Frank Tashlin's films , except for the two starring Jayne Mansfield . When they do review Tashlin's work , they invariably mention that he began as an animator ( Warner Brothers ' Looney Toons ) , and that Tashlin's live-action movies tend to feature cartoonish characters and impossible sight gags . ' Bachelor Flat ' is unusual for Tashlin , in that the main characters are all plausible human beings . Even more interestingly , ' Bachelor Flat ' appears to be Hollywood's attempt to turn Terry-Thomas into a light-comedy romantic lead , rather than a comic villain . Terry-Thomas here plays a veddy British professor at one of those California colleges where all the students are young , tanned , and impossibly good-looking . Terry-Thomas's character is named Bruce Patterson , which sounds to me more like an Australian name ! The dialogue identifies Patterson as an ' archaeologist ' , but he's clearly a palaeontologist : did they think we wouldn't know what this word means ? The movie's premise maintains that Patterson is irresistible to women , due to his English accent and his charming manner . The young romantic leads are Tuesday Weld ( as a flighty teen runaway ) and Richard Beymer ( as a swot ) . Weld is supposed to be all cute ' n ' adorable , and we're supposed to want to hug her , but I just wanted to slap her and call her an idiot . For one thing , she runs away from boarding school wearing high heels ! What on Earth can explain the brief success of Richard Beymer ? This tall handsome non-entity displays no acting talent whatever . In ' The Diary of Anne Frank ' he utterly failed to convince me that he was European . In all his romantic roles ( including ' Bachelor Flat ' ) he quite fails to convince me that he has any interest in women . Beymer's best-known role is the male lead in ' West Side Story ' ( however did he get THAT part ? ) , yet his utter blandness was the biggest flaw in that great film . Tuesday Weld and Celeste Holm are meant to be playing daughter and mother , yet their characters have almost no footage together . I was impressed with one clever transition by Tashlin : a shot of Weld in bed with a photo of Holm , then cutting to a shot of Holm in bed with a photo of Weld . Celeste Holm and her real-life husband ( character actor Wesley Addy ) have made generous donations to many charities , and they have been friendly to me personally : Holm has kindly granted me the time to interview her about her early days performing with George M Cohan . I really want to like her on screen . . . yet Holm has never given a movie performance that impresses me . She's just dull here , playing an unsympathetic character . Allegedly , she's romantically involved with Terry-Thomas , but their characters have almost no screen time together . Francesca Bellini ( who ? ) gives one of the worst performances I've ever seen in a Hollywood sound film , and an unbilled American actress in the role of Miss Pilkington attempts an unconvincing English accent . Howard McNear is just as annoying here as he was in Mayberry . Rather a lot of this movie is implausible without being funny . If a tiny dachshund really did steal an immense dinosaur bone , dragging it slowly along inch by inch , would the dog really make TWO circuits round the same sand dune ? Not likely . I laughed heartily at one sight gag involving Terry-Thomas and a Cro-Magnon skull . The gag was reworked from a similar gag with Jules Munshin in ' On the Town ' , but it's funnier here and more imaginative . The film's prologue , featuring Terry-Thomas as a predatory redcoat in the days of Paul Revere , is amusing . . . but it unfortunately sets the wrong tone for everything that follows . I liked the views of early 1960s California , although ( based on this movie ) there doesn't seem to be anyone in the entire state who isn't white . ' Bachelor Flat ' features impressive production values , but there's really very little of interest here . I'll rate this movie just .
Bobby Howes should have sued .	The oddly-named Vera-Ellen was to movie dancing what Sonja Henie was to movie ice-skating : blonde , girlish , always delightful to watch , but not an especially good actress and usually lumbered with weak material . When I watch Vera-Ellen's sexy apache dance with Gene Kelly in ' Words and Music ' , I can't help noticing that her blouse ( yellow with narrow red horizontal stripes ) seems to be made out of the South Vietnam flag . For some reason , the very American Vera-Ellen starred in two musicals ( made several years apart ) set in Edinburgh , a city not noted for its tap-dancers : ' Let's Be Happy ' and ' Happy Go Lovely ' . In the latter , Cesar Romero plays an American impresario who for some reason is staging a musical in Edinburgh . There's a vague attempt to link this show to the Edinburgh Festival , which is nonsense : the Festival is not a showcase for splashy leg-shows . We also see a couple of stock shots of the Royal Mile : apart from a few Highland accents , there's absolutely no attempt to convey Scottish atmosphere in this movie . The funniest gag occurs at the very beginning , when we learn that the title of Romero's show is ' Frolics to You ' : this is a cheeky pun that Britons will get and Yanks won't . Vera-Ellen is , as usual , cute and appealing and an impressive dancer , but the very few musical numbers in this movie are boring and bad . The plot - - mistaken identity between magnate David Niven and reporter Gordon Jackson - - is brainless , though no more so than the plots of several dozen Hollywood musicals . Romero is less annoying than usual here , probably because ( for once ) he isn't required to convince us that he's interested in bedding the heroine . The single biggest offence of this movie is its misuse of Bobby Howes . The father of Sally Ann Howes was a major star of West End stage musicals ; his wistful rendition of " She's My Lovely " was a big hit in Britain in 1937 . Here , he shows up in several scenes as Romero's dogsbody but never has a chance to participate in a musical number , nor even any real comedy . It's absolutely criminal that this movie - - with a title containing the word ' Lovely ' , sure to evoke Howes's greatest hit - - would cast a major British musical star but give him nothing to do ! The delightful character actress Ambrosine Phillpotts ( whom I worked with once ) shines in one restaurant sequence , and there's a glimpse of the doomed beauty Kay Kendall . As Vera-Ellen's confidante , somebody named Diane Hart speaks in one of the most annoying voices I've ever heard : it sounds like an attempt to imitate Joan Greenwood and Glynis Johns both at the same go , but doesn't match either . Val Guest has a story credit , but this movie doesn't come up to the quality of his brilliant comedies . The colour photography is wretched , though I realise that postwar Britain could not afford Hollywood's process work . ' Happy Go Lovely ' is at utmost best a pleasant time-waster , with ' waster ' being the operative word . I'll rate this movie just .
' Zero Patience ' : zero budget , but some pleasant songs .	' Zero Patience ' is a low-budget musical about the Aids crisis that actually treats the subject intelligently yet manages to be fun , light-hearted and optimistic . The film is targeted for an audience of gay males ( or , at least , people who enjoy watching male nudity ) but I liked it anyway . The title is a wordplay on Patient Zero - - the gay man who allegedly brought Aids to North America - - and the fact that people hoping for an Aids cure are tired of waiting : they've got zero patience . Near the climax of the film , Sir Richard Burton performs the title song with his friends : " What's the time ? " " Zero Hour . " " How much patience ? " " None . " Earlier , another song ( performed by the titular patient ) has a chorus in French that translates as " I know , I know , I know that I don't know . " This Richard Burton is not the Welsh actor but rather the 19th-century explorer and linguist , who ( according to this movie ) stumbled into the Fountain of Youth and is still alive . ( Played by an actor who looks nothing like the historic Sir Richard Burton . ) I expected this movie's dialogue to mention that the real Sir Richard had himself circumcised in adulthood so that he could pass for an Arab in order to visit Mecca . I never fault any movie for having a low budget , but I do get annoyed when low-budget filmmakers try to tell a story that really requires higher production values . In ' Zero Patience ' , one musical number is performed aboard an airliner in flight : but there are only four passengers and one stewardess ( Dianne Heatherington ) , so the nearly-empty cabin - - a set that would have impressed me in its own right - - looks ridiculous . Ironically , if they'd filled the set with more actors , they could have got away with a cheaper set . Similarly , at this film's climax , Burton and his friends attempt a civil disobedience . . . but the action really cries for a crowd of rebels , not the handful shown here . I was also annoyed that this movie is so deeply in Political Correctness territory . We're not supposed to use the phrase ' Aids cases ' because it's demeaning . We can't say ' Aids victims ' or ' Aids patients ' because that's judgmental . For a while , the accepted phrase was ' people with Aids ' ( PWA ) but even that became taboo . Now we're required to say ' persons living with Aids ' , abbreviated as PLWA . During the airliner sequence , Heatherington identifies her employer as ' PLWA Airlines ' . If she had said ' PWA Airlines ' , this would have been a clever and funny pun on TWA , a real airline . But she had to weaken the pun for the sake of political correctness , changing it to PLWA . This is the same sort of stupidity that makes me look a racist if I say ' coloured people ' but I get credit for being enlightened if I say ' people of colour ' . The cast of ' Zero Patience ' - - some of them quite talented , others less so - - seem a bit too impressed with their own alleged audacity . Still , it took some guts to tackle this particular subject in this particular way . My rating : , and here's hoping that ' Zero Patience ' will become a period piece when Aids is curable .
Osgood Perkins shines in a weak film	One of the very best silent films I've ever seen is ' Puritan Passions ' . Several of the people involved in that film worked together a year earlier on ' The Cradle Buster ' , so I screened this movie with high hopes . Serves me right : I was disappointed . Glenn Hunter ( age 28 at this time ) stars as Benjamin ' Sweetie ' Reed , who has just turned 21 and is eager to assert his manhood . ( Stand well clear , please . ) He's a spoilt mama's boy , and his mother ( played by Beatrice Morgan ) still thinks of him as a child . There's an amusing trick-dissolve shot : a subjective view of Benjamin from his mother's viewpoint , in which Glenn Hunter ( in adult clothes ) suddenly morphs into a Little Lord Fauntleroy get-up . To prove his manhood , Benjamin runs off to a travelling carnival and promptly gets romantically involved with a cootch dancer with the unfortunate name of Gay Dixon . ( She's portrayed by Marguerite Courtot , slightly younger than Glenn Hunter but playing older here . ) Gay is assisted in her carny turn by ' Spoony ' , a dim-witted comedian played by Osgood Perkins . Perkins was brilliant in ' Puritan Passions ' as the Devil : here , he gives an astonishing and impressive performance as Spoony . Osgood Perkins ( father of Anthony ) has impressed me in every one of the ( very few ) films in which I've seen him , but his virtuoso performance in ' The Cradle Buster ' is far outside of the range in which I've previously seen him . Perkins skilfully combines pathos and comedy here . What a great actor he was ! There is some really beautiful exterior photography in this movie , especially during the carnival sequences . But the movie is much too long , and made worse by far too many intertitles . . . most of which are unfunny , or too long , or both . There's just enough plot here for a three-reeler , but even at that shortened length this story wouldn't be very good . In ' Puritan Passions ' Glenn Hunter gave one of the most impressive acting performances I've ever seen , full stop . . . but you'd never know it from his overacting in ' The Cradle Buster ' . There are some nice things in this movie , but overall ' The Cradle Buster ' is a disappointment . I'll rate this movie , mostly for Osgood Perkins's splendid acting .
Fool's mate .	The title ' 8x8 ' refers to a chessboard : an order-8 square grid . The cast list of this film will look very appetising indeed to anyone who is interested in art of the mid-20th century , as several important artists participated in this movie and appear on screen . But it pains me to report that ' 8x8 ' is basically a home movie . Several people who made significant achievements in painting ( Arp ) , sculpture ( Calder ) or collage ( Ernst ) decided to lark about with a movie camera , and this short film is the result . Sadly , the talents these people exhibited in other media do not translate to this amateurish film . There is ostensibly a theme relating to chess , but you'd barely know it from most of what's going on here . Max Ernst follows his wife Dorothea through the streets of lower Manhattan : apparently the Ernsts are meant to be chessmen , and the grid of the city streets is a chessboard , or some such . Jean Cocteau , whose sexual ambiguity has shown up more intelligently elsewhere in his work , essays here the role of a pawn who ( we all saw it coming ) turns into a queen . We also see some footage of Alexander Calder assembling a mobile and setting it in motion : this would be useful footage for a documentary on Calder , but here its meaning is uncertain . The participants really do seem to be making this up as they go along . . . which wouldn't be so bad , if it actually got somewhere . A chess match has an objective and an endgame , but this movie lacks any meaning . At one point , we see two people chasing some pieces of paper along a windswept beach . I couldn't help thinking that those pages were this movie's script , which the actors are desperately trying to retrieve . Elsewhere , some guy pretends to be a minotaur ; I'm sure that the only reason he was included in this movie was so he could strip off and show his muscular physique . Stop drooling , Cocteau ! There's some avant-gardish music by John Latoche and Oscar Brand , which I found pleasant . All in all , I'll rate this melange about . Several people in this film created brilliant art , but you wouldn't know it from what's on evidence here . This very amateurish home movie is stale , mate .
The Marx Brothers did it better .	' The College Widow ' is an obscure comedy which is notable for inspiring a much better-known ( and much funnier ) comedy . The Marx Brothers ' classic ' Horse Feathers ' is largely a parody of this movie . ' Horse Feathers ' ( 1932 ) featured much dialogue about Thelma Todd's character being a ' college widow ' , but did not offer to translate this term : audiences in 1932 were expected to know what a college widow was . . . because of this movie , and because of the original stage play by George Ade , who invented the term . George Ade ( 1866-1944 ) would now be completely forgotten , except for the fact that his surname keeps turning up in crossword puzzles . In the first two decades of the 20th century , he was an extremely popular American author , best known for writing fables combining fairytale-like characters with cynical narration and dialogue rendered in Jazz Age slang . The action of ' The College Widow ' takes place mostly at Atwater College , which could more accurately be called Jerkwater College . This is an American movie about college , so of course everyone in this movie - - including the college faculty - - are only interested in football . ( Classes ? What classes ? ) Vivacious young Jane Witherspoon is the daughter of the college's president . Atwater's football team isn't winning many games , so Professor Jellicoe persuades Jane to vamp the gridiron stars of other colleges - - especially rival Stanley University - - and seduce them into enrolling at Atwater . Her father has no discernible objection to pimping his daughter for the sake of a football trophy . Star athlete Billy Bolton is about to enrol at Stanley , his wealthy father's alma mater . Jane seduces Billy , and - - bob's your uncle - - he's soon wearing Atwater strip . Of course , the climax of the film is the big game between Atwater and Stanley . ( How did Ade's play manage this on stage ? ) Several scenes in ' The College Widow ' are clear templates for specific scenes in ' Horse Feathers ' , notably a scene in which Jane purposely falls out of a canoe to attract a burly football player . I suspect that S . J . Perelman - - principal scriptwriter on ' Horse Feathers ' , whose fondness for college humour is well known - - takes the credit for the parody . If ' The College Widow ' were a drama , it might be able to withstand the scathing parody of the Marx Brothers . But this movie is a ( very weak ) comedy , and I can't help noticing that the Marx boys ' parody is much funnier than the comedy they were sending up in the first place . In the later scenes , when Jane Witherspoon is stigmatised as a ' college widow ' , Dolores Costello seems to be playing a role that would have been better suited to Clara Bow . . . who typically played a virtuous girl who ( through misunderstandings ) was publicly perceived as a slut . I keep expecting a revival of interest in silent-film actress Dolores Costello , if only because she's Drew Barrymore's grandmother . If a Costello revival ever arrives , it shouldn't centre on ' The College Widow ' : Costello is quite pretty here , but vapid . Her energy seems forced , as if she feels a need to signal the audience that she doesn't really want to come the slut for these brawny linebackers . Buster Collier is much better as her forward-passing swain . The ' Robert Ryan ' who plays a footballer in this movie is not the famous actor of that name . Guinn Williams , whom I'm always glad to see , is quite funny here as a befuddled Stanley steamer , I mean a Stanley teamer . If I had never seen ' Horse Feathers ' , I might have rated ' The College Widow ' . Under the circumstances , I won't go higher than 4 points .
Look , mum ! No Hans !	' Der Unsterbliche Lump ' ( ' The Undying Scalawag ' ) is a semi-musical starring Gustav Fröhlich , who is best-known for playing the lead role in the greatest film of all time : ' Metropolis ' . Here , he depicts a fairly similar personality in a very different story . Hans Ritter ( Fröhlich ) is a young schoolmaster in the Tyrolean village of Burghausen . Dissatisfied with this life , he aspires to be a composer of operettas . But success as a big-time operetta operator will never come unless he ups sticks and moves to Vienna . Hans is unofficially engaged to local fraulein Anna , who has no desire to leave her beloved village . So she reluctantly adopts a Hans-off policy , and they separate so that Hans can go to Vienna . Miraculously , Hans gets more success than he expected . But when he returns to Burghausen in triumph , Hans discovers that Anna has married a well-to-do local farmer named Franz . ( She probably figured it this way : Hans , Franz , what's the difference ? ) Suddenly , Hans realises that the love of Anna was more precious to him than the weltschmerz of Vienna . He goes insane , and flees into the distant sauerbraten . SPOILERS COMING . For five long years ( and it certainly seems like it ) , Hans roams the world as a hobo . Eventually , he returns to Burghausen . By an astonishingly convenient coincidence , he has come home on the very day that the local yokels are erecting a monument to their famous native son : the great composer Hans Ritter , who is now presumed dead . This scene reminded me of the climax of ' The Way of All Flesh ' , in which the protagonist goes home anonymously to confront his own grave . ' Metropolis ' is my all-time favourite film , but very little of my love for it is due to Fröhlich's performance . Nonetheless , his callow portrayal was appropriate to his role in that film . Here , Fröhlich still seems to be giving a silent-film performance : a bit too much gesticulation , a bit too much eyebrow histrionics . I had difficulty following the dialogue , which seems to be in some regional dialect rather than straightforward German or Plattdeutsch . The film features several plot twists which manage to be extremely implausible and highly predictable at the same go . Still , the music and the photography are pleasant . I'll rate this movie .
Harmonicas and clooties .	' My Way Home ' is the last of three autobiographical films written and directed by Bill Douglas , recounting his childhood , adolescence and early manhood . Although I never met Douglas , I was present for a couple of hours during a location shoot ( near Cerne Abbas , Dorset ) for his best and most elaborate film ' Comrades ' , the story of the Tolpuddle Martyrs . I stood just outside the sight-lines , watching Douglas direct the camera and hearing him motivate the actors . He was a unique and distinctive artist ; I regret that he died so soon and that he didn't make more films . In all three instalments of Bill Douglas's autobiographical trilogy , the protagonist - - ostensibly Douglas's alter ego - - is cried Jamie . The name change warns us that some fictionalisation is in the works , but we're never told precisely at which points in the story , nor how extensively . The most famous case of this sort of substitution would be the example of Francois Truffaut and his cinematic alter ego Antoine Doinel . I suspect that Jamie conforms more closely to Bill Douglas's life than Doinel to Truffaut's . SPOILERS AHEAD . As the third film begins , Jame's mother and grandmother ( who raised him ) are dead . Jamie was the product of a tryst with a local man ; we never learn if it was a one-off or an ongoing relationship . At all events , Jamie's biological father ( well-played by Paul Kermack in all three instalments ) did very little for him in his formative years ( as we saw in the first two films ) . Now , belatedly , he actually makes some attempt to take Jamie into his home . . . to the consternation of his wife and their son , who is older than Jamie . Some of the early sequences here take place in an orphanage . I was deeply impressed by the performance of Gerald James as Bridge , the governor of the orphanage . He expertly conveys genuine compassion for each of the children in his charge . It's Christmas Day in the orphanage , and Bridge plays Father Christmas by leaving a wee prezzy in every bairn's stocking . But he mustn't favour any child over any other , so he gives each boy and girl the same present : a harmonica ! The image ( and sound ) of several dozen children all simultaneously blaring into harmonicas is astonishing . In front of each child is a clootie dumpling : I never saw so many interchangeable dumplings in identical clooties . I found myself speculating about what Dennis Potter would have done with this material : the orphans become a chorus line of harmonica virtuosi ( led by Larry Adler ) , accompanied by tap-dancing clooties . In the first two instalments of this trilogy , Douglas mostly avoids arty-farty compositions . Here , we encounter a shot of a dozing alderman that seems a bit too self-conscious . I rumbled he's an alderman from his chain of office . In Jamie's adolescence - - purportedly Bill Douglas's own adolescence - - he feels artistic urges . Jamie says that he wants to be a painter , which of course everyone interprets to mean a house-painter . When his semi-foster family twig that he wants to paint poncy portraits , we get the usual kitchen-sink dialogue about the need to ' get some dirt on yer hands ' and such like . Jamie ends up in a three-shilling doss house run by the Salvation Army , which is a step up from his previous experiences . Now there comes a sudden lurch to a desert landscape , which turns out to be Egypt . Annoyingly , we hear Jamie's voice-over while the camera moves BACKWARD through this sterile land . It turns out that Jamie has joined the Army , but there's no real explanation . Was he conscripted ? Is this his National Service ? Most likely , he simply enlisted because he had no better prospects . . . but I was irritated that Douglas didn't see fit to explain this crucial transition more clearly . Apparently , the late Bill Douglas had some of his own most formative experiences as a young man in the British Army , stationed in Egypt . I'm told that the single most important personal relationship of Douglas's life transpired with one of his squaddies in Egypt ; after they were demobbed , they came back to England together and set up housekeeping . None of that is conveyed here . This third instalment of Douglas's trilogy shows signs of laziness : he bungs various events into this movie because they were part of his life , and are therefore important to him personally . . . but he fails to give them the dramatic weight or the narrative significance to make the audience care about them . I found ' My Way Home ' very much less compelling than the two previous instalments of this trilogy , and I'll rate it only .
' Schiller ' no thriller ; Casper's ghostly performance	During the Third Reich of 1933-1945 , Germany's nationalised film industry produced more than 1 , 100 films . Surprisingly , only about 250 of these were blatantly Nazi propaganda : the vast majority were merely escapist entertainment . But the Nazi leaders who controlled the film industry were clever enough to realise that Hitler's cause could be furthered with movies which subtly advocated German ideals and nationalist causes . . . without explicitly praising Hitler , nor showing swastikas or other Nazi symbolism . ' Friedrich Schiller ' is a film which intentionally serves Nazi agenda without being explicitly pro-Nazi . This film purports to tell the story of Schiller , the 18th-century German playwright and blank-verse poet . A contemporary and friend of Goethe , Friedrich Schiller was an important poet in his own right : his ' Ode to Joy ' was set to music as Beethoven's Ninth Symphony . ' Friedrich Schiller ' was released in 1940 ( shortly after Hitler's early military triumphs ) with the subtitle ' Der Triumph eines Genies ' ( Triumph of a Genius ) . Movie audiences were clearly meant to see parallels between Schiller and Hitler . In the title role , this film stars Horst Casper . . . a pretty-boy actor whose looks surpass his acting ability . Rather than telling Schiller's entire life story , the film emphasises his early years when Schiller was a cadet in the Karlsschule ( the military academy sponsored by the Duke of Württemberg ) and his service in the Duke's regiment at Stuttgart . During this period , Schiller read law and medicine , and somehow also found time to write his first play ! The film depicts a real-life incident which occurred in 1781 . Whilst Schiller was garrisoned with the Duke's regiment in Stuttgart , his first play ( ' The Robbers ' ) was performed at a theatre in Mannheim . Schiller went AWOL from his regiment to attend a performance of his own play . In the movie , this leads to a stormy confrontation between Schiller and his patron . Heinrich George gives a splendid performance as the Duke , easily out-acting the dull Casper . Unfortunately , this film tries too hard in its efforts to make 18th-century historical characters fit into Nazi agitprop . Schiller is meant to symbolise the idealistic visionary ubermensch : that rare individual who is innately superior to normal men . The production design and the period detail in this film are impressive , and the photography ( by the great Fritz Arno Wagner ) is superb . The film editing is better than usual for German movies of this period . But it's all quite dull . I confess that I don't know enough about Schiller to judge the biographical accuracy of this movie , but there are several scenes in which the facts have clearly been bent to fit Nazi agenda . I'll rate this movie . It has quite a few good points in spite of its Nazi pedigree .
Thud and blunder	I sought out this 1949 movie ' The Man from Yesterday ' because one of my mentors ( the American journalist George Markstein ) wrote a novel several decades later with the same title , and I wanted to know if this film was any influence upon him . I doubt it , now I've seen this . Markstein's novel is a taut spy thriller . This low-budget film is a semi-occult melodrama , somewhere in the borderland between ' Dead of Night ' and ' One Step Beyond ' , without being quite so satisfying as either of those . There is a ' twist ' ending which reminded me of ' An Inspector Calls ( and , again , ' Dead of Night ' ) but which is far more contrived than the ending of Priestley's drama . SPOILERS COMING . Julius Rickman , who claims to be a psychic , is summoned to the home of Doris Amersley . She hopes Rickman can contact the spirit of her deceased fiancé . In the meantime she has married another man ( Gerald ) and taken his name , yet she still loves the dead man . Then Doris dies mysteriously , and Rickman accuses Doris's husband Gerald of having murdered his wife and her previous fiancé out of jealousy . Gerald argues the point by murdering Rickman . The whole thing turns out to be ( guess what ) a dream . . . but there's another twist coming . ' The Man from Yesterday ' is moderately interesting , but strongly resembles several other dramas which are all better and more original than this one . It doesn't help that none of these actors give especially good performances . I personally liked Gwynneth Vaughan , but she's not for all tastes . In a supporting role , Laurence Harvey seems to be rehearsing for his performance as a zombie in ' The Manchurian Candidate ' . We get a couple of interesting camera set-ups on the way to that ending . I'll rate ' The Man from Yesterday ' just .
Let's play the Minute Game !	Alexander Woollcott is now remembered primarily as the inspiration for ' The Man Who Came to Dinner ' . He was also the prototype for Addison DeWitt , the drama critic played by George Sanders in his Oscar-winning performance in ' All About Eve ' . There was more than a trace of ' ham ' in Woollcott ; he starred on Broadway in a play by S . N . Behrman , and he also performed in a stage version of ' The Man Who Came to Dinner ' , playing the lead role that was based on himself . But the handful of films in which Woollcott appeared prove that he was no actor . In the 1930s , Woollcott's radio commentaries were a major influence on American culture : if Woollcott praised a book , it immediately became a best-seller . If Woollcott praised an actress , her fame was assured . Woollcott also loved games and puzzles , and popularised many of these . He is credited with inventing the knock-knock joke , and may also have invented a similar game in which players are given a word and challenged to incorporate it into a complicated pun . " Mr W's Little Game " is a short film , not precisely a comedy , intended to introduce us to the Minute Game . . . a pleasant little game of the sort which used to be popular at parties . Woollcott appears here as himself , dining in a posh restaurant , with a waiter in attendance and a brassy blonde as his dinner companion . Unfortunately , all conviction that this is a ' real ' situation is dispelled immediately because we recognise the ' waiter ' as character actor Leo G . Carroll . Also , although Woollcott in real life had many intimate ( sexless ) friendships with beautiful actresses , the woman whom he is dating in this movie is - - frankly - - not a very plausible dining companion for the prissy , fastidious Woollcott . During their rather dull dinner , Woollcott proposes a quick round of ' the Minute Game ' . His blonde companion understandably asks : ' What's the Minute Game ? ' and Woollcott promptly replies : ' Tell you in a minute . ' That's the closest thing to a laugh in this movie . Then he explains how the game works , and it really does sound like a fun game worth trying . The Minute Game requires at least three people , who take it in turns as the player , the scorekeeper and the timekeeper . The scorekeeper calls out a letter of the alphabet , and the player then has one minute to name as many common objects ( no proper names ! ) as he or she can think of , which begin with that letter : the scorekeeper tallies the count , and the timekeeper cuts off the player after precisely one minute . Score one point for each accepted item . For example , if you are given the letter A , you could score points for ' apple ' , ' ape ' , ' apricot ' and so forth . The letters Q , X and Z are excluded as being too difficult . There's some clever editing near the end of this short film . The patrons at neighbouring tables have overheard Woollcott's description of the rules , and now the game has spread to all the tables . In a series of quick shots , we see diners at each table playing the Minute Game , with a different letter being played at each table . It's really too bad that simple little games of this sort ( which require a bit of brainpower ) are no longer popular , and that they've been replaced by complicated and expensive pocket-sized electronic games . . . which require no brains at all , and which make annoying sounds in public places . I'll rate " Mr W's Little Game " . A pleasant little time-passer .
Warner's bloodless performance	During the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries , an unusual symbiosis developed between the social circles of Europe ( including Britain ) and the United States . Nouveau-riche families in the States had money but were self-conscious about their social status . European blueblood males with noble titles but no money ( and often heavy debts ) would marry the daughters of American arrivistes , receiving huge dowries in exchange for putting some titled nobility into the American family's pedigree . One product of such liaisons was no less than Sir Winston Churchill himself , whose mother Jennie was an heiress from Brooklyn . ' The Market of Vain Desire ' is a crude drama dealing with such an arranged marriage . IMDb's synopsis of this movie contains a crucial error ; at least it contradicts the print which I viewed ( intended for British distribution ) : the Badgley family are well-to-do , not poor . . . and the Count d'Montaigne is poor , not rich : these are major factors in the dynamics ( and motivations ) of the various characters . H . B . Warner plays a simple humble vicar named John Armstrong , which sounds more a name for a John Wayne character . The Badgleys are a family of social climbers in his parish . Armstrong is in love with Helen Badgley , although her interests seem to be elsewhere . Helen's mother ( an excellent performance by Gertrude Claire ) has arranged Helen's betrothal to the much older Count d'Montaigne , who practically oozes oil as he slimes his way across this movie's plot line . Too bad he can't sell any of that oil , because the Count is skint . This no-account count has no money , and he's eagerly hoping to latch onto Mrs Badgley's bank balance . Fortunately for Deacon Armstrong , his parish also includes young Belle , who is . . . erm , ahem . . . a ' girl of the streets ' . At Sunday's sermon to a packed congregation , Warner brings the scarlet harlot Belle up to the pulpit in order to humiliate her in front of the entire parish ( she seems surprisingly amenable to this ; perhaps she's trawling for new clients ) . Then Warner expounds a long sermon ( in some unwieldy title cards ) about how this jezebel who sells her charms to strangers is no worse than ( in other words , no better than ) a woman of proper society who would barter her soul in ( here it comes ) " the market of vain desire " . Close-up of inadequate actress Clara Williams in a pew , as Helen Badgley twigs that this sermon is about HER ! Warner's sermon achieves its intentions : Helen calls off the betrothal , despite her mother's protests . SPOILERS NOW . Later , Warner is relaxing in his rectory , having exchanged his clerical collar for a smoking jacket . Into the rectory ponces the count , who clobbers Warner and skulks out again . Somehow , this causes Helen Badgley to realise that she loves Warner after all . Fade out . Oh , blimey ! This Mills & Boon tosh might have been more believable with some other actor in the lead role . H . B . Warner was an excellent character actor , but as a romantic lead he consistently fails to convince me that he has any passion ( physical or spiritual ) for any woman . There was a bloodless and sexless aspect to Warner which I suspect was the main reason why Cecil DeMille cast him as Jesus Christ in ' King of Kings ' ( for which Warner gave an excellent performance ) . When Count d'Montaigne punches Armstrong ( Warner ) , it's implied that Armstrong is enough of a man not to need to retaliate , or at least gentlemanly enough not to hit an older man . However , Warner's performance is so bloodless that he seemed to me simply too cowardly to fight back . Further , because the Badgleys DO have money ( at least in the British prints of this movie ) , Armstrong's motives for wooing Helen Badgley are likewise tainted , even though he doesn't make this as obvious as the count does . This film suffers from too many close-ups of H . B . Warner giving his facial muscles a work-out . On the favourable side , I did enjoy some very beautiful title art on some of the intertitles . There wasn't nearly enough humour to relieve the histrionics . They should have called this movie ' The Market of VEIN Desire ' , since Helen's mother clearly wants to get some blue blood into the family's bloodline . Aye , that's a horrible pun , but it would have been welcome in this deadly-dull movie . My rating for this clinker : just .
This film needs a " Maxim's " silencer .	Farce is comedy based on misunderstanding : if the characters would stop and explain themselves to each other , there'd be no story . In Britain , the farce tradition has been embodied by the Aldwych farces of Ben Travers , the Whitehall farces starring Brian Rix , and various bumpheries by Ray Cooney . In France , the most famous farceur is Georges Feydeau . His farces typically contain lots of slamming doors as characters narrowly evade each other , several of them bearing false identities . This movie's action takes place during the Belle Epoque , which emphasises the creakiness of the material . Même Crevette is a dancer at Maxim's restaurant , but it's clear that her main income source is another profession ( guess which ) . She gives herself to many men - - no , she rents by the hour - - but apparently she's sincerely in love with handsome young Lieutenant Corignon . It must be love , because she doesn't charge him for her favours . But other men pay well , which explains how she ends up in the flat of Lucine Petypon , a so-respectable doctor . Suddenly his rich uncle , a general , arrives . Caught flat-footed , Dr Petypon explains that Même is his wife . ( Contrivedly , the general has never met his nephew's real wife . ) Petypon intends to keep up the imposture just long enough to mollify his uncle , but Même decides to keep it going , much to his chagrin . This explains why Petypon and Même land up at his uncle's château , with Même still posing as Madame Petypon . But then the doctor's real wife shows up . And so does Corignon , who turns out to be engaged to the general's niece . Ooh , la la ! This film could have used a Maxim's silencer . I found it too loud , with everybody shrieking at each other in thick French accents . The pacing is frenetic rather than manic , and I found it quite wearying . The single-named actor Palau gives a good performance as Petypon's henchman Dr Mongicourt , but all the other characters seem to be playing stock stereotypes rather than human beings . The production values are good , though . In all , .
They'll be comin ' round the mountain while you snore . . .	I saw this Japanese movie in 2005 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . The festival screened a print from the National Film Centre , Tokyo that had its original Japanese intertitles , with English subtitles added . The film's title is offered in English as ' Souls on the Road ' . Idealistic young Koichiro is the sensitive artistic type ; he longs for success as a violinist . Worse luck , he's a small-town boy from the Hokkaido provinces : if he hopes for success as a fiddler , he'll have to up sticks ( fiddlesticks ? ) and move to Tokyo . Koichiro's practical-minded father Yasushi is dead-set against this , and Yasushi has an even better reason for his argument : Koichiro has a wife and young daughter . In order to follow his fiddling dream , Koichiro brings his wife and daughter to the big city with him . Sure enough , he finds only disappointment in Tokyo , and he trudges back towards Hokkaido with his family in tow . While the projectionist changes the reel , two convicts named Kamezo and Tsurikichi escape from prison . They meet Koichiro and his family on a mountainside . This is where I lost interest . I was slightly intrigued that this movie attempted to depict the escaped convicts sympathetically . . . but that may be down to this story being adapted from a work by Maxim Gorky . Also , in this movie's favour , the editing seemed a bit more rapid than in other Japanese movies from this period . I sat through the second half of this film with my eyes glazed , barely following the action . . . especially since there really wasn't much action . Part of my ennui might have been down to the fact that there were two simultaneous programme tracks at the Sacile festival ( in two separate cinemas , at opposite ends of town ) , and I was somewhat exhausted at that point . However , I did manage to stay through the end of this film , yet it seemed to me that I'd missed the resolutions of several subplots . I compared notes with several other people who had attended the same screening ; all of them assured me that , indeed , those plot points were well and truly left unresolved in the movie . So I hadn't nodded off , then . Might this perhaps be an incomplete print , with scenes missing ? Apparently not . Evidently , the film-makers just never got round to finishing their story . I try to be generous to movies from cultures radically different from my own , as I want to make absolutely certain that I'm not misjudging them due to cultural shortcomings of my own . In this case , though , I feel confident to say that this movie is boring and poorly made . My rating is just , and I'm likely being generous .
About turn ! Look lively with it !	A glance at the cast list of ' Orders Is Orders ' would indicate that this is a very funny movie . Charlotte Greenwood ( one of my favourites ) and veteran comic actor James Gleason are aboard . Even more intriguingly , this movie was made in England with a primarily British cast . The thought of Brooklyn-accented Gleason doing his " Toidy-Toid Street " dialogue on screen among so many proper Englishmen - - headed by Sir Cedric Hardwicke , no less - - seems to promise hilarity . So it pains me to report that this movie isn't nearly as funny as it could have been with this cast and this material . SLIGHT SPOILERS . Gleason plays Ed Waggermeyer , a brash pushy American movie director . He shows up in England , at a Royal Army base run by a blimpish colonel played by the unfunny Cyril Maude . Waggermeyer wants to shoot a movie , using the army base as a film set and the soldiers of the regiment as extras . ( I found this part very plausible , but surely Waggermeyer's business office would have arranged things in advance . ) The colonel tells Waggermeyer to go play soldiers somewhere else . This is one of the movies where the male bigshot has a female secretary who actually gets the work done , being smarter and more efficient than her boss . ( I've encountered this in real life , but I've seen it in so many movies it seems a cliché . ) The colonel fancies himself at billiards , so Waggermeyer's secretary Wanda ( Charlotte Greenwood ) challenges him to a game . The funniest scene in this movie occurs here , as long lean lanky Greenwood does some of her trademark physical comedy , draping her legs all over the billiard table to hilarious effect . When the colonel loses the match , he has to pay off by letting Waggermeyer's film crew shoot in his barracks , with the soldiers recruited as movie extras . From here on , the humour gets too obvious . The colonel is a blowhard , so of course - - once the movie starts shooting - - he gets star-struck and fancies himself an actor , demanding a speaking role in the movie . Of course , he's incompetent and keeps blowing takes . And of course , at the worst possible moment , the brigadier general shows up . This gentleman is played by Cedric Hardwicke , and I have to give Sir Cedric some credit . Comedy is always more effective if one character is an authority figure who projects genuine menace : a good example of this is Chaplin's ' The Great Dictator ' , with Henry Daniell playing his role in deadly earnest as the ruthlessly efficient Nazi officer . In ' Orders Is Orders ' , Hardwicke plays his role straight , portraying a brigadier general who ( unlike Maude's colonel ) is a genuine authority figure , and who will brook no violation of military discipline . Hardwicke manages to anchor this misguided movie , but not quite well enough to save it . The interplay between Gleason and the Britishers is too contrived to be funny . We're expected to laugh at the contrast between them , but it's too exaggerated . Gleason's character , a Brooklyn mug , persists in speaking in elaborate American slang , which the colonel ( in full " jolly good , eh wot ? " mode ) is too thick to understand . Waggermeyer is meant to be smart enough to figure out that his slang is incomprehensible , but he carries on using it anyway . Quite a few other things in this comedy are just a bit too contrived to work . It's nice to see Ian Hunter and Ray Milland ( a genuine cavalryman ) in small roles ; I wonder if this movie was a factor in their transfer to Hollywood . In the 1960s , I briefly worked with Finlay Currie : he recalled working in this movie , and told me that it was a very unpleasant experience . At least Charlotte Greenwood doesn't disappoint . I'll rate ' Orders Is Orders ' .
Burnt cork and over-ripe ham .	There's a decent print of this movie in the Library of Congress . There is no cartoon cat in this film . Four months before this movie's premiere , an animated cartoon was released with the same title , starring George Herriman's character Krazy Kat . The sisters Rosetta and Vivian Duncan toured in vaudeville for years with a " tab " production of " Uncle Tom's Cabin " in which they depicted Topsy and Eva . When the Duncan Sisters ( as they were usually billed ) became popular , they increasingly revised their act so that it moved farther away from the source novel . . . enlarging Topsy's and Eva's roles , and reducing Uncle Tom to a genial patriarch . In burnt-cork body paint and a nappy wig , Rosetta Duncan sang , danced and literally climbed the scenery as Topsy . In crinolines , ringlets and a deathly pallor , Vivian Duncan emoted as Little Eva St Clare and staged an elaborate death scene . Not only does this film version of " Topsy and Eva " radically depart from the original " Uncle Tom's Cabin " , it even deviates from the text of the Duncan Sisters ' stage productions . We realise early on that this will not be Harriet Beecher Stowe's novel unfolding , as we see the births of Little Eva and Topsy , depicted as follows : a white stork delivering a white baby to the luxurious St Clare mansion . . . and then a black stork dropping a black baby into a dustbin ( ! ) outside a slave shanty . In this prologue , we also see brief shots of Heaven ? depicted here as racially segregated . Topsy is the main character in this movie . When the black girl who " jes ' growed " is auctioned as a slave but nobody will bid on her , Little Eva purchases Topsy for a nickel . There's a gooey romantic subplot between Mariette ( the niece of Simon Legree ) and George Shelby , son of a prominent slaveholder . As Topsy , Rosetta Duncan never stops moving . She wears an unfortunate blackface make-up , leaving her eyelids apparently their natural colour , as well as her lips . ( It's difficult to be certain in this monochrome film . ) Rosetta Duncan performs some ridiculous set-pieces , as when she dresses up as Santa Claus and comes down the chimney to give the St Clare family " Christmas presents " . . . namely , their own possessions which Topsy previously stole from them . Uncle Tom is portrayed in this film by Noble Johnson , an African-American actor of light complexion who was often cast in white roles . ( For his most famous role as the Skull Island chieftain in ' King Kong ' , Johnson wore dark body make-up . ) Johnson was a talented actor who typically gave dignified and restrained performances . In this movie , Noble Johnson portrays Uncle Tom as an illiterate patriarch who goes along to get along , and who doesn't seem to resent being another man's property . The youthful Johnson's hair is dusted with powder here , to make him seem the elderly patriarch . Vivan Duncan was 30 when she played Little Eva in this movie : although under 5 feet tall , she's clearly an adult woman playing a pre-teen girl . Duncan tricks herself out in golden ringlets , crinolines and petticoats : the result is quite pretty but unconvincing . SPOILERS COMING . In the sisters ' stage performances , Eva's death scene was always an elaborate set-piece : here , Eva has a long languid deathbed scene but she ultimately recovers . The dialogue implies that she was saved by the prayers of Uncle Tom and Topsy . I was pleasantly surprised by the effective performance of Henry Victor as Eva's father in this silent film ; talking pictures would soon reveal Victor's bizarre accent ( he spent his childhood shuttling between England and Germany ) , and would also reveal that he wasn't usually a very good actor . Gibson Gowland is also excellent here as slimy Simon Legree . The Duncan Sisters were hugely popular stage performers in their day , so this movie is useful as a visual record of their act . Since much of the act's appeal lay in the minstrel-show jokes and songs performed by Rosetta , it's a shame that this silent film does not record the sisters ' voices . I'm trying to appraise " Topsy and Eva " on its own merits rather than as a ( very loose ) adaptation of " Uncle Tom's Cabin " , but the sad truth is that " Topsy and Eva " just isn't a very good movie . Despite its historical importance , I'll rate this minstrel show just .
Surgery perjury	George Melford's reputation has risen sharply in recent years . For decades , his best-known film was ' The Sheik ' , starring Valentino . In the 1990s , a Cuban archive released a rare print of the Spanish-language version of ' Dracula ' which Melford directed concurrently with Tod Browning's English-language version , using the same sets and costumes . Melford's production is widely considered superior to the Browning version . And yet , Melford's CV ends with a long list of undistinguished low-budgeters . Is he an underrated director , or was he a mediocre talent who just occasionally had bursts of inspiration ? ' A Man's Past ' shows Melford to be an extremely variable director . There are some impressive frame compositions here , and the overall pacing is good , but two of the leading cast members overact so badly that Melford must be faulted for failing to restrain them . Fortunately the central role in this drama is played by Conrad Veidt , who never gave a bad performance . SPOILERS COMING . Veidt stars as Dr Paul La Roche , a French surgeon who intentionally killed a terminally-ill patient who was in chronic pain . It's clear to us that this was euthanasia , and that La Roche's motives were good , but he was convicted of murder and sentenced to ten years ' hard labour in a prison on an island off the coast of France . Of course , the prison governor is corrupt and the warders are sadists . We see Veidt looking like Edmond Dantes : gaunt , with long stringy hair and beard . The governor's assistant is Lieutenant Destin , played in epicene manner by Arthur Edmund Carewe . When a prisoner snatches a warder's gun and shoots the prison governor , the resident medical officer is unable to remove the bullet . ( This sawbones is played by Charles Puffy , who was Puffy by name and puffy by nature : a coarse-looking man who simply fails to radiate the intellect appropriate for this role . ) Destin offers La Roche a pardon if he saves the governor's life . Of course , La Roche succeeds . Of course , the governor reneges on the deal . Up until now , La Roche has stoically accepted his sentence . . . but now that his personal honour has been blemished , he decides to escape . Vive la France ! Donnez-moi le fromage ! La Roche washes up in Marseilles , where he meets the beauteous Yvonne Fontaine , sister of a prominent surgeon . Dr Fontaine's eyesight is failing , so La Roche steps in and does the surgery for him . Brilliantly , of course . This gives Yvonne an idea : they can maintain La Roche's freedom and her brother's reputation by moving to Algeria , where nobody knows them . La Roche will live openly as Dr Fontaine , performing surgery in his name . Fade in , and now the ' Fontaine ' clinic in Algeria has become world-famous . La Roche is now attracted to Yvonne , but the relationship is stymied because he's pretending to be her brother . Eventually , guess who shows up in Algeria . Zut Alors , it's Lieutenant Destin . Of course he meets Yvonne and is attracted to her . Then he meets her ' brother ' , whom he recognises as escaped convict La Roche . The rivals square off . It would be satisfying to see La Roche kill Destin , but then he would be guilty of a murder less defensible than the one that got him nicked in the first place . So , the scriptwriter hands a firearm to the blind Dr Fontaine , who uses his last remaining remnant of retina to aim his weapon and kill Destin . Veidt's performance is ( as always ) impressive , and Ian Keith as Dr Fontaine offers a goodish turn in a role that gives him an excuse to chew the scenery . Far more annoying are Barbara Bedford and Carewe , both of whom seem to think this movie is Amateur Night . It doesn't help that every plot development in this story seems to trundle into place like clockwork . It's too bad that Veidt's restrained performance isn't in a better movie with a different script . As it stands , I'll rate this film .
chi-chi choo-choo cha-cha	' A Little Journey ' isn't much of a trip , but most of the action takes place aboard a train . . . so the characters keep moving , even when the story is dead on the rails . William Haines plays a brash young man who meets Claire Windsor in Grand Central Station and tries to make a play for her , but she's not having any . ( Good on you , Claire . ) Conveniently , both of them are boarding the same cross-country train , so Haines spends the rest of the film flinging woo at Windsor . This is one of those movies which says that if a man harasses a woman long enough , she'll eventually be attracted to him . Claire Windsor is chaperoned on her choo-choo ride by her aunt , played by Claire McDowell : this may well be the only movie ever made with two Claires in the female leading roles . SPOILING THE OBVIOUS . Claire Windsor is on her way to San Francisco to meet the man she's engaged to marry . It's no surprise at all that she'll dump him and end up with Haines . What is a surprise is the casting : Windsor's intended is played by character actor Harry Carey , a much older man . Another pleasant surprise is that Carey's character turns out to be a nice guy . He steps aside so that his fiancée can be happy with Haines , and we last see him staring wistfully at a pert waitress . Lawford Davidson is less impressive in a less sympathetic role . There has been some revival of interest in William Haines's films in recent years , due to growing public awareness that he was gay , and that he was forthright about his sexual orientation at a time when most gay actors stayed firmly closeted . Frankly , I've never found Haines believable as a romantic lead . In ' Show People ' , the only moment when he shows any real interest in Marion Davies is during the sequence in which he applies makeup to her face . Haines was not effeminate on the screen - - reportedly , he often acted effeminate off the screen in a deliberate attempt to alienate people - - yet I found his gayness quite obvious in his film roles , well before I knew anything about his personal life . The casting of Haines in this film's lead role is a serious obstacle to its success , and I'll rate this movie only .
The tide went out , and forgot to come back . . .	' The Ebb-Tide ' is based on a novel by Robert Louis Stevenson and his American-born stepson Lloyd Osbourne . This 1998 TV version features some stunning location shooting and some impressive art direction , notably in regard to the Victorian three-masted ship ( on which the leading actors spend much of their screen time ) and some of the interior sequences . Regrettably , the actors are all resolutely speaking and behaving like denizens of 1998 . Not for one instant did I believe that the action was taking place in Stevenson's time . This discrepancy is painful throughout the film , but is especially obvious in a dialogue scene in which Nigel Terry sarcastically comments that all the best champagne is French . In the mid-19th century , the time in which this movie is set , all champagne was French ( a later line of dialogue confirms this ) . . . but Nigel Terry's characterisation is so resolutely stuck in 1998 that he sounds as if he's sincerely comparing French champagne to the California version rather than being sarky . Robbie Coltrane ( a fine actor in modern-day roles , but with no sense of historical period ) puts his Lanarkshire accent to good use as Chisholm , a Scotsman in the South Seas : a disgraced sea captain who ran a ship aground on a reef and killed his passengers and crew . Now he gets a chance to redeem himself by commanding a jinxed vessel with a cargo of champagne . For his crew , he recruits some no-hopers even more desperate than himself : a disaffected murderer named Swanson and an illiterate psychopath named Bunch . ( In the latter role , Chris Barnes gives much the best performance in this film . ) Also along for the voyage ( and doing most of the work ) are two native brothers , Fakeeva and Taveeta ( extremely impressive performances by two ethnic actors ) . No sooner are this motley crew afloat than Chisholm discovers he's been set up for a spot of barratry . Most of the champers hampers in his cargo hold are stocked with empty bottles . Chisholm , his crew and this ship have all got such bad reputations , the owners of the ship just naturally assumed that Chisholm would ( once again ) sink a vessel underneath himself : this whole voyage is an insurance scam , and the vessel is what we call in Britain a ' coffin ship ' : put afloat for the sole purpose of being sunk , and to hell with the crew . Next thing we know , the three white seamen have washed ashore on an uncharted island , with their two black shipmates conveniently lost over the gunwales . This island is run by Ellstrom ( Nigel Terry , in one of the worst performances I've ever seen anywhere ) . Ellstrom is one of those white expatriate monomaniacs out of Joseph Conrad , who doesn't seem to realise he's in the wrong author's book . Ellstrom is sitting on a vast hoard of pearls , but he just seems to have acquired them through sheer magic . We see no pearl beds , no pearl divers , no oysters . White man come , he want pearls , he gettum pearls . There's an incredibly bad scene between Ellstrom and Swanson , in which the two actors fling dozens of pearls at each other as if they were peanuts . Also , all these dozens of pearls are flawless spheres . Nobody in this movie seems to know that a substantial percentage of natural pearls are baroque ( irregularly shaped ) . The spherical pearls you see in jewellers ' shops are usually cultured . There are a couple of intriguing scenes in this movie , spaced between protracted longeurs . One scene at the very end especially impressed me . SPOILERS COMING . A lot of films set in exotic locales feature non-white actors in small roles , as the native bearers or guides who help the white explorers get to some distant objective . Once the action moves to that remote place , the non-white characters are ( usually ) conveniently killed off or otherwise disposed of . ' The Ebb-Tide ' appears to be just one more example of that annoying cliché , with Chisholm's two black seamen drowning during his ship's landfall . Instead , something much more original and unexpected occurs . To say more would ruin the surprise . MORE SPOILERS COMING . We also get a clever reworking of another cliché that shows up at the climax of many action movies . Villain holds hero at gunpoint , villain squeezes trigger . We hear a gunshot , and then the villain ( not the hero ) falls dead . Cue the hero's sidekick to enter from the underbrush , holding a smoking firearm . ' The Ebb-Tide ' sets up that cliché near the end , in a confrontation between Ellstrom and Chisholm . . . but then offers a payoff that's unexpected , and original . ' The Ebb-Tide ' is impressive , engaging , and original at several points over its length , but the overall effect is bad . I especially disliked the dull performance by an actress who portrays a mute native girl : she seems to have been put into the movie just to add a female presence to the all-male cast , and to prevent us from speculating about how these lonely sailors stay warm on cold nights . I really wanted to like this movie , but the best I can rate it is .
Matt Moore steals Warner Oland's moustache	' The Breaking Point ' is a great title for a suspense movie ; unfortunately , this particular movie isn't a suspenser , and it's not even an especially good movie . Matt Moore , sporting dapper clothes and an annoying little moustache ( I think he stole it from Warner Oland ) , has something or other to do with a murder in Wyoming . . . but he can't say precisely what , because shortly afterward he conveniently develops amnesia . ( Perhaps a bit TOO conveniently . ) He heads for points east , and lands up in the care of a kindly physician who bears the unfortunate name David Livingstone . ( I kept waiting for one of the other characters to say ' Doctor Livingstone , I presume . ' ) Dr Livingstone is dating the winsome Patsy Ruth Miller , so Moore shows his ingratitude by being attracted to her as well . At this point , the movie feels more like soap opera than whodunnit . Ten years after the murder , along comes a newspaper reporter named Bassett , who is a real bloodhound . Bassett by name and basset by nature , this dirty Bassett starts nosey-parkering into Moore's past , trying to tie him to the unsolved crime . Nita Naldi , playing the reason for the murder - - a crime of passion , of course - - sports a truly weird chignon coiffure , along with elaborate make-up and surprisingly thick eyebrows . Annoyingly , her character is lumbered in the intertitles with the surname " Carlysle " : why couldn't it be spelt Carlisle or ( even better ) Carlyle ? I found myself pondering mysteries like this , because the ' mystery ' elements in this movie aren't very gripping . I also found myself thinking that Naldi's eyebrows ought to elope with Moore's moustache , in a menage a trois . ' The Breaking Point ' has very little suspense , and too much mystery in the sense of being baffling rather than being a whodunnit . There are actually a few good noir touches here , two decades before the film-noir genre was formalised . But , apart from the superb photography by James Wong Howe , and some decent acting by Patsy Ruth Miller ( whom I met once ) , I found little to captivate me . Director Herbert Brenon always did his best work in stories with fantasy elements or showbiz glitz , and this movie has neither . I rate this one just .
Don't let that swastika fool you . . .	I saw this silent British comedy at Cinefest 2006 in Liverpool , New York . There was some murmuring in the ( mostly American ) audience when somebody spotted the name of this movie's production company in the credits : Swastika Films . Don't worry , folks . In 1919 , Germany's National Socialist movement hadn't got started yet , and the swastika had not yet been co-opted by Nazis . In fact , the British government had set up a national health-insurance and savings scheme , and they needed a simple and distinctive image to put on the depositors ' passbooks . . . so they chose the swastika . During this same period , Rudyard Kipling's publisher was issuing Kipling's novels with a suavastika ( an anti-clockwise swastika ) on the covers . For audiences in British cinemas in 1919 , the swastika had only favourable associations . ' Bamboozled ' stars Fred Rains as an Alley Sloper-ish character who takes his girlfriend Gladys to the park in hopes of a quick snog , but they can never get a bench alone together . A young spiv named Priceless Percy offers a solution involving a mechanical woman . What happens is completely implausible but reasonably funny . Fred Rains was a long-time stage actor who bore a marked resemblance to his son , none other than Claude Rains . At the time when ' Bamboozled ' was made , Claude Rains had already begun a stage career of his own , but would soon settle down as a dramatics teacher ( John Gielgud being one of his students ) before trying his luck in Hollywood . The slapstick acting demonstrated by Fred Rains here in ' Bamboozled ' is a far cry from his son Claude's subtle demeanour , but Claude had the benefit of sound films to display his magnificent voice . I'll rate ' Bamboozled ' , mostly for its historic value .
ILL-MET by ' Moonlight ' . . .	' Moonlight ' is ( so far ) the only movie I've ever seen that was shot in Luxembourg , but I fervently hope it's not a typical example of Luxembourgeoise cinema . This movie is a lot more arty-tarty than it needs to be . For starters , the title is nearly irrelevant : some of the action takes place in a house named Mondschein ( ' moonlight ' ) , but that name is completely arbitrary and unrelated to the plot . SPOILERS COMING . ' Moonlight ' is the first movie I've seen that's directed by Paula van der Oest , and ( again ) I fervently hope this is not a typical example of her craft . In ' Moonlight ' , she shows a penchant for camera set-ups that are distracting and serve no useful purpose . When young Claire feeds her dog , van der Oest plumps for an overhead shot as if we were watching a Busby Berkeley musical . Later , Claire and the fugitive boy break into a house during the resident family's absence , and then attempt some sexual fumblings in the parents ' bed . . . only to be caught in the act when two people walk in . Van der Oest uses a very contrived camera set-up to make us think that the arrivals are the parents , then uses a reverse angle to reveal that they are actually the family's son and daughter . The switcheroo serves absolutely no purpose except to disorient us . Elsewhere , Claire tells the boy that she's a foundling : is this true , or is it a lie told in a childish attempt to impress him ? We never find out . Either way , it's irrelevant to the story . ' Moonlight ' could have been a straightforward thriller . A boy from an unnamed country ( apparently Turkey ) has arrived in Luxembourg as a drugs ' mule ' , his digestive tract packed with condoms filled with narcotic contraband . When he fails to excrete them quickly enough , a drugs runner shoots him and leaves him for dead . . . but stupidly doesn't bother to check . The girl Claire finds the boy and helps him , but oddly she never tells her parents about him . ( If she's a foundling , they must be her foster parents . ) Very implausibly , she runs away from home with the boy , having no clear destination in mind . Are there no police in Luxembourg ? The film places some emphasis on pubescent sexuality : Claire experiences her menarche just before she finds the bleeding boy , and there's some attempt to equate her bloodstained knickers with his bloodstained gut . Later , there's a deeply implausible sequence in which the two runaways enrol themselves in a girls ' convent school , where the nuns accept them without question . Claire introduces the boy as her sister : he is very clearly male ( even while wearing a Communion dress ) , yet all the nuns and at least one priest automatically accept him as a girl . Speaking of girls ' clothing , I could have done without the shot of the Down's Syndrome girl stripping off to her bra and underpants . Obscure joke : Claire's dog is named Quick , and at one point the dog seems to have a stunt double . I couldn't help wondering if the stunt double's name is Flupke . ( Americans won't get this reference . ) This is one of those movies in which increasingly contrived events keep happening . . . and AFTER each one occurs , we realise that it didn't really happen after all : Claire seems to be turning more and more hallucinatory as the film proceeds . At the end of the film , Claire commits suicide by an extremely implausible method . Or . . . DOES she ? Sheesh ! I well and truly wanted to like this film . When director van der Oest puts aside her arty crotchets and she sticks to the story , she shows some genuine narrative talent despite the increasing incoherence of this plot line . In the lead role as Claire , young actress Laurien Van den Broeck is extremely pretty and personable , with significant screen presence . I wish her good luck elsewhere in other projects . If you watch any five consecutive minutes of ' Moonlight ' , you'll mistake this for a brilliant film . If you watch it from beginning to end , as I did , your response will likely be similar to mine : namely , " HUH ? " I wish that all this talent and these resources had been devoted to a more coherent screenplay , and I regretfully rate ' Moonlight ' only .
Faux folksy foxy fuss	' Alias the Deacon ' is based on a 1925 Broadway play , originally filmed silent in 1928 . This talkie remake stars radio comedian Bob Burns , who must have seemed a good choice for the role with his southern accent and folksy demeanour . Alas , Burns was no actor . His role here requires him to convey two personalities at once - a respectable naive deacon and a sophisticated card-sharp - and Burns simply isn't up to the demands of the role . Burns plays travelling confidence trickster Caswell , nicknamed ' Deke ' because he disguises himself as a jackleg deacon in a dog's collar and sombre clerical garb . This character is an embodiment of the ' good thief ' stereotype that I dislike so much : he's a crook , but we're expected to approve of his criminal behaviour because he only ever seems to rob other crooks who are somewhat less charming than himself . It's been my experience that most con-men rob the easiest marks , not the most deserving ones . Caswell blows into a small southern town , where he encounters Johnny and Phyllis , an innocent young couple who want to marry but lack the moolah . Of course , the Deacon decides to intervene . But first he needs a suitable mark . This film is only fitfully amusing . The most sustained humour arrives during a scene between Deke and his victims : crooked fight promoter Stuffy and his pugilist Bull , played respectively by Edward Brophy and Guinn Williams : two character actors whom I've hugely enjoyed elsewhere , but who are not up to their usual high standard here . The Deacon ' accidentally ' flashes a huge bankroll , arousing Stuffy to offer him a chance to double it in a friendly game of draw poker . ' Draw poker ? What's that ? ' asks the wide-eyed clergyman , and we know exactly how the chips will fall . But there are a few laughs on the way to the inevitable . Screenwriter Nat Perrin supplies a few wisecracks that weren't in the silent version's dialogue titles . SPOILERS COMING . A boxing match between the hefty Williams and the rather less hefty Dennis O'Keefe is very well staged by Christy Cabanne , although the ending to the fight is both obvious and implausible . There are several good performances by veteran character performers , and I especially enjoyed a deft turn by Mischa Auer as the town's fastidious barber . Auer ranks very high on my list of favourite character actors . I was also pleased by a brief appearance in a cameo role by veteran character actor Berton Churchill , who starred as the Deacon during this material's original Broadway run . At the end of this movie , of course , the Deacon moves on to the next town full of suckers . I'll rate this movie only . The biggest flaw is the central performance by Bob Burns , who simply wasn't a good enough actor to convey guile to the audience while expressing naff innocence to the other characters onscreen .
Dr Seuss Puppetoon	Almost all of the children's books by Ted Geisel ( " Dr Seuss " ) were written in rhymed couplets . One of the very few exceptions was ' The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins ' , which Dr Seuss wrote in straight prose . Freed from the constraints of rhyme and metre , Geisel was able to write a deeper and more complex story here : one of his very best books . ( Even better is the sequel , ' Bartholomew and the Oobleck ' , which is also written in prose . ) The 1943 movie version is an animated short , produced by George Pal in his virtuoso stop-motion animation technique which he called ' Puppetoons ' . . . in which a flexible armature body is moved one frame at a time , whilst a series of individual heads ( with slightly different facial expressions ) are placed on the body's neck . This technique was remarkable and distinctive at the time , but has since become overfamiliar from its use in other venues , such as in the Pillsbury Doughboy adverts . Most of Pal's Puppetoons are quite funny ( occasionally marred by some racial stereotyping ) and can be enjoyed by children and adults even today . ' The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins ' manages to be clever rather than funny . When this movie was made in 1943 , audiences were likely impressed more than amused . . . and nowadays they're not likely even to be impressed , as animation techniques have improved so much . There are some distinct changes from Seuss's story . In Seuss's original book , Bartholomew Cubbins is a boy who wears a small red hat . When the King rides by in a carriage , Bartholomew loyally removes his hat . . . but an absolutely identical little red hat instantly appears in its place on his head . When he removes this second hat , an identical third hat replaces it . . . and so on , well into the 400's of hats . From this point , the hats gradually become more complicated : one hat sprouts a feather , the next has two feathers , until the 500th and last hat becomes very elaborate indeed . In Pal's animated version , EVERY hat after the first one is extremely elaborate , and each hat is different . . . so that we get no sense of them becoming increasingly complicated . Since the Puppetoon mannequins and their props are three-dimensional physical objects ( not animated drawings ) , it's amusing for us to see these huge bespangled chapeaux popping out of nowhere underneath Bartholomew's tiny original hat , but Seuss's original dramatic progression is lost . When the King's servants stuff Bartholomew into the carriage and drive away with him , he leaves a long trail of hats behind , each hat looking utterly different . This is about as funny as the movie gets . I'm a fan of George Pal and a fan of Dr Seuss , but they both did much better work elsewhere . I'll rate this animated short . Most modern kids are too jaded to like this sort of thing .
Hitler comes to Hollywood	A previous IMDb reviewer has stated that ' Rafter Romance ' is a ' rip-off ' ( that's the other reviewer's term ) of a German musical called ' Me By Day , You By Night ' . Apparently that reviewer is unaware that both of these films have borrowed their premise from ' Box and Cox ' , an English play written by John Maddison Morton in 1847 . This play deals with two tradesmen who rent the same room from an unscrupulous landlady , each man believing himself the sole tenant . Because the two men have different work schedules , the ruse is not discovered straight away . This play was once so popular in Britain that ' to Box and Cox it ' became a common term for an arrangement in which two people willingly shared accommodations meant for only one person . The innovation of ' Rafter Romance ' ( and its predecessor ) is that the two tenants are now a man and a woman , who inevitably develop a romance . As is usual in these cornball movies , the guy and the gal detest each other until they fall into each other's arms . Hoo boy . The landlord in this film is played by George Sidney , a character actor who specialised in playing Jewish stereotypes that were meant to be sympathetic . George Sidney was never as annoying as the odious Harry Green ( the Jewish equivalent of Stepin Fetchit ) but Sidney's depictions of Jewish characters are still exaggerated and embarrassing to watch . The single most notable thing about ' Rafter Romance ' is that , to my knowledge , this is the earliest Hollywood film to make reference to Hitler and the rise of Nazism . At one point in this movie , landlord Eckbaum ( Sidney ) discovers his teenage son Julius engaged in chalking swastikas on the walls . The Eckbaum characters in this movie are clearly meant to be Jewish . Admittedly , few people in Hollywood in 1933 had any real idea of what Hitler was planning for the Jews in Europe . . . still , it's surprising to see a film depicting a Jewish teenager who thinks that swastikas are a joke . His father is , quite properly , angered by this display of the Nazi symbol . A very shameful aspect of Hollywood history is the documented fact that all of the major Hollywood studios continued to do business with the Third Reich as late as 1939 . Hollywood's leading ladies were medically documented as ' Aryan ' so that their films could be distributed in Nazi Germany and Austria . For the same reason , Hollywood's leading men were documented as ' Aryan and uncircumcised ' . Except for Darryl Zanuck at Twentieth Century-Fox , all the Hollywood studio executives who colluded in this policy were Jewish . . . but clearly had no objection to doing business with Hitler . I'm surprised that ' Rafter Romance ' contains a scene depicting swastikas unfavourably , as this sequence would have rendered the film Verboten in Germany and Austria . ( Maybe the scene was cut out for German release : it isn't crucial to the movie's plot . ) Apart from this , the movie contains nothing notable . Robert Benchley does his usual unfunny befuddled characterisation : I've never understood the appeal of this man . I'll rate ' Rafter Romance ' .
" Fin " goes mental ; a Keystone Cop directs .	The title ' White Wings ' refers to the elaborate white uniforms ( with solar topees ! ) that American street-cleaners wore in the early 20th century . Fans of Laurel & Hardy will be intrigued that Laurel appears here , pre-Hardy but with James Finlayson , who was so memorably a foil for ' the boys ' in their classic comedies . In fact , Stan and ' Fin ' had been friends and colleagues ever since their variety-hall days in Finlayson's native Scotland , where Laurel's father was a theatre manager . For me , the most interesting thing about this dullish comedy is that it was directed by George Jeske , who was one of the original Keystone Cops but failed to parlay that credit into a successful comedy career . In ' White Wings ' , well-photographed by Frank Young , Jeske shows some genuine directorial talent . At the very end of the film , just as a fight is about to break out , a curtain descends between the actors and the camera . We ' see ' the violence only in the form of movements bulging the curtain . . . then , at the end , the curtain is gone and we see the results . Quite funny ! But very little preceding it in this movie raises any laughs . Finlayson is impressive as a dental patient who bids fair to be a mental patient , but even Stan Laurel's most loyal fans will admit that there's not much to laugh at hereabouts . I'll rate ' White Wings ' just .
Spencer Tracy did it better .	' The Last Hurrah ' was originally a best-selling novel by Edwin O'Connor . . . who is not ( to my knowledge ) related to actor Carroll O'Connor , but their common surname may have drawn Carroll O'Connor to this material . Edwin O'Connor's novel is a very thinly disguised account of the shenanigans of James Curley , the mayor of Boston who was openly dishonest , but who got away with his graft because the Boston working-class people ( most especially the Irish of the South Side ) got a taste of the gravy . Mayor Curley went to prison during his mayoralty , actually standing for re-election from his prison cell ! ' The Last Hurrah ' was a memorable film , starring Spencer Tracy and directed by John Ford . . . with much of that director's usual Irish blarney . Tracy gives a solid and reliable performance , and Ford makes only a few missteps . ( For one thing , it seems unlikely that a candidate named Skeffington would win the Irish vote against a rival named Hennessey . ) The TV version of ' The Last Hurrah ' is an example of something that was fairly common on American television before VCRs became available : a video remake of a classic film that isn't readily available . Now that the Spencer Tracy film is available at Blockbuster , there's no need for anyone to seek out this video version . . . which in every way ( except one ) is inferior to the movie version . The actor Carroll O'Connor has never impressed me . I've never seen him give a truly convincing performance , and he has given some howlingly bad ones . ( Such as a guest shot on ' The Outer Limits ' . ) Archie Bunker broke new ground in television , but for reasons that had little to do with O'Connor's performance in the role . No matter what role O'Connor plays , I'm always aware of him as an actor speaking dialogue . He never disappears into a role . . . least of all when he wore his pinkie rings on-camera while playing Archie Bunker , probably the last man on Earth who would wear pinkie rings . O'Connor is no better here as Frank Skeffington , the genially corrupt Irish-American mayor of an unnamed New England city , who is hoping to get re-elected one last time before his health fails . The script has too much talk and too little action . We're meant to admire Skeffington as a lovable rogue who knows how to play the system , but as O'Connor portrays him he's just a cheap crook . On the plus side , there are some welcome supporting performances from several splendid character actors . . . notably Burgess Meredith , John Anderson , Arthur Batanides and the very memorable Sandy Kenyon : a distinctively gaunt man who had the most prominent cheekbones I've ever seen on any male actor this side of Frank Lackteen . As good as they are , none of this veteran cast quite manage to surpass their counterparts in John Ford's film . The only way in which this telefilm surpasses its predecessor is in the casting of Ditto Boland , the dog-like political stooge who is intensely loyal to Skeffington . In John Ford's film , Ditto was played by Edward Brophy , one of my favourite character actors . But Brophy usually played befuddled men of limited intelligence : in ' The Last Hurrah ' , Brophy played Ditto as a man who was so brainless that I seriously wondered if this character was meant to be a retarded . A very rare bad performance from this wonderful actor . In the television remake , folksinger Tom Clancy gives a much more subtle and realistic performance in the role . His scenes in this telefilm - - especially at Skeffington's deathbed - - are worth watching . Now that VCRs are here , skip this TV remake and hire the Spencer Tracy movie . I'll rate this TV version only .
A poor reception for ' Deception ' .	I saw this short drama at the 1998 Cinema Muto festival in Pordenone ; they screened a print from the Museum of Modern Art with the original intertitles missing . IMDb's synopsis is accurate . This is very much a Victorian drama , with morality ditto . I was deeply annoyed by one sequence : when the husband finally makes good and sells one of his paintings , he goes to the conservatory ( where he believes his wife is working to support him ) to tell her the good news . When he realises that she doesn't work there , and that she lied to him . . . get this , now . . . he self-righteously resolves to LEAVE her . This despite the fact that she has been supporting him while he dilly-dallied with his paints and palettes . That's another thing I disliked about this movie : the husband allows his wife to support him so he can spend his time painting . Plenty of artistic types have managed to get ' real ' jobs while seeking the muse on their time off and at weekends , so why couldn't this artist do likewise ? ' The Deception ' is thoroughly a product of its era , but even in that era - - when the husband was unquestionably expected to support the wife , rather than the other way round - - it must have been less than fully satisfying . My rating for this : , mostly for the production design , and for Billy Bitzer's usual superb photography .
Thelma Todd rehearses her murder .	Hal Roach produced his comedy series " The Boy Friends " concurrently with his Laurel & Hardy and Our Gang shorts , yet the Boy Friends never achieved the success of those classics . The three girls in the series - - Dorothy Granger , Mary Kornman and dishwater-dull Gertrude Messinger - - have very little screen presence and are not especially attractive . As for the Boy Friends themselves : Mickey Daniels ( nominally the leading Boy Friend , having come up through the Our Gang series ) is spectacularly ugly , and his trademark tic - - a high-pitched squeal - - is downright annoying . Grady Sutton , before and after this series , would prove his worth repeatedly as a supporting actor in literally hundreds of movies . . . but as slow-witted Alabam in the Boy Friends series , Sutton's namby-pamby character is annoying and fails to hold interest . This leaves only one Boy Friend : Dave Sharpe . Handsome , with good screen presence , a superb acrobat and athlete , Sharpe probably failed to become a star for the same reason as the very different actor Claude Rains : both men were too short to be acceptable in romantic roles . In ' Love Fever ' , Dave Sharpe is first seen performing mule kicks , then balancing in a handstand for an upside-down close-up . He's great ! Unfortunately , the three Boy Friends have no chemistry together , nor do they have any real chemistry with their girls . If Hal Roach had tailored this series as a star vehicle for Sharpe , it might have worked . ' Love Fever ' is no better than any other instalment in the Boy Friends series , but is interesting for two reasons : a guest appearance by Thelma Todd , and because the structure of this movie shows the weakness of the entire series . Rather than interact with each other or their girl friends , the three lads take it in turns to interact with Thelma . This short has a triptych structure , which would be fine if any one of its three segments were funny . At best , they're slightly amusing . For some reason , the series characters at the Hal Roach Studio were usually named after the actors who played them . I find this deeply annoying and often confusing : Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were not idiots , so it's regrettable that the two bowler-hatted simpletons they portrayed in Roach's comedies were usually named " Stan Laurel " and " Oliver Hardy " . In ' Love Fever ' , we have Thelma Todd playing a successful actress named Thelma Todd : is she portraying herself , or playing somebody else with the same name ? The meta text becomes even weirder when Thelma starts rehearsing a play in which she gets murdered : just a few years later , Todd would actually die in bizarre circumstances which may have been homicidal . Any old how , the girls have temporarily dumped the boys just before the arrival of glamorous actress Thelma . When Thelma rehearses her dialogue , each of the three Boy Friends ( in series ) overhears her fending off her nonexistent murderer , and each one in turn gallantly rushes in to defend her . ( Sort of like a serial murder , only with the same woman getting killed three times . ) The movie's script and direction cleverly establish that Thelma is flirting with the boys only so as to effect a reconciliation with their girlfriends . Alas , her flirtations with Alabam ( wearing a bizarre blazer ) and with Mickey are painfully unfunny . Wisely , the script saves the best for last : Thelma's tryst with Dave Sharpe . He puts on a dazzling display of dives and rolls , battling Thelma's nonexistent assailant . Unfortunately , in order to show Sharpe's athletic form , the camera must pull back to a long shot . . . thus preventing us from seeing Sharpe's face . For all we know , that's a stuntman doubling for Sharpe . In fact , Dave Sharpe spent most of his career in long shot , doubling for less talented actors . Due to his slight build and short stature , he was often called upon to don female disguise so as to stunt-double for actresses . The best films in the Boy Friends series were directed by Gordon Douglas . ' Love Fever ' finds him only in front of the camera , this instalment being helmed by the much less talented director Bob McGowan . However , I was intrigued by one brief camera set-up : when Dorothy Granger bangs on Thelma's door , the shot is set up from the door's point of view ! I'll rate ' Love Fever ' just barely . Now , please pass me the Laurel & Hardy DVDs . . .
" Typhoon " : A lot of wind and hot air .	I saw ' The Typhoon ' in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto film festival in Sacile , Italy . The festival screened a print from Eastman House , restored via funding from the ( U . S . ) National Endowment for the Arts . The film's title is mostly symbolic , referring either to tempestuous emotions or to the implacable torrent of destiny . As he did so many times during his Hollywood career , Japanese actor Sessue Hayakawa portrays here a Japanese character intended for Occidental audiences : a yellow man whose penchant for white women combines with a bizarre code of honour unlike our western ethos . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . This time round , Hayakawa portrays Tokorama ( is that an authentic Japanese name ? ) , a diplomatic staff officer at the Japanese embassy in Paris . Tokorama is having an affair with an American woman . . . white , of course . Other Japanese staffers at the embassy deem this relationship improper and they try to intercede , but they succeed only in setting up an Othello-like ( Othelloid ? ) situation , provoking Tokorama into murdering the woman . Allegedly , Tokorama's diplomatic work is so essential to relations between Japan and France , the Japanese government cannot afford to have him prosecuted . A younger Japanese man , named Hironari , is persuaded to take the blame for Tokorama's crime . . . for the honour of Japan , of course . Hironari is tried and executed , but then Tokorama conveniently dies anyway . Rather than revealing the truth after Tokorama's death , his colleagues decide that - - for the honour of Japan - - the truth must never be revealed . All of Tokorama's diaries and papers are deliberately destroyed . Ah , so ! Ah , so much of this movie seems so very pointless . After contriving a plot line in which the innocent Hironari is executed for Tokorama's act - - really a crime of passion more than a murder - - the film-makers make sure that Tokorama dies anyway , probably to satisfy American and European audiences ' sense of justice . In some of his other Hollywood films , Hayakawa managed to portray dignified and heroic figures with a true sense of honour . Here , all the evasions which are set up for his benefit - - allegedly a matter of ' honour ' - - only manage to help Hayakawa's character escape responsibility for his own actions . If this were the only Sessue Hayakawa movie I'd ever seen , I wouldn't have a high opinion of him as an actor . ' The Typhoon ' does have a few merits , but it's not a good introduction to Hayakawa's film career . I was intrigued to see Frank Borzage in this film , in a supporting role : Borzage became one of the most important Hollywood directors of the late silent era and the 1930s . His acting performance in this film proves that he was wise to become a director . I'll rate ' The Typhoon ' just .
He's the prettiest girl on the football team	Like quite a few other films which someone has described on the IMDb site as ' lost ' , ' The Sophomore ' is very much among the living . I attended a public screening of this film at the American Museum of the Moving Image , on the site of Paramount's old Astoria Studio . Despite its title , ' The Sophomore ' is not a sequel to Harold Lloyd's film ' The Freshman ' . But this movie is directed by the great Leo McCarey , so it automatically merits some attention . . . and there are indeed some good scenes here . Eddie Quillan plays Joe , a clean-cut young man who enrols in Hanford College . . . ostensibly to get an education . He asks his poor old widowed mother to scrape up the money for his college tuition , which is Strike One against this film's attempt to depict Joe sympathetically . As soon as he arrives on campus , Joe blows all his tuition money in a gambling scheme : that's Strike Two against this movie . Strike Three arrives when we realise that this is one more ' college ' movie in which the only important activities are The Big Game and The Big Dance . None of these college students ever seem to care about going to class or getting an education . After Joe loses all his money , he has to work his way through college . . . which he should have done in the first place , instead of cadging from his poor old mother . He gets a job as a soda jerk in the local tuck-shop where the Hanford students hang out . Also employed there is sweet young co-ed Margie ( the pretty Sally O'Neil ) who is likewise working her way through college . ' The Sophomore ' was released in silent and talking versions . The talkie version features a scene in which Sally O'Neil sings a song to Eddie Quillan : the song is called ' Little by Little ' , and I think it was written for this movie . It's a bouncy little tune , which I still hear on the radio every so often . Unfortunately , Sally O'Neil had a poor singing voice , and the sequence is filmed in a very static manner . . . probably due to the unwieldy " blimped " cameras of the time . The silent version of this movie has better camera-work . When the so-called ' college students ' in this movie aren't involved in The Big Game or The Big Dance , the only thing that matters is The Big Show . Our lad Joe ( classes ? what classes ? ) joins the amateur theatricals , and he goes onstage in female costume . This college is co-ed , so why are the female roles played by male students ? I found these scenes awkward , unfunny and unpleasant . Eddie Quillan should not have been allowed to wear drag on screen . He was a short and slightly-built actor with extremely delicate features , who looked somewhat girlish in male roles . Here in ' The Sophomore ' , when he dresses up as a girl to play a female role onstage , he calls attention to his own genuinely girlish appearance . . . yet at the same time he doesn't actually pass as a girl . It's not pretty , folks . But this is a college movie , so of course the climax of the film is The Big Game : a football match against rival college Colton . Our girl Joe . . . I mean our lad Joe is too small to be a starter on the football team , but of course he ends up going into the game at the last minute . Does he win the game ? I have to give Leo McCarey some credit . All through this college-based movie , McCarey manages to embrace all the rah-rah clichés of the genre . . . and then at the very end of the movie he pulls a surprise . I shan't spoil it for you . But ' The Sophomore ' isn't an especially good film , in either its silent or its talkie version . I'm a McCarey fan , so it pains me to rate this movie only .
Rube's boobs : Tex Avery did it better	Reuben Lucius ' Rube ' Goldberg is remembered for his wildly implausible comic-strip contraptions , but he was a man of many talents . By 1916 ( at the time he made ' The Boob Weekly ' ) , he had already published three book-length collections of his comic strips , sheet music for a popular song , and a card game . Goldberg's most popular comic strip ( of many ! ) at this time was his long-running ' Boob McNutt ' , about a simpleton who invariably got into trouble through his own stupidity but usually triumphed afterward through dumb luck . The famous ' Rube Goldberg machines ' came later . A talented sculptor , Goldberg designed and created the National Cartoonists Society trophy , given annually to the most noteworthy comic-strip artist of the year . ( It's a sculpture of six naked acrobats , the uppermost man balancing an inkwell on his upturned bum . ) This award is named the Reuben , in Goldberg's honour , and Rube Goldberg was its first recipient . In 1948 , he received the Pulitzer Prize for a serious political cartoon about nuclear brinkmanship . Rube Goldberg's first attempt at an animated cartoon , ' The Boob Weekly ' , is a parody of newsreels in general and the Pathe Company's newsreels in particular . In the days of silent films , many Americans got most of their news from cinema newsreels rather than radio or newspapers . Silent-film newsreels were clumsy affairs , as they typically alternated between long wordy captions and wordless images . Newsreels didn't truly come into their own until the sound era , when audiences could get information from the on-screen images and a narrator's voice simultaneously . By the way : in 1927 , several months before ' The Jazz Singer ' was released , movie audiences got their first chance to see an on-screen image synchronised with a sound recording from the same source . . . in newsreel footage that recorded the image and sound of Charles Lindbergh's aeroplane taking off from Roosevelt Field , Long Island , for his long flight to Paris . But in 1916 newsreels were still silent , and ' The Boob Weekly ' suffers from the same problem as the art-form which it parodies . We have to read a long wordy caption - admittedly a funny one - pretending to be a real news item , and then we see an animated cartoon image that basically just illustrates the caption . For instance : " SOUPBONE , MINNESOTA - Dedication of the monument to Olaf J . Ivory , the only honest lawyer in the United States . He starved to death . " After this very funny ( typeset ) silent-film caption , we cut to a brief animated-cartoon image of a woman smashing a bottle of champagne over a statue , witnessed by an ' audience ' consisting of only one dog . The image doesn't add to the joke ; it merely illustrates the caption . Another caption is followed by a brief cartoon of a giant baby who is playing cards and smoking a pipe , in a room with a chandelier that looks a bit like the naked acrobats in the Reuben Award . Rube Goldberg drew every frame of ' The Boob Weekly ' himself , which is one of its drawbacks . He drew the backgrounds and the foreground figures as a single drawing , so he had to redraw the ( static ) background in exactly the same register , over and over , for each frame in which the foreground figures move . Inevitably , some of Goldberg's drawings were out of register , so the backgrounds in this cartoon tend to ' shimmy ' . Goldberg spent 10 hours a day slaving over his animation drawings , in addition to the time he spent on his newspaper comic strips ( his primary source of income at this time ) . In the 1930s , Tex Avery at Warner Bros used this same idea of animated cartoons parodying newsreels , but Avery was able to take advantage of later innovations such as acetate cels ( enabling the artist to animate the characters in front of a consistent backdrop ) and in-betweeners ( low-paid assistants who drew most of the cels , freeing the key animator to draw only the cartoon characters ' most important actions ) . Also , Tex Avery was able to combine narration with his on-screen images , freeing audiences from the annoying illustrated-caption format which Goldberg was forced to use in silent days . This is a good place to point out an error in ' Who Framed Roger Rabbit ' . During the scene in which Roger and Eddie visit a cinema in 1940s Los Angeles , Roger Rabbit ( who is only interested in funny stuff ) protests that he hates newsreels . Whoever wrote that line had no knowledge of what a trip to the movies was like in the 1940s . A typical newsreel ended with a funny afterpiece . . . in fact , one very popular movie comedian ( Lew Lehr ) had a long successful career specialising as a performer in the humour sequences at the end of serious newsreels . ( Lehr's ' news ' footage often depicted monkeys imitating some human activity . ) What Roger Rabbit really should have said was : ' Newsreels ? I only like the funny part at the end ! ' I'll rate ' The Boob Weekly ' 3 points for good intentions and one more point for execution . I'm a fan of Rube Goldberg , but he did his best and funniest work in newspapers , not movies .
Never trust a belle named Beulah .	Earlier this week , I had the bad luck to be in the wrong place at the wrong time . To take my mind off what happened , I've dug out the notes I took several years ago when screening some old movies , intending to transfer those notes into IMDb postings . Lo and behold , the first set of notes I grabbed were for ' Friday the 13th ' . . . appropriate for the bad luck I've had lately . ' Friday the 13th ' was based on a novel by a successful stockbroker , who claimed he knew a sure-fire method by which anyone could cause the stock exchange to crash . Little did he know that it could crash just fine by itself . This drama benefits from its realistic depiction of brokerage transactions . Nothing else here is very realistic , though . Peter Brownley is a hugely successful Wall Street stockbroker . Although he's technically not dishonest , he's utterly ruthless and unscrupulous with it . His machinations cause the financial ruin of Judge Sands . The judge's daughter Beulah , a southern belle , travels to the big city with the specific intention of getting revenge against Brownley . Nothing so simple as murder , mind you : she wants to destroy his business and his reputation . She gets a job in Brownley's brokerage without revealing her true identity . One of Brownley's brokers is his handsome son Robert , who of course is utterly honest . He and Beulah fall in love , but Beulah carries on regardless by phoning insider information to her father . A big trading deal is coming up on Friday , the thirteenth of the month . At the worst possible moment , Robert discovers what Beulah's doing . . . and he assumes that her affections for him were merely part of her scheme to get into the brokerage firm's good graces . The climax of the film features a panic on the trading floor , which Robert must quell . As the younger Brownley , Robert Warwick plays his role in conventional leading-man mode , so it's interesting to see a stockbroker depicted as a he-man hero . Still , much of what happens here was done much better a few years later in ' The Saphead ' : a comedy that covered the same territory much more effectively than this earnest drama . This movie ends the way you'd expect it to , and there are no real surprises along the way . I'll rate ' Friday the 13th ' just .
. . . but not daring enough	' The Man Who Dared ' is an awkward film . It is presented as a work of fiction , but the plot line is clearly inspired by the true story of Anton Cermak , the son of East European immigrants who overcame his impoverished childhood to become mayor of Chicago despite rampant municipal corruption and voter fraud . In 1933 , Cermak ( a Democrat ) was standing beside Franklin Roosevelt's car , outside their party's national convention in Miami . A man jumped out of the crowd , aimed a revolver at FDR , and then fired . . . killing Cermak . The gunman was arrested and identified as Giuseppe Zangara , who claimed to be an anarchist . He was brought to trial , convicted , and executed . The ' official ' version of this story is that Zangara was a genuine anarchist who meant to assassinate Presidential candidate Roosevelt but accidentally shot Cermak instead . However , Cermak had been active in breaking up the lucrative Cosa Nostra rackets in Chicago ( bootlegging , illegal gambling rings , etc ) , and Cermak had cost the Mob a lot of money . Credible evidence indicates that Zangara was a small-time Mafiosa who intentionally carried out a ' hit ' on Cermak , carefully staging it to look like a failed attempt to kill FDR so as to avoid government reprisals against the Mob for Cermak's murder . The whole Cermak / Zangara affair was retold in 1960 on the ' Untouchables ' TV series , as a two-part episode called ' The Gun of Zangara ' , which I recommend for its comparatively accurate depiction of the case . ' The Man Who Dared ' was rushed into production immediately after Zangara's arrest , and the haste shows . . . abetted by the very low production budget . This movie follows the Cermak case closely , except that the names are changed : the Cermak character ( played earnestly but blandly by Preston Foster ) is renamed Jan Novak . Given the name changes , it's surprising that this story of urban corruption is explicitly set in Chicago , rather than in some anonymous ' big city ' . The best performance in the film is given by Zita Johann , whose real-life Hungarian accent is here ( perhaps for the only time in her Hollywood career ) an asset rather than a debility . In this film ( as Novak's wife ) and elsewhere , Zita Johann had a remarkable ability to convey that she was genuinely in love with her male co-star . Leon Ames is good in the early scenes as Novak's father . An interesting visual device runs sporadically through this movie . Early on , we see a billboard which reads ' Welcome to Chicago ' , but the billboard is so caked with mud that it is nearly illegible . When Cermak / Novak is first elected mayor , we see a municipal employee scrubbing the billboard so that it is slightly cleaner . Later , as the new mayor institutes his civic reforms and his crime-busting activity , we see a worker hosing down the billboard until at last it is finally clean . SLIGHT SPOILERS . Movie audiences in 1933 , recognising this film's parallels to Cermak's life and death , must have realised that the entire film is building up to Cermak's murder and the assassination attempt on Roosevelt . Sadly , this climactic event is tossed away almost as an afterthought . Throughout the second half of the film , we hear ominous dialogue to the effect that Novak / Cermak has ' enemies ' . In the last few minutes of the film , we see him attending a political rally . ( This movie's small budget doesn't allow for a full-fledged convention . ) We see Novak smiling and walking towards the camera , about to shake hands with a political bigwig ( presumably FDR ) who is located just offscreen . Suddenly the camera cuts to a tight close-up of a man's hand clutching a revolver as it fires two bullets . We do not see Novak fall . . . instead , the camera cuts to the last shot in the film : the Chicago billboard one more time , once again splattered with mud . The message here is that nothing has changed , and that the real-life Anton Cermak accomplished nothing more than a brief respite in the war against organised crime , which went back to business as usual immediately after his death . Sadly , ' The Man Who Dared ' tells us absolutely nothing about the murder of either the real-life Anton Cermak nor the fictional Jan Novak . We never see the man who killed him , apart from that close-up of his hand . We never learn the gunman's motives : was he aiming for Novak , or did he kill Novak by mistake while aiming for the Presidential candidate ? None of this is addressed in any way . For a film about a man who dared to take on the rackets and a corrupt political system , this movie is disturbingly gutless . The script is by Hollywood stalwarts Dudley Nichols and Lamar Trotti , both of whom have done much better work in other films . I'll rate ' The Man Who Dared ' , as an interesting example of high-speed low-budget Hollywood film-making , and for Zita Johann's fine performance in a too-brief role .
Is zat so ? Sez who ?	James Gleason is one of the most fondly remembered character actors from Hollywood's golden age . I consistently enjoy his screen work , but he's not on my personal list of all-time favourite character players : Gleason worked in many films , but I find his performances too similar and predictable from one film to the next . His wife ( and occasional screen partner ) Lucille Webster Gleason was a film actress of no significance at all , remembered only as James Gleason's wife and as the mother of their son Russell Gleason . The younger Gleason was a highly intelligent and handsome young man who had begun a promising screen career as a juvenile lead when he got conscripted into World War Two . He completed basic training , and then - the night before his regiment were to ship out for a combat posting in Europe - Russell Gleason died in a fall from a Manhattan hotel window . Officially his death was ruled an accident . I've often wondered if Russell Gleason's death was suicide ( to avoid being sent into combat ) , or if it was merely a failed attempt to go AWOL . Russell Gleason's widow Cynthia Lindsay , a former Busby Berkeley chorus girl , later wrote an excellent biography of Boris Karloff . In the 1920s , James Gleason wrote several Broadway comedies with roles for himself ( and occasionally for his wife ) . Gleason's plays were popular and successful in their day , but have dated badly and are no longer revived . All evidence indicates that James Gleason's skills as a playwright were far less notable than his talents as a comedian and character actor . Regrettably , Gleason squandered the royalties from his Broadway hits , and was forced to keep working as an actor when his plays fell out of fashion and brought him no further income . ' The Shannons of Broadway ' was originally a Broadway play , written by Gleason as a comedy vehicle for himself and his wife . In this film version , they repeat their Broadway roles as Mickey and Emma Shannon , a couple of vaudeville artistes . ( Precisely what sort of turn they performed on the boards is never clearly established . ) When one of their vaude bookings is abruptly cancelled , the Shannons are stranded in a small town where the only hotel is run by curmudgeonly Pa Swanzey , aided by his beautiful daughter Tessie . But the Shannons are denied lodgings in the hotel , which has a strict policy against ' bum actors and dogs ' . I found this very plausible . In the days of barnstorming theatre , actors and vaudeville performers had a well-deserved reputation for skipping out on their bills . The Shannons learn some interesting information : Swanzey's hotel is heavily mortgaged , and the bank are about to foreclose . Also , the tract next door over from the hotel is scheduled to become the site for a new airport . Mickey and Emma splash out their savings to buy up the mortgage , planning to run the hotel ( at a loss ) until the airport arrives , then make large profits . The ' comic ' complications ensue when the Shannons learn that the airport isn't arriving after all , forcing them to unload the unprofitable hotel on the first sucker they can find . None of this is especially funny , although it's helped somewhat by Gleason's irascible manner . There's an insipid romantic subplot involving Mary Philbin and John Breeden . The sadly underrated Tom Kennedy is very funny as a local yokel , and Walter Brennan is impressive as Hezekiah Davis , the local bootlegger . Some of the alleged humour is to do with Prohibition , and there's some annoying slang-filled dialogue . Although James Gleason is not one of my favourite performers , he consistently impresses me with his skill and timing within his very narrow range as a performer . But Gleason as a playwright - - and as the author of the original material for ' The Shannons of Broadway ' - - impresses me much less . I'll rate this dismal comedy .
Paul Lynde upstages Gene Kelly !	The talented dancer Sandy Duncan has worked in film and television , yet has achieved her greatest success on the musical stage . She's hardly one of my favourites ; I find her chipmunk voice more than slightly annoying , and even though she's a lithe and graceful dancer I don't find her very attractive . But her talent is undeniable , and I admire her for having paid her dues ( in rubbish like the flop Broadway musical version of ' Canterbury Tales ' ) , and I admire her even more for triumphing over a cancer of the optic nerve that left her blind in one eye . ( Her optic muscles were not affected , so the eye moves normally even though it's sightless . ) When Sandy Duncan starred on Broadway in ' Peter Pan ' , the flying sequences had to be choreographed to compensate for the fact that she couldn't see obstacles approaching from her left side . This TV special is a good showcase for her talents , and equally a showcase for her weaknesses as a performer . The opening sequence is very bizarre : we see ( apparently genuine ) candid footage of Sandy and her castmates in a rehearsal studio , going through dance steps . ' Whenever you're ready , Sandy , ' says the dance director while prepping the chorus . Paul Lynde , sitting in a folding chair , gives a lacklustre reading of one of his punchlines . This special was produced shortly after ' The Sting ' became a huge box-office hit , with its memorable score based on Scott Joplin rags . The best dance sequence in Sandy Duncan's special occurs immediately after that bizarre opening , as Sandy sings an inept lyric to the tune of Joplin's ' The Entertainer ' while walking down a flight of stairs , then she launches into a spirited ragtime dance with the chorus . One male dancer becomes her partner for a pas de deux between the chorines . This dancer isn't credited by name , but he should have been . He's quite good , and I was intrigued that he didn't have the usual willowy chorus-boy physique : he's a stocky guy , with a 1970s beard and hairstyle . ( Sandy Duncan later married Don Correia , another talented male dancer who is also more stocky than is usual for men in his profession . ) Gene Kelly is on hand in a later sequence , but regrettably his guest appearance is quite brief . He and Sandy sing a medley of famous songs from Gene's musicals , notably " Me and My Gal " and " Singin ' in the Rain " . They dance together , but the choreography here is a pale shadow of Kelly's timeless dance routines . Considering that he was over 60 when this special was made - - and the fact that he had nothing to prove - - I guess Kelly didn't want to strain himself . Still , it's nice to see him again even though his performance here adds nothing to his legacy . Astonishingly , the most entertaining musical number in this special is performed by Paul Lynde ! With the chorus backing him on vocals , Lynde acts out Jim Croce's song ' Bad , Bad Leroy Brown ' . . . with Lynde in the title role , dressed in a costume that looks like a cross between a zoot suit and Pimp Daddy's outfit . Lynde speaks the lyric rather than singing it , and the words have been cleaned up slightly for prime time : instead of ' He had a razor in his shoe ' , Lynde recites ' I've got a water pistol , too . ' Then he proceeds to squirt the dancers with his water gun while they sing the chorus . I despise Lynde ( as both a person and a performer ) , yet this musical number is so outrageous that it's actually funny . The special ends with an elaborate sequence that's anticlimactic , as Sandy finds herself wandering about on an abandoned carnival midway that's clearly a sound stage set . Lynde shows up as a carny pitchman , exhorting Sandy to see the sideshow attractions . His best joke is about the tattooed lady : ' She has a picture of the Chicago Fire on one knee , and a picture of the devil on the other . When she crosses her legs , it looks like hell . ' Sadly , any humour in Lynde's delivery has been squandered , because this is the same joke we've already heard him reading ( in a flat monotone ) during the opening video sequence . Duncan's talent is considerable , but she has seldom had material worthy of it . Still , she works hard here in this badly-paced and poorly-directed special . It's nice to see Gene Kelly again , and nice to see Duncan paying tribute to the heritage of old-time musicals . Lynde's performance as Leroy Brown does much to redeem his awfulness in the rest of this special ( and elsewhere ) . I'll rate this TV special .
One good scene for Clyde and Noah .	In California in the early 1980s , I interviewed Clyde Cook ( from " Brizzo " , Down Under ) near the end of his long life . He had a fascinating career , performing in American vaudeville as the Kangaroo Boy , and arriving in New York City just in time for the 1919 Actors ' Equity strike . In his prime , Clyde Cook's acrobatic abilities were equal to those of the great Buster Keaton , Al St John and Lupino Lane . Unfortunately , most of Cook's starring vehicles - - low-budget shorts - - failed to make full use of his dazzling acrobatic talents . Even in the feature film ' He Who Gets Slapped ' , Cook has extensive screen time as a circus clown but he confines his acrobatics to a single hurdle / back-handspring / run-off that left me wanting to see more . Cook's on-screen appearance was rather off-putting . He was a scrawny " gowk " , resembling the later English comedian Nat Jackley ( or a frailer version of the American comedian Gil Lamb ) . In his starring vehicles - - including ' Should Sailors Marry ? ' - - Cook typically wore a huge brush moustache that I consider unpleasant to look at because of its calculated asymmetry . When Cook isn't doing his acrobatics , it's difficult to see what he has to offer as a performer . In ' Should Sailors Marry ? ' , Cook plays off against burly Noah Young , a talented character actor who's better known for his second-banana work opposite Harold Lloyd and Snub Pollard . Young and Cook have one excellent scene here ; in which Young's character - - a wrestler - - starts to sleepwalk , and thinks he's having a wrestling match . Amazingly , he manages to wrestle Cook without ever actually waking up . Cook's physical comedy here is excellent , but I kept waiting for him to cut loose with some truly first-rate acrobatics that never arrived . Oliver Hardy ( pre-Laurel ) has one brief scene as an insurance medico , giving a fine performance in a role very different from his later " Ollie " character . Cook does a bit of dancing here , performing an eccentric step that has also been captured on film by Buster Keaton and Groucho Marx . I have very fond memories of Clyde Cook - - one of the very few male actors from the silent-film era whom I ever met - - so it pains me that I can't rate this short comedy any funnier than .
Not much historic value .	It's hard to believe that Americans needed any propaganda in the Second World War to encourage them to support the fight against Nazism . However , up until Pearl Harbour , this was the case . Many Americans took an isolationist attitude , believing that events in Europe were none of their business . Some German-Americans and others formed Bund Societies , actively supporting the Nazi cause ! Of course , all this changed on 7 December 1941 . . . ' Divide and Conquer ' is rather pale propaganda , intended to stir up American support for the fight against Hitler . While the cause is admirable , this is weak stuff . We see newsreel footage of Hitler making radio speeches in German , calmly assuring Denmark and Holland that they have nothing to fear from Germany . Then we see footage of German ships and tanks invading those nations . Walter Huston , as the primary narrator , commendably avoids histrionics , but unfortunately reads his lines from a script which requires him to editorialise , telling us how evil and untrustworthy Hitler is . The events ought to speak for themselves . At one point , we are treated to a brief and utterly gratuitous snip of footage depicting bank-robber John Dillinger glowering at the camera , so that Huston can compare Dillinger to Hitler . That's a bad choice : in the 1940s , many Americans considered the late Dillinger a sort of folk hero . The most interesting parts of this film are the clips of German battle footage , apparently captured by Allied forces . We also see footage of ' undesirables ' in occupied France being loaded into tumbrels by their Nazi captors and driven hell-knows-where . What makes this footage powerful is the fact that we see the same faces in more than one shot , forcing us to realise that each of these faces is a specific human being with a real history and a past . . . though perhaps not much future . There are some extremely crude animation sequences , depicting arrows moving across Europe to indicate the Nazi advance . These animations were made very inexpensively , and look it , but perhaps that's a point in their favour . The Nazis spent a huge amount of money on ' Kolberg ' , a ridiculous propaganda film which required them to divert forces and materiel from the western and eastern fronts . By spending so very little money on ' Divide and Conquer ' , perhaps the U . S . government was able to spend a bit more on feeding the troops who had to win the war . Bless you all , band of brothers . ' Divide and Conquer ' has very little to offer as cinema , and even less to offer as history : if you want to learn about the Second World War , this film is not remotely one of the best places to start . This film has outlived its usefulness . . . but only because the Good Guys won that war : a victory which may have happened partially because of the G . I . s depicted in this film . God bless America , but I'm being generous when I rate this dull documentary . Just , then .
Fritz Lang's ex-wife writes ' I Love Lucy '	The oddly-named Betty Bird ( her real name ? ) was a Viennese actress who played frothy roles in pre-war films ; her early death was due to the deprived circumstances in wartime Austria following the Anschluss . IMDb lists Betty Bird in the casts of several American films of the late silent era , but I'm certain that this is a different actress with the same name . ' What Am I Without You ? ' is an extremely lightweight musical , made four years before the Anschluss and blessedly free of Nazi content . ( Although this film's scenarist Thea von Harbou would later become a full-throttle propagandist for the Reich . ) The plotline of this film and its general tone are remarkably similar to ' Bells Are Ringing ' , the Broadway and film musical that was conceived as a star vehicle for Judy Holliday . It also bears more than a passing resemblance to a certain 1950s American sitcom translated into German , which I'll call ' Ich Liebe Lucy ' . Betty Bird stars as Paula , the devoted Bavarian wife of Erwin Schwartz ( dull actor Wolfgang Liebeneiner ) , an idealistic young composer . While Erwin struggles to write his great symphony , Paula pays the bills by working as the hat-check girl in a grand hotel . Meanwhile , their neighbour Franz ( Rudolf Platte , not so dusty ) is a struggling playwright hoping to script a comedy that will make him rich and famous . ( No comment . ) When Paula learns that Herr Ulrich , the big-shot movie director , is going to premiere his new movie at the posh hotel where she hat-checks , she immediately shifts into Judy Holliday mode . . . with a side order of Lucy Ricardo . Oh , have I mentioned that Paula wants to be in show-biz ? Disguising herself ( somewhat implausibly ) as a society matron , Paula gains the confidence of Ulrich's star actress Olga Tschechowa ( a name to conjure with ) . I would say that Olga plays Ethel to Paula's Lucy , except that in this case the sidekick ( Ms Tschechowa ) is clearly more glamorous than the frontkick ( Fraulein Bird ) . SPOILERS COMING . When the dust settles , Paula has persuaded Ulrich to film Franz's play , starring herself in the lead role ! And the hotel orchestra is playing Erwin's latest melody , which is a sure-fire hit ! Happy endings all round . Sehr gut ! ' What Am I Without You ? ' is a thick slice of Viennese pastry , with no surprises . . . but it remains enjoyable . At the time of its release in Germany , Austria and Switzerland , this film enjoyed the appeal of an ' all-star cast ' . . . due to the fact that many prominent actors and actresses of the German film world make brief appearances here as themselves , during the film-premiere sequences . ( Wot , no Emil Jannings ? ) However , most of these actors are now entirely forgotten , even in their homeland . At several points while I watched this film , the camera prominently framed some newcomer . . . and I would get the sensation that I was expected to recognise this utterly unfamiliar man or woman . ( I got a similar sensation while watching ' Around the World in 80 Days ' , in which many of the vaunted ' guest stars ' are actually obscure actors such as Basil Sydney . ) After the third or fourth time this happened in ' What Am I Without You ? ' , I found it very maddening indeed . I'll rate this movie , mostly as a pleasant memento of a time when Vienna still danced to the waltz . . . instead of the goose-step .
When you find out , tell the rest of us .	Englishman Reginald Denny had a hugely successful career in American silent films ( in which his public-school English accent went unheard ) , playing brash young Americans who were firmly in the Harold Lloyd mould . In the sound era Denny's career tapered off into character roles , and he is now utterly forgotten . During the Los Angeles riots of 1992 , an entirely different man named Reginald Denny was prominently mentioned in the news . At the time , I was intrigued that absolutely none of the news media called attention to the coincidence of these men's mutual name . . . solid evidence of how completely the silent comedian Reginald Denny has now been forgotten . The 1925 silent comedy ' Where Was I ? ' calls attention to its own antiquity more so than usual for a silent film , as the plot repeatedly cites a specific date - - the 9th of January , 1923 - - in the context of being a fairly recent date relative to the present ( 1925 ) , yet far enough in the past that the hero could plausibly have forgotten where he was and what he did on that day . Reginald Denny plays Thomas Bedford , a successful young businessman who is about to marry Alicia Stone despite the protests of her father . ( Good performance by Tyrone Power , namesake father of the 1930s matinée idol . ) Suddenly , Bedford's plans are scuppered by an exotic stranger , Claire , who blithely tells Bedford that he can't marry Alicia because he's already married to Claire : the wedding took place ( she says ) on 9 January 1923 . Bedford is dismayed to realise he can't recall where he was or what he did on that date . Claire , significantly , has no marriage licence and doesn't say where she's been for the past two years . So far , the movie's plot is highly unlikely but unusual enough to be intriguing . Now it just gets stupid . While trying to retrace his whereabouts on the fateful date , Bedford mistakes another man's briefcase for his own and walks away with it . This briefcase contains $12 , 000 . In a sensible movie , any honest man who made this error would return the briefcase , or give it to the police . But Bedford has to panic and go on the run , thus becoming a fugitive accused of theft . At the film's implausible climax , Bedford has to meet Alicia and Claire both at the same go , without either woman being aware of the other's presence . So , we get that stupid slamming-doors routine . . . where two people keep just missing each other . This is just barely plausible in a silent film , since the audience mightn't start wondering why neither woman hears the door slamming when the other woman exits . An impressively physical comedian in other movies , Denny is so frenetic here that I found him wearying . ' Where Was I ? ' manages to be slightly funny in spite of itself , due to the unusual premise and despite the implausible plot twists . Arthur Lake , who worked in support of Denny in a few films , is good here as Bedford's office boy . I'll rate this movie .
Oy , oy , oy ! Mine daughter loves a goy !	Mary Philbin deserves at least a permanent footnote in movie history , as the actress who memorably unmasked the Phantom of the Opera in Lon Chaney's greatest film . She also gave a fine performance as the blind heroine in ' The Man Who Laughs ' , directed by the brilliant Paul Leni . Apart from these two films and ' The Last Performance ' ( also by an exceptional director ) , Philbin's career is nothing much . Her beautiful looks far exceeded her acting ability , and she wasn't able to carry a film in the lead role . In ' Surrender ' , Philbin plays the central role . . . and her talents simply aren't up to the job . The poor script and lacklustre direction don't help . The action is set in 1914 , in a Jewish village in Austria , near the eastern frontier . Philbin plays Lea , the beauteous daughter of the local rabbi ( Nigel De Brulier ) . The town is invaded by a division of Cossack soldiers , commanded by a colonel named Constantine . ( It doesn't help that the intertitles refer to this warlord by his forename rather than his surname . ) Constantine's cossacks are all set to pillage the village , but there isn't much worth stealing . . . so Constantine vows to burn the place to the ground . Then he spots beautiful Lea , and changes his mind : the village and its people will be spared if Lea will have sex with him . SPOILERS COMING . Lea appears to be the standard silent-film heroine , virginal and noble , so it's surprising that her nobility exceeds her virginality . To the surprise and outrage of her father , Lea agrees to spend the night with Constantine in order to save her village . Rather surprisingly , and implausibly , she and Constantine fall in love with each other , and he repents his former actions . ( You call yourself a Cossack , fella ? ) ' Surrender ' is one of those annoying movies which subscribes to the view that , if a man harasses a woman long enough , she'll eventually fall in love with him . This movie is extremely overwrought , and much of the blame goes to the subtitles . . . which read like something out of a Mills & Boon paperback romance . There's plenty of blame left over for the actors , most of whom overact wretchedly . Otto Matieson gives a performance of some subtlety . The film ends tragically but also implausibly , when the rabbi decides that he must strangle his own daughter for the dishonour she has brought upon him . Nigel De Brulier looks like he would blow away in a stiff wind , so I couldn't believe he was capable of strangling Philbin . Also , the close-ups reveal the pale irises in Philbin's eyes : I can't tell what colour her eyes are in this monochrome film , but these close-ups weaken the casting of Philbin as a ( presumably Ashkenazi ) dark-eyed Jewish princess . ( Let's have no jokes about ' Princess Lea ' . ) The best thing about ' Surrender ' is its title , which turns out to have at least three meanings . Edward Sloman was a deservedly obscure director , whose best film is likely ' Murder by the Clock ' . I'll rate ' Surrender ' , and I'm being generous .
The titular chest	' Chest of Fortune ' ( quiet in the back , there ! ) is an American film from the Kalem ( K-L-M ) Studio , which was the first Yank film studio to publicise the real names of its actors . Before Kalem , all movie actors were either anonymous or required to emote under house names which remained the property of their studio : for instance , before Mabel Normand achieved stardom at Keystone , she acted in Biograph films as ' Muriel Fortescue ' . This lurk was to prevent actors from demanding more money as their names became better-known . I viewed a print of ' Chest of Fortune ' from the archives of Nederlands Filmmuseum in Amsterdam ; the original intertitles had been removed ( a shame , since Kalem often featured very beautiful title cards ) and replaced with very prosaic captions in Dutch . The character names which I cite here are the ones in the Dutch print . If it turns out that the original U . S . print gave the characters entirely different names ( this sometimes happens ) , I'm sure that my Internet detractors will dine out on the discrepancies between my review and their own sources . This movie seems to start out as a war drama : specifically , the American Civil War . The Union forces under Captain Wellington are advancing on a house in Southern territory . While the black ' servants ' ( white actors in burnt cork ) have minstrel-show conniption fits , the family pack up their small boy and a few belongings in a chest ( no , the boy isn't in the chest ) and attempt to escape in a dinghy . SPOILERS AHEAD . Just when we think that this movie will be about a Southern family in Civil War days , the action jumps to modern-day 1914 , still in the southern United States . Handsome Jack ( Guy Coombs ) is in love with the fair lady played by Marguerite Clayton . The beauteous Miss Clayton's role in this film is cried Käthe : at least , that's what it says her name is in these Dutch title cards . I'm reasonably certain that " Käthe " isn't her name in the original Stateside prints , but that's what I'm calling her in this review . ( Grease up your modems and point out my errors , oh ye Internet critics . ) Jack's rival for the affections of the beauteous Whatsername is Harry Meinling , another name that sounds suspiciously like a Dutch translation . ( Whoever he is , he's played by Harry F . Millarde . . . whoever HE is . ) Jack's job has got summat to do with a dredging machine , and now the dredger pulls up an object which we recognise as that pesky chest from Civil War days . Amazingly , this wooden chest has been underwater for nigh on fifty years , but it's still in good nick . . . and the contents are dry , too . Those contents turn out to be quite prosaic , such as a small boy's trousers . From this point onward , nothing much happens . . . at least , not in the print which I viewed . While watching this rather pointless film , I was reminded of a true incident from America's real Civil War . One Confederate family in Kentucky had made their fortune from a brewery . If you know anything about breweries , you know that the flavour of the booze is dependent upon the yeast : the yeast must be cultured and cultivated . It takes decades , even centuries , to perfect a yeast culture : if that culture is destroyed , you can't just substitute any yeast culture at random . Anyroad , a Union regiment came through Kentucky and supposedly robbed this Southern family of everything they owned , except a jug : the family gave up everything else without a struggle , but were ready to defend that jug with their lives . The Union commander assumed that the jug must contain gold or jewels ; when he discovered it contained only yeast , he decided that the family were crazy and he left them alone . They got to keep their yeast . I was reminded of the above ( true ? ) story while I watched ' Chest of Fortune ' , because the contents of the titular chest in this movie are about as interesting as yeast . Maybe a scene is missing from this print , in which case my Internet critics will let me know about it . I'll rate this drama just .
Put this cat to sleep .	' Forty Winks ' is one of the very last Felix the Cat cartoons from his original ( Otto Messmer ) period , but it's so crude that I mistook it for one of his very early efforts . The toon is technically a talkie ; it was released with a soundtrack , but the audio consists entirely of unsynchronised noises and ' rhubarb ' voice-work . Also , there's no real plot here : just a string of gags on the theme of sleep , or trying to get to sleep . First , Felix and a quartet of feline Felix clones are yowling while a man is trying to sleep ; then Felix encounters various obstacles in his own attempts to tryst with Morpheus . One thing which impresses me about the Felix toons ( credit for this likely goes to Pat Sullivan , their producer ) is the extensive re-use of character cels from one cartoon to the next . . . so that , for instance , when Felix paces back and forth , or when he belly-laughs , cels from earlier Felix toons are re-used so as to save time , labour and expense . This actually impresses me positively , not negatively , because it's done very well and is only discernible if one has seen several Felixes and has a good memory . In ' Forty Winks ' , I was also impressed by two different examples of ' cycle ' animation , in which the same background art keeps passing the camera repeatedly - - in one case the usual horizontal cycle , in the other case a much less typical vertical cycle , as Felix plummets off a wall and keeps passing the same group of bricks while he falls . The worst ( and most overdone ) examples of cycle animation were done by Hanna-Barbera , who notoriously had Fred Flintstone passing the same tree over and over and over and bloody over . Messmer is using the same labour-saving device here , but using it with far more subtlety so that it's less noticeable ( and much less annoying ) . In this same cartoon , I was impressed with an animation sequence of some toy soldiers marching : presumably inspired by the 1903 stage operetta ' Babes in Toyland ' . All of the Felix toons from the Messmer period feature bizarre gags involving Felix's detachable tail , which conveniently morphs into any object he needs . I laughed at one gag here , when Felix's tail interlocks with two exclamation marks emanating from his head to form a helicopter rotor , rendering Felix airborne . Alas , that's the only time I laughed in this below-average Felix cartoon , which I'll rate a mere . Sleep tight , Felix !
The French are revolting .	" I Will Repay " is based on one of the numerous Scarlet Pimpernel novels by Baroness Orczy , which I haven't read . I don't know how faithful this film is to its source novel , much less how accurate either of them is in regard to the historic names and events that are freely mentioned throughout the proceedings . We are in Paris , 1793 : knee-deep in the Reign of Terror . Paul de Roulade ( Pedro de Cordoba ) is a hero to the Jacquards , who cry him ' Citizen de Roulade ' . One evening he gets into an argument with the Vicomte de Marny over the virtues of a dancing girl ; this leads to a fight ( provoked by the viscount , of course ) , forcing Paul to kill the nobleman . ( I'm astounded that any viscount would dare show his face in Paris in 1793 . . . but don't mind me , scriptwriter . ) The viscount's sister Juliette de Marny ( Flora le Breton ) swears revenge : to achieve this , she infiltrates the de Roulade household and beguiles Paul into falling in love with her . Now get this , folks . The movie wants Paul to be the film's hero and earn the audience's sympathy , even though ( as a Jacquard ) he's really on the wrong side of history . So , just to keep things nice and tidy , Paul has secret Royalist sympathies . He decides to smuggle Marie Antoinette out of France . . . and to do this , he enlists the aid of none other than the Scarlet Pimpernel ( Holmes Herbert ) . How does the scriptwriter explain this complete volte-face on the part of the main character ? By having actor de Cordoba flutter his hand languidly while a dialogue title has him moaning that he's weary of ' all this bloodshed ' . Oh , yes ! Well , the fair ( or unfair ) Juliette learns of Paul's intrigue , and she realises that this is her chance to get revenge by betraying him to the Jacquards . Or will she fall in love with him as he has with her ? Meanwhile , we get a few scenes of Charlotte Corday on trial for the murder of Marat . Au secours ! There was so much real-life drama going on during the French Revolution , there's really no need to invent fictional shenanigans like this . I'll at least give this European-made film credit for realistic sets and costumes , rather than the usual overblown glitz that Hollywood would have given this subject matter even as early as 1923 . Still , my rating for this film is only .
Boop-a-doop bootleggers	' Heads Up ' stars Helen Kane , who is now remembered only in parody as the prototype for Betty Boop . The animated character in the Fleischer cartoons is blatantly similar to Helen Kane's screen persona : same hairstyle , same annoying speaking voice ( Kane sounds like Gracie Allen on helium ) , same ' boop-oop-a-doop ' syllables scatted into the breaks in her lyrics . Kane sued the Fleischer studio : amazingly , she lost , and Max Fleischer then released a gloating newsreel clip featuring several chorus girls made up to look like Kane . Helen Kane's home studio ( Paramount ) didn't care about the controversy , as they were also distributing Fleischer's Betty Boop cartoons . . . and making more money off the animated imitation than off the live-action original . None of Helen Kane's movies are very good , except for ' Paramount on Parade ' ( in which she has merely a guest shot ) and just possibly ' Sweetie ' ( in which she plays only a supporting role ) , so her films are seldom revived . The Boop cartoons , of course , are constantly revived . . . so , for modern viewers seeing Kane for the first time , it's hard to avoid the perception that Helen Kane is imitating Betty Boop rather than just the other way round . It seems very unfair that the original has been entirely upstaged by the Boop-a-Duplicate . In ' Heads Up ' , Kane actually plays a character named Betty , which gives you an idea of where Fleischer got the name for his cartoon character . ' Heads Up ' was originally a flop Broadway musical with tunes by Rodgers and Hart , who are the only songwriters listed in this film's on-screen credits ( unless you count director Victor Schertzinger , who also wrote tunes ) . The songs in this movie are quite lame , easily Rodgers's and Hart's bottom-drawer stuff . I did enjoy some very spirited hoofing by little Billy Taylor during one of Kane's songs : why didn't Taylor ever make it in musicals ? High-society Newport widow Martha Trumbull owns a yacht , the Silver Lady , for the private use of herself and her two daughters Mary and Betty . Mary ( Margaret Breen ) is meant to be the ' pretty ' sister , and Betty ( Helen Kane ) is meant to be the ' funny ' sister , but neither is much of either . The wealthy Mrs Trumbull employs Captain Denny and Skippy Dugan to staff the yacht , but they're often kept idle at the quay because the family aren't using the yacht . So , to make valuable use of his time , the villainous Denny uses the Silver Lady for bootleg runs . He takes her out beyond the three-mile-limit and comes back with hooch . The galley cook Skippy - - more like a galley slave - - is played by Victor Moore . I've never found Moore funny , but I'm intensely in awe of his career as a performer . Some major Broadway musicals had roles written specifically as vehicles for Moore . I've interviewed old-time Broadway figures who worked with Moore , and they tell me that he was a genuinely modest and self-effacing man . I really want to like him on the screen , but he tends to play the same character every time . . . and I find that character very wearying . Here , Moore invents bizarre contraptions that seem more appropriate for certain other comedians of this same period ( Ed Wynn , Joe Cook , Clark & McCulloch ) rather than for Moore's usual characterisation . Moore keeps mispronouncing his dialogue : he pronounces ' baloney ' so it rhymes with ' mahogany ' . Most of his other mispronunciations are so subtle , it's not clear whether they're genuine errors or bad attempts to be funny . The male lead is Charles ' Buddy ' Rogers , except that the credits don't include his nickname ' Buddy ' . He plays a handsome Coast Guard officer who teams up with gumshoe Gene Gowing to catch the bootleggers . There is , of course , a romantic subplot between Rogers and Breen . . . and if you can't guess how it ends , you haven't been paying attention . The camera-work throughout is wretched . During the cotillion sequence , a shot begins with two people standing slightly off-centre in the frame . The camera nudges itself slightly to starboard , to centre the actors . Then a third person enters at the left , and the camera moves leftward to re-centre the shot . Similar adjustments occur throughout the film . During Kane's most elaborate dance number , we briefly see an overhead shot of the sort which most people think was invented by Busby Berkeley . Elsewhere in this same number , a very personable and beautiful chorus girl does splendid knee lifts right behind Kane : I wish that the camera had shoved Kane out of the way to concentrate on this chorus girl . I suspect that the title of this movie is a cheeky joke . The phrase ' Heads Up ' is never spoken nor sung anywhere in the film . . . but the movie has a maritime theme , and guess which part of a ship is the ' head ' . Otherwise , the jokes on offer here are slightly mouldy . When villainous Captain Denny ( Harry Shannon ) asks Victor Moore ' You know what mutiny is , don't you ? ' , Moore replies ' Yes , sir . Mutiny is a show they give in the afternoon . ' Get the hook ! I'll rate this flotsam , mostly out of sympathy for the production difficulties of early movie musicals .
He dis-sables his wife .	I wonder if this movie was written by a fur fetishist , or possibly by a fur-phobe . Somebody involved in ' Souls for Sables ' seems to be firmly convinced that every woman has an innately evil side that will come to the surface if she acquires a fur coat , especially a sable . Fred Garlan is a working stiff whose wife Alice pesters him to give her a sable coat , but he can't afford it . Then Alice meets the older roue Harrison Morrill , who lets her win money from him in a poker game ; he persuades her to let him invest the money in the stock market for her : when it profits , he uses the funds to buy her the desired sable . But when Fred finds the coat in his wife's wardrobe , all hell breaks loose . Meanwhile , in a seamier subplot , Alice's friend Esther likewise wants a sable . . . but she acquires hers by rather dirtier means than Alice does . When her husband Jim finds out , he promptly shoots her . There's a weird moralistic tone to this film , strongly implying that fur coats are innately evil and immoral . Yet the movie lingers over shots of living mannequins , as well as Alice and Esther , luxuriating in lush sables . All rather hypocritical and mealy-mouthed . My rating for this pot-boiler : barely .
A shoeshine on his head .	The Paramount animation studio's ongoing series characters - - the annoying Little Lulu , the insufferably twee Casper the Friendly Ghost - - were mostly pretty bad . . . due to their poor animation , repetitive plots and feeble humour . But during this same period , Paramount's animation department also released cartoons under the umbrella title Madcap Specials : these were one-off cartoons , with more emphasis on outrageous gags and character-driven premises that didn't have to be sustained from one cartoon to the next . The Madcaps also show some willingness to experiment in animation technique , with a looser line and less concern for anatomy . ' Grateful Gus ' is one of Paramount's Madcap Specials . It features a fairly unusual narrative technique , in which the title character speaks constantly and nobody else has dialogue at all . The cartoon begins with a silent and unnamed bank executive , who glances about furtively before embezzling funds . As he flees from the bank with his ill-got swag , he passes a panhandler who asks for some money . The embezzler peels off a banknote , hands it to the panhandler , and hurries onward . But the banknote is enough to inspire Grateful Gus ( for it is he ) to express gratitude , to the point of putting the embezzler's foot on top of his own head and giving him a shoeshine , while babbling ' What can I do for you ? Your wish is my command ! ' SPOILERS COMING . The embezzler just wants to get away and enjoy his money , but Grateful Gus just won't leave him alone . We see the embezzler relaxing at the seaside , but then a bottle washes ashore . . . and out pops Grateful Gus , offering to rub suntan lotion on his benefactor while continuing the ' your wish is my command ' routine . This sets up a series of vignettes , with the embezzler fleeing to various locations but Grateful Gus always showing up to make a pest of himself . The ending is obvious , with the embezzler rushing into a prison cell to get away from Grateful Gus . . . or maybe he hasn't got away after all . It would be difficult to imagine an ongoing series of cartoons built round the Grateful Gus character , but as a one-off idea this cartoon works fairly well . . . and it features some attractive animation that resembles the UPA studio's work more than Paramount's usual stuff . I'll rate ' Grateful Gus ' , which is a lot higher than I'd rate most other ( post-Fleischer ) Paramount cartoons .
Quick , Watson , the needle !	Charles Ray was a very bland actor who somehow attained nearly front-rank stardom in silent films , playing gormless country lads who somehow made good . Towards the end of the silent era ( when he was getting too old to continue playing this character ) , he financed a starring vehicle for himself which flopped badly , wiping out the fortune he'd accumulated . His roles in early talkies got rapidly smaller , to the point where he was merely a dress extra . Garson Kanin , who met Ray at that late point in his career , claimed that Ray accepted his downfall with good grace . Other witnesses , who knew Ray earlier in his meteoric arc , claimed that he was a major egomaniac . Perhaps both stories are true : possibly Ray had a big head while his films were reaping high grosses , then he acquired some modesty when he was no longer a star . One more Hollywood tragedy , not as tragic as some others . ' The Village Sleuth ' is all too typical a Ray vehicle . Here he plays fumbling farmboy William Wells , who aspires to become a great detective . He's most of the way through Volume Four in his set of detective manuals . If you're feeling a strong sense of deja vu , it's because there have been far too many comedies and would-be comedies about a bumbling would-be sleuth . By far , the best of these was Buster Keaton's ' Sherlock Junior ' , but that film had the benefit of Keaton's dazzling acrobatics ( which he had the sense to confine to a dream sequence ) and the comparative novelty that Keaton's sleuth ( returning to reality ) solved only an extremely trivial crime . Most of these snooper-sleuth comedies ( including ' The Village Sleuth ' ) have an incompetent boob implausibly capturing a major criminal . SPOILERS COMING . William's father ( very well-played by Lew Morrison ) insists that William put aside his magnifying glass and get a real job , so William reluctantly becomes the handyman in a lakeside sanitarium . Here , he discovers no end of ' clues ' - - footprints , fingerprints , keyholes for peering through , sliding panels in the walls , even a bloodstain in the sand by the lake - - but none of these lead to any genuine crime . The ' bloodstain ' turns out to be strawberry jam from a picnic . . . an error which is pardonable only because this movie is in monochrome , so we can't see that the ' blood ' is the wrong colour . One of the patients at the sanitarium is a chorus girl with an annoying hairstyle and the even more annoying name Pinky Wagner , played by an actress with the yet more annoying name Winifred Westover . This being the sort of comedy in which all the plot twists are bang obvious , it's bang obvious that William Wells will eventually stumble upon a genuine criminal and will capture him ( for a reward of $5 , 000 ! ) while also wooing and winning Winifred Westover . It never seems to occur to our Willie that perhaps the chorus girl likes him only because he's suddenly got $5 , 000 . This movie was directed by somebody I never heard of , and I don't much wonder . This being a Thomas Ince production , there are that producer's usual elaborate intertitles , which manage to be more distracting than effective . I'll rate ' The Village Sleuth ' just barely .
The worst under-cranking I've ever seen .	Chester Conklin and Mack Swain were two stalwart comedians at Mack Sennett's Keystone studio . Swain was a huge , porridge-faced man who starred in a series of Keystone shorts as Ambrose , a dignified blowhard who was often put upon by Conklin as an annoying little man with a walrus moustache . After leaving Keystone , Swain was engaged for a supporting role in a comedy starring Raymond Griffith , but was fired by Griffith for the unpardonable sin of being funnier than the starring comedian . Mack Swain remains best known as Chaplin's prospector partner in ' The Gold Rush ' , and Swain parlayed this fine performance into a series of impressive supporting roles in dramatic films of the late silent era . He had substantial talent as an actor , and might have had a fine career in character roles despite his girth and his unpleasant appearance . Sadly , Mack Swain died early in the sound era , and his talking-film career is negligible . It's a shame that Swain never had a chance to portray Boss Tweed , the role he was born to play : in the last reel of ' The Gold Rush ' , wearing finery and a neatly-trimmed beard , Swain looks remarkably like Tweed . During Mack Swain's stint at Keystone , he was occasionally imposed upon by boss Mack Sennett due to the fact that , of all Sennett's actors , Swain was the one who lived nearest the studio . Chester Conklin had a long and impressive comedy career , but never became a star . Even in the low-budget Keystone shorts , Conklin almost invariably laboured as second banana . Although Conklin and Swain worked together frequently at Keystone , they were never a team in the sense of equal partners : Conklin's Walrus character was always secondary to Swain's Ambrose , and usually his rival . After the collapse of Keystone and the arrival of talking pictures , producer Mack Sennett accepted a sinecure as supervisor of comedy shorts at Paramount , although it's unclear how much actual input he had . This Paramount short ' Cleaning Up ' ( which does not list Sennett in its credits ) has all the earmarks of a Keystone one-reeler , but the addition of sound ( along with the visible aging of Conklin and Swain ) weakens the humour . The funniest thing here is the visual contrast of enormous Swain and runty Conklin . Yet , once again , they aren't truly a team : Swain's role is quite secondary to Conklin's . This sound short has the feel of a silent film , with two of the best gags delivered in the form of title cards . Our heroes are introduced with a long title card announcing that they're " making a clean-up in the Street " . Of course , they're street sweepers . Later , after a police commissioner named Elmer Bronson ( wearing stovepipe hat and spats ) employs them as constables , another title card notes their transition ' From White-Wings to Blue Birds ' . The toughest neighbourhood in town is Clancy Street : I wonder if this is the same Clancy Street where the Bowery Boys later loitered . Constables Conklin and Swain are sent to Clancy Street to arrest a criminal named Burke ( or maybe he's Bert ; the sound recording is really bad ) . Burke is played by Gibson Gowland , oddly without the Orphan Annie hairdo he sported in ' Greed ' and several other films . No attempt is made to explain why the crime lord in this very Yank film has a Geordie accent . This movie would have worked better as a silent . We hear Swain being beaten up offscreen : it's meant to be funny , but his moans and the thuddings sound painfully real . Later , we hear Swain desperately pleading for Conklin's help while the latter flees the crooks : the sound is distressing rather than funny . The climax of this short is a Keystone-style chase , with Chester and Mack aboard a dynamite cart pulled by a runaway horse , and Gowland dragged behind . This sequence features the worst under-cranking I've ever seen in any film , made even more unnatural by some very shonky overdubbing : yet another reason why this movie would have worked better as a silent . The comedians ' physical appearance doesn't help . Conklin wears lots of eyeliner and a bottle-brush moustache that should have stayed in silent movies . A close-up of Swain , in a sequence when his character has been beaten unconscious , is painful to watch . I was intrigued by a few exterior shots in the streets of Los Angeles , where pedestrians - - who seem to be actual pedestrians , not extras - - frantically jump out of the way of various hurtling vehicles . I well and truly love old-time slapstick , but ' Cleaning Up ' isn't funny . Purely out of my deep admiration for Conklin's and Swain's achievements at Keystone , and for Gowland's very impressive career , I'll rate this movie .
" Ay tank Ay go home now . "	Selma Lagerlöf was a phenomenally successful author in her time , writing many novels that were extremely popular in her native Sweden and elsewhere . She won the Nobel Prize for Literature , becoming one of the very first female Nobel laureates . Today , she is remembered primarily for ' The Wonderful Adventures of Nils ' , a picaresque children's fantasy that evokes 19th-century Scandinavia very effectively . ' Charlotte Löwensköld ' , based on one of Lagerlöf's novels , was filmed in 1930 : well past the peak of this author's popularity , but she was still a beloved name at this time . The talking-picture revolution came late to Sweden : this 1930 movie is almost entirely silent , with only brief dialogue sequences and a few sound effects . Charlotte is a beautiful peasant girl in a Swedish village , in love with the handsome firebrand preacher Karl-Artur . ( I regret to confess that , every time I saw the name ' Karl-Artur ' in this movie's intertitles , I was reminded of the silent-film comedy team Karl Dane and George K Arthur . ) Although Charlotte is in love with the preacher ( and vice versa ) , she marries Schagerström , the wealthy owner of the iron-forge that employs most of the local peasantry . All the clichés of romantic fiction require that Charlotte must be unhappy in this marriage , living off her cold and emotionless wealthy husband whilst secretly pining for Karl . Surprise ! Charlotte and her rich older husband get along just fine . Yumping yiminy ! But Karl-Artur's mother Beate is dying , grief-stricken that her only son has no bride . For the sake of Beate , Charlotte and Karl-Artur pretend to reconcile . They become officially betrothed ( for Beate's benefit ) so that the old woman will die happy . From this point , the plot degenerates into Swedish meatballs . I've read several of Lagerlöf's novels , but I've not read the one that provided the basis for this movie , so I don't know if the script is faithful to Lagerlöf's novel . I do give this film some credit : at several points , its plotline went in unexpected directions that were entirely plausible . But I didn't much care about these characters . Several of the silent-film title cards make comments about how extremely beautiful Charlotte is , but the actress who plays her ( appropriately blonde and Nordic ) is only slightly above average in the looks department . Greta Garbo's older brother Sven , whom she loved deeply , plays one of the villagers in this movie , and he shows some resemblance to his famous sister without sharing her acting talent . I'll rate this movie , and Ay tank Ay go home now .
What's the French for ' depressing ' ?	I saw ' L'Âtre ' ( ' The Hearth ' ) in October 2005 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Sacile , Italy . After its original release ( which received little fanfare ) , ' The Hearth ' was forgotten until a print was discovered in 1984 by Cinémathéque Française . This dead-earnest drama purports to depict the grim life of French peasants . I can't vouch for its accuracy , but it's certainly grim . In the opening sequence , a desperate Provençal mother commits suicide on Christmas Eve . Feeling depressed yet ? Wait , there's more ! Jean and Bernard are peasant brothers , rivals for the affections of pretty Arlette . Jean is the more artistic of the two brothers ; he yearns to be a sculptor , and as his artistic career prospers he moves to Paris . There are some scenes contrasting Paris with the provincial countryside which Jean has left behind , with the City of Light depicted as sordid and jaded , and the rural area depicted sentimentally . Despite Jean's success and newfound urbanity , he continues to pine for Arlette . . . as Bernard grows covetous . When Arlette writes a billet-doux to Jean , Bernard steals it and tears it up . Bernard and his elderly grandfather are deeply committed to their land , which has been in the family for centuries , and Bernard regards Jean's move to the city as a betrayal of that heritage . This film reminded me of a French version of ' The Archers ' . There are several unnecessary subplots , calculated to show us the humble humanity of French peasants but mostly succeeding in distracting us from the main story . After the death of the brothers ' grandmother , there is a protracted sequence of her funeral procession through the countryside : photographed quite beautifully , but ultimately adding nothing to the film's story and little to the mise-en-scene . I found this tragic film deeply depressing ; so much so that the beautiful photography and elaborate montages impressed me far less than they might have done in a more uplifting film . My rating for ' The Hearth ' is a lowly .
Valentino's part is tiny ; O'Brien takes all the screen time .	' The Wonderful Chance ' is even worse than my IMDb colleague Arne Andersen has made it seem . I know from off-site conversations with Arne that he's a major Valentino fan ; unfortunately , he perceives this as a Valentino movie , when in fact Rudy has very much a supporting role . Also , Arne too kindly describes the plot of this film as ' absurdist ' ( as in Ionesco or Pirandello ) when in fact it's merely absurd ( as in stupid ) . Semi-handsome Eugene O'Brien plays a hard-boiled yegg named Swagger Barlow : a safe-cracker who's just gone on the out after a long stretch inside . Barlow has discovered that he's ( very conveniently ) the exact double of Lord Birmingham , an English peer . ( Lord Birmingham is from a wealthy blue-blood family , but evidently they couldn't afford to buy him a forename : he's just Lord Birmingham , in the same spirit as Duke Ellington , Count Basie and Earl Hines . Barlow doesn't seem to have a forename either ; maybe they're twins , separated at birth . ) Just when we've recovered from that first coincidence , here comes a bigger one . Lord Birmingham is kidnapped . . . so Barlow steps into the breach and the breeches . The safe-cracker moves into the Ritz ( a Ritz cracker ? ) and he is straight away accepted as the English peer . This premise is just vaguely plausible in a silent film , since we're spared the ordeal of hearing a Yank actor attempting a cut-glass English accent . O'Brien merely speaks his lines as needed , and most of the audience probably don't even think about his accent . ( In 1920 , most American film-goers had likely never heard an English accent : I know that the converse was true . ) Still , I couldn't accept that a working-class American , raised in poverty or the lower classes , would be an exact double of an Englishman raised in privilege since birth . I'll rate this mess , mostly for its sheer audacity .
Don't drink and drive while dancing " jive "	I never would have watched ' My Teenage Daughter ' if it hadn't been made by Herbert Wilcox and Dame Anna Neagle . This husband / wife team ( he as director , she as star ) churned out a long series of highly profitable British films , most of which were earnest period dramas . ' My Teenage Daughter ' , made in 1956 , is very much of its time , and tries hard to make some earnest statements about the disaffected youth of the Fifties . Unfortunately , the end result is more like one of those Ed Wood exploitation movies about reform-school girls gone wild . This movie tries hard to be ' with it ' but is clearly Without It . This movie is similar to ' Reefer Madness ' : it deals with a genuine problem in society , but fails to address that problem honestly . Sylvia Syms ( whom I've never liked ) plays 17-year-old Janet , who drops out of business school to spend all her time with Tony ( Kenneth Haigh ) , a teddy-boy spiv . The booze and the wild parties are a bad influence on her , but the fatal corruption occurs when he takes her to a dance-hall where she learns how to dance ' jive ' . Well , once a teenage girl dances ' jive ' , her soul is beyond all redemption . Tony casually murders his aunt to get money to finance his wild sprees . ( What will he do for money when he runs out of aunts ? ) Tony is such a bad influence on Janet , he soon has her yelling at her mother ( shock ! horror ! ) from inside a gaol cell . Jan's mum Valerie is played by Anna Neagle , which is part of the problem in this film : the main characters are clearly meant to be Janet and Tony , but the focal character is Valerie . SPOILERS COMING : Eventually , Janet is hauled up before a magistrate , played by senile Major Gowen from ' Fawlty Towers ' . Tony comes to a bad end ( no surprise ! ) , and Jan learns her lesson after having committed only a few misdemeanours . ' We mustn't ever lose each other again , ' says Valerie to her daughter in a tear-stained reunion . Oh , blimey ! Naturally , this film takes the line that parents want to hear : namely , your kids aren't bad , it's that other lot they've got in with ( such as Tony ) who are the real problem . And parents always know best , of course . ( No comment . ) Matters are not helped by a leering undertone throughout ' My Teenage Daughter ' . The film takes a moralistic stance , but it invites us to take a voyeuristic look at all the stuff that happens to teen girls gone wild . Wilfrid Hyde-White is good in a supporting role , as Janet's respectable employer before she goes off the rails . I'll rate this movie . It's a very revealing artefact of the 1950s , but not for the reasons that its makers intended .
Vienna sausage at its wurst .	This movie's title is almost entirely irrelevant . Ricardo Cortez portrays a suave musician in Vienna ( memo to a previous IMDb reviewer : Vienna is not in Germany ) , who lures young maidens to his bachelor flat by offering to play Stravinsky's ' Firebird ' . Of course , he's a cad with dozens of notches on his bedpost . Sooner or later , somebody is going to kill this guy . Sure enough , somebody does . This is one of those murder mysteries that features a subjective camera shot from the viewpoint of the murderer , so that the victim looks the murderer right in the eyes but we don't know the murderer's identity . We see Cortez welcoming someone into his digs , and a woman's arm enters the frame . . . so we know the killer is a woman . And she's white , too . Other than that , her identity is a mystery . C . Aubrey Smith , more phlegmatic than usual , is the world-weary police inspector who's got to wade through the suspects . The prime suspect is Cortez's neighbour abovestairs , Verree Teasdale , whose lovely young daughter Anita Louise may have been ruined by Cortez . In this movie , Teasdale is married to Lionell Atwill , so she's got enough problems . I'll give this movie some credit . The solution to whodunnit was a genuine surprise to me . Likewise , her motive ( yes , the killer IS a woman ) was something I didn't expect . Unfortunately , her motive isn't very plausible either . Also , this movie starts out as a whodunnit , but C . Aubrey Smith's sleuth spends much less time trying to solve the murder than he spends pontificating on the morals of the younger generation and such . This movie is based on a play , and it shows : there's lots of talk and very little action . This movie was directed by William Dieterle , a brilliant craftsman who believed in astrology and numerology , and whose artistic decisions were often dictated by the horoscopes cast for him by his wife . She must have put her azimuth in the wrong house this time , because Dieterle's talents - - so amply demonstrated in many other films - - aren't much in evidence here . Several good actors try hard with weak material . I'll rate this movie just .
Good tech , mixed cast , poor script .	' 5th Avenue Girl ' doesn't work , but it's a fascinating failure . I was especially impressed by Robert de Grasse's superb camera work . On two different occasions in this movie , Ginger Rogers has a conversation with someone while walking down a steep flight of stairs : in both cases , the camera seamlessly precedes Rogers down the stairs , which means that de Grasse and his crew must have made the steep descent facing backward . Elsewhere , rear-projection footage of Fifth Avenue and the Central Park Zoo is blended with live actors ( in a multi-level set for the zoo ) in a manner that looks much more convincing than usual . The single worst drawback of this movie is the presence of Walter Connolly in a lead role as a Capraesque self-made millionaire who likes poor people . He meets a down-and-out young cynic ( Rogers ) at the zoo , and - - somewhat improbably - - he invites her to move in with him and work for him . Somewhat improbably , she accepts . Connolly has never impressed me in any of his roles . His high-pitched voice and indecisive manner are annoying . He's so weak and subdued here , we instantly recognise that there's nothing sexual about his proposition to Rogers . Which is part of the problem . This film would have been much better if Connolly's role had been played by Edward Arnold , bringing his usual hint of danger to this character . Franklin Pangborn , an actor who consistently does impress me , surpasses himself here in a deft performance as Connolly's sentimental butler . It's a delight to see Pangborn dispense with the ' nelly ' mannerisms that he employed in most of his performances . Less impressive here is James Ellison as a chauffeur who spouts Marxist dialectic . Verree Teasdale , whom I've never liked , gives a performance here resembling a female impersonator . One of the consistent pleasures of Hollywood films from the 1930s is the frequent appearance of obscure character actors in delightful vignettes . We get one of those here , from Robert Emmett Keane as a man obsessed with sea lions . Charles Lane is cast against type : doing his usual sourpuss routine , but this time on behalf of the ' little ' people . Connolly's character lives in a huge mansion overlooking Central Park , and the set by Van Nest Polglase is so sumptuous that it actually works against this film's credibility . There are some nice bits and bobs throughout this movie ( including a showy turn by Jack Carson , strumming a ukelele ) , but we could have done without the lectures on the plight of the proletariat . I'll rate this movie just .
The count and the cowboy ; or , Pudd'n'head Wilhelm .	I saw ' The Farmer from Texas ' in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone , Italy . The festival screened a print from a German collection ( the Bundesarchiv in Berlin ) that had English intertitles . This film's bizarre title did not encourage me , but I was keenly interested in seeing the movie when I learnt it was based on a play by Georg Kaiser . He wrote the brilliant expressionist play ' Gas ' , which is now recognised as a crucial influence on Fritz Lang's ' Metropolis ' , my nomination for the greatest movie ever made . Kaiser also wrote ' The Coral ' , a somewhat more realistic stage play - - about a disaffected industrialist who swaps lives with his employee , then murders the employee so as to fake his own death - - which I found deeply moving . ' The Farmer from Texas ' involves a life-swap similar to the one in ' The Coral ' - - at the beginning of life , rather than at the end of life - - but this movie impressed me far less than ' The Coral ' did . The Count von Stjernenhoe ( Christian Bummerstädt ) is a German nobleman who has married Mabel Bratt , the daughter of a wealthy American farmer . She is bringing her father's wealth to the marriage ; this being a German film for German audiences , it's strongly implied that the blue-blooded count brings his superior Übermensch genes to the marriage . Indeed , the marriage soon produces a strapping infant boy . However , for deeply contrived reasons , this kid gets switched with the young son of Mrs Appelboom , an impoverished widow . Each son gets raised in the wrong household . In young manhood , Erik ( Edmund Burns ) is the American farmer who's actually heir to a German earldom , whilst the more effete Akke is the false heir who doesn't know he's actually the son of a hick . Naturally , this German movie assumes that nature trumps nurture , and Erik is a true exemplar of the master race despite his upbringing . The movie is meant to be a comedy , but I didn't laugh once . I do give the film some credit for attempting to guy both of the cultures depicted here : the Old World as well as the New . I've seen or read several of Georg Kaiser's plays , but I'm not familiar with the one that this movie is allegedly based upon . As such , I felt as if I was watching a rip-off of ' The Prince and the Pauper ' or ' Pudd'nhead Wilson ' , both of which feature a premise similar to the one in this movie . This film was directed by Joe May , a Jewish colleague of the half-Jewish Fritz Lang who fled Europe at about the same time as Lang for similar reasons . Both men ended up in Hollywood , but Lang's Stateside film career is far more notable than May's . Shortly before ' The Farmer from Texas ' went into production , Joe May's 22-year-old daughter shot herself to death , apparently an intentional suicide . That might explain why this movie ( allegedly a comedy ) isn't very funny . My rating is just .
Not quite Ibsen , neither noir	In the wide range of roles which Patrick McGoohan has played in his long career , his favourite role was the title character in Henrik Ibsen's " Brand " : a defiant individual who is perceived to be superior to all his neighbours in the village . In ' Two Living , One Dead ' , McGoohan plays a similarly Ibsenesque ' enemy of the people ' , who follows his own conscience despite grave consequences . Based on a Norwegian novel which was previously filmed in Norway , this remake was filmed in a small town in Sweden , with a primarily British cast depicting Scandinavian characters . The dialogue makes references to money as ' kroner ' , and so forth . Erik Berger ( McGoohan ) is a middle-class husband and father and a respected civil servant : he has a secure mid-level job as a postal clerk . Berger's boss is the sub-district postmaster , John Kester ( Peter Vaughan ) , and it's understood that Berger will eventually be promoted to that job when Kester retires . One day at the post office , Berger interrupts an armed robbery in progress : Kester has been shot dead , whilst Berger's co-worker Andersson ( Bill Travers ) has apparently been coshed and lies unconscious on the floor . Because Berger has a wife and young son who are dependent on him , he feels it's not worth risking his life to defend the government's money . He allows the thieves to escape with the loot before he summons the police . ( The film's title refers to Berger , Andersson and Kester : two living , one dead . ) The reaction of the police , the postal authorities , the local newspaper editor and the townspeople is very interesting . Andersson - - who survived with a minor injury - - is deemed a hero for apparently having put up a fight . Kester - - who also put up a fight - - is perceived as a fool because he got himself killed . But Erik Berger is considered a coward . His neighbours shun him and his wife Helen ; their young son Rolf is taunted by his schoolmates . Berger maintains that his passivity was an act of conscience , not cowardice : his neighbours disbelieve this . After Kester's funeral , Berger is passed up for promotion : it's Andersson who inherits Kester's job as postmaster . SPOILERS COMING RIGHT NOW . Eventually , Berger learns the truth : his co-worker Andersson was not so heroic after all , and crucial details of the robbery are not what they seemed to be . Berger is vindicated . McGoohan has long had a reputation for refusing to play violent characters . ( He was reportedly first choice to play James Bond , but turned down the role because of its gratuitous sex and gunplay . ) As Erik Berger , McGoohan gives a cold performance with aspects of ' holier-than-thou ' : even if Berger made the proper decision , it's difficult for us to like him . The very beautiful Virginia McKenna is superb as Berger's wife , the nearest thing to a heroine in this movie : there must have been an interesting dynamic on the set , as ( in real life ) McKenna was married at this time to Bill Travers , who plays the unexpected villain . Young Michael Crawford is impressive as the post-office errand boy who remains loyal to Berger when everyone else shuns him . ( Full disclosure : Crawford got me sacked from a job once . ) Dorothy Alison is touching as the slain postmaster's widow ; unfortunately , her character is named Esther Kester . Alf Kjellin is good as a stranger in town , who sympathises with Berger for his own reasons . . . which turn out to be rather surprising . This movie is rather a departure for Anthony Asquith , who tended to direct films with patrician characters and classical themes . ( Not surprising , in view of his parentage . ) I give Asquith , McGoohan and McKenna full marks for sincerity , but this movie doesn't really come off : it's gloomy and existentialist , occasionally promising to become a noir thriller or ( during the robbery sequence ) a caper movie , yet never delivering . The character of Berger is ambiguous : were his actions indeed dictated by conscience , or was he simply a coward ? Has anyone the right to judge Berger if they've never been in a similar situation ? This film raises intelligent questions but offers no answers . The Swedish tech crew do their jobs efficiently , especially as they were working with a British director and cast . I'll rate ' Two Living , One Dead ' .
Fumbled in the end zone	There's a really brilliant , exciting movie in which a football player drops dead in the middle of a football match , in a stadium filled with witnesses . . . and it turns out he's been murdered . That brilliant movie is ' The Arsenal Stadium Mystery ' , a thriller filmed in England in 1939 . ' 70 , 000 Witnesses ' , made in Hollywood seven years earlier , uses exactly the same premise . . . but this movie is vastly inferior to ' Arsenal ' . A subdivision of mystery fiction is the ' impossible crime ' story , in which a crime ( usually a murder ) is committed under circumstances so baffling that no solution ( short of the supernatural ) seems possible . The payoff comes with a solution that is totally unexpected , yet plausible . . . and all the clues have been laid beforehand for the reader or viewer . The best examples of ' impossible crimes ' are the locked-room mysteries by author John Dickson Carr . ' 70 , 000 Witnesses ' whets our appetite by setting up an ' impossible ' crime which seemingly has no solution . We know that the case will be solved , and we eagerly anticipate a brilliantly unexpected resolution . . . while at the same time we pay close attention for clues . It pains me to report that , after a first-rate set-up of the suspects , motivations , and so forth , ' 70 , 000 Witnesses ' simply doesn't play fair with the audience . The identity of the murderer seems to be randomly chosen , and as for how the murderer pulled off this impossible crime . . . well , the guy who wrote this thing just got lazy . The opening scene is a football match between State and University . ( Ah , those generic names ! Does the winning team go on to play Tech ? ) We see the State players in their changing-room , putting on their uniforms and gear . The star player for State is Wally Clark , well-played by the underrated Johnny Mack Brown . Also on the team is Buck Buchanan . . . unfortunately played by Phillips Holmes , a pretty-boy actor who usually portrayed characters with weak morals . Time out for some clumsy exposition . Buck has a brother named Slip ( their mother must have been very creative ) . Slip Buchanan , well-played by Lew Cody , is a spiv and a crooked gambler : he's wagered the astonishing sum of $350 , 000 ( in Depression dollars ) on University to win the game . ( Hmm , in this movie it works out to $5 per witness . ) To ensure that University's side will win the match , Slip pressures his younger brother Buck to slip some poison to Wally . Buck doesn't want to commit murder ( apparently because it would make his own team lose the football match ) , but he doesn't want to argue with his brother . To placate Slip , Buck accepts the poison and agrees to murder Wally . . . but we know he's planning not to comply . ( Phillips Holmes looks and acts like someone who's just too gutless to commit a murder . ) At the climax of the game , Wally is running for a thrilling touchdown that will give State the victory . . . when he suddenly keels over on the one-yard line . Dead ! Did Buck kill him after all ? The coarse and deep-voiced character actor David Landau ( whom I've disliked in nearly all his many roles ) takes over the movie as the police detective investigating Wally's death . To solve the murder , he orders both football teams to re-enact the final play . ( Surely the murderer will do something different this time , so as not to get caught , yes ? ) After an interesting set-up , this movie drops the ball . Fumble ! There's some of that hardboiled thick-ear dialogue that American movies of the 1930s achieve so delightfully . Some stock footage is very obviously inserted during the action sequences . Gruff actor J . Farrell MacDonald is effective and convincing as the State team's coach . Charlie Ruggles ( whose popularity quite eludes me ) receives bigger billing than he deserves in a comedy-relief role that's annoying and unfunny . I'd like to rate the first half of ' 70 , 000 Witnesses ' as , and the last reel an absolute zero . Split the difference and call this movie a .
Max's stamp of approval	I saw " Lèvres collées " in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . The print was on loan from Filmarchiv in Vienna . For some reason , this French film's English release title was ' Joined Lips ' . In fact , a more faithful translation of the original French title would be ' Glued Lips ' . . . and that would also be a more accurate description of this movie's plot , as well as a funnier title . A woman and a man are engaged in affixing a large number of gummed postage stamps to envelopes . They periodically interrupt this activity for some kissing . Unfortunately , their method of moistening the stamps is licking them . . . so , by rapidly taking it in turns between licking the stamps and kissing each other . . . well , you can guess . Primitive physical comedy , but more imaginative ( and more romantic ) than pratfalls or watering the gardener with his own hosepipe . The actress in this crude film is uncredited . The actor is Max Linder , a vitally important figure in the early days of screen comedy . Chaplin's tramp character was very largely inspired by Linder , as Chaplin himself admitted . At the peak of his career ( including his three American comedies ) , Linder portrayed a top-hatted dandy , a boulevardier who was equal to any occasion . Despite the Chaplin link , the screen comedian most similar to Linder was probably Raymond Griffith . At this early point in his film career , Linder has not yet fully developed his ' Max ' character . Sadly , Linder was gassed in the Great War : he appears to have been permanently afflicted , both physically and psychologically . He eventually killed himself before the arrival of talkies , also killing his last wife ( who co-starred in several of his late films . ) Linder was a prolific film comedian , but many of his early shorts are crude and formulaic . Still , it's regrettable that so many of them have apparently not survived : because Max Linder films are now so rare , any piece of Linder footage has historic significance . But ' Glued Lips ' is one of his less interesting films , and I'll rate this one merely . When this short film was screened at Sacile , something weird happened at the end which made the woman seem to transform into a man . A sex-change comedy , as early as 1907 ? No ; I think the problem is a break and a splice in the Filmarchiv print , which caused the audience to miss something . It would be nice to have a print of this film from another source , to be certain .
Weltschmertz on the high seas	I agree with a previous IMDb reviewer , who said that this film is clumsy German propaganda . ( There were times when Nazi propaganda was very subtle and artful . . . but you wouldn't know it here . ) ' A Man Wants to Go to Germany ' does seem intent upon preparing German audiences for another war . . . which is rather frightening , as this movie was made in 1934 : comparatively early in Hitler's regime , at a time when other world leaders still considered him a man who could be reasoned with . This film is set in 1914 . Hagen and Brack are two young German men , working in a factory in Argentina . When Archduke Ferdinand is assassinated , and the Kaiser declares war , these two young cannon-fodders are perfectly placed to say ' Good job we're on a completely different continent , then . ' But they're loyal Germans , so they straight away rush to get home and enlist . They book passage homeward aboard a liner , sailing under neutral colours . But the ship is intercepted by a British naval vessel , crewed entirely by hissably effete Englishmen ( played by hissably incompetent German actors ) . Our two krautmeisters are illegally arrested in international waters and transported to a PoW camp in Jamaica , which is filled with comical West Indians ( played by Germans in blackface ) . One of them attempts a Jamaican accent . SPOILERS COMING . Hagen and Brack cross paths with an exotic Cuban señorita named Manuela , played by a German actress with the monicker Brigitte Horney ( a name to conjure with ) . Watching this movie in the early 21st century , when Hitler's crimes are in the past but Fidel Castro's crimes are still a going concern , I was intrigued that a Nazi movie would feature a Cuban heroine . Fraulein Horney helps Hans and Fritz escape , and she is so entranced by handsome Hagen ( a strapping example of manly Aryan youth ) that she accompanies him and Brack back to Germany . Happy endings all round , although German audiences in 1934 must have realised that Hagen and Brack are going home to fight a war that would end in a humiliating defeat for the Kaiser , and a huge death toll . . . This film goes far out of its way to depict Germans as noble , Cubans as exotic and sensual , the English as effete bullies , and West Indian negroes as subhuman idiots . One wonders if the filmmakers actually believed their own propaganda , or if they were merely intent on brainwashing their audiences . The most interesting credit here is that of Paul Wegener , a vitally important German film actor whose talents as a director are often overlooked yet very much in evidence here in this well-paced ( though ludicrous ) film . The exterior sequences are very impressive , especially those taking place in Cuba . ( I wonder where these scenes were actually shot . ) Purely for its entertainment value , I'll ignore this movie's loathsome political agenda and I'll rate it .
Hopping hairy husband hollers " Hoy-Hoy-Hoy ! "	This movie's title translates as " Rübezahl's Wedding " . Rübezahl is a figure in German folklore who has no precise English or American equivalent . He's somewhere between Cropsey , the Boogie Man , Springheel Jack and the Green Man of old English folklore . German peasant wives would warn their children to be good , because Rübezahl would protect good children , but he would carry away the bad children and eat them . Because he's a stock figure in folklore , there are conflicting descriptions of Rübezahl's appearance . The consensus describes him as looking like a rustic man in peasant's garb , with a long red beard and wild hair and big black boots . He is large and brawny : in some accounts , he is a giant or a ghostly figure who can vanish and appear at will . He travels in long angry leaps , hopping up and down and shouting " Hoy ! Hoy ! " Rübezahl is an elemental spirit of the mountains , rather like an overgrown malevolent leprechaun without the pot of gold . In this film , the people of a Tyrolean town climb up into the nearby mountains , searching for a place where they can hold a picnic and a spring festival : ideally , a place where they can eventually erect dwellings and cultivate crops . Led by the local nobleman ( Arthur Ehrens ) , they find an appropriate spot , and the festivities begin . Some children briefly perform a charming folk dance . Suddenly the Rübezahl arrives , played by Paul Wegener in one of his more energetic performances . He threatens to kill all the townsfolk if they don't leave immediately : he also threatens to start an avalanche that will rush downhill and destroy their town . The older people and the children are frightened . SPOILERS COMING NOW . One person is not frightened : a beautiful dark-haired peasant woman , identified in the title cards as Elfe . ( This name suggests that she's an ' Elf ' , but that's a false cognate . ) She and the schoolmaster ( Ernst Waldow ) realise that Rübezahl is angry because he lives alone in the hills and has no one to love . Elfe agrees to stay in the wild hills with this wild man of the mountains , as his bride . The Rübezahl relents , permitting the townsfolk to finish their festival . . . but they may not live here . The wild man needs the wild places . With the Count's approval , the schoolmaster performs the wedding . The children dance . The special effects in this movie are VERY bad , suggesting the crudeness of Georges Melies but without the painterly effects or the originality which make Melies's films so watchable . Wegener's make-up is rather poor . Lyda Salmonova gives a skilful and sensuous performance : she actually convinces me that she is genuinely attracted to this inhuman supernatural creature . I'll rate this movie .
Down , boy !	In the days of old-time vaudeville , booking agents and theatre managers were constantly seeking ' dumb acts ' . This term had nothing to do with a performer's intellectual appeal ( or lack of it ) . ' Dumb act ' was the vaudeville industry's recognised term for any turn which didn't sing or speak onstage . There was a steady market for dumb acts : these were usually booked as the opening turn on a vaudeville bill , going onstage while the audience were still straggling in , taking off their coats , unwrapping their toffees and so forth . If an act didn't speak or sing , the audience felt less need to pay attention . Animal acts - - unless the act included an onstage trainer who addressed the audience - - qualified as dumb acts , even if the performers barked . ' Laura Comstock's Bag-Punching Dog ' is not particularly entertaining nor edifying , yet this film preserves for posterity precisely the sort of act that easily earned a steady living in vaudeville . The film opens with a brief two-shot of ' Mannie ' ( apparently a purebreed boxer ) and Miss Comstock , an attractive and fashionably-dressed woman . She nods to the camera , and this is the last we see of Miss Comstock , who apparently was Mannie's owner ( ' trainer ' seems inappropriate ) but not part of the onstage performance . From here on , it's the dog's show all the way . Mannie ' performs ' ( if that's the word ) ' in one ' , meaning his entire turn is confined to the narrow apron at the very front of the stage , in front of a painted backdrop depicting a tranquil forest . ( Is it really a good idea to have trees onstage in a dog act ? ) Mannie ferociously attacks a large rubber inflatable punchbag , the ancestor of what we would now call a ' speed bag ' . Nothing in Mannie's technique suggests any regimen of training or discipline : he's simply a dog attacking an object . Although the dog is a ' boxer ' ( ha ha ) , there's nothing pugilistic in his approach : he simply flings himself at the bag , sinks his jaws into it and worries it . I was disappointed that he didn't puncture it . The bag is suspended from a line somewhere up in the flies . At one point , Mannie brings the bag down far enough for us to see the pulley holding the bag ; I found this the most interesting moment in the brief film . In old-time vaudeville , genuinely BAD acts could still earn a decent living , getting steady bookings on the vaudeville circuits . Even the classiest vaudeville houses offered two complete shows per day , and in dodgier houses the acts might find themselves performing three-a-day , four-a-day , or much worse . Theatre managers wanted acts known as ' chasers ' : meaning , closing acts which ( deliberately or otherwise ) were so awful that audiences would get up and leave ( thus vacating seats for the next show ) rather than lingering in their seats and seeing two performances of the same bill for one admission price . Laura Comstock's act is a dog ( in two senses ) and a dumb act ( in two senses ) , but it's very possible that her pooch Mannie found himself in more demand as a ' chaser ' at the close of the bill than as a ' dumb act ' in the opening spot . This short film is more useful for what it reveals about the structure of vaudeville than as entertainment . I wonder if this dog performed in any fleapits ( boom , boom ! ) . I'll rate Miss Comstock's act . Good dog !
Bingo's bangles bungle ; she should leave them in the jungle .	I've never understood the ' camp ' phenomenon , with its devotees ( camp followers ? ) who actually prefer to see their cult favourites - - usually larger-than-life actresses - - in bad films , rather than good ones . But Joan Crawford's ' camp ' credentials are unquestioned , and ' Untamed ' is a campfest . Those who like to see Joan Crawford in queen-bee mode ( you know who you are ) will enjoy this film immensely . Me , I liked Joan better in ' Daisy Kenyon ' . Here , she's cast as Bingo Dowling - - yes , Bingo ! - - an oil heiress who's been living in the remote jungle with two older men named Murchison and Presley , whom she calls her ' uncles ' . She takes a shine to handsome young Andy McAllister , and the two of them warble some bad songs . This movie was made in 1929 , when silent films were fading fast and the Hollywood studios were scrambling to prove that their stars could not only talk but even sing . Actually , Joan was a pretty good singer and dancer in ' Hollywood Revue of 1929 ' , but her singing in ' Untamed ' is quite dire . And the sound recording is bad : well below the usual high standard of Douglas Shearer and MGM . Speaking of which : MGM were consistently the studio with the best production values , the most opulent sets and the most stylish costumes . You'd hardly know it here . Several exterior sequences - - notably in the jungle - - have clearly been filmed indoors on a set-dressed soundstage . Several other sets are too swank for their own good . A simple little shop is kitted out like a posh emporium . As Bingo , Crawford flashes too many bangles , and her jewellery tends to rattle loudly in the bad sound mix . SPOILERS NOW . Eventually , Bingo shoots Andy ( good idea ! ) but they fall in love anyway ( bad idea ! ) . I consider myself a Joan Crawford fan ( for several reasons ) but ' Untamed ' is not her finest hour . I'll give some slack to all concerned , as this talkie was made during Hollywood's awkward transition period . For that reason , and out of sentiment for Joan Crawford , I'll rate this movie . . . but I'm being generous .
What bait are you using , fraulein ?	' The Fishing-Girl of Bodensee ' is a weak movie , but it's an excellent example of ' Heimatfilm ' , a genre unique to the German-speaking world . ' Heimat ' is the German word for ' country ' or ' homeland ' . Heimatfilmen feature stories that take place largely outdoors , emphasising the countryside of Germany , Austria and Switzerland . There is usually a young heroine who somehow embodies the spirit of the land . Nature is celebrated , specifically Germanic nature . Maria , a poor orphan , lives with her grandfather Grassl in a remote fishing hut on the shore of Bodensee , where she ekes out an existence with her fishing-lines . Her mother is long dead , and the identity of her father is unknown . ( Heimatfilmen were not usually this honest about such things . ) The nearest neighbours are the Bruckbergers , who are wealthy . . . in fact , the Bruckberger daughters have a motorboat , which scares away the fish Maria needs to catch for her livelihood . But Karl Bruckberger also has a handsome young son , Hans . Guess what happens . This movie is by the numbers . It does , however , benefit from some beautiful German scenery , photographed in exquisite colour . Unfortunately , most Heimatfilmen ( including this one ) were more concerned with beautiful scenery than with interesting stories . But most of the actresses in this movie are quite pleasant to look at . I would call them splendid examples of Aryan womanhood , but then somebody might get the wrong idea . I'll rate this rustic romance .
Cupid kisses the mezuzah	I'm fascinated by the history of the Yiddish theatre world that was active in Second Avenue of New York City during the early twentieth century . Some great actors - - notably Paul Muni - - got their early training in these theatres ' overwrought melodramas and slapstick farces , performed in Yiddish for Jewish audiences that often spoke little or no English . Inevitably , very few of the Yiddish theatre's actors made it into the mainstream of American entertainment , as they tended to be East Europeans with thick accents and ( often ) defective English . I was eager to see ' Souls in Exile ' , because it stars and was directed by Maurice Schwartz , who was a major figure in New York's Yiddish theatre . This being a silent film , I assumed that any problems Schwartz might have with English would be irrelevant . Perhaps I was wrong . This movie was filmed in New York , and features some interesting lower East Side locations , yet it has the feeling and appearance of a European film . In some other context , that would be a compliment ; here , I mean it disparagingly . ' Souls in Exile ' feels like one of those dead-slow existentialist Russian dramas in which everyone is doomed from birth . I can't help but wonder if perhaps Maurice Schwartz had difficulty with American idioms and American rhythms when he made this borscht-filled movie . The story begins more than 20 years before the present . . . in Czarist Russia , where Benjamin ( Schwartz ) - - an earnest young Jew - - is having problems with the local police . Straight away , I was annoyed . This story's prologue could just as easily have been set nearer the present : in post-revolutionary Russia , with Benjamin suffering at the hands of the communists . . . who hated the Jews and oppressed them just as much as the Czar's soldiers did . For some reason , somebody connected with this movie ( possibly Schwartz himself ) didn't want to depict the communists unfavourably . Benjamin is married , but the film quickly establishes that this is a loveless ( though binding ! ) marriage which will blight Benjamin forever , or at least as long as he stays in Czarist Russia . After Benjamin's wife is reported dead in ambiguous circumstances , he manages a fresh start in New York City . Benjamin meets Ruth Esterin , the beautiful young daughter of the local cantor , and soon Cupid comes kissing the mezuzah . Benjamin is young , handsome and Jewish , so I naturally assumed that Ruth's parents would approve of their romance . Surprise ! Ruth's parents want her to marry an American Jew who is assimilated and established in the new world . They deem Benjamin a peasant , right off the boat from Murmansk , and they don't want him to have anything to do with her . But love gets the last word : Benjamin and Ruth elope , and set up housekeeping . Everything is raisins and almonds ( with very little money ) . . . until Benjamin suddenly receives word that his Russian wife might still be alive after all . Oy vey ist mir ! What to do ? I found this movie turgid and badly paced . Worse luck , I didn't care about the characters . Director Maurice Schwartz favours camera set-ups which favour actor Maurice Schwartz , to the detriment of his very beautiful leading lady Lila Lee . In fact , Lee's wholesome American ingenue looks are arguably a drawback in this role . She frankly doesn't look ethnic enough to be playing a Jewish girl , and her performance here fails to convince me that she has been raised in a sheltered , restrictive kosher household . The fact that the rest of this movie feels European , rather than American , only calls more attention to Lila Lee's " WASP " personality , inappropriate to this role . I'll rate this movie just . I suppose it may have some historical interest for the descendants of Jewish-American immigrants . As entertainment , though , it's far too dreary .
Kenneth Tynan uses THAT word .	The very weak joke in the title of this 1965 series is that ( as Britons surely will already know ) in 1965 there was a BBC-1 and a BBC-2 , but no BBC-3 . Now there's a Channel 4 , and two million channels on SkyTV . ' BBC-3 ' made its debut soon after the tremendous revolution of satirical comedy in Britain had begun , exemplified by such offerings as ' That Was the Week that Was ' ( a . k . a . ' TW3 ' ) , ' Beyond the Fringe ' and Peter Cook's Establishment nightclub . The people behind ' BBC-3 ' - - primarily producer Ned Sherrin and his ' TW3 ' musical troupe , and comedians John Bird and Eleanor Bron - - were keen to get in on that revolution . Unfortunately , this programme lacked the bite and the anger of those more successful offerings , and its satiric edge seldom rose above the level of ' Yah boo , sucks ! ' . An ongoing feature of this series was Bird's impersonations of Harold Wilson : unfortunately , these tended to be long droning monologues which weren't very funny , and which relied heavily on topical references to the events of the previous week . Seen today , by a generation who barely remember Wilson , the topical references are largely baffling rather than funny . More effective were Bird's two-hander sketches with Eleanor Bron - - somewhat similar to what Nichols and May were doing in America at this time - - which are rendered more impressive ( though not more funny ) when one learns that they were largely improvised ; Bird and Bron had performed together many times , and were keyed into each other's chemistry and pace . The pedigree of ' BBC-3 ' was raised slightly by the very occasional appearances of Alan Bennett ( the most anodyne and least angry of the ' Beyond the Fringe ' quartet ) , here writing monologues for himself to perform and sketches for himself , Bird and Bron . Bennett was adrenalised by the challenge of performing on live television . . . oddly , since he'd already worked successfully on stage . The weak comedy sketches in this series were sometimes alleviated by panel discussions on one or another allegedly cutting-edge subject . Although ' BBC-3 ' very largely sank without a trace , the transmission of 13 November 1965 has earned a permanent place in the annals of television history . That week's panel discussion was on the subject of theatre censorship : a much more serious subject in Britain at that time than in America , as all theatre scripts still required the approval of the Lord Chamberlain . One member of the panel was theatre critic Kenneth Tynan , and - - in the course of his live on-camera bloviations - - he spoke a certain notorious four-letter word beginning with ' F ' . . . which went out on the air , there being no electronic delay . Much controversy ensued , until it developed that Tynan's remark was in every other way quite banal . Several of the ' BBC-3 ' recordings still exist , although the one with Tynan's famous comment now survives only in transcript . From what I recall of ' BBC-3 ' , none of it - - possibly excepting Bennett's few contributions - - would now be worthy of resurrection . This series remains merely a footnote in the careers of several major figures whose important contributions were elsewhere , and I'll rate ' BBC-3 ' a mere . Watch your mouth , Ken .
Nice to look at , but not funny .	' Futuritzy ' is the interesting title of a Felix the Cat cartoon which isn't very funny , but which contains some interesting visual devices . Most of Otto Messmer's Felix toons relied on a stark palette of black and white : in ' Futuritzy ' there's a subtle range of greys which I found much easier on my eyes . Felix goes to see Professor Whoozit , an ' astrologist ' ( that's the word they use here ) who claims he can predict Felix's future by reading his stars . How does he do it ? Easy ! He hits Felix over the head , thus producing a standard cartoon-effect star . ( Wot , only one ? ) The professor then nabs this star , and somehow reads it . Felix has a run-in with a millionaire who has his own personal aviator . Interestingly , the aviator is drawn as a Negro . ( A black ace ? ) Unfortunately , he's drawn in the usual racially stereotyped fashion . I was intrigued that this 1928 cartoon drew the millionaire's aircraft as a monoplane , possibly inspired by Lindbergh's flight of the previous year . In 1928 , most of the aircraft were still biplanes . There's an interesting montage effect when Felix receives a slap-up dinner : a roast chicken morphs into a bottle of milk , which morphs into a fish . Nicely animated ! Later in the same toon , Felix and another male cat have a fistfight on one of those weird jutting outcrops of stone which occur so frequently in Road Runner cartoons but so seldom in real life . Since Felix is in many ways a surreal character - - with his detachable tail and so forth - - it's intriguing that he tends to resolve disputes with conventional fisticuffs . ' Futuritzy ' is nice to look at , but not very funny and the plot is difficult to follow . Felix did better elsewhere , and I'll rate this one only .
Stan and Ollie did it better .	The German word ' lumpen ' - - as in ' lumpen proletariat ' - - has no precise English equivalent . It would translate somewhere between ' people of the labouring class ' and ' people who don't matter ' . This film's title ' Lumpenball ' refers to a social event - - a ball - - held by and for such people . ' Lumpenball ' was released in Germany just a week before Lon Chaney died in California , yet somehow this movie feels like something from back in the Mack Sennett era . I found much of this film to be deeply embarrassing , since it's firmly mired in a subclass of marital comedy which is now very archaic : the concept that husband and wife are automatically adversaries ; that a husband can only ever have a good time by sneaking out on his wife , and that it's a wife's duty to prevent her husband from having fun . This short of mindset belongs firmly in the era of Maggie and Jiggs , Laurel and Hardy , ' The Honeymooners ' , ' The Flintstones ' and Donald McGill's seaside postcards . However , SOME of the above are still quite funny ( I'm not talking about YOU , Fred and Barney ) , so perhaps I'm being too harsh towards ' Lumpenball ' . Yet the fact is that I didn't laugh very often while watching this comedy . . . and , when I did , I felt slightly embarrassed that I WAS laughing . Here's the gripping narrative : Doktor Rodenburg Gerhard is an old married man , so of course his wife Eva is a shrew . Their daughter Pauline is married to Amadeus Krause . . . and I felt that the name ' Amadeus Krause ' was the funniest joke in this movie . Frau Krause is a shrew just like her mother , so the two husbands are allies in their misfortune . The two men meet two gaudy young females named Fiffi and Lola who are allegedly ' dancing girls ' ( says this film's dialogue ) , but that's clearly a euphemism for something else . The husbands flirt with these girls , who invite them to the Lumpenball . But in order to get the Lumpenball rolling , Rodenburg and Amadeus will have to get past the Gerhard wife and the Krause spouse . SPOILERS AHEAD . Gerhard fakes a telegram from his very respectable friend Herr Doktor Wiegand ( an attorney ) , claiming an emergency that requires the husbands ' immediate attention . They rush off , leaving their wives at home . Then a visitor arrives : the real Dr Wiegand , unaware that his name has been used as a pretext . The wives quickly rumble that their husbands are up to no good . At the Lumpenball , the husbands switch clothes with two cross-talk comedians named Schluck and Priem , and likewise don the comedians ' stage make-up . When the wives show up , they spot Schluck and Priem wearing masks ( and the husbands ' clothes ) , and assault them with the German equivalent of rolling pins . The joint gets raided , and afterward the husbands have the gleeful satisfaction of seeing their wives publicly exposed as having attended the Lumpenball , whilst the husbands had their fun without any penalty . I well and truly felt as if there were mothballs coming out of this movie , and the only novelty of the situation ( for me , at least ) was that it was being staged within the German culture rather than that of Britain's Whitehall farces or American vaudeville . When this movie was released in 1930 , Hitler was just getting warmed up . I wonder if these sorts of shenanigans were still being enjoyed by the German working-class just a couple of years later . My rating for this lump of balls ' Lumpenball ' : just . If you want to see a much funnier movie with a similar premise , watch Stan and Ollie in ' Fraternally Yours ' .
Jam and Jerusalem	George Ade ( 1866-1944 ) is now almost entirely forgotten , although his name still turns up in crossword puzzles . In the first two decades of the twentieth century , his humour pieces and plays were phenomenally popular in America . Most of his work has badly dated : for example , his 1902 musical comedy ' The Sultan of Sulu ' was a satire on America's colonisation of the Philippines . . . hardly a red-hot topic for modern audiences . Ade's best-known and most popular works were his ' Fables in Modern Slang ' : these were moralistic tales recounted in a jazzy slang style that was distinctively Ade's own . As with Damon Runyon , Ade's humour and his characters are very much of his time and place . Ade was a lifelong resident of Indiana , and his fables tend to be filled with Hoosier types who have long since passed from the scene . Just as no real person ever spoke like a Damon Runyon character , nobody ever talked like one of George Ade's Hoosiers . The Essanay movie studio in Chicago did an extremely low-budget series of short films , dramatising Ade's fables . Despite the huge sales figures for Ade's story collections , I'm surprised that these movies were made . Most of the humour in Ade's fables derives from his slangy narrative voice and dialogue ; as these are silent films , those advantages were lost . Indeed , Essanay's series of George Ade shorts appear not to have done well even during Ade's heyday , and - - unlike other Essanay films of this period , starring Chaplin , Ben Turpin , Bronco Billy Anderson , and other marquee names - - they were never re-released . ' The Fable of the Good People Who Rallied to the Support of the Church ' is apparently a typical offering from this series . We see a small rural church , with its preacher ( wearing a dog-collar ) and several members of ' the flock ' ( as an intertitle cries them ) . They decide to hold a church social to raise money for the church's roof fund . ( The funniest gag in this film is a shot of the dilapidated roof . ) Everybody gets to work , making preparations for the social . The preacher is eager to keep this on a profit-making basis , so he carefully marks out the expenses on a large slateboard . When the women make baked goods for the social , the cost of the ingredients is carefully totted up on the board . A man makes some Japanese lanterns ; his materials and labour are also added to the board . Wear and tear on clothing is calculated . Some children gorge themselves on the sweets , and a doctor must be summoned to treat them : his bill is factored into the toll . After all that work , the preacher adds up the expenses , then adds up the profits . I expected the end result to be a deficit , but it actually showed a profit : a grand profit of $6 . 80 . . . a very healthy sum , as it was more than a week's wages for many Americans when this film was made . A title card shows us the payoff : ' Anything to avoid dropping it in the basket . ' I laughed at this , but the payoff wasn't worth the set-up . Indeed , the same could be said about many of George Ade's fables . More for its nostalgic depiction of rural America circa 1910 than for any other reason , I'll rate this short film .
No remake , but not so bad	The 1962 movie ' The Cabinet of Caligari ' ( notice that the title does NOT include the word ' Doctor ' ) is often described in reference books and horror-movie magazines as a remake of the classic German silent film ' The Cabinet of DOCTOR Caligari ' . It may have been screenwriter Robert Bloch's intention to script a remake of ' Dr Caligari ' , but the end result which we see here only crudely resembles that silent horror classic . . . and the resemblance is mostly handled in dishonest ways . This 1962 ' Caligari ' has its merits as a creepy tale of psychological suspense , but it certainly isn't a horror film . This movie's dishonest title forces us to compare this film to ' Dr Caligari ' . On its own merits ( and this movie does have small but genuine merits ) , this is a minor film that should not be considered a horror movie at all . The IMDb synopsis for this movie describes the premise accurately . Glynis Johns was a poor choice for the crucial lead role in this film . She usually played airy simpletons ( as in ' Mary Poppins ' ) , and her whispery voice ( which sounds a bad imitation of Joan Greenwood ) fails to convey the intellectual weight necessary for this role . The protagonist of this film is an imprisoned woman named Jane Lindstrom ; the plot line requires Jane to be sexually attractive but NOT sexually active nor even sexually curious . At one point , when the mysterious stranger Caligari shows Jane some pornographic photos , she is shocked and frightened . Glynis Johns simply wasn't a good enough actress to portray such a woman . And frankly , Glynis Johns ( unlike Joan Greenwood , the genuine article ) just isn't sexy enough for this role . At one point , the adult Jane witnesses a flashback of herself as a little girl . The child actress who plays Jane in this brief sequence is much prettier than Glynis Johns . Also , Glynis Johns has a prominent mole near her left eye , and the little girl doesn't have this : for these two reasons , the flashback is unconvincing . Richard Davalos is very good as a handsome young man who seems to be aroused by Jane . ( To say more than this about his character would be a spoiler . ) Davalos was an underrated actor who never got the acclaim he deserved : after his brilliant performance as James Dean's brother in ' East of Eden ' , Davalos's career went downhill steadily until he ended up playing a bearded lady ( ! ) in ' Something Wicked This Way Comes ' : an excellent film overall , but a poor performance in a weak role . There's no cabinet of any significance in ' Cabinet of Caligari ' : they just wanted to crib the old title . This movie has a surprise ending which I shan't spoil for you , although you'll likely guess it a mile off . ( I guessed it only half a mile off , but the lady who watched this movie with me guessed it before I did . ) One of my favourite aspects of the original silent ' Cabinet of Doctor Caligari ' was the weird nightmarish set design , which conveyed the deranged mental state of the film's madman narrator . The lobby cards and posters for the 1962 ' Caligari ' prominently featured weirdly distorted architecture , implying that this movie is indeed a remake of the silent classic . Unfortunately , you won't see any of that weird architecture in this movie except for a very brief montage just before the surprise ending is revealed . I consider this dishonest , as if the filmmakers decided " We have to bung in a few seconds of nightmare footage so that we can show distorted set designs in the publicity campaign . That way , we can fob off this movie as a remake of the real ' Caligari ' . " Really , this whole film conveys an air of someone consciously lying in a deliberate attempt to convince us we're watching a remake of that silent classic . The original silent ' Caligari ' rates . This 1962 movie barely rates a 4 . But I do recommend this movie , providing you know in advance that it's NOT a remake .
' Skin Deep ' is very shallow .	Milton Sills was a moderately handsome , moderately talented actor who attained a moderately successful level of stardom in silent films . In silent days , the threshold of stardom was a lot lower , because movies could be produced very cheaply , and there were many low-budget production companies dedicated to grinding out films that consistently starred a specific actor . . . usually either the owner of the production company , or his wife . ' Skin Deep ' is a low-budget character study which tells a story that manages to be fairly unusual yet utterly predictable . Milton Sills is only barely recognisable under heavy makeup as Bud Doyle , a man ugly of face and also ugly of soul . Doyle is a common criminal : not even a crimelord , mind you , but just a cheap thug . The heavy-handed scenario indicates that Doyle has no alternative to a life of crime , because he's so ugly that nobody will trust him with honest employment . It's interesting to see Sills going against his normal casting and playing a criminal . However , he clearly wants to retain some audience sympathy , so the script is careful to establish that Doyle is a pawn of nastier and more powerful crooks , such as Boss McQuarg . ( Would anybody ever trust somebody cried Boss McQuarg ? ) After committing various crimes , Doyle crosses paths with kindly Dr Langdon , who has a theory that good-looking people are treated better by society than ugly people ( no comment ) . Langdon performs plastic surgery on Doyle , who comes out of it looking like Milton Sills . He rushes off to Hollywood and gets a job as Milton Sills's stunt double . . . no , I'm joking , but that would have been a more imaginative ( and less predictable ) ending than what happens next . SPOILERS COMING . The newly-handsome Doyle straight away renounces his life of crime , helping the authorities to round up McQuarg and Doyle's other criminal cronies . Happy endings all round , and one thing is clear : now that Doyle has movie-star looks , there are no possible obstacles to his success in life . There are absolutely no surprises in ' Skin Deep ' , and it doesn't help that the intertitles are so elaborate that they distract from the by-the-numbers story . Oh , blimey ! I have very mixed feelings about this film . On one level , it seems gobsmackingly shallow in telling us that ugly people have a harder time of it than lookers . On the other hand , has any movie ( or other narrative work ) ever really dealt with this subject properly ? We DO tend to react to people based upon their looks . . . not only in real life , but in the movies we watch . Polanski's ' Compulsion ' is a good example : it's a harrowing study of one woman's descent into madness , but we eagerly watch this movie because it stars the stunningly beautiful Catherine Deneuve , who is extremely easy on the eyes . If the same film had starred a much less attractive actress - - or a man , in a comparable situation - - we would likely be far less eager to watch it . ' Skin Deep ' really has nothing to say that hasn't been said elsewhere . On the other hand , it says something that we really need to be told , over and over : judge people by their deeds , not their appearance . I'll give ' Skin Deep ' credit for good intentions , and it's well-directed by Lambert Hillyer , whose career deserves to be much better known . I'll rate this movie .
Turgid soap opera , in early Danish .	I saw this Danish silent film in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . Its title doesn't readily translate into English ; I would render it as ' Expediency ' . Edgar Geheimraaden is a wealthy young man who meets a beautiful shopgirl named Ebba , and they straight away fall in love . They begin to date , and three months later Ebba is pregnant . Up until this point , Edgar has shown no interest in marrying Ebba , but now he starts planning their wedding with surprising alacrity . ( Will they go on an Ebba-Debba honeymoon ? ) When his parents learn of Edgar's plans , his father persuades him not to go ahead . . . because of the class differences between Edgar and Ebba , of course . Hoping that Edgar will forget about Ebba , his father sends the young swain to live with his ( the father's ) rural friends the Laege family . Indeed , the Laeges also have an attractive young daughter , Lily . SPOILERS AHEAD . When Edgar confides in Lily , she persuades him to write to Ebba through the intermediary of Ebba's employer , the shopkeeper . . . although at this point Ebba's pregnancy is too far advanced for her to keep her job . Edgar's father contrives to intercept the letters . Believing that Edgar does not care about her , Ebba gives birth to her child . . . then dies in hospital . When Edgar and Lily learn this , they plan to marry and adopt the child . Zanny Petersen , the brunette actress who portrays Lily , is quite attractive but her complexion is surprisingly dark : more surprisingly since she's a Scandinavian . I kept thinking perhaps she was wearing too much make-up . ' Ekspeditricen ' is a turgid slice of soap opera which reveals the morals of its time , yet also hypocritically manages to have its Danish pastry and eat it too . Edgar impregnates a working-class woman and goes merrily on his way . . . yet he also manages to take responsibility for the child without marrying beneath his station . ( Lily is of a higher social class than Ebba . ) The film's attitude towards Ebba seems to be that the dirty slut had sex without getting married , so she deserves to die in poverty . I was intrigued by this film's ( too few ) exterior shots for the glimpses they gave me of Danish scenery in 1911 , but I found this movie's story ( and the actors ' histrionics ) quite depressing . This is ( so far ) the earliest film I've seen which uses the cinematic device of an insert shot of a newspaper article . Mostly for its historic value , I'll rate this one . The movie's director , August Blom , made better and more significant films during this same period .
Oy vay , yassuh , wee-wee monsewer .	What a weird movie ! ' The Talk of Hollywood ' ( filmed in New York City ) has a clever title , since it deals with the then-recent talkies revolution in the movie industry . This film is basically a comedy ( although not very funny ) , and the protagonist is a burlesque Jewish stereotype . . . so it's bizarre that , at a couple of points , the plot line strives for genuine pathos as the protagonist mourns his deceased wife . This movie truly seems to have no sense of itself . The leading actress , one Fay Marbé ( who ? ) , is introduced with a screen credit indicating that she's a stage star now becoming a film star . She was neither . J . Pierpont Ginsburg ( played by Nat Carr , who also co-scripted ) is a successful producer of silent films who has now sunk all his funds into a talking picture that will either make him or break him . The soundtrack is recorded on Vitaphone discs . When the first reel's disc is broken by the drunken projectionist - - played by an uncredited actor , doing one of the phoniest drunk acts I've ever seen - - he merely runs the second reel's disc with the first reel's film , and so forth . . . so that the sound never matches the image . Alleged hilarity ensues . A previous IMDb reviewer has suggested that this film might have been an inspiration for " Singin ' in the Rain " , which featured a scene in which an actress's dialogue is in synch with a male actor's body and vice versa . I doubt it ; during the talkie revolution , as movies stumbled to find their voice , there were plenty of genuine horror stories along those lines : nobody had to reach for this movie to find inspiration . There are a couple of funny gags here , with Ginsburg mangling the English language in the style of Sam Goldwyn : " Talking pictures are only in their infantry . " Unfortunately , there are a lot of wince-worthy gags relying on stereotypes of Jews , blacks , and a " nance " . I cringed at one scene in which Ginsburg teaches an African-American actor how to talk like a " darky " . Fay Marbé is faintly amusing as a French prima donna named Adore Renée ( geddit ? ) , but her cod French accent is made more annoying because several other members of this film's cast also speak in bizarre affected accents . I was especially annoyed by Hope Sutherland's weird mid-Atlantic accent . SPOILERS COMING . This movie's payoff is that very hoary cliché in which a serious endeavour fails so badly that it succeeds as a comedy . Also , a major plot point is revealed in a title card , as if this talking picture were a SILENT movie . I'll just barely rate this bizarre ( but interesting ) failure .
Who was that lady ?	' A Busy Day ' is proof of something I've often maintained : namely , that no so-called ' lost ' film should ever be considered truly lost unless it was deliberately destroyed . ' A Busy Day ' was unavailable for many decades , and was generally assumed to be lost . . . until an acetate-stock dupe print ( intended for home-movie exhibition ) was discovered in 1970 ; the movie is now widely available on video . ' A Busy Day ' was made by Mack Sennett's Keystone studio , and even by that studio's slapdash methods this was a cursory effort . It ran only about 5 minutes . Cinema projectionists ' reels run about 10 minutes ; to make up the difference , Sennett purchased an educational film from an outside source . . . releasing the two unrelated subjects as a single ' split-reel ' . ' A Busy Day ' is also a good example of Keystone's guerrilla filmmaking techniques . Sennett and his crews would often take advantage of some local event , placing their actors ( in costume ) in front of this so as to co-opt the event as background for the actors ' slapstick antics . When a military band performed its manoeuvres near Venice , California , the Keystone gang ad-libbed this movie at the edge of the parade grounds . . . using the musicians as a backdrop . This movie features Keystone's mushroom-faced comedian Mack Swain . . . but without the bushy moustache he usually wore in his ' Ambrose ' characterisation . Swain is teamed here with Charlie Chaplin , in the role of ( wait for it ) Swain's wife ! Cross-gender casting was fairly common in silent films . . . usually employed when a female character had to endure some rough stuff , so a male ' actress ' was cast . In two other films ( ' The Masquerader ' and ' A Woman ' ) , Chaplin - a small , graceful actor with delicate features - played a man who dons female disguise : in both cases , he looked quite passable as a beautiful woman . ( On at least one occasion offscreen , Chaplin wore female disguise in public , without being detected , so as to escape from some overly zealous fans . ) In ' A Busy Day ' , for the only time in his screen career , Chaplin played a biological woman . . . so , it's intriguing that ' she ' has no sex appeal at all . This woman is a pantomime dame , like Widow Twanky or Monty Python's pepperpot women . She shrieks , she leaps into the air , she blows her nose on her long skirt and beats her husband with an umbrella . Because Chaplin stars in ' A Busy Day ' , it is often assumed that he also directed this film . That is almost certainly incorrect . Chaplin's personal archives in Vevey did not include a print of this film , indicating that he did not care to own a copy . . . and that he had probably participated in ' A Busy Day ' only as an actor for hire , rather than as scenarist or director . Surviving records from Sennett's studio indicate that this film was probably directed by George Nichols , a general factotum at Keystone whose best talents were managerial . There is some clever editing work in this movie , of a type that I call ' modular ' filmmaking . Two different camera set-ups are used for a sequence in which Chaplin's female character is tossed back and forth by two men . The two set-ups function as two separate modules , or even two separate movies running simultaneously , with Chaplin tossed back and forth between them . The effect is amusing , but I suspect that it was born of necessity . . . to make two separate locations look as if they were geographically adjacent . I'll rate ' A Busy Day ' . It's not especially funny , but it has some historical value as an early example of on-the-fly filmmaking .
Mosquitos and mascara , and a phony John O'Hara	' Yellow Jack ' is a goodish , proficiently made Hollywood drama which is weakened by several poor artistic decisions , and rendered absolutely ludicrous by one especially bad decision ( which I'll describe presently ) . The film deals with an inspiring true story in medical history , namely the attempts of the U . S . Army Medical Corps to find a cure for malaria , also known as yellow fever and ' yellow jack ' . This disease , spread by mosquitos , was so virulent in tropical regions that it seriously hampered the efforts to build the Panama Canal , as well as similar endeavours in Cuba and elsewhere . I'm only slightly familiar with the facts of this story , so I can't say how accurate this movie is . However , some of the actors in this cast are playing actual historic figures . . . notably the underrated Jonathan Hale as Major-General Leonard Wood , the officer in charge of the U . S . Army Yellow Fever Commission . Also excellent here is MGM stalwart Lewis Stone as Major Walter Reed , and Frank Puglia ( whom I usually dislike ) as Aristides Agramonte . Less impressive is Henry Hull , trying hard to be a serious " ack-torr " instead of portraying a believable character . Hull is cast as Jesse William Lazear , a physician who - - in real life - - deliberately infected himself by allowing ' loaded ' mosquitos to transmit the malaria virus to him . Hull's performance makes Lazear look ridiculous rather than heroic . The film takes place in Cuba in 1900 , hard upon the Spanish-American War . Dr Wood and his staff have found a potential treatment for malaria , but must test it on human subjects . Although one might expect Dr Wood to be the central character in this medical drama , the screenplay oddly emphasises one of his test subjects . ( This is one of the bad decisions which I've mentioned , but not the worst of them . ) Five medical volunteers are found ; the de-facto leader of these is played by Robert Montgomery , as an Irish-American trooper named John O'Hara . Is Montgomery playing an actual historic personage ? If not , it seems a strange decision for his character to be named John O'Hara , as this is the name of a best-selling novelist who was already well-known in 1938 . There are the usual Hollywood monkeyshines with history , notably in the casting of Virginia Bruce as an army nurse . An extremely beautiful blonde with great sex appeal but very little acting ability , Virginia Bruce is usually someone I'm delighted to see on the screen . Here , however , I find her beauty distracting . I can't believe that any woman as glammed-up as this would have been working as an army nurse in 1900 . During Louis B Mayer's reign as head of MGM , the studio had a firm policy that no leading lady would be depicted in an unglamorous manner . So , we get nonsense like this with army nurses getting the glamour treatment . No matter how steamy the swamps of Cuba might get , Virginia Bruce's mascara never wilts . She has a couple of very beautiful close-ups here . . . but that beauty works against the plausibility of this story . One of Montgomery's fellow guinea pigs , played by Buddy Ebsen , is a feller named Jelly Beans . I found this nickname hugely implausible . Did jelly beans even exist in 1900 ? Even if they did , ' Yellow Jack ' takes place largely in a military compound under military discipline : surely Ebsen's character would be referred to by his name or his rank , not some twee nickname . Ebsen was a talented character actor , but here he's been given a badly-written aw-shucks role , and he just can't make the character credible . The supremely bad decision was made by whoever decided that Montgomery should play his role with an Irish accent . Did I say Irish ? I meant ' Oirish ' . Montgomery's begorrah brogue is so full of Killarney blarney that it damages any plausibility in his characterisation , as well as the performances of other cast members in his scenes . Here we have a true story that ought to be dramatic and gripping on its own merits , yet Montgomery and Ebsen - - and , to a lesser extent , Henry Hull and Andy Devine - - are walking about with big red neon signs over their heads , flashing the words ' FICTIONAL CHARACTER ' . On the positive side , ' Yellow Jack ' features some extremely impressive montages by the brilliant Slavko Vorkapich . They belong in a better film . I'll rate this movie just .
Gleason and Besser save this movie	' The Desert Hawk ' is a bog-standard adventure epic ( Arabian Nights subclass ) , sorely compromised by its extremely low budget but benefiting from an interesting cast . When I saw that Yvonne De Carlo was the female lead ( in harem trousers , worse luck ) , I was worried this might turn out to be a Maria Montez-type campfest : fortunately , this film never sank to that level . Rock Hudson , in a prominent supporting role , is not as embarrassing as one might expect . Richard Greene , in his Robin Hood period , basically plays an Arabian version of Robin Hood here . De Carlo's character is named Scheherazade , but she isn't the famous Scheherazade of the ' Arabian Nights ' tales : she's playing a different character with that same name . The best and most interesting performances here are given by Jackie Gleason and Joe Besser as Richard Greene's wily assistants . Confusingly , their characters are named Aladdin and Sinbad . I kept wondering why Aladdin didn't whip out his magic lamp and summon his genie ( not to mention Widow Twanky ) , until I twigged that the ' Aladdin ' and ' Sinbad ' in this movie aren't the two famous characters : they're two completely different characters with the same names as those two . Jackie Gleason , as ' Aladdin ' , does well in a semi-serious role : his performance here doesn't resemble any of his well-known television characters . Joe Besser is a ' comedian ' whose unfunny performances have almost always annoyed me , and who spent most of his career in supporting roles to comedians much more talented than Besser . . . such as Moe Howard , Larry Fine , Bud Abbott and Lou Costello . In ' The Desert Hawk ' , Besser gives a genuinely impressive performance , with some dramatic ability . I was especially impressed by one scene in which Besser as Sinbad is put into a torture device ( a vertical form of the rack ) , and stretched unmercifully . Based on Besser's other characterisations , I expected him to scream effeminately and have a tantrum . . . instead , he remains stoic and endures his torture manfully . ( A trivia note : Joe Besser and the famous caricaturist Al Hirschfeld lived in the same house in St Louis , Missouri during their respective childhoods . . . but not at the same time . ) Gleason and Besser are the two main points of interest in ' The Desert Hawk ' , but their screen time is quite brief . Michael Ansara and Nestor Paiva put their facial bone structures to good use in small roles . Ben Welden ( an American actor who started his film career in England ) is obtrusively American in a small role as an Arab . I'll rate ' The Desert Hawk ' . I'm grateful that this film wasn't very campy . . . but I suppose that fans of Yvonne De Carlo and Rock Hudson will be disappointed that this film isn't MORE campy .
Big news : cats are always hungry .	A little girl sits at a table , holding a container of what appears to be some sort of food . Suddenly there's a flash of movement : a tortoiseshell cat , with long hair and a very furry tail , has leapt onto the table . The girl and the cat are clearly friends : she cheerfully feeds the cat little bits of whatever's in that container . I couldn't get a good look at the food : it really looks more like tea leaves than anything else . Some of the Lumiere films are of vital historic significance , serving as visual records of the clothes , buildings and human activities of their time . ' The Little Girl and Her Cat ' serves no great purpose except to establish that ( shock surprise ! ) cats of the late 19th century look and behave the same as cats of our own period . And are just as hungry , I'll be bound . Nothing especially interesting here , folks . . . although this probably fascinated audiences back in 1899 .
I'd sooner see Sully than Seeley .	The husband-and-wife team of Bennie Fields and Blossom Seeley were huge stars in vaudeville , yet they made very few films . As is the case for some other performers of their era ( George M . Cohan , Fanny Brice , Gertrude Lawrence ) the most accessible piece of film footage for Fields and Seeley is the biopic ABOUT them , in which they're portrayed by other actors : ' Somebody Loves Me ' , starring Betty Hutton and that inimitable song-and-dance man Ralph Meeker . In their heyday , Fields and Seeley were so hugely popular that another husband-and-wife vaudeville act - - Jesse Block and Eve Sully - - achieved nearly as much stardom performing an almost identical act , effectively becoming the " second-team " Fields and Seeley . Offstage , though , there was a major difference in the couples ' living arrangements . Fields and Seeley lived in hotel suites , paying room-service rates for every meal they ate , and eventually running out of money . Block and Sully lived modestly and invested their earnings wisely , ending in comfortable retirement . The first 30 seconds of this Vitaphone short are occupied by two spats-wearing pianists . Apparently these two men had some slight name value of their own in 1930 , although I've never heard of them . Finally , Fields and Seely rush in and start performing . They both have plenty of pep , and she's fairly attractive . I was annoyed that both performers keep making movements as if they're about to break into a dance , but they never quite do so until the third of the three songs they perform in this short . When they finally start hoofing , the results are not impressive . I was delighted to have this opportunity to see these two major performers doing their vaude act . Now that I've seen it , I understand why they never became stars in movie musicals . My rating for this one : just , and I'll stick with Block and Sully .
Karloff's most surprising performance	' Her Honour , the Governor ' is a fairly implausible movie inspired by actual events . James Ferguson was governor of Texas during the Great War and for some years thereafter . Throughout his administration , his wife Miriam Amanda Ferguson showed no political ambitions of her own : she was happy to be a wife , a mother and First Lady of Texas . In 1924 , whilst standing for re-election as incumbent , Ferguson was impeached and therefore couldn't get his name on the ballot even though he remained popular with the electorate . His wife ran for office in his stead , promising the voters that she would let her husband make the decisions and that accordingly they would get ' two governors for the price of one ' . ( This reminds me of Hillary Clinton's promise that she intended to be her husband's " co-President " . ) Miriam Ferguson was elected in a landslide , becoming only the second woman governor in U . S . history . ( Nellie Ross had become governor of Wyoming only 15 days earlier . ) Nicknamed " Ma " Ferguson because of her initials and her relationship to her gubernatorial predecessor ( her husband ) , M . A . Ferguson was a popular and strong-willed governor : she opposed the Ku Klux Klan , campaigned for repeal of Prohibition and managed to clear her husband's name . ' Her Honour , the Governor ' ( filmed less than two years after ' Ma ' Ferguson won election ) is clearly based on those events without following them very closely . Pauline Frederick plays Adele Fenway , the wife of a gubernatorial candidate . His previous marriage ended in divorce , but he and Adele are happily married and have an adult son Bob ( played by Carroll Nye , best known for playing Scarlett O'Hara's second husband in ' Gone with the Wind ' ) . When Adele's husband dies suddenly , she accepts the nomination in his stead and is elected governor in her own right despite the opposition of Senator Dornton ( played by Stanton Heck at his slimiest ) . Dornton is surrounded by toadies and criminal underlings , most notably Snipe Collins . . . who is played in a remarkable performance by Boris Karloff . Snipe is a dope addict , and Karloff manages to instill this role with all sorts of showy little twitches and grimaces without quite going over the edge into overplaying the role . I've been impressed by many of Karloff's performances : this isn't his best role , but it's possibly his most surprising performance and one of his most carefully controlled . Unable to get ' Ma ' Fenway out of office any other way , Dornton's henchmen steal her husband's divorce papers and then spread a rumour that his second marriage ( to Adele ) was never legal . . . which means that Bob Fenway was born illegitimately . Adele can't prove that her husband was legally divorced , so she can't disprove the rumours . ( Nowadays , with all vital records on computer databases , this would never happen . ) Bob Fenway was just about to marry the lovely young Marian Lee . . . but now the rumours have put a cloud > over his impending marriage . When Dornton's henchman Slade provokes Bob into an argument at the top of a flight of stairs , in front of witnesses , Bob gives Slade a sock in the jaw which sends him pelting downstairs ( in a well-staged sequence ) . Snipe Collins is waiting at the bottom of the stairs , with no witnesses : seeing his chance , Snipe kills Slade . . . making it look > as though Slade was killed by Bob's roundhouse punch . Instead of getting married , Bob is charged with murder . As governor of the state , Adele has the executive power to pardon her own son . . . but before she can exercise this , she is framed by Dornton on political charges leading to her impeachment , which deprives her of her executive powers . Bob must stand trial for murder . At the climax of the film , Adele bursts into the courtroom and demands to speak . . . not as governor , but as the mother of the defendant . Up until now , this has been a fairly good film . . . but now actress Pauline Frederick launches into a long self-indulgent bout of histrionics ( with too many long speeches in silent-film intertitles ) while the judge and the jury just sit there . The film loses all plausibility at this point . Also , Karloff , the most interesting performer in the film , isn't present during these scenes . The ending of the film manages to be implausible and yet predictable . I'll rate this movie , and 2 of those points are for Karloff's superb and restrained performance .
. . . and it serves her right , too !	For modern viewers , the title ' She Wanted a Millionaire ' makes this movie sound like a comedy , but it was actually meant to be moralistic : she wanted a millionaire , and look what she got . There's a very judgmental tone hanging over this entire film ; the audience are manipulated to perceive that the female protagonist's troubles are due to her own moral choices . Proceed at your own risk . Joan Bennett plays Jane , a poor girl from Missouri . Her father ( Douglas Cosgrove ) spent his whole career as a railway brakeman . William ( Spencer Tracy ) works for the same railway line as an engine driver ( a somewhat more macho job than the brakeman's , though not much more difficult ) . Jane wants to get the hell out of Missouri and live the high life , but that takes money . The action and dialogue make it clear that William is in love with her , but his is an unselfish love . He knows he hasn't got the wealth or glamour that would attract a gold-digger like Jane . Because William wants the best for her , he encourages Jane to enter a beauty contest . She wins the Miss Missouri title , then enters the Miss Universe pageant . ( The beauty contest shown in this movie appears to be fictional , so I assume that the real-life Miss Universe beauty pageant was not inaugurated until after this film's release . ) One of the Miss Universe contest's judges is wealthy Roger Norton , played by James Kirkwood in full Snidely Whiplash mode . He proposes to Jane . As soon as she takes a look at his bank balance , it's love at first sight . VERY OBVIOUS SPOILERS COMING . It's no surprise that Jane's marriage to Roger is a mistake , and it's also no surprise that William is waiting for her . What did surprise me was the extent of Roger's villainy . Not only is he cruel to Jane , but he actually beats her . In fact , he physically abuses her to the point that her life is in danger . Towards the climax , this movie veers into the suspense genre . . . which is jarring , as we haven't been prepared for this change of mood . I've been told ( but I haven't verified ) that this movie was inspired by a real-life case that was well-known in America in 1932 ; perhaps some of the more improbable twists in this movie's plot were ( dread phrase ! ) " based on a true story " . Spencer Tracy's immensely subtle acting talents are quite wasted on this material , which isn't subtle at all . Oddly , William Collier Snr was one of this movie's scriptwriters . Collier was a successful actor / playwright who specialised in comedy , and he was notorious for his penchant for practical jokes . There are several hilarious anecdotes about the practical jokes that Collier played on his drinking buddy John Barrymore , and vice versa . I'm surprised to see a joker like Collier turning his hand to a borderline melodrama like ' She Wanted a Millionaire ' . I'll rate this movie only .
Who or what is a Cuban Pete ?	IMDb's reviewer " free2emailus " has made a few errors in reviewing this film : the Three Rhythm Boys are dressed as footmen , not butlers ; the little girl Jean has no mother in this film , off-camera or otherwise . Also , the plot centres on an error : even a Brit like me knows that U . S . income-tax auditors did not work for the State Department in 1937 . What most interested me about ' Pot Luck ' is that the chief tax auditor ( oddly named Betts ) is played by character actor Russ Brown . In the 1950s and ' 60s , Brown had a respectable career as a film actor : he sang ' Heart ' in ' Damn Yankees ' , and also had good roles in ' South Pacific ' and ' Advise and Consent ' , so I was very intrigued to see him here as a much younger man . Does the phrase ' Cuban Pete ' have some slang meaning that I don't understand ? It's the title of a song in this mini-musical , but I've also encountered it in more suspicious contexts . My rating for this froth : just .
Who's a pretty boy , then ?	Elisabeth Bergner is probably best remembered ( in Britain , at least ) for playing Rosalind in ' As You Like It ' , a role for which she spent most of her screen time cross-dressed as Ganymede , the counterfeit boy . She wasn't convincing as a boy in that film , but the theatrical artifice of Shakespeare's verse made her imposture seem acceptable . Here , in her earlier film ' The Fiddler of Florence ' , Bergner also spends most of her screen time in boy-garb , interacting with characters who genuinely believe her to be a boy . This is a silent film , so Bergner isn't required to speak in a male voice . Even so , her impersonation of a male is frankly unbelievable . . . and , because this film's milieu is otherwise much more realistic than Shakespeare's Forest of Arden , Bergner's failure to pass as a boy ultimately causes the entire movie to fail . She's also slightly too OLD to pass as a boy , I'll ungallantly add . Renée ( Bergner ) is a strong-willed German fraulein . When her beloved mother dies , her cold father ( Conrad Veidt ) remarries . Veidt and his new bride are only interested in each other : accordingly , Veidt packs Renée off to a strict boarding-school in Switzerland . ( I wonder if this is the girls ' school in Switzerland where Stallone had a job once . ) At this point in the movie , I was hoping for some ' Madchen in Uniform ' theatrics , but - - with a title like ' The Fiddler of Florence ' - - other things are clearly impending . Renée runs away from her Swiss school and heads for the border , presumably passing Julie Andrews and the Von Trapp children going in the opposite direction . At the Italian frontier , she coaxes a peasant boy into giving her his clothes . ( Leaving him to wear hers , I guess . Yodel-lay-he-hoo ! ) Bergner's ' disguise ' as a boy is deeply unconvincing , not least because she keeps her beautiful long blonde tresses . Renée is now reborn ( get the French pun ? ) as Rene . As Renée makes her boyish way across Italy , she falls in with two wandering bohemians : a romantic young painter-violinist and his sister . The painter is played by future character actor Walter Rilla , and he gives a far better performance here than this movie deserves . Neither Rilla nor his sister twig that this ' boy ' is actually a girl , but Rilla gradually finds himself attracted to the beautiful lad . Ach du lieber ! ' The Fiddler of Florence ' was written and directed by Paul Czinner , who would later be Bergner's husband , and who at this point was already firmly established as the guiding presence of Bergner's career . Bergner spends most of this film in male disguise , yet the attempts to transform her into a ' boy ' are so perfunctory as to be downright laughable . I suspect that Czinner was unwilling to compromise Bergner's substantial female charms , and reluctant to present her to audiences as anything less than 100 % feminine . But then why choose this particular story for her ? On the basis of ' The Fiddler of Florence ' and ' As You Like It ' - - another Czinner effort - - I wonder if perhaps Czinner was one of those men who has a predilection for women disguised as boys . Or perhaps it was Bergner herself who favoured vehicles that would require her to wear male disguise . Whoever had the idea , Bergner is simply more attractive ( and more believable ) as a fraulein than as a boy . A warning to all Conrad Veidt fans : although that splendid actor is prominently listed in the cast of this film , he actually has only a small role with very little screen time . Impressively , he gives a fine performance anyway . As the father , interacting with his new bride and his daughter in the same scene , Veidt skilfully conveys affection and lust for the former while remaining cold towards the latter . Veidt's brief performance belongs in a better movie . I'll rate ' The Fiddler of Florence ' 4 points , largely for some beautiful exterior photography . Give the movie an extra point if you like to watch women pretending to be boys .
Fritz Lang did it much better	' Inside Job ' is a semi-noir drama , notably for one reason only : this film is the very last credit on the CV of cult-film figure Tod Browning . Although Browning had a serious drinking problem ( partly because he took advantage of free beer shipments for life , a gift from the president of Coors Brewing , whom he had befriended ) , Browning was fortunate enough to have invested his money well , so that he no longer needed to work when his creative talents failed . After directing ' Miracles for Sale ' , the original story treatment for ' Inside Job ' ( sold to Universal ) was Browning's last script sale . Certain themes recurred like obsessions throughout Browning's career as a screenwriter / director . He was fascinated by physical deformity , spiritualism , carnival side-shows and confidence schemes . Several of his best films depict an elaborate ' caper ' crime . ' Inside Job ' is a straightforward caper film , and it suffers from the absence of the elaborate setpieces and improbable motivations that propel so many of Browning's films . Although Tod Browning wrote the original treatment for this film , it doesn't do him credit . There are some good things in the storyline of 1946's ' Inside Job ' . . . but all of those elements were present in ' You and Me ' , a much better film directed by Fritz Lang in 1938 for Paramount . A married couple are both ex-convicts ; both of them work in a department store that has a policy of hiring and rehabilitating ex-convicts . The husband and wife are both trying to go straight , but they fall afoul of a gangster who pressures the husband into participating in a robbery of the department store . This synopsis describes ' Inside Job ' exactly . . . and it ALSO describes the earlier and better ' You and Me ' , which adds a few details that aren't in the Browning version . In ' You and Me ' , the marriage between the lead characters is complicated by the fact that the wife hasn't told her husband that she's still serving parole . . . so he doesn't realise that their marriage isn't legal . Most significantly , ' You and Me ' is a semi-musical film with elaborate ' sangspiel ' sequences by Kurt Weill , whilst ' Inside Job ' is a straightforward caper film that hovers in the doorway of noir territory but never quite crosses the threshold . All of the good parts of ' Inside Job ' are so similar to ' You and Me ' that I've difficulty believing Tod Browning had not seen that film before he wrote ' Inside Job ' . Or possibly the blame should go to Browning's long-time collaborator , Garrett Fort . SPOILERS COMING . The set-up of ' Inside Job ' is marginally different from that of ' You and Me ' in that husband Eddie Norton and his ex-con wife Claire both participate in the robbery , and they do so unwillingly . . . because they're being blackmailed by villain Bart Madden . Tod Browning had a penchant for twist endings that often squandered any meagre plausibility that his plotlines possessed . In this case , the twist ending for ' Inside Job ' is one of his more plausible ones , and it deviates from the ending of ' You and Me ' . Eddie and Claire pretend to participate willingly in the robbery , but they actually contrive to summon the police . After Madden is shot dead , Mr and Mrs Norton turn themselves in as his accomplices . Despite its similarity to ' You and Me ' , ' Inside Job ' could have been a good film . Preston Foster is good as the villain , but Alan Curtis is bland as ex-con Ed Norton ( shouldn't he be working in the sewer , and living upstairs over Ralph Kramden ? ) while Ann Rutherford is even worse as Ed Norton's wife Trixie , I mean Claire . Veteran character actors Joe Sawyer and Samuel S . Hinds give dependable performances here , which don't vary in any way from the typecast roles they've essayed elsewhere . Bit-part actor Oliver Blake shows up briefly . Blake impresses me in films that give him more than a few lines of dialogue , but when he has only a walk-on role ( as here ) his presence is distracting : Blake's facial structure is so unusual that he inevitably calls attention to himself even when playing brief ' stick ' parts that aren't meant to divert us from the main action . The biggest problem with ' Inside Job ' is its lacklustre direction by Jean Yarbrough , who probably holds the record for churning out more bad movies and inept television episodes than any other director . In the game of bridge , a 13-card hand with no high cards is called a Yarborough . . . and Jean Yarbrough had no trumps . During his long career , he directed a lot of performers whose work I admire , but they invariably did their worst work in Jean Yarbrough's films . It's a pity that ' Inside Job ' wasn't directed by Tod Browning , even though he was having personal problems at this point in his life ; a Browning version of this material would have been much more interesting than what Yarbrough did with it . I'll rate this movie . Skip this limp caper and watch Fritz Lang's ' You and Me ' instead , which rates .
Scooby-Doo , wo bist du ?	Dolly Haas performed on stage in Europe and on Broadway , and in several films ( including Hitchcock's " I Confess " ) , but her acting career is less significant than the fact that she was the wife of the great caricaturist Al Hirschfeld , and the mother of ' NINA ' whose name so notably appeared in Hirschfeld's drawings . As an actress , Haas ( pronounced ' hoss ' ) never appealed to me . She seems like a subtler version of Giulietta Masina , an actress whom I absolutely loathe . Masina and Haas both played ' gamin ' roles : you know , those wide-eyed waifs whom we're supposed to just cuddle into our hearts , but whom I usually want to punch in the nose . Haas's shoe-button eyes ( quite different from Masina's bulging eyes ) make Dolly Haas seem ready-made for one of Hirschfeld's caricatures . But Dolly's eyes lacked expression , and her characterisations seem forced . ( If you're waiting for a pun on ' Hello , Dolly ! ' , start without me . ) I met her once , in the company of her husband , and I found Mrs Hirschfeld quite dull and uninteresting . By then , she was elderly . . . but still , I doubt that she ever had any great appeal for any audience . ' Es tut sich was um Mitternacht ' is a film title that I would cautiously translate as ' So This Is Midnight ' . Who says Germans have no sense of humour ? Actually , this film would go some way towards proving that thesis . ' Midnight ' ( as I'll call this krautwurst comedy ) is the German equivalent of one of those empty-headed low-budget Hollywood musicals about a bunch of jitter-bugging teenagers in search of innocent fun ( ie , any pleasure that doesn't involve alcohol , drugs or naughty bits ) . Actually , in some ways this movie is very similar to the Kay Kyser spook-spoof ' You'll Find Out ' , although not nearly as good . This movie is not so much Kyser as Kaiser . Dolly Haas plays the girl singer in a band of youthful musicians . There are several boys in the band , but handsome Hitler Youth Albert Lieven is the one Dolly has a crush on . . . except that she's too shy to let on . Conveniently , they all get stranded overnight ( with their band instruments ) in a spooky old castle . This movie was filmed in Germany ( and takes place there ) , and the Germans have been doing spooky old castles much better ( and much longer ) than Hollywood . . . so there's some genuinely spooky atmosphere in this frothy little film . Ach , ja : it turns out there's a treasure hidden somewhere in the castle . Fortunately , the treasure is in old-fashioned gold coins . . . not in Weimar banknotes from the 1920s , which would be worthless at this point . So , these Katzenjammer Kinder spend the night exploring all the secret panels and hidden passages , in between the musical numbers for which they whip out their glockenspiels und mach schnell mit der boogie-voogie oompah-pah . And of course the castle seems to be haunted . . . but are those genuine poltergeists in the inglenooks , or are they crooks disguised as ghosts while they hunt for the Deutschemarks ? This movie is like a ' Scooby-Doo ' episode dubbed into German , only slightly more gobsmacking . The plot and the acting are utterly unbelievable , yet strangely enjoyable . The musical interludes are rousing without being remotely memorable . The ' comedy ' leaves much to be desired : if anyone ever compiles a German Comedy Hall of Fame , this movie won't make the cut . I laughed several times during this movie , but mostly I was laughing at how ludicrous it is . I'll rate ' Midnight ' , mostly for its exuberance . It's worth noting that ' Es tut sich was um Mitternacht ' was made in the early days of the Third Reich : this movie shows that even Nazis needed mindless entertainment .
Cheese and pickle sandwich	Johnny Hines was dealt with briefly in Walter Kerr's important reference work ' The Silent Clowns ' . His inclusion in that book is justified , but a brief mention is all he deserves . Hines was a third-string comedian in the great days of silent comedy . He tended to play brash go-getters in the Harold Lloyd mould . . . but Lloyd was distinguished by his hornrimmed eyeglasses , whereas Johnny Hines's only distinguishing trait was a slightly Oriental cast to his face . Hines's films were brisk and funny , but he never did anything that wasn't done better by Harold Lloyd , Wallace Reid , Raymond Griffith or several other comedians of this period . ' The Crackerjack ' was scripted as a starring vehicle for Johnny Hines , and it was directed by his brother . . . an untalented hack who would never have become a director if not for the family relationship . The plot of this movie is largely about pickles , and I can't help wondering if the surname of the star and director served as inspiration : Hines ( Heinz ) pickles , geddit ? ' The Crackerjack ' begins with Hines as a short-order cook named Tommy , supplying a few griddle-related gags which eat up some screen time before he shifts jobs and becomes a pickle salesman . ( These are American pickles : the cucumber sort . ) While Tommy cooks up some ridiculous ploys to sell pickles , his uncle goes off to South America and starts a revolution . ( Seems logical so far . ) The uncle ( an army colonel ) sends Tommy an order to ship 5 , 000 pickles to South America . . . with a cartridge inserted in each pickle . Tommy has no difficulty filling this order . But he's unwilling to smuggle armaments into a sovereign nation , so he takes the precaution of filling every cartridge with cheese instead of gunpowder . SPOILING A FEW JOKES NOW . While the projectionist stops to change reels , somehow Tommy ends up in South America amidst the thick of the revolution . Inevitably , he ends up in front of a firing squad . Ready , . . . aim , . . . fire ! The firing squad loaded their rifles with the wrong cartridges , and Johnny is covered with cheese . Before you can say ' Cheddar Guevara ' , another irrelevant gag sequence begins . Tommy gets involved with Rose , the daughter of one of the revolutionary leaders . Rose , played by a Swedish actress , looks surprisingly Swedish for the daughter of a South American revolutionary . Maybe she's related to Bernardo O'Higgins . Her father is General Bannon , a bearded warlord . All the soldiers come looking for Tommy , so he steals the general's uniform and sword . He slices open a horsehair armchair , and glues some of the stuffing to his face ( with pickled cheese , I think ) to make a fake beard , then disguises himself as the general . Hines is amusing in the elaborate uniform and shako he wears for part of this movie . It's not spoiling anything to tell you that Tommy gets the girl , because it's that sort of movie . The Johnny Hines films are fast-moving comedies with formulaic plots and plenty of gags that come out of nowhere and fail to advance the plot . Buster Keaton once commented about another silent-film comedian ( Larry Semon ) that audiences laughed all through his movies but couldn't remember afterwards what his films were about . A similar criticism could be said about Johnny Hines . Semon and Hines both deserve to be remembered . . . but they're certainly far below the pantheon of Chaplin , Keaton , Lloyd , Langdon and Raymond Griffith . I'll rate ' The Crackerjack ' .
Katharine Ross , drop those hot pants	' Get to Know Your Rabbit ' is far from a great movie , but it's a quirky film that tells an unusual story in an original way . Best of all , there's a very sexy performance by Katharine Ross , plus good performances by Orson Welles and several other cast members . I'm surprised that this hasn't become a cult movie . ( One of the cast members is Allen Garfield : there seems to be an unwritten commandment that every movie with Allen Garfield in the cast must develop a cult following . ) Rising young executive Donald Beeman ( Tommy Smothers ) abruptly decides that high wages and corporate prestige are not what he really wants , so he quits his job with high-powered boss Turnbull ( the brilliant John Astin ) and sets forth in a new career as a tap-dancing magician , mentored by the mysterious Dell'assandro ( Orson Welles , giving one of the best performances of his career as a dodgy parlour-tricks conjuror : a role which is clearly dear to Welles's heart ) . Dell'assandro tutors Beeman in the rules of magic : the title of this movie is one of his trade secrets . There aren't a lot of job opportunities for tap-dancing magicians , so Donald performs his act in seedy little nightclubs and juke joints all over the country . The production quality is slipshod all through this film : throughout the movie , Donald is supposed to be performing in many different venues , but it's obvious that all of these sequences were filmed on the same set . The idea of someone tap-dancing and performing magic tricks both at once is very funny , but this film drops the gag . In one sequence , we see Dell'assandro ( played in this shot by Welles's body double , with his back to the camera ) tutoring a roomful of students in the dual art of conjuring and tap-dancing simultaneously . . . this would have been very funny if Welles's double and the others were actually tap-dancing : instead , they're just clomping up and down in crude unison while they do some very simple tricks with handkerchiefs and rings . While Donald takes his act on the road , he meets a gorgeous young woman who takes a romantic interest in him , and vice versa . She is played by Katharine Ross , who is meltingly beautiful here . . . and wearing one of the sexiest outfits I've ever seen on any woman , anywhere , in any film . The only flaw in her outfit is a ridiculous pair of floral-print hot pants : she'd look a lot sexier if she got rid of those hot pants . ( Phworr ! ) Ross gives a good performance but her role is badly and thinly written . Her character doesn't seem to be a person in her own right : she only seems to exist to fulfil Donald's romantic fantasies of having a girlfriend . The fact that Ross's character has no name ( she's listed in the credits as ' the terrific-looking girl ' ) only emphasises the skimpiness of her character . John Astin gives a brilliant performance , hilarious and yet touching , as Donald's boss whose business fails after Donald's departure , and who attempts to start his executive career all over again with only a desk and a paper clip . The scene in which Astin explains the significance of a paper clip to Tommy Smothers is truly a splendid piece of acting , with Astin balancing comedy and pathos remarkably . When I met John Astin ( at the dedication ceremony of the Lucille Lortel Theatre , in New York City ) he told me that this was one of his favourite roles . There are good performances by George Ives ( whom I fondly recall from the ' Mister Roberts ' TV series ) and King Moody in small roles , and a splendidly deadpan performance by Bob Einstein ( the under-rated brother of the over-rated Albert Brooks ) . There's also a very fine performance by veteran character actor Charles Lane as Smothers's father . Lane gave small but gem-like performances in a huge number of important films ( the opening shot in ' Mr Smith Goes to Washington ' is a close-up of Charles Lane ) but he gives one of his best performances here . Unfortunately , Tommy Smothers is only barely competent as the story's central character . Smothers was never one of my favourite comedians , yet I recognise his considerable skill as a comedian and a musician . But he's no actor , and the casting of Smothers in the lead role seriously compromises this movie . I usually dislike Brian De Palma's movies , due to his penchant of ' borrowing ' images and devices from much more talented directors . ' Get to Know Your Rabbit ' is one of De Palma's more original efforts , and so it's one of his better films . ( I've heard an unconfirmed rumour that De Palma directed less than half of this film . ) There's one pretentious camera angle early in the movie , pointing straight down from the ceiling of Donald Beeman's flat , to show Tommy Smothers as a prisoner in a labyrinth . . . but it raises a laugh and it's valid to the character on screen . Katharine Ross is incredibly sexy in this movie , but she has almost nothing to do except stand there and look sexy . I'll rate ' Get to Know Your Rabbit ' .
Dooley truly quite unruly .	Ray ( short for Rachael ) Dooley was an extremely talented Scots-born comedienne who was a Broadway star of the 1920s . Like Christine Baranski , Ray Dooley was ( by contemporary accounts ) that rare female combination of funny and sexy in the same woman . With her angular features and acrobatic agility , Dooley performed on stage alongside W . C . Fields , Bob Hope and other major comedians of her day . Regrettably , ' Honeymoon Lane ' was her only-ever film role . She retired from showbiz several years into her lifelong marriage to Eddie Dowling , an all-purpose Broadway talent who had some respectable success as an actor , scriptwriter , director and producer but who was not especially notable in any of those roles . After Dowling's death left her wealthy , Ray Dooley became increasingly inactive in her home in Long Island , New York . My American wife's family lived nearby and knew her well . When I was introduced to Ray Dooley in the early 1980s , I was intrigued to learn that she had a print of ' Honeymoon Lane ' , in which she and her husband had co-starred ( although not as a couple ) . ' Honeymoon Lane ' is allegedly based on Dowling's Broadway hit of the same title . I've read the script of that show ( also thanks to Ray Dooley ) , and the only thing they have in common is that both starred Dowling as a brash Irish-American named Tim . Even his surname was different in the two shows : in the Broadway production , he was cried Tim Murphy . That surname shows up in this movie too , but here Dowling's character is named Tim Dugan . The Murphy clan here are Gerty ( Dooley ) and her mother . Mrs Murphy is the proprietress of a seaside hotel . Her latest guest is none other than the King of Belgravia , who apparently doesn't realise that his kingdom is actually a neighbourhood in south London . It seems that the king has come to this American spa for the healthful waters , and for Mrs Murphy's cherry pies . French actor Armand Kaliz plays the King of Belgravia with one of the more impenetrable accents I've ever had to listen to . Ray Dooley told me she couldn't recall whether it was his real accent or not ; I suspect it wasn't . Into the same hostelry come a bunch of bootleggers with accents that are definitely phony , led by Arnold Bookstein ( clearly based on real-life hoodlum Arnold Rothstein ) . One of the gangsters is played by the spectacularly ugly George Kotsonaros , who looks like a refugee from a horror movie . Oh , yeah : the star of the movie is Eddie Dowling as Tim Dugan , who loves Mary Baggott but is afraid to marry her because her layabout father Tom will move in with them . This movie could have been a lot funnier with the same cast and budget , if it had used a diifferent script ( and a more talented director ) . Since Eddie Dowling wrote the material as well as starring , I suspect that there was an ego problem here : he probably refused to have his script scrapped . I didn't ask Ray Dooley to confirm this . Most annoying of all , the supporting cast of characters actually features a snooty rich dame named Mrs Gotrocks . Where did this stupid name come from ? I've encountered at least ten alleged comedies ( most of them cartoons ) featuring a rich character named Gotrocks . Was that name ever funny ? I doubt it . When I met Ray Dooley , she was well into her eighties . . . yet her humour , warmth , vivacity and considerable presence were unimpaired . Several of her former co-stars - - including W . C . Fields and Bob Hope - - had praised her publicly , speaking very highly of her comedic talents . She showed me her photo album , full of photographs of herself in various stage routines which appeared to be very funny indeed . Her performance in ' Honeymoon Lane ' - - energetic , with a hint of slapstick - - is the movie's high point , and yet she isn't very funny with this weak material . Perhaps if Ray Dooley had been determined to sustain her showbiz career , she could have been another Joan Davis , or a combination of Imogene Coca and Carol Burnett . As things stand , I'll rate this weak comedy . . . more out of sentiment for several of the players , rather than for its actual hilarity .
Forget the dog ; let's see more of Edna .	The top-billed performer in ' The Silent Accuser ' is Peter the Great , an Alsatian dog who resembles Rin Tin Tin . . . and this film appears to be MGM's attempt to copy the success of the highly profitable Rin Tin Tin movies . Peter is the faithful canine companion of Jack . When Jack's evil stepbrother Phil murders his own father ( Jack's stepfather ) , Jack is wrongly convicted of the crime . His girlfriend tries to find evidence to clear him while the clock ticks towards the moment of Jack's execution . But the star of this movie is Peter , so there are lots of scenes scripted to let the dog do his stuff . Peter sneaks into prison and out again with laughable ease , usually by way of the chimney . I noticed that the soot didn't show on Peter's coat , and I put this down to his dark fur concealing it . But then I noticed that Peter emerges from the chimney flue without shaking himself , which implies that there was no soot to begin with . Anyway , Peter faithfully smuggles notes between Jack and Barbara while leaping aboard moving trains , and so forth . Presumably the dog had no stunt double . The contrivances of the plot are excusable , since the whole point of this movie is the dog's stunts . The climactic brawl between Jack and Phil is well-edited , but several contrived events are necessary to trundle the scene into place . As I'm not very interested in movies about dogs , for me the revelation of this film was Edna Tichenor as a sloe-eyed henchwoman of Phil . As the spider-woman in Tod Browning's ' The Show ' , Tichenor was seen only from the neck upward : here , wearing proto-Goth makeup , she uses her entire body quite seductively in her vamp character . I was going to rate this movie only , but I liked Edna Tichenor enough to make it 5 in 10 .
And nobody's driving the movie , either .	Johnny Hines was dealt with briefly in Walter Kerr's important reference work ' The Silent Clowns ' . His inclusion in that book is justified , but a brief mention is all he deserves . Hines was a third-string comedian in the great days of silent comedy . He tended to play brash go-getters in the Harold Lloyd mould . . . but Lloyd was distinguished by his hornrimmed eyeglasses , whereas Johnny Hines's only distinguishing trait was a slightly Oriental cast to his facial features . Hines's films were brisk and funny , but he never did anything that wasn't done better by Harold Lloyd , Wallace Reid , Raymond Griffith or several other comedians of this period . Many of Hines's films were directed by his brother Charles , an untalented hack who would never have become a director if not for the family relationship . Most of their collaborations consisted of arbitrary gag sequences , hung on a thin premise and strung out to feature length . ' The Speed Spook ' is slightly better than their typical output . . . due to an unusual premise , a plot that was more linear than usual for a Hines film , and some peppy dialogue scripted by veteran title-card writer Ralph Spence . Johnny plays ' Blue Streak ' Billings , an auto racer who breezes through the town of Westwood , where the local sheriff is standing for re-election . His opponent is shifty politician Hiram Smith . Meanwhile , the town seems to be haunted ( in Scooby-Doo fashion ) by a weird grey car with a white squiggle on its flank . What's so weird about this car ? Well , it has no driver . It races through town at unlawful speeds , turns corners sharply , and disappears abruptly in broad daylight . Where does it go ? Where does it come from ? How does it manoeuvre with no driver ? The townspeople are demanding that Sheriff West solve the mystery . SPOILERS COMING , BUT NOT SPOILING MUCH . Inevitably , Johnny gets involved . Inevitably , the sheriff has a beautiful daughter . . . played by bland unattractive oddly-named untalented Faire Binney . Much of this movie is extremely predictable . What keeps us watching is our eagerness to learn how the car ( the ' speed spook ' ) is controlled , and who's controlling it , and why . The eventual answers are unconvincing and disappointing . If you've read ' The Legend of Sleepy Hollow ' , you'll watch this movie with a sense of deja vu . I said that ' The Speed Spook ' is one of Johnny Hines's better films , but that's not saying much . I'll rate this forgettable movie .
Fast-forward to Rooney's big number	' Broadway to Hollywood ' has a grandiose title and can't live up to it . Nevertheless , this early MGM semi-musical does have some good moments in amongst the soap opera . The most interesting thing about this movie is that Jackie Cooper plays Mickey Rooney's father ! ( They were both child actors at the time , and Cooper is two years younger than Rooney . ) The catch is that this movie is the saga of three generations of a vaudeville family , with the second-generation son ( played by Cooper as a boy ) growing up to be played as an adult by Russell Hardie ( who he ? ) , who then becomes the father of the third-generation grandson ( played by Rooney as a boy ) who then grows up to achieve stardom as Eddie Quillan . With a title like ' Broadway to Hollywood ' , I assumed this movie would be a documentary overview of American show business . I was wrong . It's the story of a fictitious show-biz family . Frank Morgan and Alice Brady are Ted and Lulu Hackett : an old-time vaudeville team , going back to the days when even a mediocre act was assured of 50 weeks ' work every year on the five-a-day grind circuits . ( In those days , actors were paid badly or not at all , but they very seldom starved . ) As the Hacketts reach middle age , their young son Ted Jnr shows some talent as a dancer , and eventually he makes his way to Broadway . But then his son Ted the Third shows even more talent . We see grandson Ted ( played by Mickey Rooney , age 13 at the time ) doing a spirited buck-and-wing dance . ( This delightful sequence was shown in the first ' That's Entertainment ' movie , with no narration to explain where it came from : now you know . ) As he reaches adulthood , Hollywood offers Ted Hackett 3rd a contract as a musical star , and it looks like his grandparents ( now elderly ) can retire at last , knowing that the Hackett name will be up in lights . SPOILER COMING NOW . The ending is quite touching , and sad . Ted and Lulu sit proudly on the sound stage , just out of camera range , while their grandson ( Eddie Quillan ) does a dance routine . It's been a long road to stardom . Lulu notices that her husband has nodded off , and she touches him . Then she realises he isn't sleeping : he's dead . Lulu lets out a whimper , and a sound man quickly shushes her : the camera is grinding , and we mustn't blow this take . Understanding that this is what matters , Lulu sits quietly and proudly through the rest of the dance number . Ted the Third keeps dancing , unaware that his grandfather has just carked it . One generation of show business has died , but another one must go on with the show . . . There are some enjoyable moments here . The movie feels like a musical , but the song-and-dance numbers are too few , too far apart , and not very good . Some of the drama is too soap opera-ish and maudlin . I'm well and truly annoyed that some VERY big show-biz names from the first two decades of the twentieth century have been assembled for this movie , yet they've been given almost nothing to do : among the people you'll see here are Marie Dressler , DeWolf Hopper ( the man who immortalised ' Casey at the Bat ' ) , comic actor William Collier , and the very great comedy team of Weber and Fields ( who were major stars of the stage , yet whose film work was negligible ) . Yes , you'll see them all in this movie ( unless you blink ) , but you won't see them doing anything important . There's a nice supporting cast , though . And Frank Morgan gives an excellent performance . I'm annoyed that this fine actor is remembered only for his hokey overdone performance in ' The Wizard of Oz ' rather than his superb understated performances in several other films , including this one . For all those Friends of Dorothy who insist on refracting every other movie through ' The Wizard of Oz ' ( you know who you are ) , I'll point out that ' Broadway to Hollywood ' was co-written by Edgar Allan Woolf , who also co-scripted that overrated Munchkin mishmash . ' Broadway to Hollywood ' is full of missed opportunities . The best thing in here is Mickey Rooney's dance number , and you can see that footage in a much better movie : ' That's Entertainment ! ' . I'll reluctantly rate ' Broadway to Hollywood ' .
A sobering experience .	I saw ' Twice a Fortnight ' ( which works out to once a week , ha ha ) when it was originally transmitted by the BBC on a weekly basis . The programme lasted precisely five fortnights ( i . e . , ten weekly episodes ) in late 1967 , terminating just before Christmas . In fact , I was a member of the studio audience for one episode , which is noteworthy because of this programme's unusual relationship with its studio audience . As it now stands , the only real achievement of ' Twice a Fortnight ' is that it gave Michael Palin , Terry Jones , Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie a chance to get some television experience , and to make some beginners ' mistakes , before going on to their legendary success in Monty Python ( Palin , Jones ) and the Goodies ( Garden , Oddie ) . The programme was a flop largely because these lads didn't know what they were doing . . . but they learnt very quickly indeed . ( A previous IMDb reviewer , AlaGls1 , is mistaken : Terry Jones and Michael Palin were both on-camera performers in ' Twice a Fortnight ' , although only in the film sequences shot outside the studio . ) Bill Oddie was keen to do a series involving audience participation . This led to the first mistake : the studio audience were seated much nearer to the performers than usual , encouraging the audience to feel that they were part of the comic anarchy . The second mistake was the notion to ' warm up ' the audience by serving drinks to them before the show ( including alcoholic bevvies , if they so chose ) . I think that this idea was down to the director Tony Palmer : at all events , he wasn't the first to try this ; it was previously done by ' That Was the Week that Was ' , which catered for rather a different studio audience . The third mistake - - almost certainly Palmer's - - was the decision to hand round noise-makers to the audience before recording each episode . So , we've got boozed-up audience members , armed with noise-makers and practically sitting in the performers ' laps , whilst encouraging them to join into the insanity . Can you see where this is heading ? One of my least favourite viewing experiences was a midnight screening of ' The Rocky Horror Picture Show ' , in a roomful of idiots intent on proving that they were more clever than the performers . . . only they weren't . I got a very similar sensation while trying to watch ' Twice a Fortnight ' . In several of the episodes which I viewed from home ( in transmission ) , most of the in-studio sequences were almost totally indiscernible , due to the constant whooping , interruptions and unfunny wisecracks of the audience . The single biggest reason why I went down to the Beeb's theatre in Shepherds Bush and joined the studio audience for one of the later episodes was because I was hoping I might get a chance to hear the actors ' dialogue if I was in the same room with them . Some hope ! Fortunately , by that point in the run of the series , the free booze had been curtailed and the audience were comparatively restrained . Only just . The best aspect of the in-studio sequences was that they included performances by really first-rate rock acts . How's this for starters ? The Who , Cream , Cat Stevens , Moody Blues , Small Faces , and Scaffold ( featuring Paul McCartney's brother Mike McGear ) . It was these musical interludes - - and ONLY the musical interludes - - which evoke fond memories of ' Twice a Fortnight ' for me when I'm watching some top-name musical act on ' Saturday Night Live ' . The only resemblance between ' SNL ' and ' Twice a Fortnight ' was the reliable presence of some first-rate rock'n'roll acts . ( And a too-rowdy studio audience drowning them out . ) The comedy sequences performed in the studio for that awful audience were largely dire . In hindsight , they feel like incredibly bad imitations of Monty Python skits . . . generally , the ones featuring two men sitting on stools , one interviewing the other . Perhaps if these skits had been funnier , the studio audience would have been more co-operative . . . and the larger audience watching the transmissions at home would have been able to hear the dialogue . What saved ' Twice a Fortnight ' - - ever so barely - - were the film inserts , which were recorded previously in exterior locations , without any audience apart from a few goggling pedestrians . ( These clips were aired on CC monitors for the studio audience's benefit . ) The funniest film sequence in ' Twice a Fortnight ' was a sketch about midget policemen , played by actual midgets in constable cozzies . Just the sight of a bunch of helmeted midgets wielding truncheons and doing Constable Plod routines ( " Here , now , wot's all this , then ? " ) is hilarious in itself . But this sketch became even weirder ( and funnier ) because the actors performed their movements BACKWARD , while filmed conventionally . The film was then played in reverse , to have the actors moving forward . . . but with a weird alien appearance to their movements which is difficult to describe . If you've seen the Red Dwarf episode ' Backwards ' , you'll recognise the effect I mean . It would be great if Auntie Beeb could issue a ' Twice a Fortnight ' compilation DVD , featuring all of the musical performances and film clips . The studio sketches weren't very funny in the first place , and are made even less tolerable due to the live audience's antics . I'll rate this comedy series - - not very funny , yet historically ( and musically ) important - - .
Magyar self at home	' Miss Big Shot ' stars Lilli Muráti as Zsuzsa ( pronounced ' ZHOO-zha ' ) , the dark-eyed daughter of the chairman of a Budapest textile factory . When he dies suddenly , Zsuzsa takes over the factory . Intriguingly , this 1935 film makes it quite clear that a young woman is intellectually and emotionally capable of running a large business concern . Also quite interestingly , this 1935 film is honest enough to acknowledge that women in the workplace must contend with sexual harassment . Zsuzsa acquires the unwanted attentions of her factory's coarse ugly foreman ( well played by Jenö Törzs ) . Rather than firing this ruder pest in Budapest , she blithely tells him that she's already engaged to a textile engineer . When the foreman expresses doubts about this , Zsuzsa describes her ( nonexistent ) betrothed in detail . Coincidentally and conveniently , along comes handsome young Istvan , a brilliant textile engineer who conforms in every way to Zsuzsa's description of her imaginary boyfriend . Naturally , everyone in the factory jumps to conclusions . Complications ensue . SPOILERS COMING . One thing leads to another in this Hungarian goulash , and soon enough Zsuzsa is genuinely in love with Istvan , who doesn't seem to want to get involved with any woman whose name is harder to spell than his own . Soon enough , Istvan is negotiating a contract that will get him a high-paying job in a New York textile factory owned by an American magnate named White ( played by an actor who speaks fluent Hungarian with a Magyar accent ) . Mr White invites Istvan aboard his private sailboat to ink the deal . Next thing we know , Zsuzsa ' falls ' ( on purpose ) into the marina and pretends to be drowning , so that Istvan will save her before he can sign the contract . She and Istvan live soggily ever after . ' Miss Big Shot ' is an interesting paprikash of contrasting ingredients . The central character is in many ways a genuine feminist role model ; we clearly see that Zsuzsa has the brains , abilities and experience to take over her father's company . Yet , in her attitude towards handsome Istvan , Zsuzsa is one more giddy airhead , like we've seen in so many other films : a woman who needs a man in order for her to be complete . There is some ham-handed comic relief from Ella Gombaszögi and from Gyula Kabos . There were moments when ' Miss Big Shot ' reminded me of a screwball comedy , Rosalind Russell subclass . But those moments were few and far between . Normally , I won't rate a foreign-language film if I have difficulty following the dialogue , but I screened this film with a native Hungarian beside me to offer translations . I'll rate this movie .
Leave Xantippe out of this .	Silent-film star Wallace Reid is ( like Roscoe Arbuckle ) unfairly remembered for a scandal which didn't accurately reflect his true life or career . Because Reid usually played clean-cut go-getters on screen , his fans were shocked when his early death revealed the effects of long-term morphine abuse . This was actually the fault of front-office executives at Reid's home studio : when Reid was severely injured in a railway accident en route to a filming location , his producers forced him to keep working under heavy medication so that the production schedule would not be affected . After getting Reid addicted to morphia , his bosses did nothing to wean him from the addiction . When the cause of Reid's early death became public knowledge , his studio protected its own image by circulating rumours that Reid had led a double life as a secret drug addict . To this day , when Reid is remembered at all , it's usually in the ( inaccurate ) context of a drug fiend with a double life . His box-office success , and his very enjoyable action comedies , are almost entirely forgotten . The opening credits for ' Believe Me , Xantippe ' state that this film is based on a play . I would have guessed as much , because this silent film is largely talk , talk , talk . . . conveyed by many , many intertitles with LOTS of dialogue . The dialogue is meant to be funny , but too much of it is in that peppy Jazz Age slang which dates very badly . ( ' Hot-cha ! ' ) In a departure from his usual role , Wallace Reid plays a criminal here : specifically , George MacFarland , alias MacGinnis . Whatever his name is , he's a forger from New York City who has fled to the wide open spaces of the wild West , one jump ahead of a detective named Thorne ( in his side ? ) . MacFarland wants to lie low for a while , and maybe print some counterfeit bonds . In Colorado , MacFarland runs afoul of sheriff Buck Kamman , who always gets his man . MacFarland also meets the local sheriff's pretty daughter , who's no slouch in the manhunter department : she soon lassoes MacFarland , in a figurative sense . Then along comes the sheriff's sister Violette , who lassoes MacFarland in the literal sense and leaves him hog-tied . ( I can't believe that a man named Buck would have a sister named Violette . ) The plot of this movie is implausible , which would be fine if it were funny . . . but it's only fitfully amusing . I laughed during the sequence in the county gaol , when the camera cut to a close-up shot of a sampler reading ' God Bless Our Home ' . James Cruze , better known as a director , gives a deft performance here as the dim-witted deputy in charge of the gaol where MacFarland is temporarily locked up . This film is directed by Donald Crisp , much better known as a character actor . Crisp showed real talent as an actor ( and , offscreen , as a financial manager ) but his direction is not especially crisp : not here , nor elsewhere . Crisp's most famous directing job is ' The Navigator ' ( in which he did a very imaginative Hitchcock-like cameo ) , but I suspect that the success of that film is largely down to Crisp's co-director Buster Keaton . Oh , that awful ( and irrelevant ) title . Xantippe was the wife of the Greek philosopher Socrates ; according to contemporary reports , she was quite a shrew . Whenever George MacFarland gets any backchat from a woman ( or a female horse ) , he tries to placate her by saying ' Believe me , Xantippe . ' ( Do you feel better now ? ) It's an unfunny phrase , made worse by being the title of this movie . I'll rate ' Believe Me , Xantippe ' 5 points ouf of 10 ; it probably deserves only a 4 , but I give Wallace Reid an extra sympathy point , because of his undeserved fate : Hollywood literally killed him .
Oh , by jingo !	SPOILER ALERT : Reading this review will take longer than the running time of the movie itself . The Yorkshire-born showman J . Stuart Blackton was an important figure in the early history of American movies . Most of his early films were newsreel-style records of actual current events . . . but their historical value is compromised , because Blackton's films are often re-enactments ( often blatantly faked ) of these incidents , filmed days or weeks after they occurred . Blackton's first film , ' Tearing Down the Spanish Flag ' , made immediately after the USA declared war on Spain , was a cynical attempt to profit from America's jingoistic war fervour . Blackton and his partner Albert E . Smith set up a film studio in a tiny 10'x12 ' room in a Brooklyn office building . Smith aimed the camera towards the open window , so as to use the building next-door over as a background . A small flagpole with a tiny Spanish flag , set up in forced perspective so as to look much larger , was erected in front of the window . While Smith cranked the camera , Blackton's hand reached into the frame and tore the Spanish flag off its halyards . Then he pulled the flag cords to raise an American flag on the same pole . That's it . This brief one-shot movie caused a patriotic sensation wherever it was exhibited in the USA , and it brought in a substantial profit for Blackton and Smith , which they used to finance more films in their tiny studio . Eventually they erected a proscenium stage , elsewhere in Brooklyn , and began to film silent versions of stage plays . Considering that ' Tearing Down the Spanish Flag ' made possible the financing for more sophisticated films which also served as experiments in the new medium , I'm tempted to give this crude movie a high rating . But it may also be the first motion picture that was financed by cynical executives purely to cash in on an unsavoury aspect of the public appetite . . . the first of many such movies . I'll split the difference and rate this movie .
Accept no imitations .	At the peak of his career , Charlie Chaplin's films were so hugely popular ( and profitable ) that a whole legion of lesser film comedians were imitating him . A few comedians took the gambit of performing Chaplinesque antics while at least maintaining some originality of appearance . The best and best-known example of this was Harold Lloyd's screen character Lonesome Luke , who was specifically created as a Chaplin imitation that wouldn't LOOK a Chaplin imitation . Chaplin's tramp wore too-large clothes , and had a mustache that consisted of one little dot . . . so Lloyd's character Lonesome Luke wore too-tight clothes , and had a mustache made of TWO little dots . However , quite a few film comedians ( including at least one woman ) , took the audacious step of blatantly impersonating Chaplin's tramp , turning out counterfeit ' Charlies ' that looked much like the original , even if they were less imaginative . The most successful ( and most talented ) of the faux Chaplins was Billy West , who mimicked Chaplin so conscientiously that he even slept with his hair in curlers to more closely resemble the genuine article . Reportedly , Chaplin himself ( who did NOT look like the Tramp offscreen ) once chanced upon Billy West's crew while they were filming one of their fake Chaplin shorts . Chaplin watched his imitator , then told him : ' You're a damned good imitation , but that's all you are . ' Unlike several other fake Charlies , the Billy West films are quite funny , and so close to the genuine article in appearance that viewers can be forgiven for mistaking them for actual Chaplin shorts . Indeed , one of Billy West's supporting stooges in these films was Leo White , who had been second-banana in several Chaplin shorts at Mutual and First National . An easy way to spot a Billy West film is that his fake Chaplin movies often prominently feature Oliver Hardy : pre-Laurel , and without his mustache , but clearly recognisable . Hardy never worked with the real Chaplin ( which helps establish these ' Tramp ' movies as imitations ) , but in the Billy West movies Hardy fulfils the same function of heavy-set menace that was supplied in Chaplin's movies by Mack Swain and Eric Campbell . ' Cupid's Rival ' stars Billy West as Chaplin's tramp character , working as the porter in a fleabag hotel . One of the boarders is Oliver Hardy , as a struggling artist whose penury has brought him beyond the brink of hunger . ( Though you wouldn't know it from his waistline . ) Ethel Burton is ostensibly Hardy's girlfriend , but a rival artist across the hall wants her to pose for him . . . and we all know what that can lead to . The jealous Hardy disguises himself as a woman ( ! ) to spy on Ethel . I'm not sure if you want to see Oliver Hardy in drag . Meanwhile , the counterfeit Little Tramp stirs up trouble for all , and the movie climaxes in a Mack Sennett-style chase ( a device which the real Chaplin had long since abandoned at this point ) . ' Cupid's Rival ' is so well done that it could pass as a real Chaplin short . The bad news is that , if this were a genuine Charlie , it would be one of Charlie's least funny short comedies : more on the level of ' Tango Tangles ' than ' The Adventurer ' . Still , it's a good example of Billy West's work , and Hardy's . I'll rate ' Cupid's Rival ' .
Jim Nabors gets shot .	The title of this film is never explained ; possibly ' The Conquering Horde ' refers to a cattle stampede . Certainly the stampede sequence in this movie is one of its ( few ) highlights . Taisie Lockhart ( Fay Wray ) and Dan McMasters ( Richard Arlen ) were chaste lovers up until 1861 , when the American Civil War broke out and Dan upped sticks to join the Union side . This caused Taisie to fall out of love with him , as she's a loyal Texan . ( I well and truly dislike Civil War movies that sympathise with the Confederacy . News flash : the Confederates owned slaves , and the ones who didn't own slaves were still dedicated to preserving the slaveholder system . The Union were the good guys , got it ? ) Anyroad , Appomattox has come and gone , and Dan has returned to Texas , where Taisie is now the owner of the Del Sol cattle ranch . The state treasurer is Marvin Fletcher , and with a name like Marvin Fletcher you just know he can't be trusted . . . especially as the actor who portrays him ( Ian Maclaren ) makes only a token attempt to conceal his stage-trained English accent . Sure enough , Fletcher has designs on both the fair young Taisie and her spread . . . her ranch , I mean . If only the ranch would fail , he could seize it at poverty prices . And maybe Marvin can force Taisie to give him her head of cattle . Nyah-ah-ah ! Pause here for moustache twirling . Taisie does have one loyal ranch hand , whose name is Jim Nabors . ( Gaw-lee , Sergeant Carter ! ) Nabors is played by Claude Gillingwater , who usually played ill-tempered misers . . . either completely unsympathetic , or else becoming charmed by Shirley Temple in the last reel . It's deeply intriguing to see Gillingwater cast here so far outside his usual type : in a role that's entirely sympathetic , and actually more appropriate for a younger actor . ( Gillingwater was past 60 at this point ; a bit old to be playing a ranch hand . ) Jim Nabors - - Gillingwater's character - - gets shot in one scene ; I don't recall Gillingwater getting into many shoot-outs in his long movie career . Taisie is doomed to default on her mortgage , unless she can get her cattle to Abilene . This is Richard Arlen's cue to arrive and save the day . Of course , we know that Marvin Fletcher will make trouble . Much of this oater is purely by the numbers . However , along the cattle drive we get some fine photography by Archie Stout . There are several impressive desert vistas , as well as scenes depicting a sandstorm , a rainstorm and the aforementioned stampede . These scenes must have been difficult to film , if only for the large number of cattle involved . The underrated Arlen is quietly impressive here , in a role very typical for him . Gillingwater is likewise impressive here , in the least typical portrayal I've ever seen for him . The biggest flaw in this film is Fay Wray's performance as the rancher . I found her entirely unbelievable as someone dedicated to the hard life and steady routine of a livestock rancher . With her makeup perfectly in place , Wray sulks her way through her scenes , creating the impression she'd rather be swanking in some nightclub . Cowboy movies are not one of my favoured genres , and I'll rate ' The Conquering Horde ' only .
What were they thinking ?	Cross-dressing is a fertile subject for comedy , but I tend to cringe when it happens in a cartoon intended for children . Bugs Bunny's penchant for transvestism is strange enough . . . but here in ' Blind Date ' , a cartoon starring Heckle and Jeckle , we have something even more bizarre : forced public feminisation in a context that's clearly sexual . Didn't anyone at Terrytoons realise that children would be watching this thing ? Heckle reads a newspaper story about a millionaire dog named Horace who is offering a reward for the return of his long-lost girlfriend Dimples . The newspaper has a photo of Dimples , in blonde curls and a frock . Heckle looks at Jeckle , and we see a subjective shot of Jeckle in drag as Heckle imagines him disguised as Dimples . ' Oh , no you don't ! ' protests Jeckle , but Heckle chases him into a room where Heckle just happens to keep a female disguise handy . ( Hmm , no comment . ) Heckle puts a blonde wig on Jeckle's feathered head . Jeckle angrily throws the wig onto the floor , but then Heckle quickly binds Jeckle into a corset which constricts him into a ( vaguely ) female shape and prevents him from struggling . Next , Heckle puts the wig back on Jeckle , then adds a dress , high heels and lipstick . It's not a very convincing disguise , but Heckle brings Jeckle to Horace's mansion and then turns ' her ' in for the reward . Horace is an anthropomorphised dog , vaguely similar to the Dimwit character of other Terrytoons . Horace is too stupid to notice that ' Dimples ' is actually a male magpie , and he keeps trying to kiss this ' girlfriend ' . Jeckle clearly doesn't want to play this girly game ; he keeps trying to escape or take off his female disguise , but Heckle keeps conniving him into ' dating ' Horace . So , here we have one male cartoon character feminising another male cartoon character against his will , and then pimping him to a third male cartoon character . Jeckle obviously doesn't want to be a girl , and he doesn't want to be Horace's girlfriend , but Heckle is forcing him to comply . . . and Heckle is clearly pimping Jeckle's ' female charms ' for money . This might be a fit subject for an adult comedy , but is this really something that children should be watching ? I'm a Heckle and Jeckle fan , but this is definitely one of their most unpleasant films . Quite a few male-buddy comedies ( animated or otherwise ) imply a whiff of homosexuality in the buddies ' friendship . ( Think of those rumours about Bert and Ernie . ) ' Blind Date ' raises some questions about Heckle and Jeckle , and also puts their friendship on very curious terms . Why would a male cartoon character maintain a relationship with a male roommate who forces him to wear female clothes in public ? I did laugh at one clever and unexpected musical gag . While Horace is pursuing the feminised Jeckle , the soundtrack plays an unnamed marching tune that is often heard in American cartoons during military sequences . Here , the tune was appropriate because of its title : ' The Girl I Left Behind Me ' . Most of ' Blind Date ' isn't funny , but the final gag is very funny indeed . . . even though it was much funnier when Buster Keaton used it in ' Seven Chances ' back in 1925 . I'll rate ' Blind Date ' , for its crisp animation ( better than usual for Terrytoons ) and its good layouts . The scene in which Jeckle morphs into a girl is well done . But , really : what were they thinking at Paul Terry's studio ? ' Blind Date ' isn't quite as bizarrely transgendered as the forced public feminisation in Bob Clampett's notorious ' The Big Snooze ' - in which Bugs Bunny liquefies Elmer Fudd , moulds him into female proportions , and then transports the sex-changed Elmer to the crossroads of Hollywood and Vine - but ' Blind Date ' is quite weird . I don't recommend this cartoon for children .
Fiddling about .	In the 1920s , classical musicians were still popular with the general public rather than being stigmatised as ' long-hairs ' for elitists and snobs . With the coming of talkies , Warner Brothers ' Vitaphone unit ( based in Brooklyn , NY ) were quick to film the performances of classical musicians and opera singers based in New York City , demonstrating the cultural aspects of the newly auditory medium . This sound short featuring Mischa Elman was recorded and released before ' The Jazz Singer ' , the film which people persistently misbelieve was the very first sound movie . In fact , ' Mischa Elman ' ( as this short film is titled ) was premiered on the same programme as the feature film which actually DID convince the public that sound movies would replace the silents : ' Don Juan ' , starring John Barrymore ( a movie with synchronised sound effects and music but no audible dialogue ) . Mischa Elman ( no long-hair in the literal sense ; he's almost completely slap-headed here ) was a popular concert violinist of the time ( the Gershwin brothers once satirised him in a song ) who is now nearly forgotten . Here , he performs two violin numbers on a static set . I was vaguely distracted by a white bust on a pedestal behind him : during Elman's performance , I kept staring at the bust and trying to figure out whether or not it depicted Beethoven . Elman's first number is Anton Dvorak's ' Humoresque ' , which remains a well-known piece . . . and which , in Elman's time , also inspired the title of Fanny Hurst's then-popular novel . ( And the parody title of the Marx Brothers ' ' Humor Risk ' . ) Although I'm no musician , I was interested in having this chance to study Elman's technique . In ' Humoresque ' he uses double-stringing to accompany himself . Elman's second number is the gavotte by François-Joseph Gossec . I recognise this melody due to the fact that Carl Stalling later used it in so many Loony Toons . In fact , while I was listening to Elman play this piece , I kept half-expecting an anvil to drop out of the sky . . . or some other piece of Termite Terrace foolabout . Elman is accompanied here by a pianist named Josef Bonime , who is listed on the opening credit but who is not seen on-camera . Bonime's contribution was unnecessary , and his piano technique sounds unremarkable . Admittedly he's only here to make Elman sound good , but Elman clearly doesn't need his assistance . This movie isn't very visual , so its value today is more historic than anything else . Anyone who wants to hear Elman's music will be better served by tracking down his audio recordings . I suppose that a few music historians will want to see this movie so as to study Elman's technique . I'm not a huge fan of classical music , so I might be somewhat prejudiced in rating this short film only .
Verging on the Opper attic .	The comic strip ' Happy Hooligan ' was written and drawn by Frederick Burr Opper ( without assistants ) for an impressively long time : 1900 to 1932 . It was the first extremely popular American comic strip , the first major comic strip syndicated by King Features , and the first comic strip to spawn a significant amount of tie-in merchandising ( including movies ) . Although Opper was not the first comic-strip artist to use speech balloons , ' Happy Hooligan ' was the earliest strip to formalise this device . The strip's main character was a tramp , nominally of Irish descent , who improbably wore an empty tin can balanced on top of his head . Happy Hooligan bore a strong resemblance - - more in behaviour than in physical appearance - - to Alley Sloper , a character in comic magazines published in late Victorian England . One of my most prized possessions is an original full-colour Sunday page from a 1908 California newspaper , depicting Happy Hooligan and his siblings in England , getting carted off in barrels by Cockney constables . This crude short movie from 1900 - - released only a few months after Hooligan's debut - - was the first of dozens of live-action movies and cartoons depicting the comic-strip character . The slapstick situation in this short film is generic : it fits the behaviour of Hooligan as depicted in Opper's comic strip , but it could just as easily fit the antics of any baggy-pants comedian from that period . Are the events we witness here a dramatisation of an actual Hooligan strip from 1900 ? Or have these film-makers successfully invented an original story for Opper's creation ? As I've seen only a few dozen Hooligan strips , and only three from 1900 , I can't say for certain . SPOILERS NOW . The plot , you say ? There's not much of it . An organ-grinder , presumably Italian , is plying his trade outside a housewife's window . She sticks her head out , and berates him to move on . He remains . The housewife retreats into her house . Happy Hooligan enters from stage left ( this movie was filmed on what's blatantly a stage set ) and persuades the organ-grinder to ambulate . From stage right enters a constable , and plants himself squarely where the organ-grinder had been . Here now , what's all this , then ? The housewife emerges again , with a pail of water intended for the organ-grinder . . . but she dumps it on the cop instead . Gardy-loo ! Happy Hooligan laughs merrily . Unless some British film studio made a movie in the 1890s featuring Alley Sloper , this epic from 1900 is the very first movie starring a comic-strip character . . . in live action , no less . I was very intrigued to discover that the actor ( ? ) impersonating Happy Hooligan in this film is none other than J Stuart Blackton . A former newspaper cartoonist , Blackton became a film-maker early on , and achieved several historic precedents as a film director and producer . He is not generally remembered as a film actor , so his appearance in front of the camera here - - in elaborate costume , including a slap-headed wig with a tin can on top - - is noteworthy . Less favourably , this film is also notable because the cameraman keeps reframing the action , nudging the camera a few inches to the left or the right . This is especially annoying because it's arbitrary : when the actors enter , exit , or cross the stage , the camera remains stationary . . . but it pans to one side or the other for no good reason while the actors are standing still . This is clearly a tech error from the days when movie-makers were still inventing the rules of film grammar . But I've never seen this error in a J Stuart Blackton film that was actually shot by Blackton himself . Maybe if Blackton had swapped places with his cameraman , putting the camera jockey into costume as Happy Hooligan while Blackton manned the camera , this might have been a better movie . This film's significance is entirely historical , as there's nothing in the action that you haven't seen in a dozen other slapstick shorts . My rating : .
Some razzle , but not much dazzle	Yes , the 1927 silent film ' Chicago ' is the same story that became the big-budget Oscar-winning musical of 2002 . ( There was a remake in between , ' Roxie Hart ' : starring Ginger Rogers . ) Apart from the obvious difference that one ' Chicago ' is silent and the other is a musical , both films tell exactly the same story . The major difference is that murderess Velma is a minor character in the silent version . Also , in the silent version , Roxie's husband is presented more sympathetically rather than as a fall guy . When I saw the 2002 ' Chicago ' , set in the Jazz Age 1920s , I was annoyed by a couple of musical numbers in which the dancers were wearing blatantly modern disco-era outfits , which would never have been tolerated in 1927 . Yet , ironically , the 2002 ' Chicago ' does a much better job than the 1927 original in evoking the 1920s period settings . The silent-film ' Chicago ' is conceived as a MODERN story , set in the jazz-baby present day , and so it makes little effort to evoke its own period . Much of this movie takes place in cramped studio sets which are supposed to be dingy walk-up flats or courtrooms , but which fail to convince . If you've seen the recent ' Chicago ' , then you already know the plot of this 1927 movie , including all the surprises and plot twists . During Roxie's trial for homicide , the prosecutor ( Warner Richmond ) has a larger and more sympathetic role than in the musical remake . Fans of Eugene Pallette will be impressed with him here , but disappointed by how little he has to do . Phyllis Haver is excellent in the lead role , and sexier than Rene Zellweger . ( Though not nearly as sexy as Catherine Zeta-Jones . ) This ' Chicago ' was produced in 1927 , the first year of the Academy Awards . I wonder what the people connected with this movie would have thought if someone had told them that this story would win the Oscar for Best Picture . . . but not until 75 years later . I'm a silent-film fan . When a silent film is remade as a talkie , I often enjoy the silent version much more than the remake . In this case , I don't . I'll rate the 2002 ' Chicago ' , very much deserving its Academy Award for Best Picture . I'll rate this 1927 ' Chicago ' only . I recommend it as a curiosity , but it inevitably suffers in comparison with the musical version . Quite apart from all those razzle-dazzle dance numbers , the 2002 version actually told the STORY better .
Afterbirth of a nation	John Barrymore and Ethel Barrymore never entirely abandoned the stage , even after beginning their film careers . However , when their older brother Lionel moved to Hollywood , he gave quits to the theatre forever . . . devoting the rest of his career to movies and radio . During Lionel Barrymore's theatrical career , his single most successful stage role was the lead in ' The Copperhead ' , a play by Augustus Thomas based on a novel by Frederick Landis . The 1920 film version of ' The Copperhead ' is a poorly-made adaptation of what was not a very good play to begin with . It's hardly one of Lionel Barrymore's best film performances . . . but it still has some historical value as a record of his most important stage role . Rather awkwardly , the action is divided between the ( American ) Civil War and the early twentieth century , circa 1902 . This means that major characters in Act One are long dead in Act Three , and major characters in Act Three weren't even born yet during Act One . Barrymore , in the lead role , plays the only character who is alive throughout the action . Unfortunately , Barrymore ( in his early forties when he made this film ) is clearly too old to play the dashing young man in the Civil War scenes . In the later scenes , during the Theodore Roosevelt administration , Barrymore's character is aged very slightly with some unconvincing make-up . . . but he now looks too young to be playing a character who should be about 70 years old . During the Civil War , Northerners who sympathised with the Confederate cause were contemptuously known as ' copperheads ' ( like the snake ) . Organised gangs of Ku Klux Klan-like vigilantes , known as ' the Copperheads ' , committed acts of sabotage and terrorism throughout the Northern states . Like the Weather Underground and other Vietnam-era militants , the Copperheads used violent means in an attempt to persuade the U . S . government to end its military aggression ( against the South ) and to terminate military conscription . The Civil War is in full cry , and Milt Shanks ( Barrymore ) is a Northerner who makes no secret of his Southern sympathies . His family and his neighbours despise him and reject him , calling him a copperhead . Milt's son Joseph , a loyal Yankee , joins the Union army . When Joseph is wounded in the battle at Vicksburg , he dies cursing his traitorous father . Eventually it is discovered that Milt Shanks is an upper-case Copperhead : he has joined the terrorist gang and aided their night raids against Union army bases . Fade to the twentieth century : nearly forty years on from Appomattox , Milt Shanks is still reviled by everyone in his community . ( Why hasn't he ever moved elsewhere ? ) But now his grandchild is in trouble , and the neighbours have no sympathy because the Shanks family's honour has been tainted ever since the Civil War . At last , to save his grandchild , Milt Shanks reveals the secret he has kept for all these years . Flashback to 1862 . Milt Shanks was a loyal Unionist all along . President Abraham Lincoln personally recruited Shanks for a dangerous mission : Shanks was to play the role of a Confederate sympathiser in order to infiltrate the Copperheads and then betray them to the Union army . As an undercover agent ( not exactly a spy , since he was working in the North rather than in enemy territory ) , Shanks has materially aided the Union cause at great personal risk . During the war , President Lincoln forbade Shanks to reveal his secret mission to anyone . . . even his own family . At the war's end , it was expected that the President would release Shanks from his vow of secrecy . . . but the assassination of Lincoln prevented this , and Shanks has loyally kept his secret ever since , until now . ' The Copperhead ' isn't a very good play , and it's made even worse by the awkward flashback structure in this film . It's implausible that Shanks would keep his secret for nearly 40 years after the war's end . . . at great cost to himself , but at no further benefit to the U . S . government or to President Lincoln . The ' actor ' who plays Lincoln in this film has no acting ability at all , and he has obviously been cast solely for his physical resemblance to Abraham Lincoln . . . which frankly isn't very convincing . I kept expecting the mole on his cheek to fall off . Anne Cornwall , later effective as Keaton's leading lady in ' College ' , is attractive and effective in a small role here . Lionel Barrymore delivers a thick serving of ham , yet I found his performance perversely enjoyable . It's refreshing to see a Civil War film in which the anti-slavery North are clearly depicted as the force of virtue . ' The Birth of a Nation ' , ' Gone with the Wind ' and ' The General ' ( to name only three examples ) are much better movies than ' The Copperhead ' , yet they commit the morally bankrupt tactic of sympathising with the Confederacy . . . and , of course , minimising the slavery issue . I'll rate ' The Copperhead ' , but at least one point is in honour of Lionel Barrymore's entire career rather than his performance in this movie .
Like a bad opera with no music .	The very sensuous actress Regina Badet portrays Leah , a shill who works for a European casino run by a crook , played in an excellent performance by the actor Guy Favieres . According to the intertitles of the print I viewed , the casino owner's name is Govanni . . . aye , that's Govanni , not Giovanni . Shows you how crooked he is . Leah's job is to attract the attention of well-heeled men ( easy enough , with her looks ) and lure them to Govanni's casino , where the crooked croupiers will do the rest . In other words , Leah hooks the fish , and the croupiers clean the fish . The scam requires Leah to spend lots of time outside the casino , so that she can find men and lure them INTO the place . Fortunately , this situation gives us some beautiful exterior shots of what appears to be a French coastal town . On one of her ( ahem ) fishing trips , Leah meets a handsome young novelist cried Reginald Ramsay ( actor Paul Guide ) , who is currently writing a novel titled ' The Lotus of Gold ' . Leah discovers that she's genuinely attracted to Ramsay , so she decides not to lure him to the casino after all . Or maybe , once she finds out he's a novelist , she figures he's skint anyway . All is well for the lovers , until a roue friend of Ramsay's , who has been to the casino , decides that the novelist should learn the truth about her . The roue finds out when Leah will be at the casino , and then he invites Ramsay to accompany him there . . . without telling him why . Leah has just finished cleaning out another sucker . The bankrupt man whips out a pistol ( is there no security check at this casino ? ) and he shoots himself , literally dying at Leah's feet . Ramsay has arrived just in time to witness this . So what does he do ? Right , you've guessed it : he goes to Africa . Au revoir , m'sieur . Awash in sorrow that the man she loved has learnt the truth about her , Leah rushes out into the streets and promptly gets struck by a car . Some sympathetic passers-by decide to take her to . . . a hospital ? No , that would make sense , so they don't do it . Without bothering to find out if she has any spinal fractures or other serious injuries , they hoy her up and take her to the nearby estate of the Marquess of Carabbas . . . I mean the Marquis de Merricourt ( played by Jean-Marie de l'Isle ) . Well , it turns out that Leah has some Marquis value . The nobleman - - who does indeed exhibit some noble traits - - straight away falls in love with her . While recovering from her injuries , Leah marries the marquis , who has beaucoup moolah . She makes him so happy , he sends for his estranged son , asking him to come home to meet his new step-mum . SPOILERS COMING . Ooh la la ! The son of the marquis turns out to be none other than Reginald Ramsay ! A triangle develops ; Leah seems to have some genuine affection for her much older husband ( as opposed to his money ) , but it's the younger and handsomer Reginald who truly crepes her suzette . One thing leads to the next , and pretty soon the marquis discovers his wife in bed with his son . Quelle fromage ! So what does Leah do ? For the sake of the father's and son's love for each other , she commits suicide . This silent movie felt like an opera with no music . I didn't much fancy the moralistic ending ; it implies that a sensual woman is inherently so immoral that she must die . As portrayed by Regina Badet - - an appealingly subtle actress , as well as a looker - - Leah isn't really evil ; she seems to have been coerced by Govanni to begin with , and after she leaves the casino she's genuinely more concerned for the happiness of Reginald and the marquis than for her own happiness . Still , this movie is a lot clumsier than it needs to be , and I'll rate it only .
Where's an earthquake when you really need one ?	' Frisco Kid ' was made at Warner Brothers , the studio that most ruthlessly ripped off and recycled its own scripts in thinly-disguised remakes . This movie re-uses elements from ' Barbary Coast ' , another ( and better ) Warners film made the same year ! The barroom brawl in ' Frisco Kid ' seems to be inspired by the climax of Rex Beach's popular novel ' The Spoilers ' , which had been filmed before ' Frisco Kid ' and would be remade afterwards . James Cagney - always dynamic onscreen , yet not quite at the top of his form here - stars as Bat Morgan , a hustler who came west during the gold rush of 1849 and now finds himself a year later in San Francisco's notorious Barbary Coast . ( Which got its name due to the lawlessness that prevailed : a reference to the real Barbary coast , which was controlled by pirates . ) Morgan proves his mettle early on , in a spirited brawl with press-gangman Shanghai Duck , who has a hook for a right hand . We find out just how tough this community is when Ricardo Cortez gets killed by a lynch mob due to a misunderstanding . Morgan soon sets himself up as proprietor of a Barbary Coast saloon with a crooked casino . He makes deals with the local politicians , offering them a share of the profits from his prostitution and gambling businesses to avoid being raided or arrested . ( I found this absolutely plausible ; the San Francisco city government was notoriously corrupt , from Gold Rush days right until the 1906 earthquake . ) He also befriends Jean Barrat , the lady owner of the local newspaper . This is one of those movies in which the virtuous heroine is attracted to a crooked hero , fully aware that he's crooked , and we're expected to approve because the crook is such a charming guy . The newspaperwoman is played by dull unattractive Margaret Lindsay , so the romantic subplot of this movie isn't worth much . Eventually , Judge Crawford - the only honest man in town - gets murdered , and the mob mistakenly decide that Bat Morgan is guilty . This whips them into a lynch-mob frenzy . Why the San Franciscans should be provoked to lynch-law over this particular crime - while ignoring so many other crimes in this movie - is never made very clear . We're meant to sympathise with Bat Morgan , who is genuinely innocent of Crawford's murder , even though we know he's guilty of many other crimes . In 1935 , when ' Frisco Kid ' was made , lynching was a real and widespread problem in the United States . The tendency of white mobs to lynch black victims is well known , but at this time plenty of white victims were lynched too . ( The makers of this movie were probably more concerned about the white victims than the black ones . ) ' Fury ' , an anti-lynching movie made at MGM at this same time , is a much better film addressing the same problem . The torchlight climax of ' Frisco Kid ' degenerates into a bathetic payoff that's clearly intended to mollify the critics and the moral guardians . As is usual for Warners in the thirties , there's a fine assortment of supporting players on offer here . Barton MacLane is hissable as Spider Burke , little George E Stone is touching , and the woefully underrated actor John Wray is splendid as an underworld character named Weasel . ( John Wray played another underworld character named Weasel in ' Boys Town ' : he had a talent for rodent-like roles . ) Charles Middleton , Walter Long and Wilfred Lucas are onscreen just briefly enough to disappoint their fans . ( Does Wilfred Lucas have any fans ? ) ' Frisco Kid ' was made at the beginning of the Warner studio's greatest period - and at the beginning of the greatest phase of James Cagney's career - but it's neither first-rate Warners nor first-rate Cagney . I'll rate this movie .
That sinking feeling	The English-born Dorothy Mackaill was a silent-film actress who looked stately rather than beautiful . Her voice was not impressive in early sound films . In ' Convoy ' , she plays Sylvia Dodge : a New York society lady in 1917 who is recruited by a Secret Service agent ( ominously known only as Smith ) to befriend Ernest Drake . It seems that Drake is really Ernst von Drachenfels , a spy for the Kaiser . Drake is indeed sending coded messages to the Kaiser's agents , but his method is implausible and far too elaborate . He routinely has large bouquets delivered to lady acquaintances . Sylvia discovers the spy's secret : although the ladies themselves are not spies , Drake's choice of which type of flower to send to which lady's address is an elaborate code . His henchmen observe the deliveries , and relay these details to U-boat captains via wireless . The most interesting scenes in ' Convoy ' use authentic wartime footage of U-boats attacking British and American convoys : these starkly realistic scenes feel as if they're a completely different movie from this overwrought soap-opera plot . Thanks to Sylvia , von Drachenfels is exposed as a spy . . . but contrived circumstances manage to make Sylvia appear to be his accomplice . Certain facts , if made known , would clear Sylvia . . . but Smith pressures her into keeping silent , claiming security concerns . Rather implausibly , Sylvia is arrested and charged with espionage . She is convicted , and proceeds to serve a long sentence . . . even though she could clear herself at any time . SPOILERS NOW . There is of course a happy ending , which is no surprise . Sylvia's brother ( played by Buster Collier ) obtains the facts that clear her , and she is reunited with her fiancee ( who only briefly lost faith in her patriotism ) . The fiancee is played by the dull and well-named Lawrence Gray . Dorothy Mackaill is vapid in the central role , and Ian Keith is in full Snidely Whiplash mode as the unsympathetic Secret Service agent . Eddie Gribbon provides some unfunny comic relief . By far , the best performance here is given by Lowell Sherman as the suave spy . Sherman usually played epicene cads : he was probably the silent screen's nearest anticipation of George Sanders . Interestingly , Lowell Sherman was one of the co-hosts of the fatal San Francisco party that ruined Roscoe Arbuckle's career , yet Sherman's career was not affected by the scandal . I'll rate ' Convoy ' , mostly for that naval warfare footage .
Flyweight actor in lightweight story .	The thoroughfare in the title of ' The Great White Way ' is , of course , Broadway . . . which came into its own in 1904 with the opening of Manhattan's subway system . I was eager to see this film , as it includes brief appearances by several prominent newspapermen and society figures of this period . Among others , we see cartoonists Winsor McCay , George McManus , Billy DeBeck and Harry Hershfield ; the latter was at this time author and illustrator of the popular comic strip ' Abie the Agent ' , but he eventually had a more successful career as a toastmaster . Also seen here are impresario Tex Rickard , journalists Arthur Brisbane and Nell Brinkley , humour columnist Bugs Baer , author Irvin S . Cobb and Damon Runyon . I hope I don't have to tell you who Damon Runyon was . I viewed an incomplete print of ' The Great White Way ' which had some scenes missing . Apparently the movie attempts to tell three different stories , each of which reflects some aspect of Broadway's heartbeat . The first story is about a fire in the theatrical district , the second about a horse race . . . held nowhere near Broadway , but involving many Broadway characters as bettors , bookmakers or touts . Most of the missing footage was from these two sequences . The third sequence is about a prizefighter with dreams of attaining the championship . And here's where things get odd . For one thing , the fighter is merely a welterweight . Except for middleweight Sugar Ray Robinson , it seems to me that American fight fans have never much cared about boxers in the lower weight classes : the heavyweight gets all the attention ( and money ) . So , why is this film about a welterweight ? The next oddity is the casting of that role . The welterweight contender , Joe Cain ( great name ! ) , is played by Oscar Shaw . Marx Brothers fans may recall that Oscar Shaw and Mary Eaton played the lovers in ' The Coconuts ' . . . and were the only film actors ever to get billed above the Marx Brothers ! Oscar Shaw was a weedy song-and-dance man , somewhat effete : approximately the American equivalent of Ian Carmichael . Shaw isn't effeminate , but he's not remotely macho , and is a bizarre choice for this role . Wait : it gets more confusing . The fictional Joe Cain is supposed to have a championship fight with the current title-holder , who has come to New York City for the title bout all the way from England . This character ( presumably also fictional ) is unnamed in the footage I saw , but he's played by Pete Hartley . . . a genuine welterweight contender of this time . The confusion gets in because Hartley shows up on both ends of the cast list . Real-life boxer Pete Hartley appears in this movie as a fictional character , while a burly actor named Jimmy Stone shows up in the same sequences to portray real-life boxer Pete Hartley ! Huh ? Meanwhile , I couldn't help wondering about that name Jimmy Stone . Two years after this movie was made , Damon Runyon participated in another boxing movie - - ' Oh , Baby ! ' - - about a fictional pugilist named Jim Stone . Is there some sort of in-joke being perpetrated here ? Whatever the intentions were , when the actors strip off for the boxing match , it's clear that Pete Hartley ( the real one ) is in much better shape than Oscar Shaw . The actors must struggle ludicrously to create the impression that these two fighters are equally matched . T . Roy Barnes supplies some inept comedy relief . I doubt that this movie would have made more sense if I'd screened a complete print . As it stands , I'll rate it only one point for coherence , but for the rare glimpses of major figures from American journalism .
The buttons don't reach high enough .	It's a shame that so many Broadway plays and musicals drift into obscurity because they were never filmed . For decades , theatre historians agreed that one of the greatest dance numbers ever staged was Jerome Robbins's second-act opening of ' High Button Shoes ' : a frenzied production number titled ' The Bathing Beauty Ballet ' that spoofed silent films in general and Mack Sennett's Keystone comedies in particular . When Robbins resurrected his own number for the Broadway revue ' Jerome Robbins on Broadway ' , he was forced to rely upon bootleg film footage of this number , shot illicitly with a home-movie camera lacking a soundtrack . . . and also missing the middle of the number , when the camera's owner had to rewind its clockwork mainspring . The 1947 Broadway musical ' High Button Shoes ' had a bizarre origin . Lyricist Sammy Cahn read a book titled ' The Sisters Liked Them Handsome ' by Stephen Longstreet : a semi-fictionalised account of Longstreet's boyhood with his New Jersey family in the 1910s . Cahn , in a visit to his writing partner , composer Jule Styne , proposed they write a musical based on Longstreet's memoir , but regretted he had no idea of how to contact Longstreet . Styne took Cahn next-door to meet his neighbour : Stephen Longstreet ! Unfortunately , during its development for Broadway , Longstreet's memoir was revised ( by George Abbott ) into a generic Broadway musical , unusual only for its 1913 setting . I actively sought out this 1966 television production of ' High Button Shoes ' because ( apart from the bootleg ) it remains the only film record of that show . ( A 1956 version , with some of the original cast repeating their stage roles , appears to be lost . ) The purchase of this property's television rights ( by Sigourney Weaver's father ! ) made the show unavailable for Hollywood . As it stands , this is a radically abbreviated ' tab ' production , abridged to fit the time slot of Garry Moore's regular comedy-variety series . The basic story depicted the family life of the Longstreet family in 1913 New Brunswick : parents Henry and Sara , young son Stevie , Sara's sister Ruth and Ruth's boyfriend Hubert ' Oggie ' Ogglethorpe . Their prosaic lives are interrupted by the arrival of confidence trickster Harrison Floy and his befuddled assistant Pontdue . In the original production , the role of Floy was tailored to the talents of Phil Silvers : his became the leading role , with Nanette Fabray playing Sara as the most important of the Longstreets . A weakness in the story is the absence of a romance between the two main characters . Sara's husband is very much a secondary role . This 1966 production tries to adapt the material to the production needs of Garry Moore's comedy-variety series . Stevie Longstreet ( the autobiographical character ) is deleted altogether . Bland little Garry Moore casts himself as bland husband Henry Longstreet : fair enough , but what's the point ? Less successful is the casting of Moore's perennial sidekick , tall bland Durward Kirby , as henchman Pontdue . Kirby - - who , in real life , had no sense of humour at all - - is wasted here . More interesting , but only slightly more successful , is the casting of Jack Cassidy in the lead role of conman Floy . A very different performer from Phil Silvers , Cassidy acquits himself well here in material tailored for Silvers , even speak-singing his big number ' Nobody Ever Died for Dear Old Rutgers ' . Crooner Jerry Lanning , with his handsome face and splendid tenor voice , deserved much more stardom than he received . However , he's too staid here to play a character nicknamed Oggie . In the female lead , Maureen O'Hara isn't quite musical enough : she's easily upstaged by soprano Carol Lawrence as Sara's marriage-minded sister . This tab production of ' High Button Shoes ' retains just enough merit to make me wish I had seen the original 1947 production . On its own small but genuine merits , I rate this version .
' Deep Purple ' ? More like pale lavender . . .	' The Deep Purple ' is based on a stage play ( about which , more in a moment ) . I was surprised to discover that William Cameron Menzies was this film's art director . . . and disappointed , once I'd seen the results . Menzies was the greatest art director in the history of films , but his work here is a far cry from his brilliant achievements in ' Thief of Bagdad ' and ' Things to Come ' . In fairness to Menzies , it's obvious that this film was made on an extremely low budget , with actors who were obscure even in their own day . Raoul Walsh , the director , shows his usual excellent pacing but little of the slam-bang realism that would distinguish his later efforts at Warner Brothers . Walsh served as his own producer here , which may explain the pinchpenny production values . William Lake ( Stuart Sage ) is a mining engineer who went out west with some mining equipment he invented , and promptly made a fortune : now he and his millions are back east and in search of a wife . For some reason , this extremely wealthy man is staying in the seedy boarding-house run by landlady Kate Fallon ( Helen Ware ) . In the dialogue titles , several people identify her as ' Fresno Kate ' , which ought to be a tip-off that she can't be trusted . Ought to be , but isn't . There's a burgeoning romance between Lake and virginal Doris Moore ( played by the dull Miriam Cooper ) . Unfortunately , along comes suave villain Harry Leland ( Vincent Serrano ) , who looks and acts like Snidely Whiplash on Thorazine . Leland is accompanied by several henchmen and henchwomen , the most interesting of whom is " Pop " Clark . . . whose nickname is due to the fact that he looks and behaves like a saintly father figure . Leland contrives to set up Lake for the old badger game , using Fresno Kate as bait . Naturally , this queers the romance between Lake and Doris . Soap-opera complications ensue . I was very intrigued to see Wilson Mizner's name in the credits of this film . Although Mizner briefly worked as a screenwriter , he apparently had no direct input into this movie : Mizner was co-author of the stage play ' The Deep Purple ' on which this film is based . Mizner was one of those larger-than-life characters whom no author of fiction would dare to invent . In a career course similar to that of this movie's fictional hero , Mizner went west to make his fortune . . . in Mizner's case , in the Klondike gold rush . But , from all accounts ( including his own boasts ) , Mizner made his Klondike wealth as a pimp , as a blackmailer and from various other illegal lurks . The character in this movie who most nearly resembles the real Mizner would be villain Leland . A few years ago ( as I write this ) , Stephen Sondheim tried to write a musical about Wilson Mizner and his brother Addison , who was only slightly less colourful . I was disappointed that Sondheim's project never gelled . . . possibly because the careers of the Mizner brothers are only barely believable . And this movie , too , is less plausible than it might be . British actress Louise Mackintosh gives an impressively understated performance as the hero's widowed mother , but most of the other cast members overact . I'll rate ' The Deep Purple ' only .
Waller , Robinson , Le Gon transcend weak material .	' Hooray for Love ' is the great title of this goodish B-musical ( and of one poor song near the closing ) . The best assets of this so-so show are its three African-American performers : the great Fats Waller , the great Bill Robinson , and the very talented ( and pretty ) dancer Jeni Le Gon . In recent years , Ms Le Gon's career has received much attention in retrospective : oddly , she received far too little attention ( and far too few film appearances ) during her prime years as a dancer . This can't be entirely down to racism , as other black performers were working steadily during that period . I've never understood why Bill Robinson was nicknamed Bojangles . Some other tap dancers ( such as Buck and Bubbles ) wore double-plate tap shoes which created a jangling syncopated sound . But Robinson always performed in single-plate tap shoes which gave a clear crisp tone to his expert footwork . He's in fine form here , doing some of the best dancing of his career without the need to simplify his steps so that some lesser partner ( such as Shirley Temple ) can keep up with him . Jeni Le Gon shows her own expertise , easily keeping step with Robinson . Le Gon appears briefly in male garb , like Eleanor Powell . As usual for films of Hollywood's classic era , there are some treasures in the cast here . Pert Kelton is less annoying than usual , speaking in a normal voice ( for once ) . She performs a dance number which is intentionally inept , to good effect . Lionel Stander is good here , but would have been better if he weren't lumbered with an accent more appropriate for Gregory Ratoff or Leonid Kinskey . But the real find is Thurston Hall . A prolific character actor who appeared in literally hundreds of films , Hall usually played blustering millionaires . Here , he plays a Vitamin Flintheart-style " ack-torr " of the old school , and he practically steals the movie . Why didn't Hall get more chances like this ? Georgia Caine , as a Margaret Dumont-style dowager , is excellent here in her scenes with Hall . ( I kept waiting for some reference to ' Hall Caine ' . ) The plot of this musical is nothing much . I was surprised to learn that Bradford Ropes worked on the dialogue of this movie . Ropes , a former chorus boy and stage actor , wrote the backstage novel that inspired the film ' 42nd Street ' : he was an expert at realistic showbiz dialogue and cynical wisecracks . I can't imagine what he contributed to this lacklustre movie . At least one cliché was avoided here : for once , we see a chanteuse ( Ann Sothern ) who has to clean up her own dressing room , instead of relying on a chucklin ' black maidservant . One of the delights of films from Hollywood's studio era is the frequent tendency for some obscure actor to be given a piece of business or a line of dialogue which makes him stand out . Here , an actor named Monte Vandergrift ( who ? ) has precisely one line of dialogue . . . but his delivery earns him one of the biggest laughs in the movie . The songs ? Forget it . They're all pretty bad , but Waller , Robinson and Le Gon transcend their weak material through sheer force of talent . Also , we get a chance to study Fats Waller's fingerwork on the keyboard . . . but not while he's playing his trademark ' stride ' piano style . There are minor pleasures throughout ' Hooray for Love ' , and I'll rate this movie .
Soapsuds on the ice , starring Frick & Frack	Figure-skating isn't the most promising basis for a film , nor for an acting career . Esther Williams's movie stardom was based on swimming , but at least MGM could just occasionally hang a decent plot line on that talent . Until somebody makes a movie about Tonya Harding , I don't think I'll ever see a genuinely exciting movie about figure-skating . ( Don't let's mention ' Ice Follies of 1939 ' , one of the worst movies ever made . ) In American movies , the most famous skater was Sonja Henie , whilst England had Belita . Both women were blonde and attractive with it , especially in their short-skirted cozzies and high-topped skates . Apart from their skating techniques , the biggest difference between these two ladies on screen was their personalities . Henie always played a ' good girl ' type : a frosted ice-virgin who didn't seem aware of her own nubile appeal . Belita , on the other hand , was sexy and she knew it . There's a big production number in ' Silver Skates ' in which Belita does some spectacular ice-dancing , then she finishes by striking a proud pose at the centre of the rink and running her hands down the front of her own shapely torso while she throws her head backwards in rapture . This is clearly a lady who's very comfortable with her own body . I wish that ' Silver Skates ' gave more screen time to the beauteous Belita and less time to its ridiculous soap-opera plot . During WW2 , Hollywood made a lot of movies depicting America's homefront , in which the characters briefly pay lip-service to the war effort before immersing themselves in a plot line entirely unrelated to the war . ' Silver Skates ' is one of those films . Hitler and Stalin are carving up Europe , but the characters in this movie are more concerned about staging an ice carnival . The presence in the States of the English-born Belita ( given nearly no dialogue , alas ) is attributed to wartime problems back home . Apart from this , the only wartime reference in this movie is a very brief appearance by a war refugee : a little Dutch girl named Katrina ( played by a Yank child actress ) whose residency in America has been sponsored by Claire ( the ice-show's producer ) because Katrina is such a good skater . I guess if she couldn't skate , she would still be back in Rotterdam fending off the Nazis . Claire is played by Patricia Morison , an important Broadway actress ( she starred in the original ' Kiss Me Kate ' ) whose film career never took off . Apart from Belita's scenes , the most interesting things about ' Silver Skates ' are a couple of brief skating turns by Frick and Frack , the comedy ice-skaters . The first time I ever heard of Frick and Frack was when Jackie Gleason did a comedy routine about a ( fictitious ) vaudeville act with that name , so I assumed that Frick and Frack were American vaudevillains . It turns out they were European , and they got a surprising amount of comedic mileage out of their ice-skating gimmick . Frick was tall and lanky with it , the moustached Frack was short and slightly-built . Their most impressive gag takes advantage of their disparate physiques : the two men skate directly towards each other , in trajectories so rapid that neither man can turn aside . A collision seems imminent . At the last instant , Frick spreads his feet and Frack ducks . Frack goes between Frick's legs , then both men straighten again . This is done so quickly that it very nearly looks as if they went right through each other ! Frick and Frack perform this gag twice in ' Silver Skates ' , and they do it so skilfully that it's just as funny the second time as the first . ( After Frack's death , his partner continued to perform as a single-act named Mister Frick . ) Unfortunately , the skating routines ( and Belita's good looks ) are the only high points in this film . For most of its screen time , we get a banal soap-opera plot about people marrying one another for contrived reasons . Will the ice show go on , or not ? ( Take a wild guess . ) Kenny Baker stinks up this movie with his presence . Kenny Baker was a ' singer ' who appeared in several big-budget musicals of the ' 30s and ' 40s , but he's invariably the dullest performer on screen in each of his movies . In ' Silver Skates ' , Kenny Baker never sets foot on the ice rink , but I kept hoping the ice would crack open long enough for him to fall through and drown . ' Silver Skates ' would make a great ice-skating short if somebody would cut out all the argle-bargle subplots and just leave the skating routines by Belita , Frick and Frack and that little Dutch girl . As it stands , I'll rate this movie only .
So , THAT'S Mrs Warren's profession !	I was intrigued by the opening credits of ' Beware of Widows ' : this comedy ( not very funny ) is based on a play by somebody named Owen Moore . There can't be very many people with that name , and I can only think of one : the prolific film actor who was also married to Mary Pickford . I was wholly unaware that he'd ever written anything , yet apparently the playwright and the actor are the same person . I can't vouch for the original play , but if this film adaptation is an example of Owen Moore's writing talents , he should have stuck with acting . Laura La Plante , wearing precisely the same marcel hairstyle that she displayed in several other late-20s movies , stars as Joyce Bragdon , who is attracted to the handsome and popular physician John Waller . . . and therefore she's envious of the attentions that he bestows upon his numerous female patients . Waller ( Bryant Washburn ) seems to have something of a speciality in female patients , although this film's intertitles aren't explicit enough to identify him as a gynaecologist or anything in that line . Along comes an impatient patient whom the title cards identify as Mrs Paul Warren , a widow . . . but if she's a widow , oughtn't she to have stopped using her husband's forename ? The movie also establishes that Mrs Warren is something called ' a professional widow ' but never precisely explains what this might be . Possibly the female equivalent of Chaplin's character in ' Monsieur Verdoux ' , who married rich old women in seriatim so that he could kill them and inherit their money . I know that the phrase " Mrs Warren's profession " is a euphemism , but this movie isn't very Shavian . The widow Warren swiftly convinces Dr Waller to propose marriage to her , while cleverly making it seem to be his own idea . The wedding is scheduled pronto . On a yacht in a marina . What's up , dock ? Of course , our Joyce - - who seems to possess the same strategic instincts as Lucy Ricardo - - decides to break up the wedding by the stupidest possible means . . . at one point nearly getting herself shot out of a cannon . Whoever doubled Laura La Plante's stunts in this movie definitely earned her ( or , in a couple of shots , HIS ) hazard pay . Heinie Conklin , as captain of the yacht and officiator at the wedding , does a couple of good slow burns . I was delighted to see the names of Tully Marshall and Walter Hiers in the opening credits of this movie . . . but I was rather disappointed when I saw them in the movie itself . Marshall and Hiers were ( separately ) both excellent character actors , who have consistently pleased and impressed me in performances elsewhere . Hiers , an immensely heavy man who died shortly before his 40th birthday , gave a surprisingly wide ( no pun intended ) range of characterisations in spite of the girth that might have typecast him . It pains me to report that ' Beware of Widows ' gives neither of these talented actors very much to do : they mostly hover at the sidelines , whilst La Plante mugs ridiculously , and Paulette Duval ( as the alleged widow ) snoots haughtily . I've never been a real fan of La Plante : my favourite performance of hers was a low-key and self-effacing appearance she made , in the 1950s , as a contestant on Groucho Marx's ' You Bet Your Life ' . Although La Plante's name in a cast list will never be incentive for me to watch any movie , I do tend to enjoy her performances in those of her films that I've seen . So , I was more than slightly annoyed that , in ' Beware of Widows ' , she seems to be firmly in Lucille Ball territory . . . and I don't mean that as a compliment . Role Conklin has a much smaller heinie than Laura La Plante - - sorry , I mean Heinie Conklin has a much smaller role than Laura La Plante - - but I laughed at his performance more than hers in this sinker . I'll rate this movie .
Semon second-class	Buster Keaton's ghost-written memoir ' My Wonderful World of Slapstick ' contains a perceptive comment about silent-film comedian Larry Semon : he tended to pack his films with impossible gags that were funny but completely implausible . According to Keaton , audiences laughed harder at Semon than at more plausible comedians ( such as Keaton ) . . . but afterwards were unable to recall what they'd laughed at . Interestingly , both Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy ( separately ) worked as second banana to Semon before they teamed up . In John McCabe's excellent bio ' Mr Laurel and Mr Hardy ' , Laurel recalled a scene from ' Frauds and Frenzies ' in which he and Semon played escaped convicts : Semon , envious that Laurel was getting more laughs , staged a scene in which Laurel's wrists were handcuffed round a tree . . . and then merely left him there , with Semon getting the rest of the film to himself . When I viewed this print of ' Frauds and Frenzies ' , I was surprised to find no such scene . In fact , I was surprised to see Semon and Laurel billed jointly , and playing as if they were a double-act starring equally . Laurel is largely missing from the final sequences , but in all their footage together they're pretty much co-stars . Sadly , too much of the business here seems to be second-hand . Semon and Laurel do a hat-tipping gag that was done better ( and earlier ) by Chaplin and Roscoe Arbuckle in ' The Rounders ' . The film's basic situation is copied from Chaplin's ' The Adventurer ' , a classic of comedy . Semon uses a gag here which Keaton used seven years LATER in ' Seven Chances ' , but the gag is so tasteless that I'm reluctant to give him ' credit ' for it : Semon glimpses a well-dressed lady and proceeds to flirt with her , then recoils when he discovers that she's black . More positively , at least the supporting actors here ( the prison warders ) are physical grotesques who are funny in their own right , and the film climaxes with a Keystone-style chase . Plus there are some nice exterior sequences in Bronson Canyon . I didn't understand some physical business in this movie , which an American friend explained to me was the working-class game of ' matching pennies ' . The intertitles have some amusingly obsolete slang : Semon's and Laurel's characters are described as ' sofa sheiks ' , and one character expresses approval by remarking " It's the lizard's eyebrows . " Although Larry Semon's films did well at the box office , he was a poor businessman and went bankrupt during the awkward transition to talkies . Officially , Semon died ( at age 39 ) of pneumonia . . . but some evidence indicates that his family staged his death , so that Semon could escape his debts and start a new career under another identity . Semon's goblin-like features are so distinctive that they make this difficult to believe . . . and his features are also so grotesque that ( for me , at least ) they actually undercut his appeal as a comedian . I'll rate ' Frauds and Frenzies ' just . Although Semon was not a front-rank comedian , he did better films than this .
Near-miss , near-musical	' Never Steal Anything Small ' comes tantalisingly close to being a first-rate film , a sparkling musical comedy with some trenchant satirical commentary on the close relationship between politicians , labour unions and organised crime . James Cagney gives an ingratiating performance in what very nearly could have been one of his greatest roles . So close . . . and yet so far . In the event , this film is full of missed opportunities and near misses . Firstly , this movie is almost but not quite a full-fledged musical . The film starts out promisingly before the opening credits , with Cagney chanting rhymed verse directly into the camera , recounting the advice handed down to him when he was a lad : ' Never steal anything . ' ' Never steal ANYTHING ? ' asks an incredulous offstage chorus . ' Never steal anything SMALL , ' amends Cagney , and we're off to a promising start . . . but the promise ( and the premise ) are never fulfilled . There are only about three full-fledged musical numbers in the entire movie . One of them , intended to be a satire on TV commercials , is a too-long advertisement for a dishwashing detergent with the unlikely name ' Love ' , performed by the annoying Shirley Jones . I've never understood the appeal of Shirley Jones , and I find her even less appealing nowadays ( I'm writing this in 2003 ) when she looks like an older version of Hillary Clinton ( another actress whose performances have never convinced me ) . Shirley Jones did have a good coloratura singing voice , but her big ' Love ' number in this movie is written to be chanted rather than sung , so it minimises her genuine vocal talent . The best number in this film ( which isn't saying much ) is a peppy novelty song called ' I'm Sorry , I Want a Ferrari ' , performed by Cara Williams and Cagney . We know ( from his previous films ) that Cagney's a great song-and-dance man , so we really want to see him cut loose with some hoofing in this movie . . . but he never does it . The closest Cagney comes to dancing is in the ' Ferrari ' number , when he struts along a conveyor belt with Cara Williams ( who , like Jones , also fails to convey any appeal to me ) . I enjoy musicals , so it seldom bothers me when ' normal ' people on screen suddenly burst into song and dance . But in ' Never Steal Anything Small ' , the musical numbers are so few and far between that we can never really accept this movie as a musical . Consequently , when the characters occasionally DO break into song ( after long stretches of straight dialogue ) , the transition is jarring . I was delighted when I saw Charles Lederer credited with the screenplay for this movie . Lederer was one of the great wisecrackers of Hollywood's golden age , an iconoclast who knew everyone and had plenty to say . He was also the nephew of Marion Davies , which gave him permanent entree into William Randolph Hearst's estate at San Simeon . ( Lederer was the one who tipped off Hearst that Orson Welles was making a movie about a guy named Citizen Kane who bore an unflattering resemblance to Hearst . ) I was well and truly hoping that ' Never Steal Anything Small ' would be full of Lederer's vintage wisecracks and some Hecht / MacArthur-style dialogue , but I was disappointed . Most annoying of all is this film's immoral viewpoint . Cagney's character ( a big shot in the longshoremen's union ) is flagrantly corrupt , but we're expected to cheer him onward because he's a lovable rogue with a line of blarney . Cagney's opponent here is an honest attorney ( played by Roger Smith , who previously played Cagney's son in ' Man of a Thousand Faces ' ) . The attorney is a colourless cipher , clearly meant to be less sympathetic than Cagney's charming crook . Smith gives a bland performance as the attorney : he was a dull actor , who later had better success managing the career of his wife Ann-Margret . What hurts is that ' Never Steal Anything Small ' has many enjoyable moments . The few musical numbers are well-staged and well-written , making us wish for more . The lyrics are excellent . The dialogue and the comedy are amusing but not really up to what we should expect from Lederer . Sadly , I rate this movie . A pleasant time-passer , but it could have been a truly great film .
Hoot mon ! A braw bricht iguana !	I've seen an advert for a video of ' The Secret of the Loch ' which touts this as ' the first sound movie about the Loch Ness Monster ' . . . implying that there were several silent films about Nessie . I'm absolutely certain that not a single movie was made about the Loch Ness creature during the silent-film era . . . because the creature was almost totally unknown until the early 1930s , when a new road brought increased traffic along the banks of the loch . Before that time , only the local people had any reason to be near the lochside , and they had better things to do than go monster-hunting . There is one ancient text , purporting to describe an encounter between Saint Columba ( not ' Columbia ' ) and a bizarre creature in the River Ness which feeds the loch . . . not in the loch itself . Except for that one account , there is absolutely no mention of any Loch Ness Monster sighting prior to the 1930s . I can think of at least two movies - - ' Doctor Dolittle ' ( 1967 ) and ' The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes ' ( 1970 ) - - which are set in Victorian England , and which mention the Loch Ness Monster - - but in both cases the reference is an anachronism . Very few Victorians had ever heard of the creature . Witness that the notorious libertine Aleister Crowley moved to Boleskine ( a lodge on the banks of Loch Ness ) in 1900 ; Crowley devotes a substantial portion of his autobiography to his exploits at Loch Ness , yet never once mentions the alleged monster . Nessie simply wasn't well-known until the 1930s . When I made my own attempt to spot the Loch Ness Monster at Drumnadrochit , I was amused to notice that the local litter bins bore signs reading ' Look for Nessie , but don't be messy ' , and a snack wagon was selling Nessie Burgers . I saw plenty of tourists , but no plesiosaurs . SPOILERS COMING . ' The Secret of the Loch ' is enjoyable hokum which is full of unintended comedy , largely due to its incredibly small budget . The first shot in the film is the figure of a panic-stricken Scotsman fleeing in terror from some unseen horror . . . but it's laughably obvious that this actor is actually jogging in place , in front of a stationary camera . I was pleasantly surprised to see Gibson Gowland in this film . Born in England , this burly actor appeared in several major Hollywood films - - including ' Greed ' and ' Frankenstein ' - - so I was astonished that he turned up in this low-budgeter in his native Britain . Here , Gowland ponces about in a kilt and speaks his dialogue with a burr as a Highland ghillie . Well , there's trouble at t ' loch , squire , and the actors spend most of this movie trying to verify the rumours of a monster in Loch Ness while the locals mutter darkly . There is one taut scene in which a diver goes beneath the surface , communicating via radiophone . Something goes wrong down there , and his air-hose comes up without him . Was the diver eaten whole ? ( I'll mention here that the actual Loch Ness - - being a loch , not a lake - - has a strong current , and its waters are pitch-black . The divers in this film go below the surface with no lights , yet the water is clear and there's no current . ) At the climax of the film , we do actually encounter the Loch Ness Monster , and it's a letdown that's doubly laughable . Firstly , the ' monster ' is very obviously an iguana with a few extra spiny bits glued on , and photographically enlarged to seem gigantic . Secondly , the scenes depicting the monster are taking place underwater , yet it's hugely obvious that the iguana was filmed in an open-air terrarium , not a water tank . Not only does the creature look unconvincing , it even fails to convince us that it's underwater . I'll give the makers of this film some points for trying , and some points for ingenuity in making this movie on a tuppenny budget . ' The Secret of the Loch ' is enjoyable , but more for its ineptitude than anything else . Still , that scene with the vanished diver is very well done . All in all , .
Based on a famous murder case .	' The Past of Mary Holmes ' was inspired by a notorious murder case that was never solved . In 1922 , a man and woman were found shot dead in a field in New Jersey . The man was quickly identified as the Reverend Edward Hall , an Episcopal minister married to an heiress . The woman was Eleanor Mills , who sang in Reverend Hall's choir . . . and who had been the wife of Hall's sexton . Alongside the corpses ( apparently placed there by the killer ) was solid evidence that Hall and Mrs Mills had been conducting a long sexual affair . The case provoked nationwide headlines , and became more bizarre with the arrival of Jane Gibson , whom reporters swiftly dubbed ' the Pig Woman ' because she raised hogs . Mrs Gibson claimed to have witnessed the murder , but she gave several conflicting testimonies . . . at one point she was bodily carried into the courtroom in a hospital bed when she claimed to be too ill to testify . It became clear that the Pig Woman was lying to get attention , and the Hall-Mills case remains unsolved . Up until the Lindbergh kidnapping in 1933 , the Halls-Mills murder case was considered ( all together now ) the Crime of the Century . The murder case inspired best-selling author Rex Beach to write a story called ' The Goose Woman ' . Despite a few changes , this story resembles the Hall-Mills case so clearly that audiences in 1933 could be counted upon to recognise the original source when this film version of Beach's story was released . Mary Holmes was once a famous opera singer , under the stage name Marie de Nardi . Just over 20 years ago , she gave birth to her son Geoffrey . The delivery injured her severely , damaging Mary Holmes's voice . ( Erm , don't the child and the music come out at different ends ? ) Because the childbirth destroyed her career , Mary has resented her son ever since . Now an adult , Geoffrey is estranged from his mother . She spends her days in a remote farmhouse , raising geese and brooding over past triumphs while she plays a phonograph record of her own voice from her glory days . Despite this , Geoffrey loves his mother and wants her blessing for his engagement to Joan Hoyt . SPOILERS COMING . When a murder occurs near her farmhouse , Mary Holmes sees a chance to get back into the limelight . She claims to have witnessed the crime , and gives a concocted story . But the circumstances of her story point to a very obvious suspect : her own son Geoffrey . He is swiftly arrested and brought to trial . From this intriguing set-up , things get ridiculous . We're supposed to believe there's a big conflict here . Will Mary stick to her story to protect her reputation ( thereby sending her despised son to the electric chair ) , or will she humiliate herself by confessing the truth to save her son's life ? It's very obvious which choice she'll make . Part of the problem here is that the D . A . has no reason to believe Mary's reversal . The fact that she decides to clear her own son is no proof of his innocence ; many a mother would lie to save her son from the hot squat . I was hoping there would be a twist ending here : the innocent son , arrested on false testimony , turns out to be the murderer after all . No such luck . ' Skeets ' Gallagher is painful to watch as a wisecracking reporter . Ivan Simpson , J Carrol Naish and Roscoe Ates give good supporting performances . I'll rate this movie .
Jeckle stops pretending he's English ; Dimwit gets smart .	' Fishing by the Sea ' is the weird and unfunny title of this fairly funny Heckle and Jeckle cartoon , made very early in their development . The magpies ' voices haven't been established yet ; here , Jeckle speaks in a falsetto that doesn't even pretend to be an English accent , while Heckle's prole voice has just a hint of " duh " dummy quality to it . Dimwit the hound is going fishing . ( Dogs eat fish , eh ? ) Heckle and Jeckle are roommates in this one , sharing a single large birdhouse . ( In ' Rival Romeos ' , they lived next-door over to each other . ) They taunt Dimwit for no particular reason , then try to steal his catch of fish . Something I find intriguing about Heckle and Jeckle is that ( unlike Bugs Bunny ) they tend to initiate the mayhem against other ( more innocent ) characters , and they tend to win every skirmish right up until the end of the toon . . . at which point they tend to receive their well-deserved punishment . SPOILERS COMING . In this one , they end up denuded of their feathers and pursued into the open sea by a tooth-baring whale , while Dimwit enjoys a huge catch of fish . Refreshingly , dim dumb Dimwit comes up trumps through his own ingenuity for once . There are a couple of solid laughs here , but modern fans of Heckle and Jeckle will be put off by the unfamiliar voices they possess in this cartoon . My rating : only . As Dimwit would put it : Duh-uhhh !
Insultin ' the Sultan ; a climactic camel chase !	I saw ' Flugten fra seraillet ' in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy ; they screened an excellent print on loan from the Danish Film Institute . The credited male actors are Viggo Larsen , Gustave Lund and Valdemar Petersen . The credited actresses are Clara Nebelong and Maggi Zinn . This movie's title would translate as ' Flight from the Seraglio ' , which sounds like a Mozart opera . Actually , this film reminds me more of ' Trapped by the Mormons ' , the notorious exploitation movie which portrays Mormon men as sex-crazed polygamists . On the positive side , I was impressed by the excellent photography and production design in this exploitative melodrama from Denmark . Hopkins and his friend Jackson are Englishmen visiting Arabia . ( We can tell they're Englishmen because they wear pith helmets . ) Hopkins catches a glimpse of the beautiful young native woman Sulejma , and he straight away falls in love with her . Unfortunately , Sulejma happens to be the caliph's favourite wife . ( Maybe if she was one of his less favourites , he wouldn't mind giving her away . ) Undaunted , Hopkins sneaks into the harem , but gets chased away by the caliph personally . ( His eunuchs aren't man enough for the job . Maybe they don't have the , erm , guts for it . ) Apparently not able to take a hint the first time , Hopkins sneaks into the harem again . ( He keeps a getaway camel parked outside . ) Sulejma , of course , is perfectly delighted to run away with this total stranger from a foreign land . She and Hopkins rush out of the harem , with the caliph and his minions in hot pursuit . This is the first movie I've ever seen that has ( no kidding ! ) a climactic camel chase . SPOILERS COMING . Well , folks , Hopkins and Sulejma are humping along on his getaway camel . They're escorted by Jackson on a camel of his own . But the caliph is closing in . ( Caliph-ornia , here I come . ) Quick as a flash , Jackson gallantly sacrifices himself ( and his camel ) as a delaying tactic . The caliph's men cut him down with a swish of their scimitars , while Hopkins and Sulejma escape . Happy ending , I guess . This very ludicrous film benefits tremendously from its production design : not only live camels , but realistic costumes and weapons , and particularly realistic settings . ' Flight from the Harem ' was filmed in Copenhagen's Tivoli amusement park ; specifically , in the section with Arabesque buildings meant to evoke Morocco . I might actually have believed that this movie had genuinely been filmed in Arabian locations , were it not for the fact that everything here is too clean . That's not a wisecrack at the hygiene of Arabs ; I'm referring to the fact that , in hot desert climates , there's plenty of dung and plenty of flies . There are no flies on this movie . . . or rather , no flies IN this movie , and their absence definitely harmed its credibility for me . During the climactic chase , when Jackson about-turns his camel to engage the pursuers , it's quite clear that he's deliberately sacrificing his own life so that the lovers ( who have only just met ) can escape . That must have been some friendship he had with Hopkins ! When the caliph's minions cut down Jackson , I was annoyed that Hopkins and Sulejma merely rode on without giving him even a backward glance . In real life , with every second at stake , it might have made sense for them to do this . . . but in a dramatic work , I felt that it made Hopkins seem ungrateful for his friend's sacrifice . I was also annoyed that these Danish film-makers chose to depict the European characters as Englishmen , thus making the ambiguous morals of the Hopkins character less important for Scandinavian audiences . My rating for this film : , entirely for its production design .
Robert Young in his skivvies	' Paris Interlude ' is based on a play by S . J . Perelman and his wife Laura ( nee Weinstein ) . Laura Perelman's chief claim to fame was that she was the sister of the grossly overrated cult author Nathanael West . S . J . Perelman is remembered for co-authoring two Marx Brothers movies and ' Around the World in 80 Days ' , for which he won an Oscar ( which he used as a doorstop ) . In my opinion , S . J . Perelman is the greatest author in the history of the written word , but that greatness is conveyed in his brief humour pieces ( ' feuillettes ' , he called them ) in the New Yorker magazine . Perelman's stage plays are negligible , and most of his screenplays are no better . ' Paris Interlude ' takes place on the Left Bank of that city , but all the main characters are American expats with brittle sophistication . Julie Bell is attracted to Pat Wells , a genial toper who will probably never amount to anything . She realises she'd do better to marry Sam Colt , a macho war correspondent who lost his left arm during a previous assignment . When Colt goes off to cover the war in China ( there's always a war in China ) , Julie stays in Paree to become a fashion reporter until Colt's return . She makes the acquaintance of Cassie Bond , a wisecracking clothes designer . ( I'm astonished that any American would move to Paris to become a fashion designer , with any expectation of beating the French at their own game . . . but plausibility is not this film's strong suit . ) When Colt is reported killed in action , Julie reluctantly accepts a marriage proposal from Rex Fleming , a pompous golf pro . The best things in ' Paris Interlude ' are two supporting performances . Ted Healy shines as the wisecracking publican of the Brass Monkey , the American bar where all the expats soak up the atmosphere ( among other things ) . The great character actor Edward Brophy is a notch below his usual standard as Ham Farnsworth , a befuddled Yank reporter whose editor has assigned him to go to Russia to cover the brilliantly successful five-year plan . Brophy's character seems to have been inspired by Walter Duranty , the N . Y . Times correspondent who won a Pulitzer Prize for his reports about the wonderful land reforms in the Soviet Union . It's now known that Duranty lied about genocides and famines in the Ukraine , and recently ( as I write this ) his Pulitzer was posthumously rescinded . But Duranty was a deliberate liar , whereas Brophy's character in this movie is just a poor sap who doesn't know what to believe . Still , he's funny . I wish I could say as much for Una Merkel . . . who has never impressed me in any film , and who here does her usual turn ( with her annoying voice ) as the dame who's seen it all , dearie . SPOILERS COMING NOW . It's no surprise that Colt's death turns out to be a false report . Meanwhile , Robert Young ( as Pat Wells ) shows up on Julie's balcony , stripped to his skivvies . This is one of those annoying movies in which the heroine turns down a reliable guy in favour of a happy-go-lucky jerk whose only assets are his good looks and a charming manner . . . and we're supposed to approve her choice . Robert Young and dull Madge Evans are no good in the leads . Otto Kruger ( an underrated actor ) gives a good performance as Colt , but must contend with some bad camera angles as he tries to conceal the fact that he's a two-armed actor playing an amputee with one arm stuffed into his coat . Still , Kruger does a better job here ( concealing his left arm throughout the entire film ) than Wallace Beery did ( also playing an amputee ) concealing his right arm for two-thirds of " O'Shaughnessy's Boy " . I really wanted to like this film , due to my tremendous admiration for S . J . Perelman . But the best I can give ' Paris Interlude ' is . The biggest flaw in this movie is that - except for Ted Healy's bartender - there isn't a single character here whom I'd actually want to meet .
Quit hoggin ' the toboggan	' Winter Carnival ' is froth ; enjoyable and well-made of its kind , but it won't leave you with any major memories . I took the time to view it only because it was written by Lester Cole , a major Hollywood screenwriter whose work nonetheless was extremely variable . This isn't one of Cole's best films , but it's certainly not one of his worst . The beautiful Ann Sheridan stars as Jill Baxter , a Dartmouth alumna who was once voted that college's Snow Queen . After graduating , she married a wealthy duke , then divorced him . Now she regrets ever having married him . ( This backstory makes Jill somewhat unsympathetic , but apparently the scriptwriters intended this . ) A bunch of stereotypical newspaper reporters are pestering Jill ; she decides to duck them by hiding in the last place they'd ever think of looking for her . Jill Backto goes baxter Dartmouth : I mean , Jill Baxter goes back to Dartmouth . Jill Baxter's younger sister ( played by Helen Parrish ) is named Ann : no relation to the actress Anne Baxter . Following in her older sister's snowshoes , Ann has also decided to enrol at Darthmouth : in fact , she's just been elected this year's Snow Queen . Meanwhile , another one of those pesky European noblemen ( who seem to haunt Dartmouth in large numbers ) has shown up : a count , this time . The count , of course , has set his sights on Ann , and now Jill sees that her kid sister is about to repeat all of Jill's mistakes . . . only farther down the blue-blood scale , since a count is two notches lower than a duke . Jill tries to talk Ann out of repeating Jill's error , but Ann ( understandably ) won't listen . So , Jill decides to bust up the relationship by vamping the count herself . Interestingly , there's some actual subtext here : is Jill wooing the count to save her sister , or so that she can get herself back into the aristocracy ? This is froth , with no surprises . ' Winter Carnival ' was made by an independent producer ( Walter Wanger ) , so it lacks the contingent of often-seen character actors who would have been cast in this film if it had been made by any of the major studios at this time . Robert Armstrong is proficient in a small role . Johnny Berkes ( a character actor who looked like a smaller Jimmy Durante ) is good in a very brief part as one of the reporters who plague Jill . Berkes gave one of his best performances teamed with Bob Hope in ' Calling All Tars ' . Berkes deserves to be better known among film fans who play the game of identifying bit players . I'll rate ' Winter Carnival ' . Ann Sheridan was a beautiful and talented actress who stupidly got hooked on cigarettes , and died ( of cancer ) much too soon . She disliked the term ' Oomph girl ' , which some Warners publicist hung on her , and I don't blame her for resenting it : the nickname cheapened and vulgarised Ann Sheridan's unique and special appeal . You can see her talent on display in ' Winter Carnival ' .
. . . but only 30 cents ' worth of sense .	Several things about this movie " $30 , 000 " intrigued me very much , not least its unusual title . This is a haunted-house film . When I mentioned a haunted house , you likely envisioned a creaky old mansion . There's another thing that intrigued me : the haunted house in ' $30 , 000 ' is a brand-new block of flats , not a creaky mansion . What creaks here is the plot's pay-off . Spalding Nelson ( handsome JW Kerrigan ) is a resourceful young man whose widowed aunt Mrs Bradford ( Myrtle Rischell ) and her two daughters Barbara ( Fritzi Brunette ; wotta name ! ) and Clare ( Margery Wilson ) recently moved into a new block of flats . The aunt is distressed because the building seems to be haunted ; she and other tenants keep hearing whispers , footsteps , stifled screams . This is a brilliant premise . . . for a SOUND movie , not a silent . The grammar of silent film requires that , when the characters on screen hear a sudden noise , we the audience must see an insert shot of a hand rapping a door knocker ( or whatever ) so we know the sound's source . That rule can be broken once or twice in a silent movie , but not repeatedly . Throughout ' $30 , 000 ' , Kerrigan and other cast members keep reacting to sounds WE can't hear , so we expect to be SHOWN them . . . but they can't be shown , because to do so would give away the mystery . Spalding is on the ball , and he takes temporary lodging in his aunt's flat so he can play ghost-buster . Meanwhile , he gets sidetracked by weird business such as Margery Wilson teetering on the building's parapet . Unfortunately , just as the plot settles into place , that's when interesting things stop happening in this story . SPOILERS NOW . Despite some good camera-work , there's very little attempt to evoke an eerie atmosphere in this film - - no cobwebs , no graveyards - - so we expect the mystery to have a rational explanation that doesn't involve genuine ghosts . And this movie's unusual title turns out to be a handicap , since it makes the solution bang obvious to any modern viewer who's familiar with ' Angel Street ' , ' Scooby Doo ' or several other similar mysteries . Aye , folks : there's a fortune hidden somewhere in the building ( guess the dollar amount ) , and the ' ghosts ' are actually criminals hunting for it . What did surprise me is HOW MANY crooks turn out to be involved in these monkeyshines : there must be at least six of them , which means the booty amounts to less than $5 , 000 per crook , after expenses . ( But that's well over a year's wage for most Americans in 1920 . ) Also , one of the crooks , with the unlikely name Rufus Gaston , is played by Joseph Dowling . . . who was nearly always cast as incorruptible figures . ( Dowling was American movies ' nearest approximation to character actor Samuel S . Hinds before that actor came along . ) Bits and bobs of ' $30 , 000 ' impressed me very much , but this film's premise was doomed to failure in any movie lacking a soundtrack . My rating : just .
Double-duty daddy	In the 1950s , Clifton Webb starred in many films for Twentieth-Century Fox . In private life , Webb was ( how can I put this tactfully ? ) a very effeminate bachelor with a serious mother fixation . For some reason , Fox kept trying to convince movie audiences that Clifton Webb was a family man , repeatedly casting him as a husband and father in movies like " Cheaper By the Dozen " , " Titanic " and " Marching Along " . This basic implausibility is strained beyond the breaking point in " The Remarkable Mr Pennypacker " , in which Clifton Webb has two wives at the same go , and a total of seventeen children ! " Pennypacker " was based on a Broadway play written by Liam O'Brien , and this film sticks close to the play . ( On Broadway it starred Burgess Meredith , who would have been a better choice than Webb for this film . ) O'Brien wanted us to accept a bigamist as a sympathetic character , so he stacks the deck by setting the action of this story in the 1890s , and then has Pennypacker espouse some " modern " ideas which were pretty radical at the time , but which we now accept easily . Early on in this film - set in turn-of-the-century Harrisburg , Pennsylvania - Mr Pennypacker ( Webb ) comes out in favour of votes for women , and he also endorses Darwin's theory of evolution . Pennypacker's father-in-law ( Charles Coburn ) and all the other respectable men of 19th-century Harrisburg are shocked by these radical notions , but of course a modern-day movie audience will find them perfectly reasonable . By the time we learn Pennypacker's big secret ( he's a bigamist , and not ashamed of it ) , we're accustomed to seeing him as the sensible free-thinker , and we've been lured into perceiving Pennypacker's father-in-law and all his neighbours as a bunch of old fogeys . We're tricked into accepting Pennypacker's bigamy as a harmless alternative lifestyle . ( By the way : although apparently endorsing bigamy in his play and then this film , author O'Brien was careful to make a public statement that his OWN parents were not bigamists . ) Pennypacker works for his Harrisburg wife's father , in a job which enables Pennypacker to shuttle between Harrisburg and Philadelphia . Nobody suspects that he has a house in each city , with a wife and kids in each house . Even his two wives ( and his two sets of children ) don't suspect each other's existence . The secret leaks out when Pennypacker's Philadelphia house is condemned by the city government , under the laws of eminent domain , to be torn down and replaced by a road . Pennypacker is " away on business " in Harrisburg , so his eldest Philadelphia son travels to his dad's home office in Harrisburg , planning to warn him that his whole houseful of Philadelphia offspring are about to be evicted . There's a clever moment when Webb ( as Pennypacker ) discovers his secret's been rumbled . Presenting himself to Coburn as a loving husband and father , Webb surrounds himself with all the children of his Harrisburg brood , counting them off one by one . . . until he finds one child left over , leading Webb to remark : " Boy , you belong in Philadelphia . " Once the secret's out , Liam O'Brien's script comes up with a clever ( and plausible ) explanation for why Pennypacker can't remember which one of his two wives he married first . SPOILER WARNING : I was disappointed that the play and this film both cheat with their premise . After establishing Pennypacker as a bigamist , the story then reverses itself by revealing that he's only a PAST-tense bigamist . Pennypacker's Philadelphia wife conveniently died several years before the movie begins . Also , we never see any of his Philadelphia children except for his eldest son . Now that Pennypacker is down to his last wife ( in Harrisburg ) , and his Philadelphia brood are on the brink of eviction from their house , it's pretty obvious how this situation is going to be resolved . . . Character actress Doro Merande , whose annoying voice ruined the soundtracks of many Fox films from the 1930s onwards , is her usual annoying self in a brief role here . " The Remarkable Mr Pennypacker " isn't very remarkable , but it's a competent treatment of an unusual subject . I'll rate this movie .
Scientific feats , do yo ' stuff !	' King of the Zombies ' is a low-budget horror movie with some intentional humour and rather too much UN-intentional humour . The leading players are best known for their performances as comic-strip characters : Joan Woodbury , extremely beautiful here , whose career peaked with the title role in the 1945 serial ' Brenda Starr , Reporter ' , and Dick Purcell , who did his own stunts as the title character in the 1944 serial ' Captain America ' and dropped dead of a coronary attack soon afterwards . They're joined here by Mantan Moreland , a black comedian whom I've always found hilarious , yet who is now unfairly linked with Stepin Fetchit and Willie Best as merely one more purveyor of Negro stereotypes . The main villain is played by Henry Victor , an Anglo-German actor who could have had a very successful Hollywood career if only he'd possessed better control over his accent . In some sequences of this movie , Victor sounds quite British , whilst in other scenes he sounds extremely German . With the exception of Lubitsch's ' To Be or Not to Be ' , in which Victor had a very small role as a Nazi soldier , I've noticed this problem in every film in which I've seen him . . . including ' Freaks ' , in which Henry Victor's astonishingly good performance as Hercules the strongman was marred by that wandering accent . In ' King of the Zombies ' ( playing the title role ) , Henry Victor gives one of his less impressive performances . His character here is named Sangre , which of course means ' Blood ' . I suppose any movie to do with zombies will have some racial stereotyping . This movie implies that blacks make better zombies than whites , and that blacks can be zombified more easily than whites . Madame Sul-Te-Wan , the underrated black actress , is effective in a small role here and manages to convey some racial dignity . The director of this film , Jean Yarbrough , has some extremely impressive credits : he worked with a lot of people whose work I admire and enjoy . But Yarbrough was consistently a very poor director : his work is always badly paced and unimaginative . In addition to the terrible movie ' Brute Man ' ( Rondo Hatton's star vehicle ) , Jean Yarbrough also directed several episodes of Abbott & Costello's TV show . . . but Yarbrough's episodes are consistently the worst and dullest episodes of Bud & Lou's series . Yarbrough's best film was probably ' Master Minds ' , a Bowery Boys movie . Amazingly , ' King of the Zombies ' was nominated for an Academy Award . The moody and unusual musical score by Edward J . Kay got a nomination : it's not an especially good score , though . Kay was a former dentist ; when I hear the music from this film , I wonder if Kay composed his melodies on a dentist's air hose , like the musical dentist in ' Bells Are Ringing ' . This being a 1941 film , there's a vague attempt to make the movie ' relevant ' to current events with a wartime subplot : Dr Sangre is trying to use his zombies in a mind-swap experiment which will help him spy on the Allied powers . Just the idea of using Mantan Moreland in a mind-swap experiment is hilarious . ' King of the Zombies ' has some camp value , and I enjoy Mantan Moreland's performance . I'll rate this movie .
Tyrone's Power failure	' John Needham's Double ' is a creaky melodrama which relies upon a huge stack of coincidences , of precisely the sort which would appeal to Charles Dickens or Wilkie Collins , but which modern viewers would reject as deeply contrived . This is the sort of story that gives Victorian melodrama a bad name . If there had been a smaller number of coincidences , I would have liked this story much more . Lord John Needham is a respected member of Parliament and a prominent citizen who is in fact a crook . Entrusted with the funds which orphan Thomas Creighton is to inherit in adulthood , Needham embezzles and squanders the lot . As the story begins , Needham is about to be exposed , making disgrace inevitable . Needham considers committing suicide , and has obtained poison for that purpose . But Needham conveniently has a cousin , Joseph Norbury , who is Needham's exact double . Even more conveniently , Norbury has just come into an inheritance which requires him to travel to America . . . which means that his family in England expect him to disappear for a while , with no immediate opportunity to contact them . Needham decides to poison Norbury and deposit his corpse in a public place , dressed in Needham's clothes and bearing a ' suicide ' letter in Needham's handwriting . Meanwhile , Needham will steal Norbury's identity , travel to America and claim Norbury's inheritance . I can accept the coincidence of two men being exact doubles . What's truly worrisome is that this story contains more coincidences than necessary . The two doubles have the same initials , and there are several shots of both men's baggage and clothing : Norbury's articles are much less impressive than Needham's , but both men's possessions bear the identical monogram ' J . N . ' . Surely this strains coincidence far more than necessary ! Worse luck , both men have the same stammer ! ( This is conveyed in the dialogue of the intertitles , and by the lead actor's facial tics . ) Since Needham's scheme only requires Norbury to impersonate him in death - - not in life - - it would have made more sense ( and been more plausible ) if only Norbury had the stammer , with Needham feigning it after he steals Norbury's identity . SPOILERS COMING . Needham invites Norbury to dinner , poisons him , then swaps clothing with Norbury's corpse . His scheme seems likely to succeed . . . until the dead man's daughter suspects the truth and exposes the imposture . Justice prevails , barely . The lead roles are both essayed by Tyrone Power : not the 1930s Fox matinée idol , but his slightly less handsome father . Power is good in both roles , giving each of them a distinct personality , though it's unfortunate that they look TOO much alike . It would have made more sense if Norbury had a moustache and Needham was clean-shaven : after the murder , Needham could then shave the dead man's face while giving himself a false moustache he'd purchased beforehand . When both lookalikes are seen in the same shot , this is sometimes achieved by the fairly obvious use of a stand-in . Just occasionally , we see two Tyrone Powers in double-exposure : these shots are not especially effective , as these scenes are lighted only from the sides so that neither Power will cast shadows where the other Power will be standing . The lighting in these shots is noticeably flatter than in the other shots , calling attention to the trickery . The opening titles give very prominent credit to the film's photographers , understandably . Power's supporting cast give generally weak performances . I'll rate this movie . It would have been a lot more enjoyable with fewer coincidences . For a much better example of a similar story , I recommend Daphne du Maurier's ' The Scapegoat ' .
Don't blink , or you'll miss it .	' Nightwalking ' is a very short film ; it's really more of an anecdote than a full-fledged story . We see an attractive young woman walking down a dark street while we hear her worried thoughts in voice-over . Then we see a slightly scruffy young man walking behind her . His voice-overed thoughts indicate his concern that she might think he's stalking her , so he decides to ring his mother on his mobile while he's walking , in the hope that the young woman will realise that stalkers don't ring their mums in mid-stalk . Something suddenly happens to the man ; we witness this first from the woman's viewpoint , and then from a viewpoint slightly removed from the man himself . Unfortunately , what happens to him isn't immediately clear : I had to screen this short movie three times before I twigged . Director Dan Cormack ( who shows signs of great talent ) stages the action on a dark street , so some confusion is due to the darkness . Still , he should have staged the climactic event much more clearly and unambiguously . . . which might have required the services of a professional stuntman . Once I finally understood what had happened to the young man , I couldn't be certain as to whether I was meant to laugh at his fate or sympathise with him . I was intrigued by the screenwriter's decision to show the same action from two different viewpoints . Still , that final confusion seriously impaired my enjoyment of this film , and for that reason I'll rate it only .
Wedlock deadlock	I saw this film at the 1998 Cinema Muto festival in Pordenone ; they screened a print from the Museum of Modern Art with the original intertitles missing . Fortunately , the action in this short comedy is simple enough to follow . Mrs Jones receives a telegram announcing that her mother is coming to visit . Mr Jones expects the worst ; sure enough , his mother-in-law forbids him to smoke and drink in his own home . In what seems to be reverse psychology - - those titles are missing - - he takes the harridan out on the town , buys her dinner and expensive gifts , and ultimately gets her drunk . The mother-in-law kisses Jones in front of his wife , prompting Mrs Jones to eject her own mother ! This is very crude domestic comedy , but it doesn't pretend to be anything higher . The fact that this sort of thing can still raise laughs is proof that the deadlock of wedlock hasn't changed very much in the century since this movie was made . Yes , dear . My rating for this : .
F . D . R . , don't quit your day job . . .	" The President's Mystery " isn't really a mystery , but it's a well-made B-picture with an interesting premise . President Franklin D . Roosevelt was fond of reading murder mysteries . On 12 May 1935 , at a White House luncheon , FDR offered his lunch guests an idea for a mystery : How could a millionaire disappear and start a new life for himself , under a new identity , yet manage to take his wealth with him ? One of the guests at that luncheon was magazine editor Fulton Oursler , who wrote mystery stories under the pseudonym ' Anthony Abbot ' . Intrigued by FDR's idea , Oursler contacted five other authors ( including S . S . Van Dine , creator of the popular Philo Vance mysteries ) , and they set out to write a novel that could answer FDR's question . This was published as " The President's Mystery Story " , with FDR listed as co-author ( although he contributed only the premise ) . It is not a very good book , due to its patchwork structure : the various chapters are written by different authors of radically different styles and widely varying talent . But largely due to its novelty appeal and FDR's personal popularity , " The President's Mystery Story " became a best-seller . This movie is the film version , with a title card in the opening credits explaining FDR's participation . The screenplay was written by Lester Cole and the grossly overrated Nathanael West , who brings none of his own sardonic viewpoint to this movie . Industrialist James Blake ( the underrated actor Henry Wilcoxon , who later submerged his career into C . B . DeMille's ) has messed up his personal life and he wants to start over in a new identity . . . but he doesn't want to lose the fortune he's already compiled . He hits upon a very clever plan which might actually have worked in the 1930s , but which nowadays ( with computer databases and biometric I . D . ) couldn't possibly succeed . Blake locates a crooked investment firm run by two con men ( one of them is played by Charles Williams , the meek little actor who played Eustace Bailey in " It's a Wonderful Life " ) . Claiming to have enough evidence to put the crooks in prison , Blake bullies them into abandoning their investment firm without dismantling it . Blake then secretly takes over the brokerage without any paperwork to document the transfer . Operating in the open , he then proceeds to invest his own fortune in the crooked brokerage house . . . thus neatly robbing himself ! ( But how does he withdraw the money after he deposits his cheques ? ) Because Blake is publicly perceived to lose his fortune , nobody is surprised when he vanishes . . . an apparent suicide . He establishes a new identity with plausible ease ( again , this was before high-tech I . D . ) and it looks like he's accomplished his goal . But then something goes wrong . . . There are several good performances here , most notably Wilcoxon's , Sidney Blackmer's and a comic turn by Barnett Parker in his usual silly-ass Englishman mode , and a performance by the underrated John Wray . Byron Foulger gives his usual inept performance as a milquetoast . Betty Furness is dull and unattractive , as usual for her . I'll rate this movie . FDR's participation is almost nonexistent , and co-screenwriter Nathanael West's influence on the material is minor . But this modest film has some genuine merits and an unusual story ; I recommend it .
A preview of ' Book Revue '	Not even cartoons are immune to remakes . Five years after making ' A Coy Decoy ' , Robert Clampett would remake this cartoon as the better ( and better-known ) ' Book Revue ' . Both toons have the same premise : a wolf chases Daffy Duck through a bookshop , with the titles of the books supplying gags . We get here one of Clampett's typical racist jokes : Daffy falls into a copy of ' Black Beauty ' and emerges riding a kerchief-headed ' mammy ' stereotype . One thing that bothers me about both this 1941 cartoon and its remake ' Book Revue ' is that most of the so-called ' book ' titles in both toons - - such as ' The Wolf of Wall Street ' , seen here - - are actually movie titles . In cases where a title could apply to both a book and a film ( such as ' The Bridge of San Luis Rey ' here , or " Dante's Inferno " in ' Book Revue ' ) , it's obvious that the audience were expected to think of the movie rather than the book . Either the Warners scriptwriters didn't know many book titles , or else they wouldn't give their audience credit for being literate . In ' A Coy Decoy ' , I was pleasantly surprised to see references to ' The Yearling ' and ' For Whom the Bell Tolls ' , best-selling books which ( as of 1941 ) hadn't yet been filmed . ' A Coy Decoy ' gets its title from a plot development here which wasn't used in the remake : the wolf uses a clockwork female duck to entice Daffy . This is a running theme in many Clampett cartoons , continuing right into his ' Beany and Cecil ' era : a male protagonist is lured by an artificial female ; either a male in disguise , or else a mechanical surrogate ( a fembot ? ) . Clampett seemed reluctant to put genuine female characters into his toons . There's a nice tinkling music-box motif for the she-duck ( Warners cartoons almost always had excellent music tracks ) , and there's a cheeky final gag , one of Clampett's less obvious sexual entendres . That final gag is the only place where this cartoon surpasses its remake ' Book Revue ' , which is superior all down the line until it ends in a weak ' cissy ' joke ( another of Clampett's predilections ) . I'll rate ' A Coy Decoy ' five points out of 10 . Take out that unnecessary racist joke , and I might bump it up to six .
She refuses to Czech herself .	I don't know who gets to decide that these movies are ' lost ' : several years ago , I viewed a print of ' Iza néni ' with its original Magyar ( not German ) soundtrack and Czech subtitles . . . a bilingualism which is somewhat ironic , given this movie's storyline . I attended a screening at which another audience member kindly translated some ( but not all ) of the dialogue for me , and I was able to follow most of the action . ' Néni ' is roughly the Magyar equivalent of ' Fraulein ' as a formal term of address for an unmarried woman , so this film's title means ' Miss Iza ' . The reasonably attractive actress Sári Fedák plays a beloved schoolmarm in a Hungarian town on the Czech frontier . Her forename is Iza , so her students and most of the townspeople address her as ' Iza néni ' ( ' Miss Iza ' ) . In addition to possessing every other possible human virtue , Miss Iza is a deeply patriotic Hungarian . Unfortunately , her town straight away gets annexed into Czechoslovakia , making Iza and everybody else hereabouts Czech citizens . But Iza is a loyal Hungarian . . . so she demonstrates her undying loyalty for Hungary by rushing off to Paris , where she becomes a cabaret singer ! In her Parisian cabaret turn , Miss Iza is a somewhat more modest version of Josephine Baker . . . by which I mean that she casts herself as an expatriate , evoking the ambiance of her native Hungary in her French act , in much the way that Baker evoked a stereotype of Africa and black America in her Parisian performances . SPOILERS COMING . Miss Iza is fortunate enough to receive the sympathy of a military man in Paris , a British expatriate . She is soon making excellent money ( in francs ) , but she lives as frugally as possible and funnels most of her dosh to the beloved priest in her Hungarian hometown . The priest is played by Rezsö Harsányi : everyone in this movie addresses him as ' Pap ' , but apparently that means ' father ' rather than being his character's name . The priest uses Miss Iza's money to help the townspeople , who of course are now suffering under Czech rule . I'd be grateful to hear from anyone who can enlighten me about the real-world political events which this movie purports to depict , since I know very little about the politics of that part of Europe . Did Czechoslovakia ever in fact annex any Hungarian territory ? Were the people better off for this , or worse ? In this Hungarian film , they're definitely worse off for becoming Czechs , but there's nothing about this movie which leads me to believe that the depictions hare are impartial . There's an annoying subplot concerning a trusty woodsman ( played by Pál Jávor ) who loves Miss Iza but must console himself with Irén Ágay , whom I found to be slightly sexier than Sári Fedák . Stepping out from underneath all those accent marks , the real revelation of this film ( for me , at least ) is Hungarian character actor Beregi Oszkár , who was previously unknown to me yet whose name I recognised . That's because his namesake son , Oscar Beregi ( Junior ) later had considerable success as a character actor in the United States , including his excellent performances in three episodes of the original ' Twilight Zone ' series . There's a facial resemblance between the father and son Beregi actors . In ' Iza néni ' , Beregi ( Senior ) is cast as the British officer who assists Miss Iza in her nightclub career . I found Beregi utterly implausible as an Englishman , but since this movie was meant for non-Anglophone audiences that doesn't matter . He brings conviction and virility to his performance here . ' Iza néni ' benefits from some very pleasant music ( especially during Sári Fedák's cabaret turns ) but is considerably handicapped by some woefully unfunny comedy . For me , the biggest flaw of this film was that I found it wildly implausible that demure schoolmarm Iza - - at least , as Fedák portrays her - - would spontaneously just up and become a big nightclub star in Paris . . . and motivated by patriotism , no less . I'll rate this movie just , and I wish I knew how much of its political material is accurate .
Two-fisted he-man chick-flick	This race-car drama , directed by Howard Hawks , was a personal project of his : Hawks had a lifelong passion for stock-car racing , and he persuaded several top racers to appear in this film as themselves ( although demonstrating very little screen presence ) . I was expecting ' The Crowd Roars ' to be quintessential Hawks : a two-fisted he-man drama , with the girly stuff kept to a minimum . In the event , I was surprised at how much ' chick-flick ' material is in here , and pleasantly surprised at how well it works . A substantial amount of this movie is emotional drama between the four leads , in the implausibly spacious apartments occupied by the characters played by Ann Dvorak and Joan Blondell . James Cagney stars as Joe Greer , a stock-car driver at the top of the game : he's just won the Indy 500 , and his hero-worshipping kid brother Eddie is eager to follow in his skid marks . Eddie is played by obscure actor Eric Linden , whose Noo Yawk accent blends well with Cagney's , but who otherwise failed to convince me that they were brothers . Annoyingly , Cagney attempts to dissuade Linden with that cliché " It's not for you " dialogue that I've heard in a dozen other movies : the one where the guy who's hugely successful in his profession attempts to convince someone else to stay out of that same profession . Guy Kibbee , in a tiny role as the Greer brothers ' father , is excellent and absolutely convincing as the proud dad . Cagney has a poorly-defined romance with Dvorak , who spends all of her screen time in monotone mode . . . except for one emotional monologue in which she turns on the waterworks and is surprisingly effective . Dvorak's friend is played by Joan Blondell , so I expected this role to be played in Blondell's usual ' weary dearie ' mode . Again , I was pleasantly surprised . Elsewhere , I've mentioned that I always find Blondell coarse and common on screen . Here , she's amazingly good : she wears a tasteful outfit that shows off a couple of shapely gams . ( When did they turn into hams ? ) This is the only movie in which I've seen Blondell play a realistic human being instead of a bundle of clichés . But we still get some of the standard Warners thick-ear dialogue : ' Ya can't grow wings on that guy . ' The racing scenes , necessarily , involve editing these actors into authentic stock-racing footage , so there's unavoidably some very bad shot matching . What's less pardonable ( because it was more avoidable ) is some very bad audio matching on the soundtrack . We see thousands of people in the stands , all reacting as a race car bursts into flames . . . but we hear what sounds like maybe six women squealing . Almost as if to make up for this lapse , during the chick-flick scenes there is some very scrupulous shot matching . I was especially impressed by a two-camera set-up in a dialogue scene between Dvorak and Frank McHugh . He holds a lighted cigarette in his hand throughout the scene , and the smoke in Dvorak's set-up matches the smoke in McHugh's set-up . Also , McHugh's cigarette is burnt down to the same length in both set-ups . Most movies aren't this careful ! Obscure actress Charlotte Merriam , as McHugh's wife , has one powerful scene in which she rushes onto the track during an auto race , like a suffragette at the Grand National . ( The undercranking here is obvious . ) It's a shame that this scene did nothing for Merriam's career . Character actor Edward McWade has one excellent sequence . This movie is more confusing than it needs to be . There are two different characters cried Red , and two named Spud . Cagney and Linden spend most of the movie as rivals , but there's a last-minute reconciliation that seems to have been left on the cutting-room floor : it certainly isn't in the movie . SPOILERS COMING . The last scene in the movie finds Cagney and Linden in an ambulance , bound for hospital , with two rival drivers bound for the same hospital in another ambulance . With one of those would-be ' cute ' Hollywood touches , the two sets of passengers urge the ambulance drivers to race each other through the streets . I really despise the cult of speed for the sake of speed : every year , a few innocent people get killed because of idiots who think that a public highway is their personal dragstrip . Race-car driving doesn't work very well as a vehicle for macho movie heroes , since it relies so heavily on stunt doubles , stock footage and ( in this case , very badly done ) rear projection . The romantic scenes in ' The Crowd Roars ' actually work better than the macho gearshift stuff , and I'll rate this movie just .
About 998 faces short . . .	Despite what we think to the contrary , silent-film actor Lon Chaney was not widely known as ' The Man of a Thousand Faces ' during his lifetime . In fact , I can think of only one Chaney film ( an obscure one : ' The Trap ' ) which used the ' Thousand Faces ' tagline in its advertising . When Paramount released ' The Magnificent Fraud ' in 1939 , less than a decade after Chaney's death , the posters for this film hailed its star Akim Tamiroff as ' The Man of a Thousand Faces ' . . . a decision which strongly indicates that audiences in 1939 weren't expected to link that slogan to Lon Chaney . For all his talents and broad acting range ( hampered by his thick Russian accent ) , Tamiroff was not an especially protean actor , so it's surprising to see him touted as a Chaney-like master of disguise . However , in ' The Magnificent Fraud ' , Tamiroff is cast as Jules LaCroix , a stage actor whom ( we are told ) is indeed in Chaney's league . Within the dialogue of this movie , LaCroix is hailed as ' the man of a thousand faces ' . . . which , again , indicates that audiences were not expected to connect that tagline to Lon Chaney . Don Miguel Alvarado is the president of a politically unstable South American nation , in the process of negotiating an important business deal with United States interests . At a crucial moment , a bomb-throwing assassin kills Alvarado . . . but visiting Yankee Sam Barr manages to keep the assassination hushed up . It's vital that the negotiations continue . If Alvarado's death becomes known , the government will be overthrown by revolutionaries . Barr persuades LeCroix to impersonate Alvarado until the deal goes through . Since LeCroix ( beardless ) and Alvarado ( heavily bearded ) are both played by Akim Tamiroff , it's no surprise that LeCroix is able to impersonate Alvarado perfectly ! In the early scenes as the actual Alvarado , Tamiroff's attempts at a Latin American accent are less than persuasive . In his later scenes , as LeCroix impersonating Alvarado , Tamiroff has precisely the same accent . It would have been more interesting if the false Alvarado's voice had been almost but not quite the same as the real one's , to heighten suspense by showing us that LeCroix's disguise was less than perfect . Matters are not helped by the fact that the basic premise of this film is recycled from another Paramount film made only five years earlier : ' 30-Day Princess ' . In both films , an American actor is persuaded to impersonate a foreign dignitary until an important deal goes through . ' Magnificent Fraud ' takes that premise in rather a different direction from the earlier film , but with inferior results . There are some good supporting performances here , although I disliked the romantic subplot involving Lloyd Nolan and Patricia Morison . I can tolerate Mary Boland in small doses , but her presence in the same movie with Maude Eburne ( whom I loathe and despise ) makes for at least one yenta too many . Barbara Pepper is good in a small role . Robert Warwick's stage-trained voice is impressive , but he is miscast as a Latin American . Robert Florey's direction is excellent , but let down by William Mellor's photography . For all of its flaws , ' The Magnificent Fraud ' is vastly superior to its 1988 remake ' Moon Over Parador ' , which tried to put its protagonist ( Richard Dreyfuss ) into suspenseful situations . . . but framed those situations with a flashback structure which tipped us off that Dreyfuss would survive at the end . I'll rate ' Magnificent Fraud ' . . . but there was only one true Man of a Thousand Faces , and his name was Lon Chaney .
Social change	In 1993 , there was a movie called ' Twenty Bucks ' , in which the camera followed a $20 bill from one person to the next . Here's the exact same idea , done more than 60 years earlier in Germany . Considering that this is a German drama , it has a surprisingly light-hearted tone . The central object in this movie is a 10-mark banknote . I shan't try to work out a currency conversion for what 10 German marks in 1926 would equal in our own era's money , but evidently 10 marks was a respectable weekly wage for an unskilled labourer in 1926 . Young peasant girl Anna ( Mary Nolan ) has just received her first week's wages in the form of a 10-mark note . She gives it to her mother ( Agnes Mueller ) . . . who brings it to the market , intending to buy groceries . A pickpocket steals the money . And so forth . Along the way , this banknote generates more trouble than it seems to be worth . Several people die or have their lives ruined , for the sake of briefly possessing this meagre piece of currency . ( Of course , in 1926 most German filmgoers would recall the horrible inflation of only a few years earlier , when it cost a MILLION marks to buy a loaf of bread . ) The message here seems to be that money is inherently evil , that the trouble it causes far surpasses the good it can do . SPOILERS NOW . At the end of the movie , of course , the 10-mark note comes back into Anna's possession . . . and she recognises it by the serial number as the same note . Meanwhile , Anna and her young neighbour Andreas ( Werner Fuetterer ) have fallen in love . They embrace , and the banknote flutters to the floor . . . where Anna's dog tears it to shreds . Oh , the irony ! Oh , the moral ! Despite some heavy-handed visual metaphors , this is still an interesting movie with an interesting depiction of life in Germany between the World Wars . Oskar Homolka is impressive as Anna's employer . I'll rate this movie . Got change for a deutschmark ?
One midget too many .	The 1957 film ' The Buster Keaton Story ' was ostensibly a biopic of silent-film comedian Keaton , but went far out of its way to tell Keaton's life story inaccurately . . . and came up with a fiction that wasn't even very entertaining . A vastly better film , ' The Comic ' ( 1969 ) , depicted the life and career of an allegedly fictional silent-film comedian but actually gave a largely accurate account of Keaton's adult life and career . The 1948 Warner Bros musical ' April Showers ' , conversely , would seem to have been inspired by Buster Keaton's adolescent years as a star performer in vaudeville . As Keaton's major work in the Hollywood studio system was done for MGM , I'm intrigued that someone at Warner Brothers knew enough about Keaton's early life to create this film . . . especially in 1948 , when Keaton's career was at a low ebb . The official stars of this film are Jack Carson ( excellent ! ) and Ann Sothern as married vaudevillains Joe and June Tyme . ( Keaton's vaudevillain parents were named Joe and Myra . ) The act isn't doing well , and the Tymes can barely afford to pay the tuition for their son Buster who's in military school . Eventually , Buster Tyme is reunited with his parents in a theatrical boarding-house . Young Buster is played by Robert Ellis , a teenaged actor previously unknown to me . What a dynamic talent ! ( Why didn't this movie make Ellis a star ? ) In the boarding-house , Buster goes into a rousing rendition of ' Are You from Dixie ? ' . He sings , he dances , he turns cartwheels . Ellis gives a good acting performance as well ; he shows real chemistry in his scenes with Carson , as they affectionately address each other as ' Big Tyme ' and ' Small Tyme ' . Naturally , Joe and June put Buster into their small-time vaude act . . . and they swiftly become a big-time hit . ( In real life , Buster Keaton was part of his parents ' stage act almost from birth . . . and he quickly became the act's star . ) But just when times are changing for the Tymes , along come a bunch of do-gooders who want to keep children off the stage . There's an implausible and unfunny scene here in which Buster tries to defuse the do-gooders by pretending to be a midget , smoking a cigar and talking in a deep voice . It doesn't help that the ' midget ' voice is badly post-dubbed , and is clearly supplied by Mel Blanc doing his usual Barney Rubble turn . At the edge of these proceedings , a real midget ( actor Billy Curtis ) only emphasises the tastelessness of this scene . With Buster out of the act , Joe and June are back in the small time again . Joe's drinking starts to jeopardise the act and the family ( as was the case with Joe Keaton's alcoholism ) . June Tyme encounters suave stranger Billy Shay ( Robert Alda , in an unsympathetic role ) , who seems to have designs on June . The ending is predictable and unconvincing . Modern audiences might have trouble believing this film's central plot device : namely , that a talented and eager performer would be kept off the stage merely because he's not an adult . Actually , ' April Showers ' gets this right . In America's vaudeville era , there was a powerful organisation called the Gerry Society , dedicated to preventing children from performing before age 16 . At one point , Buster Keaton's parents actually considered passing him off as a midget to escape the Gerries ' scrutiny . The Gerry Society's power extended beyond vaudeville : in the 1940 Broadway musical ' Panama Hattie ' , Ethel Merman was supposed to sing and dance a duet with child performer Joan Carroll , but the Gerries prevented Carroll from singing or dancing . . . so she had to march in tempo with the music while chanting the lyric . ' April Showers ' is weakly directed by James V Kern , a former musical comedian ( one of the Yacht Club Boys ) who lacks a sure touch . This movie should have been helmed by Warners contract director David Butler , who is woefully underrated . I'll rate ' April Showers ' just , despite Robert Ellis's dynamic performance .
Pangborn's great , Butterworth curdles , Lamour needs a makeover	' Swing High , Swing Low ' is a semi-musical , based on a Broadway play ( not a musical ) called ' Burlesque ' which was originally filmed as ' The Dance of Life ' when censors wouldn't approve the original title . The play and the original film took place in vaudeville and burlesque : this remake , surprisingly , spends most of its time in Panama City ( well away from the Keith-Orpheum circuit ) . About all that remains of the original is the male anti-hero's name : Skid Johnson . In the original story , the nickname ' Skid ' made sense because he was an eccentric dancer . In this remake , Skid Johnson is a jazz trumpeter . . . so why is he cried ' Skid ' ? Fred MacMurray got typecast as nice guys , but just occasionally he got a chance to show his acting ability in nastier roles . He gives an excellent performance as Skid Johnson : brash , bragging , conceited , yet nagged by self-doubts . But in this version , some of Skid's motivations are highly contrived . When Skid first meets unemployed singer Maggie ( Carole Lombard , less impressive ) , he straight away starts bragging about what a wonderful guy he is . Oddly , he trumpets himself constantly yet he never says a word about his abilities as a trumpeter . There's an extremely contrived scene in a Panama nightclub , when MacMurray casually picks up the trumpeter's horn and blows a few licks . ( Yes , professional musicians always leave their instruments lying about so the customers can have a go . ) It turns out that Skid Johnson is a brilliant jazz trumpeter . So , why is this braggart so very modest about his one genuine talent ? There's a soap-opera plot line when Skid becomes ' The King of Trumpeters ' in Manhattan while Maggie is growing Spanish moss in Panama . One of the cast members of the Broadway drama ' Burlesque ' was Oscar Levant , who got to play piano onstage and fire off a few wisecracks . Levant repeated his stage role in the film ' The Dance of Life ' , but his part was seriously cut . In this remake , Levant's role is expanded again , but regrettably not played by Levant this time . Charles Butterworth plays Skid's pianist buddy Harry . I've never liked Butterworth , whose screen roles usually include some very contrived business to make Butterworth a ' character ' . In this movie , he wears winter clothing during a Panama heat wave . Very credible , I don't think . Maggie is courted by Harvey Dexter , a self-made millionaire who sincerely loves her . But this is one of those annoying movies in which the gal gives up the steady level-headed guy in favour of the unreliable bum who's handsome and charming , and we're supposed to approve her choice . There are bad motivations elsewhere , too . In the first scene , MacMurray is a soldier who talks on sentry duty . . . because it's his last day in the army , so they can't fire him . ( No , but they can extend his hitch while they give him a nice long sentence in the stockade . ) For all its faults and forgettable songs , ' Swing High ' features some extremely impressive montage sequences : the best I've ever seen in a Paramount film . ( Though not up to the standard of Warners . ) Franklin Pangborn appears very briefly , playing his usual cissy role , but he gives here one of his most energetic performances : he twirls frenetically , he taps his fingertips together impatiently . This is one of Pangborn's very best performances , buried in an obscure film . Dorothy Lamour sings pleasantly here but wears a very harsh makeup . Fred MacMurray gives Anthony Quinn a punch in the nose . Any movie where Anthony Quinn gets punched in the nose is fine with me . There's a good performance by Jean Dixon as Lombard's ' seen it all , dearie ' pal . Dixon wisecracked her way through several major Broadway roles , but never caught on in film . There's also a good performance by an actress with the mannish name Cecil Cunningham , who plays a nightclub landlord known only by the mannish name Murphy . Cunningham was the ex-wife of vaudevillain Jean Havez , who wrote Groucho Marx's song ' Everybody Works But Father ' . That song would have livened up this movie . I'll rate ' Swing High , Swing Low ' .
England's Abbott & Costello	The cross-talk comedy team of Jewel & Warriss were Britain's version of Abbott & Costello . Both teams featured a well-dressed straight-man who easily exploited and baffled an ill-dressed bumbler . Whereas Bud Abbott was dapper , his counterpart Ben Warriss onstage typically dressed as if he was on his way to a Coronation , in high silk hat , spats , walking stick and formal attire . Coarse-featured Jimmy Jewel was neither as short nor as fat as Lou Costello , but strongly resembled him in an ill-fitting suit , porkpie hat and a broad ' kipper ' tie . Although the career of Jewel & Warriss peaked at almost exactly the same time as Bud & Lou reached their zenith , Jewel & Warriss are now almost utterly forgotten because their greatest popularity was on stage in the variety halls . Their film and television appearances were few , usually limited to cameo appearances in someone else's show . They also starred in ' Up the Pole ' - a bizarre radio sitcom , taking place at the North Pole - but this radio series inevitably lacks the visual appeal of their material . The real-life behaviour of Jewel & Warriss differed sharply from their onstage personalities . Jimmy Jewel , gullible and gormless onstage , was actually a shrewd man who invested his money wisely . Ben Warriss , the glib sharpie onstage , was actually a clothes-horse who spent his money as fast as he earned it . " I'll have a new suit made for that , " was his first response to every cross-talk routine they added to their act . Interestingly , Jewel and Warriss were actually cousins , born in the same bed ( a few months apart ) and raised together in one household . ' At Home with Jimmy and Ben ' enhances the similarity of Jewel & Warriss to Abbott & Costello by employing the same gimmick previously used by Bud & Lou in their TV series . The lads are using their own names here , playing fictionalised versions of themselves , and ostensibly living together in an odd-couple arrangement . ' At Home with Jimmy and Ben ' is a one-off post-holiday special for the lads , transmitted 24 January 1962 . On Britain's TV screens , Christmas and Boxing Day are traditionally excuses for elaborate holiday specials . Apparently , Jewel & Warriss couldn't ( or didn't want to ) get this 15-minute skit scheduled during the holiday season , so they waited three weeks and shaped their material accordingly . This special depicts Jimmy and Ben living together , spending a lazy evening at home whilst recovering from the overindulgence of the recent holiday season . Naturally , Ben takes advantage of gullible Jimmy , and soon Jimmy is fetching and carrying whilst Ben nurses a hangover . The comedy seems forced . Allegedly , we're watching these two performers on their night off , when they're simply lolling about at home and being themselves . . . yet we're aware that this is really a set in a television studio , and that these two performers are speaking rehearsed dialogue . Jewel & Warriss lounge about the set in house clothes , thereby losing a major part of their distinctive image - Warriss's formal attire , Jewel's incongruous suit - and diluting the contrast between their appearances . Most comedy duos featured a little and a large , or a fat and a thin . Jewel & Warriss were of normal size and shape ; when dressed normally , the most significant contrast between them was facial : Ben is handsome , Jimmy has a face like a sack of potatoes . I'm not quite old enough to have seen Jewel & Warriss live onstage in the variety halls , when they ( and their act ) were in their prime . A few old-timers who did see them onstage have told me that Jewel & Warriss's television work ( including this special ) is simply not an accurate reflection of the act's appeal . At their peak , Jewel & Warriss were a fast-paced turn , with rapid-fire cross-talk and gags , performing in a style far more typical of American vaudeville comics rather than British music-hall comedians . Very little of that zip is on offer here . What does come through , pleasingly , is the very real affection and chemistry between these cousins who have literally been together from the cradle . ( Reportedly , in their last years together , spendthrift Ben came to resent Jimmy's comfortable financial situation . ) For that one glimpse of their past greatness , and the tremendous historical significance of their cross-talk act - Jewel & Warriss were top of the bill , during the war years - I'll rate this creaky special .
Weak drama , one good comedy scene	' The Expert ' is based on a play titled ' Minick ' , and the name change is probably down to the fact that Chic Sale plays the leading role . For many years , Sale was a vaudeville monologist who did rural material about hicks and hillbillies . More importantly , Sale was also the author of a book called ' The Specialist ' , consisting entirely of cornpone jokes about outhouses . This book was a tremendous best-seller in the 1920s and ' 30s , to such an extent that its success eclipsed Chic Sale's career as a performer , and - in an era when many Americans still used outhouses - it became fairly prevalent to refer to an outhouse as a ' Chic Sale ' . . . in much the same way that , a few years later when Don Ameche starred in a film about Alexander Graham Bell , people thought it was funny to call a telephone an ' Ameche ' . Warner Brothers must have named this movie ' The Expert ' so that its title would evoke Chic Sale's best-seller ' The Specialist ' , misleading audiences to believe that this film is a comedy . It's not ; it's a sensitive character study . John Minick ( Sale ) is a small-town man who's getting on in years . His son Fred and daughter-in-law Nettie prevail on Minick to live with them in Chicago . But there really isn't much room for him , what with Nettie's baby , and there isn't much money either . Minick has his life's savings : not much money , but he's able to keep his pride so long as his finances don't require him to live off Fred's meagre salary . Down the street there's a residence for old men who have nowhere else to live . Minick finds himself spending most of his time there , to socialise with men his own age and to give Fred and Nettie some privacy . It's clear that , if Minick outlives his life's savings , his only real option is the old-men's home . This being 1932 , a year when many banks failed , it's quite understandable that Minick keeps his life's savings at home . Next-door over to Fred and Nettie live the Crowleys , a married couple who have adopted a boy named Dickie Foster . ( Why did the orphan's name have to be Foster ? I kept expecting jokes about him being a ' Foster ' son . ) The Crowleys are a couple of Fagins , who are raising Dickie to share their criminal ways . Old Minick befriends young Dickie , and tries to be a good influence on him . Then , one day , Minick discovers that his life's savings have vanished . Has young Dickie betrayed the old man ? If not , who stole the money ? Either way : with Minick's savings gone , the old-men's home beckons . . . This is an engrossing story and a serious one , not at all the sort of material we expect from playwright George S . Kaufman . Apart from some wisecracking dialogue , the comedy in ' The Expert ' is largely confined to one set-piece scene , in which Minick antagonises the stuffy women of a civic organisation with his views on child-rearing . Chic Sale acquits himself well in both the dramatic and comedic aspects of his role . There are good performances from Elizabeth Patterson and Walter Catlett , and an unfortunate ' yassuh ' performance from black actress Louise Beavers , who was typecast in such roles . In the important role of Dickie Foster , child actor Dickie Moore is in over his depth . I once interviewed Dick ( formerly Dickie ) Moore well into his adult years , when he was running a public-relations firm in New York City . He spoke to me in detail about his many experiences as a child actor working with some of Hollywood's biggest directors and actors . Much as I'm grateful for his kindness , I was never impressed with Moore's performances on screen . . . and ' The Expert ' features Dickie Moore at his twee worst . I can't rate this movie higher than .
anything Yukon do . . .	' The Barrier ' is based on a novel by Rex Beach , who wrote tales of two-fisted he-men . Oddly , in this story , the most sympathetic of the two-fisted he-men is named Gale Gaylord . Audiences for Rex Beach stories expected to see a good slug fest , as in his epic novel ' The Spoilers ' . In ' The Barrier ' , there's a fistfight between Henry B Walthall and Lionel Barrymore , in which Walthall gives as good as he gets . However , Barrymore is so much burlier than Walthall that this sequence just isn't plausible . The action begins in 1897 , during the Klondike gold rush . Among the prospectors are kindly Gaylord and nasty Dan Bennett , a former sea captain who has now settled in the Yukon and acquired a Red Indian wife , by whom he has an infant daughter named Necia . When Bennett murders his wife , Gaylord kills him and takes away the orphaned baby girl . Seventeen years on , Gaylord is a storekeeper in the Yukon and the little papoose Necia has grown up into the fetching Marceline Day , who doesn't look remotely Amerindian . Raised as Gaylord's daughter , she's now in love with Meade Burrell , an army lieutenant stationed in the region . The feeling is mutual , if only because Burrell wants to sleep next to a warm body on these cold Yukon nights . SPOILERS LOOMING ON THE HORIZON . A ship arrives , captained by a knife-wielding varmint named Ben Stark . It turns out that Gaylord didn't kill Dan Bennett after all ; Bennett merely used the evidence of his apparent death as a pretext to sneak away and start a new life for himself , under a new name . Yes , Stark is actually Gaylord's old enemy Bennett . When Stark sees Gaylord's daughter Necia , he knows straight off that this girl is actually his own daughter grown up . ( She looks more like Walthall than like Barrymore , though . ) Stark is one of those guys who's mean just for the hell of it . When he finds out that Burrell is in love with his daughter Necia , he gleefully tells the lieutenant that Necia is only half white . This has the expected effect : Burrell is horrified , and he shuns the ' savage ' . Eventually , Bennett ( now abandoning his Stark alias ) abducts his daughter and tries to take her away aboard his ship . Burrell realises he loves her anyway ( or maybe he only loves the white half of her ) , so he rushes to the rescue as the ship gets trapped in the ice floes . Captain Bennett drowns . The lovers are reunited . There's some painful comedy relief from George Cooper as Burrell's NCO . The photography and art direction are excellent , well up to MGM's standard for this period . The brawl scene is well-staged and edited , but utterly spoilt by the mismatched physiques of Walthall and Barrymore . Marceline Day is too languid in her role as an igloo ingenue . Frankly , Day looks too delicate and frail to play a woman who's spent all her life in the Klondike . The actress who plays her mother in this film is also surnamed Day , but is no relation . Marceline Day had a respectable career in late silents . The talkies revealed that she had a very peculiar accent : in ' The Wild Party ' , Marceline Day pronounces the words ' college ' and ' selfish ' so that they sound like ' colleech ' and ' selfeesh ' . Talking pictures were not for her . I'll rate ' The Barrier ' just . Who let all that snow in here ?
Feverish	CONTAINS SPOILERS . ' Grand Canary ' is based on a novel by Scots author A . J . Cronin , who specialised in stories about doctors caught in ethical crises . The star of this film is Warner Baxter , whom I usually like , but his performance here seems to be a practice run for his later role in ' The Prisoner of Shark Island ' . In both films , Baxter plays a disgraced physician who redeems himself when an epidemic breaks out on a remote island where Baxter is in exile . The principal difference between the two stories is that , in ' Grand Canary ' , the exile is self-imposed . Also , ' Grand Canary ' has got more women in it . Baxter plays Harvey Leith , an English physician whose refusal to accept current medical standards leads him to develop an experimental vaccine . In the charity ward , he tests this on three patients who are terminally ill ; they're going to die anyway , but Dr Leith wants to see if the vaccine will relieve their symptoms before they succumb . A . J . Cronin's medical protagonists tend to be crusaders who must contend with the bloody-minded obstinacy of their administrative superiors , so it's no surprise what happens to Dr Leith : the hospital governor blames Leith's vaccine for the deaths of his three patients . In disgrace , Leith leaves the country , boarding a Liverpool steamer bound for the Canary Islands . ( Hence the title . ) Aboard the steamer , Leith meets attractive Lady Mary Fielding , who's bound for the Canaries to rejoin her husband . Lady Mary is attracted to the debonair doctor , but . . . she's bound for the Canaries to rejoin her husband . The ship reaches the Canaries just in time for a malaria epidemic . Dr Leith's career and reputation are over , so he's not afraid to die . He rolls up his sleeves and gives medical aid to the malaria victims . At this point , as in most of A . J . Cronin's stories , soap-opera rears its ugly head . Lady Mary follows Dr Leith into the quarantine zone . Of course , she gets malaria . Of course , Dr Leith just happens to have a handy batch of his miracle serum to use on Lady Mary . When the blackballed doctor saves this green-eyed blue-blood from yellow fever , he becomes a hero back home in Harley Street . Dr Leith goes home to England , vindicated . Lady Mary discreetly tells her husband that she loves Dr Leith , and her husband obligingly gives her a divorce and steps aside . Whisky and soda all round , eh what ? ( UPDATE : My review is based on a British print of this film . I've since seen an American print , which has a different ending . ) There are several irrelevant subplots , and quite a few characters could easily be pruned from this movie . I usually welcome character actress Marjorie Rambeau , but here she supplies some inept comic relief that merely distracts attention from the main story . A better performance is given by Carrie Daumery , as an elderly marchioness who lets Dr Leith use her mansion for a malaria ward . In the central role , Warner Baxter has the sense to avoid attempting a British accent . Unfortunately , he gives Dr Leith a stiff-upper-lip characterisation that seems to conform to some stereotype of Britishness rather than evoking a human being . H . B . Warner , an extremely variable actor , is quite bad here . Most of what's good in ' Grand Canary ' was done better in ' The Prisoner of Shark Island ' , which had the merits of being a ( heavily fictionalised ) true story without nearly so many subplots . ' Grand Canary ' is a well-meaning movie that manages to be very ' worthy ' without actually being very good . I'll rate ' Grand Canary ' . Next patient !
Quick and painless .	Kurt Kren was an Austrian filmmaker of some real talent who never quite pulled off a significant film . His frame compositions are often excellent , and he manages to do much with cheap equipment and no discernible production budget . Kren's major failure is an inability or an unwillingness to join his compositions into a coherent narrative . As with Eisenstein ( at the start of his career ) and some of the other early Russian filmmakers , Kren seems to feel that merely amassing several minutes ' worth of unusual images will constitute an interesting film , when in fact the result is more like a photo album than a movie . Eisenstein eventually developed his narrative skills to the level of his visual talents ; Kren never managed to do this . One distinctive trait of Kren's films is his method of numbering and dating their titles . This one is cried ' : Underground Explosion ' . That means it's Kren's 23rd film , completed in 1969 , with ' Underground Explosion ' as the actual title . Kren's system is not only distinctive ; it also makes a lot of sense , as archivists can easily sequence and date his films , whilst his titles also tend to be descriptive . Here we have a five-minute , thirty-second film about an avant-garde performance troupe touring Germany , Austria and Switzerland . There's no dialogue , so there's no language barrier . Unfortunately , the lack of dialogue calls attention to the fact that this is basically a home movie , not a documentary . Kren shows no interest in ( or no ability for ) shaping his footage to make a point or convey information : he's basically just showing us some of the things that his troupe experienced . Much of this movie seems to have been filmed with the camera at crotch level , which I don't think is meant as a sexual comment . Kren just seems to be striving for a distinctive camera angle . He's found it , but to no particular purpose . There's a reason for conventional film-making techniques : most of the time , the tried and true methods of telling a story on film really are the best methods . Kren seems to want to tell stories in an unusual way , but hasn't bothered to come up with stories that demand unusual narrative techniques . I'll rate ' : Underground Explosion ' , because it's interesting to look at for the few minutes of its running time . If Kren had continued this camera technique in a longer film , it would have worn out its welcome .
The locations are better than the script .	Jenny Jugo was a Teutonic brunette actress who specialised in light comedy ingenue roles , similar to Doris Day . When she made the film with the intriguing title ' Fräulein Frau ' - - roughly ' Miss Mistress ' - - Jugo was 29 years old , yet she is cast here as an 18-year-old girl-woman . . . and she is utterly believable and appealing in the role . Another actress who starred in German comedies during this time was the sloe-eyed Dolly Haas , whom I've never liked . I wish that some of Haas's roles had gone to Jenny Jugo . . . although Jugo's career was quite prolific in its own right . Erika ( Jugo ) was raised in genteel poverty , but has now - - shortly after her 18th birthday - - entered into an arranged marriage with wealthy Peter ( Fritz Odemar ) , who is more than twice her age . The two of them go off to an expensive honeymoon in St Moritz , with Erika's mother ( Olga Limburg ) tailing along as chaperone . Why a married couple need a chaperone isn't quite explained ; however , it's clear that Erika is not eager to consummate the marriage . She still feels like a girl , as opposed to a woman . ( It never seems to occur to her that maybe Peter prefers her as a child-bride . ) When they arrive at their posh suite , they find it already occupied by handsome French actor Belmonte ( Anton Pointner ) . Apparently the hotel management have overbooked the facilities . Naturally , Belmonte is an egotistical roué who takes a shine to Erika . Naturally , Peter objects . Much of what ensues can be spotted a mile in advance . There are a few laughs here , and some nice set designs , but this film is unworthy of Jugo's considerable talents and her charm . I'll rate this one just .
Where's Bullwinkle when we need him ?	' Moose on the Loose ' is mid-level Heckle and Jeckle . Although I'm a fan of the two magpies , I'm always faintly annoyed by Jeckle's alleged English accent , which wouldn't fool anyone in Britain . For some reason , in ' Moose on the Loose ' is accent is even dodgier ( and more elaborate ) than usual . Trying to spot continuity errors in a cartoon is a mug's game , but ' Moose on the Loose ' is even slacker with continuity than it needs to be , with the magpies wearing hunting outfits that disappear and reappear for no reason . The two lads decide to hunt a moose , and naturally the moose doesn't like this . I thought the premise was a slightly odd one for Heckle and Jeckle , who more typically play confidence tricksters . There's one very funny female-impersonation sequence here , with Heckle and Jeckle sharing a panto costume to impersonate a female moose . My rating for this toon : .
Skip this and see ' The Jazz Singer ' .	I saw ' This Ancient Law ' ( subtitled ' Baruch ' ) in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone , Italy ; they screened a print from the Deutsche Kinemathek in Berlin . The print had a running time of 107 minutes ; I could have cut out 15 minutes without losing any of the plot . IMDb's detailed synopsis of this film is accurate . However , for some reason IMDb's cast list identifies two different actors ( Fritz Richard and the great Werner Krauss ) as playing Nathan , the professor . Herr Richard does indeed portray that role in this film ; Werner Krauss is not listed in the film print's credits , and I did not spot him anywhere in this movie . This film is apparently based on the memoirs of Heinrich Laube , who was director of Vienna's Burgtheater in the 1870s . I haven't read those memoirs , but it's not uncommon for a showman to ' improve ' his autobiography . Several events in this film seemed rather contrived to me , and the assertion that they were ostensibly based on a true story only annoyed me further . A major problem with ' This Ancient Law ' , at least for modern viewers , is that the movie's basic conflict is very similar to the one in a movie made four years later , and now much better known than this one : ' The Jazz Singer ' . Baruch Mayr is a rabbi's son with greasepaint in his blood : will he forsake the ancient Jewish ways for the glamour of showbiz , or will he find some way to exist in both worlds ? I was intrigued by the depictions of 19th-century German circus life , which I assume are accurate . Character actor Julius Brandt gives a poignant performance as an elderly performer who is aware that his big break will never come ; his only option is to carry on performing in small-time venues until he dies . The photography by the great Theodor Sparkuhl is up to his high standard . Henny Porten is very pretty in a role which I found contrived and implausible . At this point in her career , Porten often produced her own films . That may explain why some sequences in this movie seem to be placing Porten's character at the centre of the plot when it's clear that Baruch Mayr is really the focal character . Mayr is played by the bland Ernst Deutsch ; I wonder if Porten intentionally chose such a bland actor so that her own performance would not be upstaged . Since I'm not Jewish and I wasn't raised in a Jewish environment , I don't have an instinctive feel for the Judaic traditions and duties which are so crucial to this story . I tried to empathise with the young Jewish hero of this film , and I was able to do so intellectually but unable to do so emotionally . Perhaps if I had never seen ' The Jazz Singer ' , I might have been more impressed by this movie . As it is , my rating for this one is barely . It could have used Werner Krauss .
Fast and loose ? No ; slow and Loos .	' Learning to Love ' was written by Anita Loos and John Emerson , her much older husband . Loos and Emerson were long-time collaborators , but in her memoirs Loos claimed that most of their scripts were written entirely by Loos while her husband took most of the credit . Her claim sounds plausible , but Loos later told some vicious lies about people whom she barely knew ( including Paul Bern and Alexander Woollcott ) , so I don't believe everything she said about her marriage or her working partnership . If she's going to take all the credit for her husband's scripts , then she ought to take all the blame too . ' Learning to Love ' isn't especially bad , but it's not particularly good either . . . and I'm willing to give most of the blame to Anita Loos . Constance Talmadge plays Patricia , a wealthy orphan whose two old-maid aunts are her guardians . Patricia's holdings are handled by a lawyer , Scott Warner . Patricia is a flirt , and quite a few men are trying to make time with her . When Lord Cooperfield kisses her hand , she dismisses him as ' Count Coo-Coo ' , apparently unaware that a British count would actually be an earl . He of course is enchanted with the way she mistreats him . When it's time for Patricia to enter adulthood and claim her inheritance , she pays a call at Warner's law office . Warner's office boy Billy is instantly smitten with her , but dares not make a move . ( Good idea , Billy ! ) When Patricia gets a look at handsome Warner , she instantly sets her sights for him , but he's not having any . ( Good idea , Warner ! ) The lawyer wants to keep their relationship strictly on a business level . Wise decision . It's very obvious where this movie is heading . There are no surprises here , and I don't have much patience with movies about superficial rich people . The heiress Patricia in this old movie is astonishingly similar in her behaviour to our current superficiality , Paris Hilton . ' Learning to Love ' is well-made of its kind , but insubstantial . The sadly underrated character actress Emily Fitzroy is funny as one of Patricia's maiden aunts . Edgar Norton , the perennial butler of many Hollywood films , is slightly better than usual here . Sidney Franklin's direction is efficient but not noteworthy . John Harron is appealing as the amorous office boy . This movie's story is firmly in Anita Loos territory , but without the sardonic humour that Loos used so effectively elsewhere . I'll rate this froth .
Don't come any closer , folks .	Despite a well-deserved Oscar for his performance in ' A Tree Grows in Brooklyn ' , James Dunn is now almost entirely forgotten . Not quite a romantic leading man , not quite a character actor , Dunn was a downmarket version of Lee Tracy ( another actor unjustly forgotten ) . I always enjoy Dunn on screen , but ' Come Closer , Folks ' is one of his weaker efforts . A lacklustre script by hack author Aben Kandel combined with catatonic direction by ' Dross ' Lederman ( an even worse hack than Kandel ) manage to scupper this project quite thoroughly . SLIGHT SPOILERS . Dunn plays a pavement pitchman who brings his keester into Stone City , Pennsylvania . . . largely because he's been chased out of everyplace else . He crosses paths with Marian Marsh , cast as the prim daughter of the local department-store magnate . I fondly remember Marsh for her very sexy performance as Trilby in ' Svengali ' , but a lot of her sex appeal in that film was down to the beautiful wig she wore . In ' Come Closer , Folks ' , Marsh has much shorter hair , and she makes her first appearance in eyeglasses . . . so we know this is going to be one of those movies in which the prim spinster loses her inhibitions when she loses her glasses . Sure enough . A few familiar character actors are on hand here - - Harry Depp , Herman Bing ( more tangle-tongued than usual ) , Gene Lockhart as Marsh's dyspeptic father - - but offering absolutely nothing that they haven't done better in a dozen better movies . Viewers who recognise these faces from other films will see them do exactly what's expected here . . . and nothing more than the expected . One face that was unfamiliar to me here was that of obscure actor George McKay , who gave a fresh turn as a local yokel fleeced by the fast-talking Dunn . Eventually , Dunn and Marsh take over Lockhart's department store , and - - of course - - they turn it into a going concern . Dunn's character in this movie is a dodgy drifter , so I found it contrived that he would become successful as soon as a woman takes an interest in him . Purely on the strength of James Dunn's forceful personality , and George McKay's performance , I'll rate this movie .
Far from McCay's best work .	Winsor McCay was a newspaper cartoonist in the glorious days when cartoonists were given an entire over-sized Sunday newspaper page on which to give their artwork free rein . His full-colour comic-strip art is so remarkable that McCay's original newspaper pages ( if you can find them ) command high prices at modern art auctions . McCay eventually branched out into film animation , claiming to be the first artist to create moving drawings . . . a claim that would come as a surprise to Émile Cohl and J . Stuart Blackton , both of whom preceded him . Although McCay was a prolific print artist , he made very few animated films . This was largely because McCay drew all the frames himself , without the help of ' in-betweeners ' . For McCay's earliest cartoons ( including the legendary ' Gertie the Dinosaur ' ) , he drew the background and characters in each frame as a single drawing on paper : a time-consuming technique which required McCay to re-draw the entire background in each frame , even when it remained unchanged . By the time he began ' The Centaurs ' , McCay was using acetate cels to avoid this necessity . Like some other McCay animations , ' The Centaurs ' was a project that he never finished : the existing footage is almost certainly all that was ever completed . There is no plot here : McCay depicts a youthful adult pair of centaurs chaperoned by an older pair of centaurs , apparently the young she-centaur's parents . The relationship between the young couple is unclear : they appear to be courting , yet we also encounter a pesky boy-centaur who is apparently their child . Or is this brat the she-centaur's kid brother ? These centaurs gambol in an idyllic forest background which McCay draws very realistically . That's actually a drawback , no pun intended : I think that this footage would have looked far more interesting - - and McCay certainly could have completed it much faster - - if the centaur drawings on acetate cels had been superimposed against photographs of actual forest scenery . I am deeply impressed with much of McCay's work , but ' The Centaurs ' - - such as it is - - is hardly McCay at his best . We get none of those breathtaking perspectives which McCay used elsewhere . The animation of the centaur figures is not convincing : their equine portions don't move like real horses , and their human portions move only slightly more realistically . It's a shame that McCay didn't have access to a rotoscope . Admittedly , centaurs are very implausible creatures anyway : a horse reaches maturity much sooner than a human , so the lower end of the boy-centaur should be an adult already . ' The Centaurs ' was a strange project for McCay to have undertaken . Centaurs are lusty , sensual creatures , yet McCay has chosen to bowdlerise his figures . The she-centaur's breasts are only briefly suggested , and have no nipples . The males have no nipples either , and the crop of the he-centaur is not seen . If McCay was too much of a prude to give his centaurs sexual characteristics ( or if he was drawing for an audience who felt that way ) , then why did he choose this particular theme ? The older she-centaur ( the sour-faced chaperone ) wears pince-nez spectacles , leaving us to wonder if centaurs have access to opticians . At one point , the virile centaur shies a stone at a bird , bringing a bit of male violence to this idyl . Perhaps ' The Centaurs ' might have been more impressive if McCay had completed it , but I doubt that this is the case . All of McCay's animation is impressive , but ' The Centaurs ' is not the best introduction to his work . I'll rate this only . Sadly , almost none of McCay's original artwork survives . In 1982 , I interviewed American comic-book artist Leonard B Cole , who worked alongside artist Robert McCay ( Winsor's son ) in the 1940s . Cole told me that McCay once brought a large quantity of his father's artwork to the studio where they worked , and offered to give it away to any artist who would take it . There were no takers , so McCay simply threw out the lot ! ( Cole , needless to say , long since regretted his refusal of the offer . ) Today , those illustration boards would be priceless . Got a time machine handy ?
" I don't wanna be a goil ! "	If you want to see a boy get turned into Shirley Temple , this movie is right up your street . The central premise of ' Million Dollar Baby ' might seem far-fetched - - namely , that vaudeville parents would force their young son to pass as a girl performer - - but I found this part of the movie absolutely believable . When George M Cohan was a boy , performing in vaudeville with his sister Josie and their parents as the Four Cohans , they played a one-week engagement at a theatre where the manager wanted two girl dancers instead of a girl and a boy . Jerry Cohan solved the problem by ordering his son into skirts , although George retaliated by taking up the backstage habit of chewing tobacco to prove that he was ' all boy ' , as he put it later . Other boys who reluctantly performed as ' girl ' acrobats in vaudeville were Fred Stone and Jack Durant . What I found most unbelievable about ' Million Dollar Baby ' is heavy-set actor Paul Porcasi as a vaude acrobat . Terry and Gracie Sweeney are vaudevillains who have difficulty getting bookings until they're joined by their young son Patrick , a tap-dancer . Their agent Donovan can only get them jobs if Patrick is part of the act . Movie mogul J . D . Pemberton is holding a talent search for a new child star : a girl star . After Patrick gets caught playing with his pea-shooter , his parents take away his pea-shooter and change him into a girl , even though Patrick declares he ' ain't gonna be a dame ' . ( Doesn't he mean ' goil ' ? ) Little Patricia , as they name their new daughter , wins the contest and is hailed as the new ' Million Dollar Baby ' . . . an embarrassing title , as it calls attention to the basement budget of this poverty-row production from Monogram Pictures Corporation . Although this movie runs barely an hour , they manage to cram in a subplot concerning Terry's former girlfriend Rita , who probably dumped him when he developed a penchant for making his son wear girls ' clothes . In Kansas , en route to Hollywood as Little Patricia , poor Patrick is forced to star in a fashion show of frilly frocks for little girls , so he retaliates with some boyish antics . Soon after this , he runs away . . . still disguised as a girl . This is the part I found most implausible ; since Patrick is running away from being a girl , it makes no sense for him to run away as a girl . Couldn't he twock some trousers ? I usually cringe at movies featuring runaway children , since running away is nearly always depicted as a wonderful adventure . . . unlike real life , where runaway children are prey for criminals and perverts . Little Patricia ( who's a boy , remember ) crosses paths with a hobo named Jim . This movie takes place in that imaginary world where all hobos have hearts of gold and will risk their lives to protect petticoated boys . When some passing gangsters snatch the ' Million Dollar Baby ' , Jim naturally goes along to protect Patricia . SPOILERS COMING . After some deeply contrived adventures , Little Patricia decides to reveal her true sex while starring ( get this , now ) on a radio show ! Radio must be the worst possible entertainment medium for a female impersonator , because Patrick has to speak in a female register on the airwaves , and can't hide behind the camouflage of petticoats and ringlets . I found most of this movie painful to watch , and the low production values didn't help . As young Patrick , spending most of this movie in frocks and a wig , the unfortunately named Jimmy Fay isn't very believable . . . but boy actors don't get much practice at girls ' roles . The best performance in this weak film is by veteran character actor George E Stone as wiseguy publicity flack Joe Lewis . ( With that middle initial , he could have been Joe E Lewis . ) I suppose that this movie might be a comfort to any little boys who feel an urge to wear girls ' clothes , but I'm being charitable when I rate ' Million Dollar Baby ' .
Their careers went up in flames	I viewed the Turner-Time / Warner print of this movie . ' The Fire Brigade ' is a firefighting drama which also manages to be a piece of propaganda for firefighters . . . as if these brave souls needed any spin control . There are several firemen characters in this film , and without exception all of them are depicted as brave , resourceful and selfless . No pyromaniacs or cowards , as in the later ' Backdraft ' . The fire-fighting sequences are exciting and well-staged , often making the actors seem to be in genuine danger . . . and the film-makers are clearly pleased to show these fictional firemen using the very latest ( genuine ) fire-fighting equipment , vintage 1926 . I fear , though , that modern viewers would laugh at much of this equipment , which of course is primitive by modern standards . Also , this movie's soap-opera subplot considerably dilutes the excitement . Charles Ray plays the latest in an Irish-American family of firemen . He's engaged to marry Helen Corwin ( May McAvoy ) , the daughter of a wealthy building contractor . Unfortunately , her dad ( Holmes Herbert ) is a crook : he has knowingly committed safety violations in several of his buildings ; this increases his profit but it also means the buildings are firetraps . You can see where this is heading . The final scene is exciting , with Ray trapped on a burning rooftop with a golden-haired little girl . Tom O'Brien is excellent as Ray's older brother , who is a member of the same fire brigade . DeWitt Jennings , an underrated actor , is splendid as the fire chief whose job is made more difficult by conniving politicians . ' The Fire Brigade ' saddens me because of the fate of its leading players . The very beautiful blond May McAvoy and the handsome Charles Ray were both stars in silent films , but they plunged into obscurity very quickly when talking pictures arrived . May McAvoy was the leading lady in the early part-talking film ' The Jazz Singer ' , although she had no lines on the soundtrack of that movie . But soon she had to face the microphone : her talkie roles revealed that she had a lisp and an indecisive manner , and the sound revolution proved she wasn't much of an actress . The tragic course of her career is summed up perfectly by two of her credits : in the 1925 silent classic ' Ben-Hur ' , May McAvoy was the leading lady . . . and in the 1959 remake of ' Ben-Hur ' , May McAvoy was a faceless extra in the crowd scenes . Charles Ray's career followed a less spectacular version of the same arc . He was a star in silent films , usually playing good-hearted country boys . His voice proved unsuitable for talking films , and soon enough he was working as a dress extra , wearing a tuxedo in nightclub scenes . That's show biz , I suppose . I'll rate ' The Fire Brigade ' .
The kid would kick the Kaiser , but he wouldn't eat the meat !	I saw this intriguing propaganda film in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone ; the annual festival has made a welcome return to that town after eight years in nearby Sacile . . . a town no less beautiful , but in Sacile the festival's programme was split between two smaller cinemas at opposite ends of the town , thus forcing me ( and other attendees ) to hustle back and forth from one screening to another . ' Bud's Recruit ' was shot in monochrome , but at least one tinted release print exists ; that print , in the UCLA archive , was recently restored : an acetate print was made on colour stock , attempting to match the tinting of the UCLA print . The acetate print was screened at Pordenone ; I found the colours unpleasant and unnatural , and I suspect that this was a problem with the original tinting , rather than a failure on the part of the modern restoration effort . I would rather have seen this film in monochrome . ' Bud's Recruit ' has an intriguing genesis . Judge Willis Brown , a former justice of the Utah juvenile court ( and apparently still entitled to style himself ' judge ' ) , attempted to found a network of ' Boy Cities ' ( similar to the later and more successful Boys ' Town ) for orphans , runaways , juvenile offenders and wayward youth , offering them guidance and education as well as shelter . As part of that scheme , Brown established a Boy City in Culver City ( later the site of MGM ) and set up a low-budget movie studio there : the Boy City Film Company . As head of this endeavour , Brown wrote and produced a series of two-reelers ( ' Bud's Recruit ' runs 26 minutes ) depicting boy protagonists in morally challenging situations ; invariably , virtue would triumph and a lesson would ( hopefully ) be learnt . Brown hoped that the films would make a profit as well as bring favourable publicity to his Boy Cities . He appeared on-screen as himself in most of the films , although in this print of ' Bud's Recruit ' he is seen only during the opening credits . The Boy City films are significant for giving early directorial experience to King Vidor , who would later direct the most financially successful movie of the entire silent-film era : ' The Big Parade ' . ( ' Birth of a Nation ' made more money , but its profits were split among several different distributors in an arcane one-off arrangement . ) Judge Willis Brown's plans for the Boy Cities didn't last very long : his film studio folded in 1918 , and his Boy Cities failed for lack of funding ( and lack of proper management and supervision ) . Judge Brown was evidently not a good role model for wayward boys ; in 1931 , while married , he was shot to death by a woman who claimed she'd had a long adulterous affair with him . Good-night , judge . Bud Gilbert is the younger son of a widow . ( Bud is played by a child actor who looks to be about 12 years old . ) It's 1918 , and Bud is caught up in the wartime patriotic fervour : he wants to go to Berlin and punch the Kaiser in the nose . Conveniently , though , Bud's too young for Army service . Bud's older brother Reggie ( played by an actor who looks about 30 ) is old enough to enlist , but doesn't care about the war . ( With a name like Reggie , that's to be expected . ) Even worse for Bud's patriotism , his mother is a member of the local chapter of the Peace Society , dedicated to keeping the United States OUT of the Great War . ( Such societies actually existed during the First World War ; there were quite a few in the Second World War as well . Plenty of Americans believed that what was going on in Europe was none of Uncle Sam's business . ) Bud displeases his mother by disrupting her Peace Society meeting , and then Bud is appalled when his mother serves a perfectly normal meal on a Monday . ( During the Great War , ' meatless Mondays ' were encouraged , since meat was rationed and the armed forces received priority on available supplies . During WW2 , the official meatless day was the Tuesday . ) In his patriotic fervour , Bud chooses to go hungry on Monday rather than eat a meal with meat in it . He also forms a militia of local youths , drilling them in the manual of arms and marching manoeuvres , in case General Pershing needs some under-age volunteers . This low-budget movie is well-made ( Vidor's talent is already evident ) but deeply annoying . It manages to be propaganda on two fronts : stirring up war fever among Americans while also lecturing boys on acceptable behaviour . We're meant to admire Bud as a patriotic American , while despising his mother and his brother . ( In the latter role , actor Robert Gordon gives a performance which is slightly effeminate , apparently to make sure we recognise that Reggie is a coward rather than merely a pacifist . ) Of course it's extremely facile ( if not downright hypocritical ) that this movie is urging under-age boys to support the war effort , fully aware that those boys will remain on the home front while older males will be the ones dodging bullets . In hindsight , it has become painfully clear that the First World War ( unlike its sequel ) was an incredibly pointless war , with thousands of young men slaughtered or horribly maimed for some alleged ' causes ' that really didn't matter very much . I'm no pacifist , and there are certainly occasions when a man must be willing to enter harm's way and fight for a cause more important than himself , but World War One had no such cause . . . and that awareness makes ' Bud's Recruit ' more unpleasant to watch from a modern viewpoint . Purely for its proficient film-making , rather than its subject matter , I'll rate this movie .
19th-century sex-changes .	I saw this film in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone , Italy . The festival screened a brand-new acetate print , specially struck from an original nitrate print which has miraculously survived since 1899 , and which is now archived at Filmoteca de Catalunya in Barcelona . This film's title - - ' The Pyramid of Triboulet ' - - is a mystery to me . Triboulet was of course a character in a Victor Hugo story which became the inspiration for the opera ' Rigoletto ' . The word ' triboulet ' is also a generic term for a court jester dressed entirely in red . In this movie - - one of Georges Melies's ' trick ' films - - we indeed have a ( human ) pyramid , but no triboulet that I noticed . Melies himself appears costumed as a wizard . He opens a steamer trunk , and produces from it a whole series of male athletes , one at a time . When the trunk is finally empty , the athletes form a human pyramid . After they break the pyramid , Melies transforms them into elegantly-dressed ladies ! As usual for Melies , the magic tricks are achieved with a jump cut . Although these tricks undoubtedly astounded cinema audiences in 1899 , 21st-century audiences are now far too jaded to marvel at a camera trick which has been done more skilfully in ' Bewitched ' and ' Lost in Space ' . Having worked with circus performers and acrobats , I was more impressed here by the human pyramid , which involves no camera trickery : it's a genuine gymnastic feat , performed honestly and expertly . Melies shows some cleverness in transforming these male athletes into female fashion plates . . . but again , this is just one more jump cut . More than 60 years after this film was made , Monty Python's Flying Circus used the same gimmick to turn a group of Mr Gumbies into women and then back again . More for that human pyramid than for any other reason , I'll rate this minor Melies entry .
Stuff her ballot box	UPDATE : This IMDb webpage is for a 1932 one-reel Betty Boop cartoon called ' Betty Boop for President ' . Several reviewers have mistakenly posted comments here for a completely different movie : a 1980s compilation feature , also titled ' Betty Boop for President ' . They're in the wrong place . Now read on . The Fleischer animation studio was technically innovative , developing the rotoscope process ( which enabled the animators to transfer filmed human movement into remarkably realistic cel sequences ) and some interesting 3D backgrounds for a few of the Popeye cartoons . But I seldom enjoy the Fleischer cartoons , which tend to be extremely vulgar . In a Fleischer cartoon , a cartoon character can't just swallow a drink : we have to see the adam's apple bobbing up and down , the tongue licking the lips while drool trickles from the character's mouth , the drink dribbling from the character's face , and so on . Ugh ! More so than the rest of Fleischer's output , the Betty Boop cartoons are ( usually ) very annoying to me because they tend to carry all of Fleischer's flaws to a greater intensity . During a Boop toon , we're constantly nudged in the ribs with reminders that Betty is meant to be " sexy " . I don't find her sexy at all . Suppose you saw an actual flesh-and-blood woman who looked like Betty Boop , with that huge head on a tiny body , and the huge face containing enormous eyes and a tiny little mouth . You wouldn't be sexually aroused ; you would shudder in disgust ! Also , the voice and appearance of Betty Boop were a direct steal from the singer Helen Kane , whose career nosedived because audiences thought she was imitating Betty Boop . . . when in fact the imitation was the other way round . " Betty Boop for President " is one of the more interesting Boop toons because of its historical content . Released during the 1932 Presidential campaign , it depicts Betty campaigning for the Presidency . Her opponent is a top-hatted stick-figure named Mr Nobody , who sings a clever song that must have been morbidly funny for audiences in that Depression year : " Who will feed you when you're hungry ? Mister Nobody ! " There are a lot of political jokes here which modern audiences ( especially children ) won't get . The delegates at Betty's convention are elephants and donkeys . ( OK , that joke hasn't dated . ) At one point , Betty's voice and face morph her into a caricature of Herbert Hoover ( the Republican incumbent that year ) . This effect is so startling , it's more likely to frighten children rather than amuse them . Later in the same cartoon , Betty's voice and face morph into a caricature of Alfred E . Smith , the Democratic candidate from the 1928 campaign . . . at least I THINK it's meant to be Smith : the animation is so bad , maybe this is supposed to be FDR . ( But Betty is wearing Al Smith's distinctive bowler hat . ) Again , the morphing is disturbing rather than funny . SPOILER AND WARNING . One gag in this cartoon is NOT fit for children at all . As part of Betty's campaign to get tough on crime , we see a prison inmate ( a huge snarling macho brute ) led to an electric chair and strapped in . The current surges , and the huge brute is transformed into a limp-wristed swishing " pansy " stereotype ! He pauses to apply his lipstick before sashaying out of the prison ! I was doing child-minding duty for my neighbours when I screened this cartoon on my video , chancing that it was safe for children to watch . One of the neighbours ' children saw this " pansy " character in the cartoon and she asked me : " Is that a boy or a girl ? " Well , folks , Betty Boop cartoons should NOT be your child's first introduction to the subject of alternative sexuality ! Interestingly , " Betty Boop for President " ends with an image which is clearly meant to raise a cheer from the audience rather than a laugh . The cartoon ends with a dissolve to a large image of a stein of beer . In the year 1932 , this was explicitly a call for repeal of Prohibition . It also stacks up as a clear endorsement of FDR ( who favoured repeal ) over Hoover ( who didn't ) . How many animated cartoons can you name which are endorsements for a political candidate ? ( " Hell-Bent fer Election " is the only other one I can name offhand . ) I'll rate " Betty Boop for President " . . . as an historical artefact , not for its very minimal laugh value .
Ann Miller in a rubber cat-suit	' Dames at Sea ' was originally a micro-budget stage musical that affectionately guyed the big-budget Warners musicals directed by Busby Berkeley in the 1930s . The tiny off-off-Broadway musical had the good luck to cast the mega-talented Bernadette Peters in her star-making role . I didn't see the original stage production , but I've seen some amateur and stock versions in addition to this television special . This TV production of ' Dames at Sea ' retains the low-scale , easy-does-it staging of the original production , only slightly more magnified with minor embellishments that the original show couldn't afford , such as chorus dancers . This is one mini-musical that could have been improved with some of the big-budget splash that ruined Ken Russell's film version of ' The Boy Friend ' . As it stands , the most notable thing about this missed opportunity is that the female roles have been cast with actresses possessing complementary names : Ann-Margret , Ann Miller , Anne Meara . Several of the characters in ' Dames at Sea ' are lifted bodily from character templates in the Warners musicals starring Ruby Keeler , Dick Powell and Joan Blondell . Just in case we don't take the wink , the characters are named Ruby , Dick and Joan . SPOILERS AHEAD . In Act One , we witness the final rehearsal of a Broadway musical that's allegedly long on talent but definitely short on production money . The star is Mona Kent ( Ann Miller ) , tap-dancing her way through the big production number ' Wall Street ' . Oops ! Mona can't go on tonight ! But who can replace her ? Could it be that fresh-faced young ingenue Ruby , played by Ann-Margret with a lush coiffure of carrot-coloured hair ? Meanwhile , the creditors are circling . Here comes the funniest line in this show : ' There's a bulldozer in the lobby , and it's heading for the orchestra pit . ' In Act Two , our lads and lassies have patriotically joined the Navy , where the boys lament that there are no ' Dames at Sea ' . Fred Gwynne , who played the theatrical producer in Act One , has now become the ship's captain . Ahoy ? Ahoy vey ! ' Dames at Sea ' is light-hearted good fun , but I wonder how wide its appeal is . It has the general appearance of a parody of those old-time musicals ( as was done in the brilliant ' Movie Movie ' ) , but audiences expecting a parody might be confused by the fact that ' Dames at Sea ' is merely a gentle pastiche . The songs - - lyrics by George Haimsohn and Robin Miller , music by Jim Wise - - are part of the problem . These ditties are deft pastiches of songs from the beloved 1930s Warner musicals . Thus , we have here ' The Echo Waltz ' instead of ' The Shadow Waltz ' . Mona's big number ' Wall Street ' manages to evoke both the title number of ' 42nd Street ' and ' The Gold-Digger Song ' ( better known as ' We're in the Money ' ) . Anne Meara's comic number ' Choo-Choo Honeymoon ' is a pastiche of ' Shuffle Off to Buffalo ' and ' Honeymoon Hotel ' . I'm very impressed by how closely ( and affectionately ) these numbers echo the originals . But that's the problem : they're paraphrases , not parodies . When we hear those numbers sung here , we have a vague sense of having heard them before . . . in bigger and better movie musicals . The nearest we get to a parody here is ' Shanghai Sue ' , which takes a few bites out of ' Shanghai Lil ' from ' Footlight Parade ' . For my quids , the most interesting thing on offer here is Ann Miller's slinky dance number in a skin-tight rubber cat suit . Apparently she had injured herself shortly before this production began , and was required to wear a rubber compression bandage on one knee . . . which gave somebody the idea of Miller doing this entire number in a form-fitting rubber outfit . Fetish alert ! I usually enjoy Anne Meara , but here - - as the best friend of ingenue Ruby - - she's doing that prole Brooklyn accent she affects occasionally , trying to channel the spirits of Joan Blondell and Glenda Farrell . In the leading role of Ruby , Ann-Margret is a vortex of talent and sex appeal , but I wish she had done this role five or even ten years earlier . In ' Bye Bye Birdie ' , Ann-Margret was extremely believable as a dewy virgin who was eager to lose her virginity ; here , she's playing a role even more virginal , but the actress has acquired a knowingness and maturity ( and some age lines ) which make her less believable in the role . Indeed , except for Gwynne and Ann Miller , all the actors are too old for their roles . The period setting is not well evoked , and some of the lines here may baffle modern viewers . When Ann-Margret sings to an offstage Franklin D Roosevelt : ' Tell Mrs Roosevelt this was my day ' , modern audiences might fail to realise that this is a reference to ' My Day ' , the syndicated newspaper column that Eleanor Roosevelt wrote during World War Two . Another number , ' It's You ' , consists of a laundry-list of names that were famous in the 1930s , some of which are now forgotten . This production of ' Dames at Sea ' is enjoyable , but you'll probably have a better time if you seek out a local high-school production of this same show , and give those eager kids a big round of applause . This TV version has too many missed opportunities , and I'll rate it only .
His girlfriend turned invisible , so he stopped seeing her .	' The Secret of Wilhelm Storitz ' is a television drama based on a story of the same name by Jules Verne . . . or maybe not , according to some Verne purists . The story was first published in 1910 , five years after Verne's death , in an anthology titled ( in French ) ' Yesterday and Tomorrow ' , edited by Verne's son Michel . Allegedly , all the stories in this book were written by Jules Verne , so why were they never published in his lifetime ? It's known that Verne fils did some editing to his father's manuscripts , and there is evidence that he also did substantial completion of stories left unfinished at Verne père's death . So , ' Wilhelm Storitz ' is impure Verne at best . Fortunately , it's an interesting story ( in some ways quite typical of Jules Verne ) and this tele-version is an entertaining adaptation of the original . . . oddly changing a few characters ' names and making a few other arbitrary deviations from the source . I've read Verne's ( or his son's ) story in French , having been unable to locate an English translation . This synopsis reflects the 1967 TV adaptation , rather than the 1910 story . Wilhelm Storitz is a Prussian chemist living in southern Hungary . His father ( now deceased ) was a chemist as well . Storitz is rather an obsessive individual , and an outsider . He and his laboratory assistant Denis have the traditional mad-scientist and toady-assistant relationship , except that Denis isn't a hunchback . Storitz is strongly attracted to the beautiful young Magyar woman Martha Roederich . He claims to be in love with her , but from what we see here it seems to be sexual attraction . As the setting for this story is 19th-century Europe , Storitz naturally approaches Martha's parents for her hand in marriage . Martha's father is a colonel in the Hungarian army , so he firmly refuses to permit his daughter to marry a Prussian , due to the bad history between the two nations . As it happens , Martha has another beau , a young Frenchman named Marc-Antoine . Her parents approve of this relationship , and soon Martha and Marc-Antoine are betrothed . Storitz vows revenge . ( This is one reason why I accept this story as authentic Jules Verne ; revenge was an ongoing theme throughout his works . ) Among his father's lab notes , Storitz discovers the formula for a potion that confers invisibility . He mixes a draught of this and slips it to Martha . The next morning , when she awakens , she is invisible ! SPOILERS COMING . Storitz hints broadly that he ( and he alone ) can reverse the invisibility , and that the price for this will be Martha's hand in marriage . ( But her hand is invisible ! ) Martha refuses to submit to blackmail . Marc-Antoine vows that he loves her despite her invisibility , and the two marry . Much is made of Marc-Antoine's ' sacrifice ' in marrying a woman who is doomed to lifelong invisibility , but surely there are advantages to having an invisible wife . The chief of police , hoping to force the secret of re-visibility out of Storitz's assistant , tries to arrest Denis . ( And charge him with what , precisely ? Invisibility without consent ? ) Denis dies in an accident fleeing the police . Then the gendarmes arrest Storitz , who is killed resisting arrest . The secret of the invisibility formula dies with him . Despite her invisibility , Martha is happy in her marriage to Marc-Antoine . There is a happy ending : Martha gives birth to a baby boy , and the biological changes caused by the pregnancy restore her visibility . Regrettably , this low-budget production never delves into the consequences of invisibility . When the invisible Martha became pregnant by her husband , was the foetus visible in midair ? If her child had been a girl instead of a boy , would this still have reversed the invisibility ? When invisible Martha eats , does the food remain visible within her body ? None of this is addressed . The invisibility effect is achieved with a low-budget bluescreen process , and this results in the usual defects in the on screen image ( haloing , iridescence ) when that process is used badly , as it so often is . I'll rate this slow-paced production .
We wents ta collidge	The funniest thing about ' Rackety Rax ' is its title , which is a very clever pun . ' Rackety rax ! ' is the first line of a college football cheer that was popular in the 1920s and thirties : in this movie , that same phrase does double duty as a college cheer and as a pun on ' rackets ' as in racketeers . I've always believed that most American colleges exist only as pretexts for a football team or basketball team . . . and that college sports exist primarily as a vehicle for universities ( and bookies ) to make money . This movie does nothing to dispel that notion . Victor McLaglen ( betraying some trouble with his accent ) plays hulking gangster Knucks McGloin ( great name ! ) , who founds a school called Canarsie College . ( Canarsie being a neighbourhood in New York City that produced more than its share of gangsters . ) Knucks doesn't really care about higher education : Canarsie College was created only so that Knucks would be able to control a collegiate football team , which in turn would be a vehicle for his gambling activities . By organising the bookie action on Canarsie's football matches , Knucks makes enough money to offset the expense of the college . Knucks's highly profitable operation attracts the attention of Gilotti , a rival gangster . . . played by Stanley Fields , a coarse supporting actor of the 1930s who is undeservedly forgotten by film buffs . Gilotti sets up his own rival college , with a rival football team , and the shenanigans begin . Alan Dinehart , another undeservedly forgotten supporting actor , is very funny as McLaglen's lawyer , and hulking actor Ivan Linow is good as a dim-witted athlete named Tossilitis ( hilarious name ! ) . Interestingly , McLaglen and Linow each played Hercules the strong man in the two film versions of ' The Unholy Three ' . Good support here from Allen Jenkins , Vince Barnett , and Esther Howard in a rare comic role : she usually got cast in bland ' stick ' parts . I'll rate ' Rackety Rax ' . It's funny , but - - considering the potential of this material - - it could have been downright hilarious .
Eerie prediction of Lewis Stone's death .	The 1920 film ' Milestones ' is a remake of a film ( with the same title ) made only four years earlier . This implies that the 1916 version ( which I've not seen ) was so awful that it vanished from the public memory in less than four years ' time . This 1920 production and ( apparently ) the 1916 version are both based on material by Arnold Bennett . I've read most of his novels , but the source material for ' Milestones ' is unfamiliar to me , so I can't say how faithfully this film adapts his work . The rest of this comment applies solely to the 1920 film , and may in some details contradict the 1916 production . ' Milestones ' has a triptych structure , being set in three separate periods : 1860 , 1885 and 1910 . That last is depicted in this 1920 movie as ' the present ' , even though many Americans and Britons in 1920 ( having just emerged from the World War ) were proud of their Jazz Age modernity and would object to being conflated with people from that musty era of ten years earlier . When a film takes place in several eras , the most effective narrative technique is to cross-cut between the historic periods , leaving each story unfinished while going on to the next . This technique was used in DW Griffith's ' Intolerance ' and in Buster Keaton's ' The Three Ages ' , both excellent films . A far less effective method is to tell each period's story in full before moving on to the next . ( This was done in ' Forever and a Day ' , but that film at least kept each sequence short . ) Regrettably , the latter technique is used in ' Milestones ' , and it contributes to this movie's plodding pace . In 1860 we meet a pair of young lovers who hope to marry , but whose union provokes the disapproval of their respective parents . The lovers heed their parents ' wishes , and separate to live unhappily ever after ( apart from each other ) . In 1885 , we see basically the mixture as before : another pair of lovers , more parental disapproval ; once again the lovers heed their parents instead of following their own hearts . Unhappy endings all round . Dissolve to the ' modern ' year 1910 . Muriel Pym ( played by one Correan Kirkham ; who she ? ) is the daughter of Lord Monkhurst , and so she is styled the Honorable Muriel Pym . ( That's incorrect : she would actually be styled Lady Muriel , unless she held a title in her own right . I've difficulty believing that Arnold Bennett would make this error . ) Lady Muriel ( as I shall cry her ) falls in love with Richard Sibley ( Jack Donovan ) , a handsome and industrious civil engineer who has a promising future but no money and no blue blood in his veins . Naturally , her father protests the marriage . Sibley's father Richard Senior ( Lionel Belmore ) isn't too chuffed about it either . But this being ' modern ' 1910 , the lovers decide to make their own way in the world , with Muriel renouncing her courtesy title . This is a stuffy film , due to the poor pacing and the sensation of history inevitably repeating itself . However , it has some merits . Obscure actor Carroll Fleming ( who ? ) is excellent as the Monkhurst family's butler . Harvey Clark and Lionel Belmore give their usual understated performances . Belmore had an astounding career , appearing in movies in both Hollywood and his native Britain , and playing a wide range of roles in some major films . I was pleased that in ' Milestones ' he has a conventional haircut , rather than the distracting and bizarre quiff he wore in his starring performance in Erich von Stroheim's ' Greed ' . Character actor Lewis Stone is splendid as hard-hearted industrialist John Rhead , and I was deeply unnerved by a climactic scene in ' Milestones ' when Rhead's house is stoned by radicals . This sequence is well-staged and well-directed , but I also found it unnerving because it eerily prefigures a scene in the 1936 film ' Men Must Fight ' - - in which , again , Lewis Stone plays a prominent figure whose house is stoned by protesters - - and because it even more eerily predicts Lewis Stone's real-life death : in 1953 , some boys threw stones at Lewis Stone's house ; he chased them for several streets , then dropped dead in the gutter of a heart attack . While watching this sequence in ' Milestones ' , I felt as if Lewis Stone's screen character was genuinely in danger . Despite some good performances here , my rating for this film is only .
Quids in : early look at female independence	' The Twelve-Pound Look ' was originally a play by James M . Barrie , who is now best known for writing ' Peter Pan ' . Throughout his life and career , Barrie exhibited some strange attitudes towards women . ( Among other things , he had a penchant for writing plays in which the main role is a boy played by an adult woman : not only ' Peter Pan ' but also ' The Boy David ' . ) ' The Twelve-Pound Look ' is interesting because it advocates feminism and women's financial independence , at a time when most ' feminist ' plays and stories were more interested in lampooning the women ' suffrage movement . Barrie wrote ' The Twelve-Pound Look ' in 1892 , when Englishwomen were still getting arrested ( and ridiculed ) for seeking the right to vote . This film version was released in 1920 , shortly after women in Britain received the vote at long last . ' The Twelve-Pound Look ' is also interesting for another reason , because it depicts the effect of the typewriter upon society , and how this machine helped women gain financial independence . When originally invented , the ' typewriting machine ' was intended for men only . The word ' typewriter ' referred to the machine's operator , not the mechanism itself , and all ' typewriters ' were men . . . because the machines were only used in office situations , and respectable women did not work in offices ! Eventually someone discovered that long narrow female digits were better suited to a typing keyboard than stubby male fingers , and gradually women were employed as typists . . . in many cases , getting their first chance to earn wages and participate in a workplace . A goodish Betty Grable musical ( ' The Shocking Miss Pilgrim ' ) deals with this social trend . ' The Twelve-Pound Look ' is the tale of Kate ( played by the attractive Jessie Winter ) , an orphaned young woman . To support her younger siblings , she marries Harry Sims , a self-made businessman who is wealthy but has no other redeeming features . ( As played by the stolid Milton Rosmer , I can well believe it . ) But Sims is tight-fisted with his wealth , and Kate can barely save any money for herself after helping to feed and educate her siblings . Eventually , her marriage becomes so unbearable that Kate manages to scrape together £12 to buy a typewriter , so that she can leave her husband and earn a living as a typist . Years pass . Harry Sims divorces Kate , but she earns a respectable living and learns self-reliance . Meanwhile , Harry Sims continues to prosper . He has acquired a second wife ( Ann Elliott ) who is much meeker than Kate and unlikely to assert herself . Harry is pipped for a knighthood . When his name appears in the Honours List , the Sims home is flooded with congratulatory letters . In order to reply to these , he engages a typist . Naturally , the person who shows up is . . . Kate ! The showdown between the independent Kate and her domineering ex-husband is quite impressive . . . and when the dust settles , Harry Sims's second wife ( about to become Lady Sims ) is considering the idea that she too should purchase a typewriter ! ' The Twelve-Pound Look ' is dated , and most of the performances ( and direction ) here are stiff and badly-paced . But the social appeal of this story is considerable . The introductory titles of this film give J . M . Barrie credit for the original play , but do not list a screenwriter . For some reason , IMDb lists Sir Arthur Conan Doyle as the scriptwriter . I don't believe that this is correct , but it's possible . Barrie and Doyle were good friends who very occasionally collaborated . Both of them received some public ridicule for their statements professing their belief in fairies and other supernatural beings . I'll rate this film version .
Just barely tol'able .	The 1921 drama " Tol'able David " is one of the classics of silent film : deservedly so , and much of the credit goes to the sensitively virile performance of Richard Barthelmess and the understated directing of the great Henry King . This early sound-era remake is faithful to the original story , but is far inferior to its predecessor . The prolific director John Blystone is no Henry King , and Richard Cromwell is no Barthelmess . The plot here is the same as in the silent version , and has already been well summarised on IMDb . John Carradine's fans will be pleased to see him here ( under his previous screen name ) as a hillbilly named Buzzard , giving precisely the performance you'd expect to see from John Carradine as a hillbilly named Buzzard . Carradine doesn't disappoint here , but nor does he surprise . The best performance in these-heah parts is supplied by Noah Beery , as the patriarch of the villainous family who test David's mettle . Also quite good , in a much smaller role , is James Bradbury as the local postmaster . There's nothing especially wrong with this early talkie , but there's nothing especially good about it either . The photography is impressive , but the editing and production design are nothing to write home about . . . and Richard Cromwell simply isn't a strong enough actor to carry a film in the lead role . The silent version of " Tol'able David " is much better . I'll rate this remake just , mostly for its cast of familiar screen faces .
William Holden - - the other one - - is excellent .	I saw this movie in the early 1990s , at a screening given by William K Everson at the New School for Social Research in New York City . I usually took detailed notes during all of Mr Everson's screenings , but this time there was a disturbance in the auditorium ( no , not my fault , you clever clots ) and I didn't keep my notes . I can barely remember the film , which is not a point in its favour . The action takes place during the Great War in the home of the First Lord of the Admiralty , who has the unfortunate name Sir Winston Chamberlain . ( Any relation to Neville Churchill ? ) His butler Valdar is played by Erich von Stroheim , so it's no spoiler to report that Valdar is a spy for the Kaiser . He does everything but click his heels and wear a monocle . Into this cosy inglenook comes Frances Hawtree . . . played by Constance Bennett , who has never impressed me ( except in her off-screen work on behalf of U . S . servicemen ) . We find out very quickly that Frances is a counterspy . She keeps reporting to Mr Yates of the Secret Service , who addresses her by her code number ' Z-1 ' . Which reminds me . . . Most of the characters in this film are meant to be British , but the ( mostly ) American actors have the sense not to attempt British accents . Still , it's annoying to hear William Courtenay as Yates addressing Bennett as ' ZEE-one ' . Was nobody in this production aware that in Britain the last letter of the alphabet is pronounced ' ZED ' ? Since Frances Hawtree and her C . O . are allegedly British , it would make sense if they got this detail right . The film's title is a code phrase that doesn't seem to mean anything in clear . At one point , one of the male characters needs a pretext to leave the room , so he says he has to fetch his pipe . . . but the pipe is a mere sham . That's as good as this gets . I was impressed with the performance of the character actor who played Sir Winston . He gave several good performances in the early talkie era , and he deserves to be better known . Unfortunately , his name was William Holden : the same name as the later Oscar-winning leading man . Although there was a seven-year gap between the end of the older Holden's screen career and the beginning of the younger Holden's , I've seen several references which confuse the two , crediting all of the senior Holden's films to his younger and better-known namesake . Here , the senior Holden speaks his dialogue in his own natural American accent , yet he does an impressive job of conveying a proper upper-class Englishman . Director Roy Del Ruth also deserves to be better known , but this is not one of his better efforts . I don't remember this film very well , but the fact that I don't remember much of it is evidence that it wasn't very good . Even von Stroheim is subdued , for once . I'll go out on a limb and rate it , largely for William Holden's fine performance .
Money for old rope tricks .	James Whitmore first came to attention in movies as the second-team Spencer Tracy , but swiftly established himself as a performer very different from Tracy and with a far wider range . In the 1970s , he developed and starred in three one-man stage shows which he performed on the U . S . college circuit and occasionally in larger venues : " Give ' em Hell , Harry ! " ( as Harry Truman ) , " Bully ! " ( as Teddy Roosevelt ) and " Will Rogers ' USA " ( as , of course , Will Rogers ) . All three were filmed , with unequal results . Of Whitmore's three one-handers , " Will Rogers ' USA " has by far the easiest structure : since Rogers ( unlike Truman and Roosevelt ) was primarily a performer , Whitmore can address the audience directly and perform openly without the need of stage devices to explain why he is doing so . This is a filmed performance , with an in-the-round audience present . Throughout , Whitmore ignores the camera and speaks directly to his audience much as Rogers did . Whitmore makes his entrance as himself , offering a brief description of Rogers , and then describing the articles which he ( Whitmore ) will need to transform himself into the " Poet Lariat " . Whitmore puts on a cowboy hat , pops a stick of chewing gum into his mouth and starts chewing . From here , he becomes the folksy Will Rogers , offering his observations on America in general and politics in particular . And that's largely the problem with this show : although the material here is authentic Will Rogers , it's also extremely generic . Rogers is remembered as a political satirist , yet most of his political material was generic : all politicians are incompetent , all lawyers are crooks , and so forth . This entertaining performance offers almost no real information about Will Rogers . . . which is a shame , since his life and career were fascinating . Born in Oklahoma of part-Cherokee descent , Rogers developed a repertoire of lariat tricks while working as a rancher . He toured vaudeville and variety circuits throughout the world as a " dumb act " , remaining mute while performing dazzling rope tricks including butterfly loops , ocean waves , body spins and skipping spins , and feats such as roping an object from a spectator's hand , or lassoing an object behind his back while looking in a mirror . At one performance , when a stunt went wrong , Rogers ad-libbed a comment : the audience laughed , and from then on he worked vocal humour into his routines . In " Will Rogers ' USA " , James Whitmore pays lip service to Rogers's ability as a rope artist , but the rope tricks which Whitmore performs - - allegedly authentic Will Rogers material - - are very tame indeed . Clearly , Whitmore was either unwilling or unable to put in the thousands of hours of practice necessary to master Rogers's skills . Although Whitmore does a couple of tricks with a rope here , none of them involve spinning a lasso nor tossing a lariat : he basically ties and unties a couple of trick knots , which are much safer and more fool-proof than what the real Rogers performed . A far more serious flaw of this show is that it lacks any real drama at all . Whitmore simply imitates Rogers's voice and delivery while he recapitulates various incidents from Rogers's life , and quotes some of Rogers's lines . Only at the very end of the evening is there even a hint of drama , when Whitmore ( as Rogers ) announces that he's about to embark on a flight with his friend Wiley Post . This was , of course , the flight that took both men's lives . Will Rogers's own films , sadly , give very little sense of his stage act . To get a notion of what it must have been like to see Rogers starring in the Ziegfeld Follies , I recommend that you watch ' The Will Rogers Follies ' . " Will Rogers ' USA " gives some measure of Whitmore's talents and stage presence , but it says almost nothing about Rogers as a person or as a performer . Bondage fans might want to fast-forward to those knot tricks . " Will Rogers ' USA " deserves middle-to-high marks for entertainment , but very low marks for informative content . My rating for this one : .
Albert dances , Grady prances ; not much else to see here .	' Footlight Rhythm ' is the very generic title of this mini-musical , in which all the songs are numbers in the stage show within the ( marginally ) larger plot line . Although the songs are generic and undistinguished , the chorus girls ' costumes are given an exotic Latina look , possibly to complement the performance of lead dancer Albert Ruiz , who does some spectacular dance steps that seem to show an Hispanico influence . Frankly , his dancing belongs in a better movie . SPOILERS COMING . Get a line on this plot , now . In an obscure little stage-musical troupe , chorus girl Marian and stage manager Walter are sweet on each other . ( So far , so plausible . ) Marian has hopes of stardom . ( Again , still plausible . ) Walter aspires to success as a big-time stage manager . Hit the brakes ! I'm not sure if this was plausible in 1948 . In the 21st century , stage managers are highly respected craftsmen : the ones at the top of the profession are always in demand , and receive large salaries . ( Stage managers , unlike stagehands , are members of the actors ' union Equity . ) However , in the 1930s and ( I'm fairly certain ) the ' 40s , stage managing was a far less prestigious job : those who worked as stage managers were usually hoping to get entree to jobs as actors , directors or playwrights . One good example is that of Joshua Logan , who started on Broadway as a stage manager but quickly switched to directing . As depicted in ' Footlight Rhythm ' , the art of stage managing seems to consist solely of ordering chorus girls to get onstage . Marian is understudying Lila , the star of their little show , but Walter doesn't think that Marian has what it takes to be a star . ( This is her boyfriend , mind you . ) We all know the cliché about the bitchy leading lady who sprains her ankle , forcing her to step aside while the sweet understudy goes on in her place . The only real cleverness in ' Footlight Rhythm ' occurs when that cliché is subverted : kind-hearted leading lady Lila generously FAKES an ankle injury so that Marian can get a taste of stardom . ( Under Equity rules , Lila could get fired for shamming an injury that causes her to miss a performance . . . but don't mind me , folks . ) This is one of those movies in which the man always knows best : right enough , Marian gets her taste of stardom and realises she isn't cut out for it . She happily agrees to be Walter's loyal little wifey , and to let HIM be the star of the family ( as a stage manager , mind you ) . We're told of the incipient arrival of a wealthy showbiz angel named Percy Platt . Well , there's only one actor who plays wealthy characters named Percy . . . sure enough , Grady Sutton is a delight in his too-brief performance . Sutton was often typecast as cissies , mama's boys and " nances " : here , he practically drools with lust over the pretty chorus girls . His final scene here is amusing . I'm quite certain that this film's depiction of showbiz in 1948 is grossly inaccurate ; it's certainly laughable by modern standards . However , Albert Ruiz's dancing is impressive , and Grady Sutton is always welcome . As stage manager Walter , actor Kenny O'Morrison ( who ? ) reminds me of the young Van Heflin , and that's a compliment . I'll rate this one .
He sailed to Manhattan , but this film missed the boat .	I saw this circus drama in October 2007 at the silent-film festival in Pordenone , Italy ; they screened a print from the Bundesarchiv in Berlin . ' Der Herr des Todes ' would translate as ' The Master of the Toads ' . . . oops , I mean ' The Master of the Deaths ' . IMDb's cast list for this film has two serious omissions : actor Alfred Solm ( who plays the main role ) and Hungarian character actor Szöke Szakall , who plays the circus impresario Bordoni . Actually , Bordoni is a comparatively minor character in this film , but the actor who plays him is better known to American film-fans than anyone else in this movie : as a war refugee , he came to Hollywood and worked as S . Z . Szakall , appearing in ' Casablanca ' , ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' and other American movies . Peter von Hersdorff ( Solm ) is an aristocratic cavalry lieutenant who is in love with Heid von Düren ( Simone Vaudry ) , the attractive daughter of a powerful privy councillor ( Heinrich Peer ) . However , the influential Baron von Bassenheim ( Ferdinand von Alten ) has designs on Heid himself ; he deliberately provokes Peter into attacking him . This has the intended effect of creating a scandal : Peter is forced to resign his commission and give up his military career . This is doubly disgraceful for his family , since Peter's father ( Eduard von Winterstein ) is himself a colonel in the regiment . Peter's father and mother ( Jenny Marba ) decide that Peter has disgraced the family so deeply that he must not only leave the country but also leave the entire continent . Next thing we know , Peter has boarded the German ocean liner Columbus ( of which more later ) and travelled to New York City . There are a few brief exterior shots of New York , apparently made especially for this film , but there's also a protracted sequence - - ostensibly set in Central Park - - which frankly looks more like the Schwarzwald . While in Manhattan , penniless and jobless , Peter meets Maja ( Hertha von Walther ) , a circus performer who's apparently now retired yet still crying herself by her circus name . Since Peter is penniless , Maja decides to get him a job in the circus . . . thereby ensuring he'll be penniless for the rest of his life . Next thing we know ( there are quite a few next-things-we-know in this movie ) , Peter is a trapeze star . And he even gets a chance to regain the love of the fair Heid . But then somebody sabotages Peter's trapeze rig . . . I found this entire movie utterly implausible , yet no more so than quite a few Hollywood films . The film's very portentous title turns out not to work in its favour : ' The Master of the Deaths ' refers to Peter's act as a trapeze daredevil , yet nothing in this turgid plot is epic enough to justify that title . We do have here , though , an early example of product placement : the name of the passenger liner Columbus is featured just a bit too prominently and too frequently during the transatlantic sequences of this movie . According to the programme notes at Pordenone , these ' plugs ' were put into the movie intentionally in exchange for free transport of the film's cast and crew to New York City and back again for the Manhattan sequences . I say that the ocean liner's owners got rooked ; the Manhattan shots in this movie aren't extensive enough nor significant enough to justify the effort , and it's clear that quite a few of the sequences set in Manhattan ( notably in Central Park ) were actually filmed in Germany . There are quite a few merits to this film , but nothing really superlative . My rating : a mere .
At least three versions exist .	I saw ' Evangeliemandens liv ' at the 2006 Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy , where it was screened with three different endings . Speaking of which : several Internet bloggers ( mostly in the U . S . A . ) have questioned the accuracy of some of my IMDb reviews , claiming discrepancies between my plot synopses and the content of the movies . What those bloggers don't realise ( or what they DO realise but they don't want to acknowledge ) is that a movie sometimes exists in several different versions . This is particularly the case for silent movies released in several different languages : sometimes the person who translated the intertitles would also change the names of major characters , and change the content of the text in the titles and dialogue . When Hollywood silents were distributed in Europe , it was not unusual for the footage to be re-edited , with new titles inserted , altering the film's plot to suit the tastes of a different culture . This practice continued into the talkies era : for example , British prints of the Marx Brothers movie ' Horse Feathers ' contain a scene between Thelma Todd and Harpo which doesn't exist in any Stateside print I've seen . My detractors are looking at U . S . prints of these silents , while I'm usually screening European or British prints , which can be significantly different . ' Evangeliemandens liv ' ( " Evangelist's Life " ) begins very promisingly and imaginatively . We see popular Danish leading man Valdemar Psilander ( as himself ) sitting in a darkened set , reading a copy of this film's screenplay . Against a hazy background appear three images of John Redmond ( Psilander's role in this film ) in the three roles that he will fulfil in this story : playboy , convict , evangelist . It's a striking image , and a powerful opening scene . Too bad the film is downhill from here . Handsome young Billy Sanders ( Birger von Cotta-Schønberg ) is drifting into a life of crime , leading to quarrels with his girlfriend Nelly Gray ( Alma Hinding , a pretty brunette ) . Wise older man Redmond , now a lay preacher , proceeds to caution Billy by relating his own life story . Unfortunately , most of this movie's running time is taken up with Redmond's unwieldy flashback . Redmond ( looking no younger in the flashback ) was once a wealthy playboy , in love with the town slut ( Else Froehlich , quite sexy ) but jealous of her many other lovers . During an argument with one of these men , Redmond pulled a revolver and accidentally killed the woman they were fighting over . For this , Redmond served a long prison sentence ; while in Danish porridge , he found religion with the help of the prison chaplain ( Frederik Jacobsen , a dull performance ) . SPOILERS NOW . ' Evangeliemandens liv ' was a Danish film intended primarily for domestic audiences , so the ending released in Denmark would be the ' official ' ending . In that version , Billy sees the error of his ways , and he and Nelly are tearfully reunited while Redmond beams approval . However , this movie was released to foreign markets with two other endings . In the Russian version , Nelly decides to commit suicide . She fashions a noose ; in close-up , we see the arousal in her eyes as she embraces the noose lovingly . Then she hangs herself . The End . In the Swedish version , Nelly again fashions the noose ; again , she seems to arouse herself as she embraces it . She climbs onto a chair , kicks it away . . . just as Billy and Redmond burst into her room . Redmond unpockets a penknife , cuts the rope , tosses his knife aside while Billy helps Nelly onto the bed . Redmond raises his eyes heavenward , giving thanks that Nelly will live . I find these alternate endings interesting for what they reveal about the expectations of different film audiences . Apparently , Russian movie audiences in 1915 didn't want happy endings . Also apparently , Swedish audiences DID want happy endings . . . but only providing that the girl suffer first , and nearly kill herself . Also , I'm intrigued ( but not surprised ) that all three versions of this movie take a misogynist view : when a young couple quarrel over the boy's criminal propensities , it's clearly the duty of the girl - - not the boy - - to end the relationship by committing suicide . Oh , blimey ! ' Evangeliemandens liv ' is extremely well-photographed , and the prison sequences are quite realistic . Most of the actors give performances more subtle than I would have expected . But the pace of this film is leaden and stodgy , and the flashback structure is extremely unwieldy . My rating for this movie : , no matter which ending you see .
Whiney Winnie warbles wanly .	I always find it distracting when a character in a movie or TV programme has the same name as the actor playing that character . ' She Couldn't Say No ' stars an actress named Winnie as a woman named Winnie : an unnecessary contrivance . Perhaps Warner Brothers were trying to build up Winnie Lightner for the star treatment . A few months after making this movie , Lightner starred for Warners in ' Sit Tight ' , in which she again played a character cried Winnie . Wild Winnie Harper ( Lightner ) is a nightclub chantoozey who attracts the attention of Jerry Casey ( Chester Morris ) . Now get this : Casey is a gangster , but he allegedly wants to go straight . He decides to groom Harper for stardom , envisioning a new ' legit ' career for himself as her manager . So far , so cliché . . . but at this point the movie takes an unexpected turn . The rules of bad scriptwriting require Casey and Harper to fall in love , but for Harper to be dismayed by Casey's criminal behaviour . SPOILERS COMING NOW . Sure enough , she falls for him . But , surprisingly , Casey has the ga-ga's for Iris , a hoity-toity society girl . ( Sally Eilers is very weak in this role . ) Also surprisingly , Casey genuinely does intend to go straight , rather than making empty promises . Winnie Lightner wallows in some of Alice Faye's masochism as Winnie Harper nobly steps aside . Then Casey gets shot dead by one of his underworld cronies . . . and it turns out that he actually loved Harper all along , but didn't think he was good enough for her . ( Oh , but he's good enough for that rich society dame . ) Along the way , we get dialogue like ' You're making mud pies of my heart . ' This movie reminds me of several other movies , but in every case the other movie is preferable . The directing , editing , production design and camera work are all consistent with Warners ' B-unit . Chester Morris was an underrated actor who usually impressed me , but here he seems merely to be going through the motions . I'll rate ' She Couldn't Say No ' .
The middle portion of a bleak triptych .	' My Ain Folk ' is the second of three autobiographical films written and directed by Bill Douglas , recounting his childhood and adolescence . In all three films , the protagonist - - ostensibly Bill Douglas's alter ego - - is cried Jamie . The name change warns us that some fictionalisation is in the works , but we're never told precisely at which points in the story , nor how extensively . The most famous case of this sort of substitution would be the example of Francois Truffaut and his cinematic alter ego Antoine Doinel . I suspect that Jamie conforms more closely to Bill Douglas's life than Doinel to Truffaut's . SPOILERS AHEAD . Cleverly yet bitterly , this movie opens with displays of triumph . We see a collie ( a Scottish breed ) standing atop a mountain above a glorious vista of landscape , in full colour . This quickly turns out to be a Lassie movie being screened in Jamie's local cinema , a tuppenny fleapit in a coal-mining town . From here out , the rest of the film is in monochrome . From collie to colliery in one painful reel change . I found the first instalment in this trilogy , ' My Childhood ' , so utterly realistic as to be a painful experience . ' My Ain Folk ' , by contrast , felt slightly more like something Dickens invented for one of his novels . ' My Childhood ' bleakly but expertly limned the utter desperation and grinding poverty of Jamie and his half-brother Tommy , raised by their elderly ' gran ' while their mother languishes in a mental institution . Very realistic and compelling . Here in ' My Ain Folk ' , up pops some tosh about a necklace which Jamie's mother has hidden , which apparently has enough value that someone else wants to find it . Pull the other one ! Although I'm more than a decade younger than Douglas , I came from a background very similar ( in Perthshire and a Glasgow council estate ) and I know damned well that people this poor never have any heirlooms . Any object that can stave off hunger for a couple of hours is sold , bartered or pawned . Throughout this bleak trilogy , Douglas uses apples symbolically : they seem to represent prized treasures which are highly desirable in this impoverished landscape . In ' My Ain Folk ' , there's a close-up of a large dish containing only one small Bramley apple and a set mousetrap . This felt to me like the sort of art-house image which director Douglas normally avoided . . . but it turned out that there was a legitimate reason for placing the trap next to the apple . During one shot of Jamie standing astride the local railway line , we hear on the soundtrack an offscreen train coming steadily nearer and louder , yet Jamie shows no inclination to get off the sleepers . ( In the previous instalment , he actually lay down with his head on the rails ! ) Suddenly the train comes hurtling into the frame . . . on a different track we hadn't noticed before . This one shot reminded me of several Buster Keaton films . Elsewhere in this movie , the soundtrack cuts out entirely . I started to put this down to alienation or some other symbolism , but apparently Douglas just had grotty film recording . After the death of Jamie's gran , the film ends with a slight note of triumph : we see a Highland band marching downhill ( another symbol ? ) while piping ' Scotland the Brave ' . In all three instalments of this trilogy , Douglas wrings astonishing performances from a ( mostly ) non-professional cast , and gets full benefit from the cinema-verite settings . I found the first instalment of this bleak trilogy ( ' My Childhood ' ) deeply depressing yet moving , partly because some of it resembled my own experiences . I found ' My Ain Folk ' equally depressing yet less cathartic . I'll rate this downer , mostly in recognition of Douglas's skill rather than his depressing choice of subject matter .
Seeing isn't believing	' The Death Ray ' is not a comedy : it's a documentary film of what purports to be an actual demonstration of a genuine invention . Unfortunately , we'll never know how much of what occurs here is authentic science , and how much is hoax or outright fraud . ' The Death Ray ' reminds me of that notorious Bigfoot footage ( Bigfootage ? ) photographed by Roger Patterson , which appears to be a flat-out hoax except for the clever detail that Patterson was sincerely duped into believing he was photographing an authentic Bigfoot . Some background : from 1906 until his death in 1941 , English scientist Harry Grindell Matthews made some small but genuine contributions to electrical engineering and radio technology . Matthews was England's answer to Nikola Tesla : like Tesla , Matthews produced some legitimate inventions , but ( in both men's cases ) the most ambitious creations never seemed to get beyond the planning stage . For HG Matthews , the greatest ( and most notorious ) of his ' almost ' inventions was his death-ray machine . Matthews always asserted that this was a genuine invention : he also insisted that his weapon's projection was a beam , not a ray . . . because it consisted of a modulated particle wave rather than a natural radiant emission ( such as sunlight ) . ' The Death Ray ' is a 25-minute film made by the Pathe newsreel company in April 1924 . Ostensibly , this is a straightforward record of a legitimate scientific experiment . . . but Matthews controlled the circumstances of the filming , and he had wide opportunity for fraud . In the film , Harry Grindell Matthews bears no resemblance to a crackpot or ' mad ' scientist . He appears on screen - - slim , handsome , dignified - - wearing a spotless lab coat and spats . His laboratory , indeed , looks like a genuine place of scientific research . There are no hunchbacked assistants , no bubbling alembics , no Strickfaden paraphernalia . The only oddity on offer is the death-ray machine itself , which looks like one of those ' what the butler saw ' contraptions at Blackpool Pier . On a tabletop bearing a metal plate , an assistant places a small cage containing a live rat . Matthews peers through the eyepiece of his death machine , pulls a few levers . . . hey presto ! The rat twitches , then falls dead . We never actually see a deadly ray , but that's scientifically plausible : visible wavelengths of radiant energy aren't fatal , so a genuine death ray would have to be invisible . Or maybe the rat was actually killed by an electric current in that metal plate . The faithful assistant ( careful to keep clear ) suspends an incandescent light bulb in the path of the death ray , turning it to reveal that there are no electrical wires . Matthews pulls his levers , and the bulb lights up . . . with no discernible power source . Again , this could be faked . Next , an assistant sets a bicycle wheel spinning . One zap from the invisible ray , and the wheel stops in its tracks . For his grand finale , Matthews aims the machine at a tray of gunpowder . . . which explodes with a satisfyingly large cloud of smoke . Judging from the reactions of the onlookers in this silent film , there must have been quite a loud bang , too . Genuine or fake ? Matthews appears to have been a highly eccentric man who nonetheless was more interested in scientific discovery than in charlatanism or personal publicity . In my uninformed opinion , I suspect he was like those Victorian spiritualists who claimed to be able to summon the spirits of the dead . . . and who were often caught faking their supernatural effects . Some of these people were outright frauds , but others seemed to be misguided individuals who sincerely believed in spiritualism . . . to the point where they saw nothing wrong in ' helping ' the spirits along , with a few bits of fakery . It may be that HG Matthews believed in his own death-beam technology so sincerely that he resorted to ' helping ' it by means of some fakery . I'm forced to conclude that the death-ray energy never existed , as someone else would almost certainly have discovered it independently by now . As such , I'll rate this movie ' The Death Ray ' , as a fascinating bit of fakery . UPDATE : I'm appending this addendum ( or addending this appendum ) three years after my original IMDb review . In the intervening time , I've learnt a bit about Harry Grindell Matthews , and I now believe that he was a flat-out fake . . . worse than a fake , well and truly a fraud in the criminal sense . Apparently he spent most of his backers ' funds on posh living for himself rather than R & D for his death beam . Also , to film ' The Death Ray ' he engaged a director ( Gaston Quiribet ) whose background was in special-effects work and cinematic trickery : a strange choice if this movie were a straightforward documentation , but a very logical choice if the film was meant to deceive . I now suspect that deception was Grindell Matthews's intention all along . Well , movies ARE meant to be make-believe ! Ah , well . . .
Too long in the oolong .	The Prince Street Players were a Manhattan children's-theatre troupe ( of adult actors ) staging musical versions of traditional fairy tales , with scripts and songs written by Jim Eiler . Eiler's scripts tended to be straightforward retellings of the beloved classics , with very little modernisation or topical humour . ( Unilike the panto versions that are popular in Britain , which insert modern references and comic business into the stories . ) The troupe featured talented and personable performers , but the strongest asset of the Prince Street Players was the musical talent of Jim Eiler , who wrote catchy melodies and deft lyrics for many of their shows . Most American versions of ' Aladdin ' ( including the Disney movie ) set the action in Arabia , whilst British stagings move the action to China . . . often featuring comic-relief characters such as Wishy Washy ( the Chinese laundryman ) and Widow Twanky ( an old woman played by a male comedian ) . This Prince Street Players production adheres to the classical story but takes place in China , relying on classical stagecraft of the Chinese theatre . A stage manager ( Don Liberto ) appears onstage in Chinese costume , moving props and Chinoiserie scenery in full view of the audience . None of the actors employ Chinese acting techniques . . . which may be a wise decision for the sake of American television audiences . As Aladdin , Fred Grades sings well but gives a lacklustre performance . Far more appealing is Vicki Morales as Princess Mei Ling : she shows real presence , and has a singing voice of crystalline beauty . But the real star of this production is Will B . Able as the Genie of the Lamp . ( I once met Will B . Able ; yes , that's his real name , and he kept a copy of his birth certificate handy in case anybody doubted him . ) Able's performance in this role is slightly effeminate , but - - as this production is intended for children , and entirely suitable for young audiences - - I doubt that any subtext was intended . Able skilfully sets the pace for the other actors , magically apporting objects and transporting Aladdin and the princess through their adventures . The hallmarks of all the Prince Street Players productions are the delightful music and inventive lyrics by Jim Eiler . In ' Aladdin ' , Eiler's score falls short of the high standard he achieved in ' The Emperor's New Clothes ' , but the melodies are still pleasant . The lyrics , alas , are somewhat repetitive . . . and less imaginative than usual for Eiler . When the Genie introduces himself by singing ' I am a genie : a good genie , not a meanie ' , this is Aladdin's cue to turn towards the audience and sing ' He is a genie : a good genie , not a meanie ' . Eiler commendably attempts to give his score a Chinese motif , but most of these pentatonic melodies end up sounding like the ying-tong stereotype of ' Chinese-ish ' music . When Princess Mei Ling offers some poisoned oolong to the villain , she sings ' Teatime , teatime , time to poison HE time ' . This is the villain's cue to face the audience and sing ' Teatime , teatime . She wants to poison ME time . ' Ah , so ! Me velly solly ! The most energetic number in this show , and also the one with the best ( and least Oriental ) melody , is the one with the worst and most repetitive lyric . Aladdin and Mei Ling are far from home , and anxious to return . When Aladdin commands the Genie to muster his magic to whisk them across the vast distance , this is the cue for all three performers to rush about singing ' Up , up , up so high ! We'll be home ! In the wink ! Of an eye ! ' So far , so catchy . . . except that they CONTINUE to sing this couplet , over and over and over , with no variations , while they rush upstage and downstage for several minutes with nary a scenery change . ( UPDATE : I've been contacted by someone who claims that my memory of this lyric is inaccurate ; maybe so , but it certainly does SEEM repetitive . ) Eventually , the Genie runs directly up to the camera until he has one eye in tight close-up - - I commend the camera operator for maintaining focus - - and then he ostentatiously winks . I well and truly dislike musical numbers in which the characters sing about how they're in a big hurry to go someplace . . . while they stay here and sing about how they're in a big hurry to go someplace . Despite my cavils , this is a delightful and ( largely ) imaginative production which children and non-jaded adults will enjoy . If I seem to be harsh to ' Aladdin ' , it's only because I've been spoilt by the high quality of the Prince Street Players ' production of ' The Emperor's New Clothes ' ( with Eiler's brilliant score ) and ' Jack and the Beanstalk ' . This ' Aladdin ' falls far short of those two musicals , but it's still much better than most of the stuff your kids could be watching . I'll rate this ' Aladdin ' .
Frankenstein's goombah	' The Guilty Generation ' has a misleading title . This movie would seem to indict a generation , but it's actually more interested in indicting an ethnic group . . . to be precise , the Italians . This movie takes place in a universe where everyone named Angelo or Luigi is automatically a gangster . Late in the film , there's some brief dialogue about honest Italians vilifying the crooked members of their ' race ' . . . but most of this movie seems to indicate that Italian ancestry and criminal behaviour are mutually inclusive . Robert Young is a rising young architect named John Smith , a name guaranteed to attract attention . Indeed , we soon find out that he was born Marco Ricca , son of gangster Tony Ricca . The latter is played by Boris Karloff , looking not remotely Italian . ( Although Italian-American actor Abe Vigoda was a Karloff lookalike . ) Karloff brings deep conviction and presence to this role , but his performance is not very convincing . Part of the problem is that Tony Ricca's dialogue is full of " ain't " s and other grammatical errors , yet Karloff speaks these thick-eared lines in his usual cultured tones . Elsewhere , Murray Kinnell is good in a supporting role , but his well-bred English accent seems out of place in a setting that's knee-deep in goombahs . There are excellent performances by two actors unknown to me , Emma Dunn and Elliott Rothe . Also impressive is Leo Carrillo . Because of his short stature and thick accent , Carrillo is best known for comic roles . Here , he's chillingly believable as a crime lord , utterly ruthless and unforgiving . Much of the film takes place in the sumptuous Florida mansion owned by Carrillo's character . I was astounded that Columbia Pictures - - at this point , a studio barely out of Poverty Row - - were able to achieve these production values . Also quite good , in a supporting role , is Ruth Warren as Carrillo's press agent . Unfortunately , Warren was precisely the same character type as several other better-known and better actresses - - Jean Dixon and Glenda Farrell spring to mind - - so she failed to claim a niche for herself among Hollywood's character actresses . As the romantic leads in this melange , Robert Young and the insipid Constance Cummings are as dull as dishwater . I've never yet seen a performance by Cummings that impressed me . ' The Guilty Generation ' , well-directed by the underrated Rowland V Lee , and nicely photographed by Byron Haskin , is probably of greatest interest to Karloff fans . Be advised that Karloff's role is actually quite small , and he's miscast . Overall , I'll rate this movie .
Louise is lovely , Lon is lively	" Dolly's Scoop " starred the Sydneysider actress Louise Carbasse , whose Hollywood career was lumbered with the unfortunate screen name Louise Lovely . But she is indeed lovely , and very beautiful in this film , especially in one beautifully backlit close-up . This film is also extremely interesting because Lon Chaney plays a supporting role , looking comparatively handsome . His character here is completely sympathetic , and ( SPOILER COMING RIGHT NOW ) he actually gets the girl ! James Fairfax ( Hayward Mack ) edits a tabloid newspaper that is only concerned with stirring up scandal , not reporting actual news . Most of the reporters on the paper object to Fairfax's editorial policy . . . although it's not clear why they don't just quit and get jobs with some other paper , especially as news reporters in those days had no job security anyway . Dolly Clare ( Louise ) is the most conscientious and moral of Fairfax's reporters . ( You're in the wrong business , toots . ) Nonetheless , Dolly takes the opportunity to stir up a scandal about society gentleman Philip Ainsworth and his affair with a mysterious veiled woman ; Dolly doesn't realise that the mystery woman is Fairfax's unfaithful wife Alice . Dolly gets a photo of the mystery woman sans veil , and passes it to her editor , who gleefully decides to run Dolly's scoop along with the photo . . . without looking at it ! Fairfax is perfectly willing to ruin the reputations of Ainsworth and Ainsworth's paramour , just to sell a few papers ; he doesn't realise that the woman in question is his own wife . ( What sort of editor runs photos without looking at them ? ) Meanwhile , another reporter on the same paper ( Dan Fisher , played by Chaney ) is in the same position as Dolly : he claims to have moral qualms about the tabloid's scandal policy , yet ( like Dolly ) he carries on bringing in scandal material . In Dan's case , he's got a story about a woman who committed suicide , plus a photo of her . Dolly swaps the photos , and the dead woman's picture runs in the Ainsworth story . When Fairfax learns that Dolly has selflessly saved Alice's reputation , he has a change of heart and decides that henceforth his paper will run only genuine journalism , even if this causes a decline in circulation . ( This must be a fantasy movie . ) Dolly and Dan ( Chaney ) end up in each other's arms , and we're glad to see them get each other . Louise Wossname ( she used several monickers ) is quite lovely here , and a good actress by silent-film standards ; sources have told me she had a very strong Sydneysider accent , and almost certainly would not have had a career in Hollywood talkies . Chaney's role is small and only briefly relevant to the plot , but he gives an excellent performance in a part which is a distinct change of pace for him . Lon Chaney is my favourite actor , full stop , but I regret that he's remembered only for playing grotesque character parts ; here , he plays what's generally known as the juvenile lead , and he does the part full justice . " Dolly's Scoop " has a ludicrous story ( by the unjustly forgotten Ida May Park ) , but is in many ways an excellent film . I'll rate this movie .
Ora's fixation	Ora Carew was a blonde actress in silent films who was pretty but not especially talented ; she later had slightly more success as a screenwriter . ' Dollars and Sense ' is possibly her best film , as it gives her a chance to play two different roles . . . one of them male . The Keystone Film Company is remembered for slapstick comedies filled with pratfalls and pie fights , but some of their comedy films were subtler than this , with a gentler form of humour . Ora Carew and Joseph Belmont starred in a series of Keystone films ; she usually playing an innocent country girl , with Belmont as her shy hayseed lover . In the 1910s and 1920s , the Carew-Belmont films were far more popular in rural cinemas than Keystone's more typical slapstick output . . . which catered for a more cynical , urban audience . In ' Dollars and Sense ' , Ora Carew plays her usual innocent farmgirl , but this time she has a twin brother . . . also played by Ora Carew . Ms Carew's attempt to play a teenage boy is not especially successful . She wears bib overalls and clodhopper boots , and tucks her long hair down the back of a work shirt . Not for one moment is she plausible as a biological male in this movie , although she does make some effort to use different body language for her two different roles . But the ' male ' twin in this movie comes off more like a tomboy than an actual boy . For wildly implausible reasons , the plot of this movie decrees that the male twin is forced to impersonate his sister , in a borrowed frock and a horsehair wig . So , for most of the movie , actress Ora Carew plays a teenaged boy who is disguised as a girl . This sort of double-decker transvestism is very difficult to pull off , even for a first-rate actress , and Ms Carew simply isn't that good an actress . Her ' boy in disguise ' is clearly a young woman , not a boy attempting to impersonate a girl . Consequently , this movie is more complicated than it needs to be , and less funny . I give Ms Carew due credit for trying to stretch her acting skills in this movie , but ' Dollars and Sense ' proves that Ms Carew's talents were not especially notable in the first place .
Hardy's too good for this indifferent comedy .	By grim coincidence , quite a few of the cast members of ' Crazy to Act ' died before age 50 ; some of them at quite young ages indeed . Leading man Matty Kemp lasted into his nineties , but his career didn't last much longer than ' Crazy to Act ' . This is a comedy movie ABOUT making movies , and it commits several intentional errors about 1920s Hollywood that audiences of the time would catch . We encounter references to actors named Pola Pickford and Adolph Mahjong ( there was a Mah Jongg craze in 1920s America ) . Apparently Lon Chaney starred in ' Three Weeks ' ( sic ) . I laughed at a reference to a movie called ' The Mare's Nostrils ' , but how many modern viewers will catch this as a parody of the 1926 epic ' Mare Nostrum ' ? Pretty Ethel St John ( Mildred June ) loves handsome Arthur , but her artistic muse ' craves expression in the movies ' . . . or maybe that's her ego doing the craving . Ethel's mum wants her to marry wealthy Gordon Bagley , who's willing . Ethel implies she'll wed Bagley if he first makes her a film star , but it's clear she has eyes only for Arthur . Quite a few of the ' gags ' here were already tired in 1927 , with the cameraman holding the camera wrong or cranking at the wrong speed . Jack Cooper , who plays the moustache-twirling villain in the film-within-the-movie , implausibly retains the phony ' tache ( and the Snidely Whiplash body language ) in the screening room afterward , when he's presumably no longer in character . More positively , I was deeply impressed by the performance of little Barney Hellum as the hapless helmer of that camera , and by Thelma Hill as the director's wife and assistant . Actress Hill was quite attractive , but her character here isn't meant to be . . . so she ties back her hair and wears enormous eyeglasses . I well and truly dislike it when a pretty actress is uglified to play an unattractive woman ; why don't they cast an unattractive actress instead ? Elsewhere , when Ethel's character jumps out of an aeroplane , the use of a male stunt double in female costume is more obvious than it needs to be . In the ( literally ) large role of Gordon Bagley , Oliver Hardy shines . The character he plays here is streets apart from his later tie-twiddling ' Ollie ' role , and Hardy expertly conveys several emotions here which he would get little chance to use as the larger half of the world's greatest comedy team . When Bagley gazes at Ethel in mute adoration , I very nearly wept at the expression on Hardy's face . What a great actor he was ! Too bad that his bulk kept him typecast . SPOILERS COMING . The final gag deeply annoyed me . Arthur and Ethel elope in his car , and Arthur uses one arm ( and his lips ) to make love to her while his other hand guides the wheel . A motorcycle cop tells him to use both hands . . . so , of course , he takes his second hand off the wheel and puts both hands on Ethel . Sorry , but the highways of the real world are already full of idiots who think they can do other things when they should concentrate on their driving . . . so I couldn't laugh at this . ' Crazy to Act ' has some funny gags - - I'll rate it 6 in 10 - - and is an interesting example of Hardy's career pre-Laurel , but the funniest performances here are given by Barney Hellum and Thelma Hill . Why didn't either have a significant movie career ?
Face the camera , Gracie .	George Burns wants to buy a necktie ( hence this film's title ) but runs afoul of a shopgirl who speaks in extreme 1920s slang . ( He also meets a shopgirl with a very proper English accent . ) He claims to be the nephew of the store's owner , but this is clearly a ploy to get some service , as a moment later he asks who owns the store . A floorwalker cuts off the tie George is wearing so he can match it with one in stock . Just when things can't possibly get any screwier , George meets Gracie . . . ' Fit to Be Tied ' is a very crude comedy short : at one point , the camera adjusts itself during a shot . There's a reference to Elinor Glyn's steamy novel ' Three Weeks ' that will baffle modern viewers . But the byplay between George and Gracie is funny . Gracie Allen's speaking voice annoys me , but here - - singing ' I'm a Whole Lot Wilder Than I Know ' - - she reveals an excellent singing voice . Oddly , the director films her in three-quarter view during this sequence , rather than full-on . . . was Gracie perhaps worried that the monochrome film would reveal that her eyes were two different colours ? The first nine minutes of this 10-minute short are delightful , but the ending is weak . George and Gracie , having run out of material , simply face the camera and wave goodbye ! I'll rate this one .
Nixon as King Arthur with some greasy Fryes .	I was living in Britain and Australia when ' The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour ' aired in the States , so I didn't have a chance to watch it regularly . I'm aware of the controversies which accompanied this programme , and which only make me that much keener to track down all the episodes . Despite the ' Comedy Hour ' title , this was actually a variety series featuring impressive guest performances by some major music acts across a wide range of musical styles and genres . This synopsis is specifically a review of the 18th episode of the 3rd series of ' The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour ' , one of the few episodes which I've seen . . . and a distinct letdown , compared to the much better 16th episode produced only a few weeks earlier . One strong point here is the performance of Bob Einstein - - the underrated brother of the overrated Albert Brooks - - in his recurring role as LAPD motorcycle cop Officer Judy , who was perpetually trying to arrest Tom Smothers on various ridiculous charges . Einstein consistently played this role with a deadpan face , a deep monotone voice and sunglasses which concealed his eyes . . . thus making it easier for him to keep a straight face during his often hilarious material . ( Bob Einstein usually wrote his own scripts , and is equally as underrated as a gag writer as he is as a performer . ) In this episode , Officer Judy tried to give a summons to guest star Liberace for driving his piano beyond the speed limit . To see if Liberace is drunk , Officer Judy orders him to blow into a balloon . Liberace complies , then shyly asks if he can keep the balloon . This episode also features what is apparently the only-ever television appearance by a folk-singing duo cried Hedge and Donna Capers : rather daringly for the time , they were also an interracial married couple . I usually despise the political impressionist David Frye , although I wish I'd been present during his legendary nightclub performance when Frye ( as Richard Nixon ) and Peter Cook ( posing as a BBC reporter ) ad-libbed an entire press conference . For this ' Smothers ' episode , guest star Liberace ( ! ) narrates a fairy-tale skit taking place in the Middle Ages . Frye appears on a balcony as an elderly bespectacled king who sounds like Lyndon Johnson . ( ' My fellow Amurricans , I come here tonight with a heavy head . ' ) The king has decided to retire ( surely ' abdicate ' is the word ? ) , and he wants his entire kingdom searched in a quest for a fitting successor . To conduct this quest , he chooses his minstrel Dick ( Smothers , singing " me-me-meeee ! " ) and his jester , Tom Fool ( Tommy Smothers , looking ridiculous in cap and bells ) . Liberace purrs his way through some unfunny narration - - " They searched high , and they searched low . And sometimes , they searched when they were feeling normal . " - - while Dick and Tom search the kingdom for LBJ's successor . They have an Excalibur-like sword in a stone , which only the man qualified to rule the kingdom will be able to draw forth . The first candidate is a knight with a southern drawl ( Frye again , channelling George Wallace ) . After some unfunny dialogue involving the word " pussy-footing " , Frye / Wallace attempts to draw the sword , and fails . The next candidate is one Sir H : Frye yet again , this time imitating Hubert Humphrey . He too fails . Inevitably , along comes a knight resembling Richard Nixon . ( No prizes for guessing that this too is Frye . ) I've always loathed Frye's depiction of Nixon , which seems to border on the pathological . Here , we get a very unfunny ending to the skit : Frye / Nixon is about to attempt to draw the sword , when Dick stops him from trying . . . while telling Tom Fool that this man MUST be crowned the new king because he's the only candidate left ! A crowd of peasants carry off the new ruler on their shoulders : Frye copies Nixon's victory gesture , then asks " Sock it to WHO ? " in Nixon's voice . This just isn't funny . If the cleverest thing the Smothers lads and Frye can come up with is to allege that Nixon only became President because there was nobody else available , then they really don't deserve to be considered political satirists . I'll give the Smothers siblings credit for being the ONLY prime-time act to attempt topical material at the time , but this sort of satire is very blunt indeed . My rating for this episode : just .
Fleetingly poignant	Each year since 1973 , the American Film Institute have given their Lifetime Achievement Award to a prominent film star or director . To date , every recipient has been genuinely deserving , but the choice of whom to honour has been motivated by various factors . . . such as whose name will sell the most tickets . The guest of honour must be a living person who is willing to attend the tribute and give an acceptance speech . The first four annual awards were given to male recipients : in 1977 , the AFI decided it was time to honour a woman , but their committee's first choice ( Katherine Hepburn ) refused to accept the award in person , so they gave it to Bette Davis ( who apparently didn't mind being second choice for an award based on gender ) . Cary Grant had a standing offer to receive the AFI award , but he was unwilling to make an acceptance speech . . . and so he was never chosen . The 1992 award was given to Sidney Poitier , the first African-American recipient . Inevitably , that year's ceremony became a referendum on racial progress . I have mixed feelings about this . On the one hand , it's good to make note of the progress that blacks have made in America - - both as real people and as fictional characters in Hollywood movies - - and Poitier deserves much of the credit for this . On the other hand , it seems unfair to Poitier for him to be expected to represent an entire ethnic group , rather than himself as an individual . Poitier is entitled to be perceived as an actor who's black , rather than a black actor . In ' The Bedford Incident ' , he played a character whose race was irrelevant and never mentioned . In ' Little Nikita ' , there was only one brief and gratuitous reference to Poitier's pigmentation . As usual for the AFI tributes , there are some splendid clips here , and the tributes to Poitier sound more heartfelt than they did for several other recipients . Some of the people in attendance here aren't film figures at all , and are clearly present only for their activist credentials . . . such as Rosa Parks , to whom Poitier gallantly says : ' I'll give up my seat for you any time . ' My favourite moment here occurs when Tony Curtis asks Poitier to raise his right hand ; when Poitier obeys , Curtis responds : " Keep pulling ' on that chain , brother . " This is a very poignant reference to the film ' The Defiant Ones ' , in which Curtis and Poitier played convicts chained together at the wrists . The moment here seems entirely unscripted , and Poitier appears to be wholly surprised by Curtis's tribute . It's a moving instant , in a tribute which is otherwise a bit schmaltzier than it needs to be . I wish that someone had included the deprecating incident which Poitier modestly included in his memoir . As a youth in Harlem , with absolutely no acting experience and no talent discernible ( yet ) , he auditioned for an amateur theatre company and was astonished to be accepted . Later , he learnt that he was accepted solely because he was the only male applicant who had auditioned . This AFI tribute could have used something like this to put an edge on the love-fest , especially since Poitier can now easily afford to have such stories told about him . I also wish that this tribute had included a statement that Poitier had given years earlier , in an interview : ' We won't be equal until ( African-Americans ) can play villains . ' Sidney Poitier - - as an actor and as a person - - is fully deserving of the tributes which he has received , but this is one of the less impressive AFI events . I'll rate it .
W . C . Fields should have sued .	The comedy team of Wheeler and Woolsey are one of my guilty pleasures : I enjoy their films , but I'm aware that much of their material isn't very good . Part of the problem is that W & W's gag writers were working concurrently for the Marx Brothers , and the Marxes always got first pick of their best material , lumbering Wheeler & Woolsey with whatever was left . Although Robert Woolsey was the more aggressively ' comic ' of the pair , there is general agreement that Bert Wheeler ? not precisely a ' straight man ' feed ? was the more talented of the duo . Wheeler and Woolsey often remind me of Morecambe and Wise , with bespectacled Woolsey as Eric and earnest little Wheeler as Ernie . In both cases , the team were largely dependent on their ( highly variable ) material . ' Everything's Rosie ' is a very slight change of pace , as Woolsey for once carries a film without Bert Wheeler . . . and this proves to be a bad idea , as the aggressive pace of Woolsey is wearying without the sympathetic contrast of the naff and gormless Wheeler for him to play against . Robert Woolsey reminds me of a lot of other comedians ? Groucho Marx , Bobby Clark , WC Fields , Eric Morecambe , Phil Silvers ? but , in every case , Woolsey is the one who comes off second-best in the comparison . Here , Woolsey is lumbered with a plot that's a blatant rip-off of WC Field's stage play ' Poppy ' , which Fields had already filmed as ( the silent ) ' Sally of the Sawdust ' . Woolsey plays a carnival huckster , a patent-medicine butcher with the very Fieldsian name J . Dockweiler Droop . His daughter Rosie ( the beautiful Anita Louise ) is too delicate for the harsh life of a travelling carny ; she wants to marry a handsome young man and settle down . The script is careful to stipulate that Rosie is Droop's adopted foundling , not his blood child : I suppose that audiences might have been offended by the notion of this dainty girl springing from the loins of Robert Woolsey . The funniest line in the movie occurs following the explanation that Rosie got her name because she was found beneath a rose bush , prompting Woolsey to jape ' It's lucky she wasn't found under a eucalyptus tree . ' ' Everything's Rosie ' disappeared so thoroughly after its release that WC Fields was able to film his own version of this story , ' Poppy ' ( a remake of ' Sally of the Sawdust ' ) , five years later . Although ' Poppy ' is of vital historic importance to Fields's career , as the only sound-era version of his stage play , ' Poppy ' is one of Fields's worst films : he was in poor health during its production , and in many sequences he is very obviously doubled . Nonetheless , I found ' Poppy ' far more enjoyable than ' Everything's Rosie ' . I'll rate this rip-off version , purely on Woolsey's sheer ebullience and Anita Louise's delicately beautiful looks .
Who knocks ?	W . W . Jacobs was an extremely prolific author , whose works have occasionally been filmed . Surprisingly , his story ' The Money Box ' was the inspiration for a Laurel and Hardy movie ! Most of Jacobs's short stories were moody pieces with nautical settings , but his most famous story takes place firmly on land : ' The Monkey's Paw ' , a spooky tale which may well be the most widely-anthologised story of all time . It's certainly a very well-known ghost story . . . made all the more effective because the ' supernatural ' events in this tale remain firmly ambiguous . The 1923 silent version of ' The Monkey's Paw ' adheres very closely to the plot of the famous story . The most surprising thing here is the casting of Moore Marriott as the old man who buys the monkey's paw in order to gain its three magical wishes , and who receives only grief for his efforts . Somewhat like Walter Brennan and Jack Duffy in America , character actor Moore Marriott spent most of his long career playing elderly men . He was not yet 40 when he made this film , but his old-age makeup and his physical performance are very convincing . More to the point , though , Marriott spent most of his career playing old men in COMEDY films . When I saw him in this grimly serious movie , I was reminded straight away of Marriott's portrayal of Harbottle in all those hilarious Will Hay films , and I halfway expected Hay and Graham Moffat to show up . Marriott gives a skilful performance here , but in hindsight ( due to his later typecasting in comedy roles ) he's an unfortunate choice for the macabre subject matter of this film . This silent version of ' The Monkey's Paw ' reveals one of the shortcomings of silent-film grammar . In an incautious moment , the old man has wished for his dead son Herbert to return from the grave . . . then he realises the horrible consequences if this wish is granted literally . Suddenly there's a knock at the door . With a desperate lunge , the old man seizes the monkey's paw and uses his last wish to send his son back to the grave . The brilliantly ambiguous plot of ' The Monkey's Paw ' never discloses whether any of these wishes were actually granted : we never learn if the knock at the door was really a message from a homesick corpse or merely a visit from a commercial traveller . Here's where the silent-film problem figures into it . Normally in a silent film , a knock at the door is conveyed by an insert close-up of a hand rapping at a door , followed by a return to the previous camera set-up as the characters react to the sound of the knock . In this film ' The Monkey's Paw ' , no such set-up is viable : if we see the hand of the person knocking , we will know once for all if the visitor is a corpse ( the dead son , supernaturally returning ) or a more mundane caller . So , in order to preserve that ambiguity in this silent film , we never see the knock at the door : we merely see Marriott and actress Marie Ault doing a sudden ' What was that ? ' reaction and glancing fearfully towards the door . Overall , the film is excellent , with a moody atmosphere marred only by a sarcastic performance by Charles Ashton as the doomed son . John Butt is excellent as the visitor ( a soldier , in this version ) who sells the monkey's paw . But this plotline really requires a soundtrack . I'll rate this silent version of ' The Monkey's Paw ' .
Bob Fosse and Ira Gershwin are great	' Give a Girl a Break ' deserves to be better known ; it's certainly not one of MGM's greatest musicals , but it has many bright spots and some pleasant tunes by Burton Lane with excellent lyrics by Ira Gershwin . Modern viewers will probably be most interested in Bob Fosse's excellent performance , in a supporting role . Some aspects of this movie are clearly derived from earlier and better musicals . At one point , Gower Champion's character ( a Broadway director ) is besieged by struggling chorus dancers who want parts in his new musical . To escape them , he climbs up the wall of his theatre . This is apparently meant to show us how virile and athletic Champion is . . . but it reminded me of the scene in ' Singin ' in the Rain ' when Gene Kelly escapes his fans by climbing up the side of a bus . The fact that ' Give a Girl a Break ' is directed by Stanley Donen ( co-director of ' Singin ' in the Rain ' ) only makes the link more obvious . Gower Champion plays Ted Sturgis , the big-shot director of a new Broadway musical still in rehearsal . Bob Fosse plays Bobby , his assistant and dance captain , although Sturgis usually keeps Bobby busy fetching coffee . ( Prophetically , Champion later became a major director of Broadway musicals . . . as did Fosse . ) Kurt Kasznar plays Leo Belney , the show's musical director : a role that should have been played by Oscar Levant . Sturgis's ex-wife ( played by Gower Champion's real wife Marge ) is Madelyn Corlane , a former star whose popularity has faded , but who is hopeful of a comeback . When Sturgis's leading lady throws a tantrum and walks out ( not likely ! ) , he needs a new leading lady in a hurry . Whoever he chooses for the role is destined to become a star . Will Madelyn get the job ? Meanwhile , Bobby has become enamoured of Suzie Doolittle ( the excellent Debbie Reynolds ) , a talented newcomer . The more classically-minded Leo wants the leading role to go to Joanna Moss ( Helen Wood ) , a ballet dancer he secretly hopes to romance . There's some genuine suspense as we try to guess which of these three women will get the big break . Unfortunately , the three candidates aren't equal : it's extremely obvious that highbrow ballerina Joanna hasn't got a chance against the more conventional chorines Madelyn and Suzie . The best number in the movie is ' In Our United State ' performed by Fosse and Reynolds . On a couple of other occasions ( ' Kiss Me Kate ' , ' My Sister Eileen ' ) , Bob Fosse demonstrated his ability to do a backward aerial somersault , with astonishingly good amplitude . Here , he does it while facing the camera , in medium close shot , and it's extremely impressive . Unfortunately , Donen ruins the number with some gimmicky trick photography , speeding up the action and running it in reverse . After Debbie and Bob pop some brightly-coloured balloons , it's very weird to see the balloons unpopping themselves in reverse motion . Another number , called ' Applause ' , is pleasant . I also enjoyed ' Nothing Is Impossible ' , performed by the three men , which features a strange bit in which Gower Champion does a rapid tap dance with one foot while he keeps his other foot balanced on top of Bob Fosse's upright heel . The tubby actor Kurt Kasznar , who can't dance and can barely sing , shows some courage by performing a musical number with the athletic Champion and Fosse . There's a clever three-way dream sequence , in which each man envisions his own favoured lady's name appearing in lights above the theatre . But there's some clumsy dialogue involving the word ' palaver ' . At the end of the movie , Marge Champion does a really ludicrous bit , in which she runs down the theatre gangway with her lips and her bosom thrust forward and her arms and her head thrown back . Corny ! This is a good place to correct a misconception about Gower Champion : after a long career as a director of Broadway musicals , he supposedly died on the opening night of ' 42nd Street ' , his biggest hit . This was , of course , an extremely ironic death . ( ' 42nd Street ' is about a Broadway director who risks his own health in rehearsals while trying to make his biggest show a hit . ) The truth is a bit less neat : Gower Champion actually died several days before his show opened , but producer David Merrick ( recognising the publicity value of Champion's death ) claimed on opening night that Champion had died earlier that day . I'll rate ' Give a Girl a Break ' , and I recommend it to you .
Chinese rhubarb .	The title ' False Vases ' is a ( very contrived ) pun on ' False Faces ' . This Felix the Cat cartoon looks a little better than most from the Messmer period , thanks to a palette of grey tones offering some variety from the usual stark black and white of the Felix toons . This Felix cartoon isn't particularly funny ( and is arguably racist , with some Chinese stereotypes ) , but I was very impressed by two different visual devices to indicate characters ' thoughts . Early on , when Felix accidentally breaks a vase , we see a thought bubble forming over his head . . . and inside this is an image of Mrs Felix brandishing a rolling pin . Later in the same toon , an image of a bone coalesces over the head of a hungry dog . Hoping to replace the broken vase , Felix hies himself to a nearby shop run by a Chinese man . I was impressed by the soundtrack here . The Messmer Felixes were filmed silent but released with post-dubbed tracks of unsynchronised sound effects . Since the budget didn't allow for synchronised dialogue , the Felix toons employed ' rhubarb ' dialogue : incoherent muttering by voice artists , conveying emotions without distinct words . In ' False Vases ' , we get what I guess would be Chinese rhubarb : an actor speaks incoherently , but the rhythm of his gibberish manages to suggest the clichéd " ying-tong " dialogue of Chinese stereotypes . In a caption , the Chinese merchant explains to Felix that vases of this sort can only be found in China . Well , as we all know , the easiest way to get to China is to dig a hole straight down . I was impressed by some cycle animation here , as Felix follows a burrowing dog through various grey-hued strata in the Earth's core . In China , Felix steals a lookalike vase from a Chinese conjuror's act . Felix acquires this in his usual fashion , by cramming the vase into a convenient pocket in his skin . ( Was Felix a marsupial ? ) Then he scurries back home . Since the vase was part of a magic act , I was expecting this cartoon's payoff to be that all sorts of magic tricks would come popping out of the vase . Instead , the final gag was something entirely different . . . and a genuine surprise to me . I'll rate this Felix cartoon .
She feeds him a gummy bear	' Seilbahn ' was filmed in Germany , with a German cast , and the credits and dialogue are in German . . . but this film is listed in IMDb as ' Cable Car ' , which is a good translation of its title . This is a short film , about children and told from their viewpoint . SLIGHT SPOILERS AHEAD . Very little actually happens in this film . There are some interesting camera compositions , and the two children who are the main characters are interestingly depicted ( and well acted ) , but there's not much of a story . The director ( Claudia Rorarius , previously unknown to me ) seems to have made this movie as a ' demo ' film which might get her bigger film assignments ( and larger production budgets ) in future . There's nothing wrong with that , especially as she shows considerable talent in this short film . The opening sequence is filmed at a funfair ( amusement park ) somewhere in Germany . We see the brightly-coloured attractions , the whirling rides . This is a local amusement park , not Eurodisney , but even allowing for this the director fails to take full advantage of the visual possibilities and the narrative potential . This sequence ought to set the mood for the rest of the picture , but doesn't prepare us . A boy , about ten years old , leaves the funfair and boards a funicular railway ( a cable car ) bound for a higher location . A girl , slightly older , boards the same railway . They don't know each other , but the girl starts a conversation with the boy . His name is Sven , she is Julia . Both are played by young performers who appear to be amateur actors , yet who give easy and natural performances . It also helps that both children are natural and believable in their appearance , instead of the unnervingly good-looking children who usually appear in Hollywood films . The girl who plays Julia is quietly pretty , without having the sort of looks which call attention to her prettiness . Sven's right hand is in an elastic cast . He also appears to have some sort of visual handicap , although he doesn't use a blind person's cane or a guide dog . The film isn't very clear about his situation . Julia offers him some gummy bears , and she puts one into his mouth for him . I found this patronising : a blind person with one hand in a cast is perfectly capable of feeding himself . But perhaps a 10-year-old boy finds it thrilling to be fed sweets by an 11-year-old girl . I found this film to be quite innocent ; neither child has touched puberty yet . . . but perhaps , from Sven's viewpoint , this is his first erotic experience . While they chat on the ascending cable car , the camera shows some interesting backgrounds of the nearby mountains . There are also a couple of shots straight down to the ground below , with lawn umbrellas pointing directly up towards the camera . We never get a sense of danger ( the cable ride is uneventful ) but I was distressed at the thought of these children suspended directly above the sharp points of those umbrellas . Eventually , the Seilbahn reaches the top of the cable . The two children step out and go their separate ways . We don't expect them ever to meet again . . . but perhaps this brief meeting has changed both of them . ' Seilbahn ' is a pleasant film that doesn't really much seem to matter . Children might like it but wonder why nothing happens . Sven's physical handicaps , which aren't clearly defined , may confuse young viewers . Based on this brief movie , Claudia Rorarius shows a great deal of talent and promise , and I look forward to more films from her . I'll rate ' Seilbahn ' .
a Bronx cheer	There are some amusing moments in ' Subway Sadie ' , but there's really nothing here that hasn't been done better in several other films . . . in fact , I watched this low-budget silent with a definite sense of deja vu . Dorothy Mackaill plays Sadie Herman , who works in a very posh Manhattan fur shop , but she's a working-class girl who commutes to her job from the Bronx ' where the subway comes up for air ' , as she puts it in the funniest line in this movie . One day during the crush of rush hour , she meets handsome Herb McCarthy , a subway guard on the uptown express . Soon they're dating . They rendezvous in Central Park , whence Herb takes Sadie to a nightclub that seems rather expensive for a subway motorman's salary . I would have liked ' Subway Sadie ' better if it had included some authentic scenes in New York City exteriors circa 1926 , as was done not much later in ' Speedy ' , ' The Crowd ' and ( briefly ) Keaton's ' The Cameraman ' . We see a bit of New York stock footage , but most of the Manhattan sequences in this movie are clearly studio mock-ups , and not very convincing with it . SPOILERS COMING . Sadie and Herb decide to marry , but they have an argument over something very trivial and they decide to break it off , forever . Herb goes back to his job on the subway , where he's soon involved in a derailment . When Sadie learns that Herb is in hospital , she rushes to him . Fortunately , Herb suffered only a broken leg . The reconciled lovers decide to marry after all . Oh , yeah . And here's where the deja vu kicks in . It turns out that motorman Herb is actually the son of the millionaire who owns the subway lines . ( I know that the New York subway lines were originally financed by private capital , but did anybody actually OWN them ? I'm just asking . ) I really dislike this Cinderella nonsense of the poor working girl who falls in love with a handsome young prole , only to learn ( after she proves she sincerely loves him ) that he's actually the son of a millionaire . We saw this in ' My Best Girl ' and in ' Easy Living ' , both of which are better movies than ' Subway Sadie ' . Charlie Murray , the former Keystone Cop , is very funny in a running gag as a cab driver who's kept waiting while his meter keeps clocking up nickels . Murray had one of the most expressive faces in silent films , and he puts his rubber features to splendid advantage here ; it's a pity he didn't have a significant talkie career . ' Subway Sadie ' is a nice little film , but most of what's good about it has been done better elsewhere , so there are no real surprises here . I'll rate this movie .
Knockabout knockwurst	' The Unknown Guest ' is a German comedy film . I'm tempted to make a cheap joke that the phrase ' German comedy ' is an oxymoron . . . and , indeed , much of the knockabout slapstick in this film is merely embarrassing . But in fact there is some genuine humour here in this by-the-numbers farce , supplied by the comedy skills of one beloved character actor and an unjustly obscure character actress . Harry Hardt and Anni Markart play a wealthy couple , whose urban household employs many servants . As is typical in such houses ( and not merely in Germany ) , there is a rigid status system among the servants : the lowliest among them is the chambermaid ( Lucie Englisch ) who is married to the household's chauffeur ( Hans Brausewetter ) . The chambermaid came to the city from a Bavarian village ; her husband has never met her relatives . At the top of the food chain in the servants ' quarters is the brawny battle-axe housekeeper ( Senta Söneland ) . During her employment , the maid has frequently sent letters home to her widowed father ( from this address ) but has never told him that she is employed as a maidservant . The master and mistress of the house go away on holiday , but they inform the servants that the master's rich father ( also a widower ) will be coming to visit in their absence . Naturally , he is to be given every possible hospitality and consideration . Shortly after the mistress and her husband depart , along comes a stout respectable-looking man . But he isn't the master's rich father : he's actually the father of the chambermaid . This very posh house is his daughter's address , so he assumes that she's the mistress here . And all the other servants assume that the maid's father is the expected wealthy visitor . The maidservant sees no reason to disabuse anyone of their errors : she contrives to masquerade as the mistress of the household ( to impress her father ) whilst convincing her husband and her fellow servants that her provincial father is actually the wealthy father-in-law of the household's true mistress . Naturally , there are no end of farcical complications . The heavy-set unattractive housekeeper tries to vamp the ' wealthy ' houseguest , not realising who he really is . . . and that he has no money . Senta Söneland gives a deft performance as the housekeeper , who pursues her romantic objective with the same brisk efficiency she applies to her household duties . Despite her evident talent as an actress , Söneland was a very unattractive woman who had serious health problems ; she committed suicide a few years after this movie was made . Her performance in this film reminds me of the American character actresses Minerva Urecal and Marjorie Main ( neither of whom I ever liked ) ; Söneland is similar to both of them yet more talented than either . By far , the standout performance in this film is given by the actor who plays the chambermaid's father : none other than Szöke Szakall , the Hungarian Jewish character actor who later fled Europe ( one step ahead of the Nazis ) and had a fondly-remembered career in Hollywood under the name S . Z . Sakall in films such as ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' and ' Casablanca ' . In ' The Unknown Guest ' , Sakall demonstrates many of the little physical crotchets that would stand him in such excellent stead during his Hollywood years . He shakes his jowls , clutches his face , wipes his brow while muttering desperately . What a delightful piece of Hungarian ham ! ( Although , in deference to Sakall's religion , perhaps ' ham ' is not the best word for him . ) I wish that someone could explain something for me . Many reference books refer to S . Z . Sakall as ' Cuddles ' Sakall , claiming that he was billed by this nickname in some of his Hollywood films . I've seen several of Sakall's American films , yet I've never seen one in which this fine actor is billed as ' Cuddles ' . Can someone please either verify this rumour or end it once for all ? I'll rate ' The Unknown Guest ' , for the fine performance of Szöke Szakall and for the splendid support by Senta Söneland .
It's only 1896 , and they're already shooting remakes !	I had read descriptions of this movie at least 20 years before I first saw it ; inevitably , the movie is a disappointment . Actually , this is the Lumiere Brothers ' second version of this simple idea : filmed in a much more elaborate garden than their earlier version . Its title is usually given in English as ' Watering the Gardener ' , but a more accurate translation of the French original would be ' Hoser and Hosed ' . SPOILERS COMING . A gardener is using a hosepipe to water the garden . A boy sneaks up behind him and treads on the hose , shutting off the flow . The gardener , of course , peers directly into the empty nozzle to see what's wrong . Cue the boy to lift his foot , restoring the flow and soaking the gardener . Spotting the fleeing boy , the gardener catches him and spanks him . When I first read about this movie , I'd visualised the boy as being about seven or eight years old at most . In the earlier ( 1895 ) version , he's clearly at least twelve : really too old to be engaged in this sort of mischief . . . and spanking a boy of that age is not so much punitive as something else altogether . In this 1896 remake , he seems to be about thirteen or fourteen . . . which makes the action seem even more contrived . Worse luck ; in this version , the teenaged boy is clearly capable of outrunning the middle-aged gardener . . . so , when the prankster is first rumbled , the boy has to slip and fall in order to enable the gardener to catch him . Fair enough , except that the boy's tumble is obviously staged . . . straining credibility even farther . The Lumiere brothers ' very earliest movies were simply filmed events : documentary footage . The 1895 version of ' Hoser and Hosed ' is historically significant as an early attempt to tell a story in the cinema medium rather than merely record events . This ' 96 remake is filmed in a much more elaborate ( and more beautiful ) garden , but fails to improve on the crude original . I'll rate this remake only .
That everlasting wristwatch	Eleanor Bron's series ' Making Faces ' was ahead of its time ; although basically a sitcom , ' Making Faces ' was more concerned with offering an ongoing character study of its female protagonist , and in that regard the series anticipated later American programmes such as ' The Days and Nights of Molly Dodd ' and ' The New Adventures of Old Christine ' , as well as some of Tracey Ullmann's work . Unfortunately , the audience seemed to expect belly laughs , which were not on offer here . Bron had a well-deserved reputation for comedy at this point , prompting viewers to expect more of the same here . . . but the excellent scripts of ' Making Faces ' ( all written by Michael Frayn ) were more interested in letting her delineate and define a character rather than go for punchlines . Eleanor Bron played the same character - - the oddly named Zoya Hirst - - in all six episodes . The gimmick was that each episode took place in a different year , depicting Zoya at different stages in her life . . . always seeking romance and fulfilment , but never quite finding them . Each episode had a date in the title , to help viewers keep track of what year this was in Zoya's timeline . I saw this series when it was originally transmitted , and I should like to view it again . Although Bron wore a different hairstyle for each year , I distinctly remember that her character wore the same wristwatch in every single episode , taking place over the course of about a decade . Now that's value for money ! I'll rate ' Making Faces ' : the scripts weren't really very good , and Bron has done much better work elsewhere , but this programme deserves some credit for innovation .
Joy Bang ! Oh , Joy ! Oh , Bang !	' The Kowboys ' was the unsold pilot for what was meant to be a weekly half-hour series . After the American networks failed to buy this pilot , I saw it at a screening in London , where the pilot's producers were hoping to cut their losses by getting ' The Kowboys ' transmitted on British television . The Kowboys are four young guys and a young gal , all of them musically inclined and all of them ' hip ' , which was part of the problem . This series was apparently meant to take place in the nineteenth century , apparently a few years after the American Civil War , but not for an instant could I accept these hippie-dippie flower children as 19th-century sourdoughs . Also , as usual for bad productions with period settings , everything is too clean and all the actors have modern dentistry and orthodontia . In the pilot episode , they amble into a town called Walker , named for the local land baron who owns all the acreage . ( Guest villain Captain Walker is played by Edward Andrews , who specialised in portraying cowardly villains . ) Now get this : Walker ( the town ) is somewhere out west within the continental U . S . A . , but it's in territory which hasn't yet formally acquired statehood . . . a fact which raises serious questions about precisely when ' The Kowboys ' takes place . Captain Walker has reason to believe that he'll be able to dictate the terms under which his town is absorbed into the Union . At one point , he stares off into space while he recites a list of the United States as he'd like them to be . The list ends : ' West Virginia , . . . Wisconsin , . . . Wyoming , . . . Walker ! ' I guess he can't alphabetise . The female Kowboy ( Kowgirl ? ) is Smitty , played by an incredibly gorgeous young blonde with the improbable name Joy Bang . If this pilot episode indicates the producers ' intentions , they don't seem to have made up their minds as to how to present this character . For most of the episode , Smitty is in tomboy mode , with her gorgeous long tresses tucked under her stetson , and her lissome figure concealed within mannish jeans . Then , after the Kowboys arrive in Walker and check into the local hotel , Smitty gets all glammed up and comes downstairs in a very fetching frock . . . although this too didn't quite look right for the 19th century . She isn't wearing a corset , either , but Joy Bang's hourglass figure certainly doesn't need one . The four male Kowboys weren't very well differentiated in this pilot episode , except for Frank Welker as Clem being nominally the comedy relief . I think the producers wanted to imply that Smitty had something going with each of her four male trail buddies , but that none of the relationships were especially serious . There were attempts at musical interludes performed by the Kowboys , or ( more likely ) studio musicians dubbing for them . A couple of times in this pilot episode , we see one or another Kowboy whanging a guitar . However , the most elaborate number occurs when Smitty comes downstairs in her glam mode . We hear the male Kowboys performing a very weak ballad cried ' Smitty ' , but this has clearly been post-dubbed : the on-screen Kowboys aren't singing nor playing instruments . At the end , there's a weakly staged ' action ' climax , and then it's time for the Kowboys to be moseyin ' on to their next adventure . Oh , aye : that dumb spelling . ( No , not Aaron . ) It turns out that ' The Kowboys ' was created by the same production company that manufactured ' The Monkees ' , so they decided to continue the motif of a one-letter misspelling : no doubt in imitation of the Beatles , whose name actually referred to the Beat Generation ( not beats of music ) . Based solely on this pilot , ' The Kowboys ' would have been no worse ( and no stupider ) than a lot of other series that did get on the air and which did run for a couple of years . I wish the pilot had been picked up , if only so that we'd have more footage of Joy Bang . Still , the fact that this series never got made is no great loss . I'll rate the pilot .
Only two shows of Lerner's and Loewe's	I was present at a screening of this TV special in London in 1964 , when I was a teenager working as an intern for the Grade Organisation . More than a year after its original Stateside transmission date , one of the American producers of this programme hoped to convince my employer Lew Grade to buy the UK broadcast rights . I whole-heartedly voiced my approval , but my voice had very little influence on Mr Grade at that time . ( He wasn't Sir Lew yet , much less Lord Grade . ) I recall enjoying this special very much ; this IMDb review - - written more than 40 years on - - is based on my memories of that screening and some notes I took at the time . Those of you hoping to see this programme for yourselves , please note : I've no idea where to get hold of a copy of the recording , nor even if it still exists . Here's hoping it does , though . The show is titled ' The Broadway of Lerner and Loewe ' , but that title's very misleading ; this special concerns itself almost entirely with that team's two most recent shows at this time : ' Camelot ' and ' My Fair Lady ' . Those two musicals are pretty much joined at the hip , since they had the same creative team : librettist Lerner , composer Loewe , leading lady Julie Andrews , director Moss Hart , choreographer Hanya Holm and production designer Oliver Smith . The only other L & L score which gets even a brief look-in here is ' Gigi ' , entirely down to the presence of compere Maurice Chevalier , who memorably appeared in the film version of that score . ( When ' Gigi ' became a Broadway musical - - after the film version , reversing the usual process - - Chevalier's role was played by Alfred Drake . ) This special contains a brief tribute to Moss Hart , who had died unexpectedly ( and much too young ) while the special was in production . When I attended the screening in 1964 , I had only the vaguemost notion of who Moss Hart was , and I wondered if he had something to do with Moss Rose or Moss Bros . I now know , of course , that he was a major Broadway figure , although he only ever worked with Lerner & Loewe on these two musicals . This show has a general air of cheapness about it , and was clearly produced on a very low budget . In 1964 , I had not yet seen any version of ' My Fair Lady ' or ' Camelot ' , so it was a real delight for me to see the great Stanley Holloway here performing his two numbers from the former . He does them solo here ; apparently the production budget wouldn't stretch far enough to give him a supporting chorus , plus costumes and rehearsals . I recall thinking that both numbers would have worked better with a back-up chorus : I didn't realise at the time that this was indeed how they were originally staged . The wonderful Julie Andrews sings material from both her L & L roles here . She teams with Richard Burton on ' What Do the Simple Folk Do ? ' Being very unsophisticated at the time , I was somewhat confused by this song because it seems to turn into an entirely different song ( ' Arise , My Love ' ) after the second verse . I later saw a clip of Andrews and Burton performing this same number on the Ed Sullivan show ; that version is better than this one . . . or maybe I was just more sophisticated when I saw the second version . Alan Jay Lerner's roommate at Harvard was some guy named John F . Kennedy , who was still alive and in politics when this special was produced and transmitted . JFK attended ' Camelot ' during its Broadway run . Shortly after his death , his widow commented about how much he'd liked the show : as a result , ' Camelot ' - - while it was still running on Broadway - - underwent a radical change in the public's perception , being seen as a symbol of the Kennedy years and what Kennedy might have achieved . However you feel about JFK , it's unfair to dump that burden on a simple little Broadway show . Fortunately , none of that metaphysical stuff taints this special , since JFK hadn't died yet . Despite its low budget , I enjoyed this special at the time . . . and in hindsight , now that I've seen full-blown productions of ' My Fair Lady ' and ' Camelot ' , I would probably still enjoy a second viewing of this cheapjack special . I do recall being annoyed at the time by the spoken insertions of two alleged " theatre goers " who - - painfully obviously - - are clearly actors speaking scripted lines . At the time , I didn't recognise them ; seeing both of them again later , giving better performances in other productions , I recognised them as Frances Sternhagen and Charles Nelson Reilly . Sternhagen has become one of my favourite character actresses . As for Reilly . . . well , I never much liked him as an actor , but I admire his professionalism and his achievements as a director . Their segments here are badly written and poorly performed , and really should have been left out altogether . I shan't give this special a rating , since my memories of it are spotty . Fans of Broadway musicals will enjoy it . . . but there's not much going on here that isn't also on offer ( much more impressively ) in the full movie versions of ' Gigi ' , ' My Fair Lady ' and ' Camelot ' . As your consolation prize , I'll give you a piece of movie trivia : In the film version of ' Camelot ' , when Lancelot gets his first view of King Arthur's castle , director Josh Logan decided that the grass wasn't green enough . . . so he paid one of the locals to hand-paint the grass !
Racist but funny anyway	' Haunted Spooks ' , starring Harold Lloyd , was midway through its shooting schedule when Lloyd suffered the bizarre accident which crippled him for life . As a publicity gag , he posed for a photo with a prop bomb of the classic ' bowling-ball ' style so popular among movie anarchists : the bomb's fuse was lit , and Harold held the bomb near his face so he could light his cigarette . By a fluke , somebody spoke to him and he lowered the bomb to reply . . . just before the ' prop ' bomb exploded . It was a real bomb , which somebody had ordered from a props agency to use for a picnic . ( Must have been quite a picnic ! ) When the bomb went unused , it was stupidly returned to inventory among some ' dud ' bombs which had been made as genuine props . If Lloyd hadn't lowered the bomb from his face , his movie career ( and his life ) would have ended right there . Lloyd lost the thumb and forefinger of his right hand ( he was right-handed ) and was temporarily blinded in his right eye . Production on ' Haunted Spooks ' was halted until he returned from hospital wearing a latex glove with a false thumb and finger ( moulded from a reverse casting of his left hand ) . The suicide sequences at the beginning of ' Haunted Spooks ' are the last footage of Lloyd with his intact right hand . The haunted-house sequences later in this movie ( and all of his subsequent films ) feature him with his prosthetic glove . It's amazing to realise that Lloyd performed the stunts in all of his ' thrill ' comedies ( including his climb up a skyscraper in ' Safety Last ' and his climb down another skyscraper in ' Feet First ' ) with a maimed hand . In the 1950s , Jack Benny ( unaware of Lloyd's handicap ) invited him to guest on Benny's TV show : Lloyd declined , as his latex prosthesis had long since rotted . SPOILERS FOR SOME OF THE GAGS . The opening sequence of ' Haunted Spooks ' is very funny . Lloyd plays a young man who has been disappointed in love , and is now determined to kill himself . Finding a pistol in the street , he shoots himself in the head but gets only a faceful of water : it was a squirt pistol . Deciding to jump off a bridge into a lake , he clambers over the rail , and is about to jump when suddenly a stranger intercedes . But the stranger only wants to know what time it is . Lloyd hands the fellow his watch and tells him to keep it . Then Lloyd jumps off the bridge . . . into a few inches of water . These gags are very funny on their own merit , but they have a morbid edge for viewers who are aware that Lloyd very soon would narrowly escape a real-life death . The second half of ' Haunted Spooks ' is much more contrived , and also extremely racist . I should warn you that the title of this movie is meant to be a racial pun : ' spooks ' being a 1920s slang term for Negroes . Lloyd has to spend the night in a creepy old house which , in Scooby-Doo fashion , is haunted by some fake ghosts . Lloyd gets rather frightened : there's one bizarre shot of Lloyd in a fright wig which stands out from his head like a 1970s Afro . Speaking of Afros : the haunted house is full of stereotypical black characters who ( of course ) are even more cowardly than Lloyd . There's one outrageous shot depicting a roomful of frightened blacks , all of them quivering in fear with their knees knocking in perfect unison . Yassuh ! The immensely talented black child actor Ernie Morrison ( who was usually billed as ' Sunshine Sammy ' ) provides one very funny gag among the racial stereotypes . Morrison was about seven years old at the time , and short with it . At one point in the haunted house , little Morrison falls into an adult-sized pair of trousers which are taller than he is . Instead of climbing out of the trousers , Morrison stumbles blindly about the house , with his legs in the trouser legs and the rest of his body inside the crutch of the trousers . This looks like a pair of trousers going walkies with nobody inside them . Of course , everybody who sees this immediately gets frightened . ' Haunted Spooks ' contains some fairly mean-spirited humour ( including its title ) at the expense of black people , but some of the gags are so inventive that I laughed anyway . . . and the opening suicide sequence is first-rate black comedy in the non-racial sense of the term . I'll rate this comedy .
Say " uncle " , Jack	Jack Benny had a spectacularly successful career as a comedian , but just once in a while he showed some hints of real talent as an actor . The most obvious example is his starring role in ' To Be or Not to Be ' , but ' A Broadway Romeo ' deserves attention too . Benny starred in this short film early in his career , when his comedic character as the egotistical tightwad ( permanently age 39 ) was still gestating . ( When he made this movie , he wasn't 39 yet ! ) SLIGHT SPOILERS . ' A Broadway Romeo ' takes place in the Times Square district of Manhattan , during what's clearly the Depression : everyone in the film ( except ingenue Estelle Brody ) is cynical and selfish . Jack uses an old confidence trick to cadge a free lunch for himself at a lunch counter : as he gets up to leave , he offers to pay for the lunch of the man sitting next to him ( a total stranger ) , telling the man to look up and wave when Jack goes over to the cashier at the other end of the lunchroom , so that the cashier will know that this man's lunch is on Jack's tab . Of course , when Jack gets to the cashpoint , he tells the cashier that his own lunch is on the other man's tab , and sure enough the stranger looks up and waves at the cashier as if agreeing to this . Apparently , movie audiences in 1931 ( hard hit by the Depression ) were meant to admire Jack's resourcefulness in this scam . Jack Benny's performance in this movie is a revelation , and much subtler than his usual comedy . After meeting small-town girl Estelle ( alone in the big city after her fiancé just dumped her ) , Jack takes her under his wing . We can tell that he's on the make , but he also seems genuinely concerned for her welfare and sincere in his wish to protect her . . . from everyone but himself . There's a running gag that isn't funny , and has an obvious payoff . Periodically , a man walks past Jack and Estelle - - a different man each time - - waving hello , while Jack explains : ' That's one of my uncles . ' The last man to do this is very effeminate , and Jack's punchline is visible from a mile off : ' My aunt . ' I'll rate this movie , for an unusual look at a giant of comedy still finding his way .
Ersatz Bowery Boys plus three great pros .	The low-budget ' Bowery Boys ' movies were popular programmers that made healthy profits , so it's not surprising that several other studios would attempt imitations . Among these were the Gas House Gang , the Lemon Grove Kids , That Tenth Avenue Gang and the Little Tough Guys . The latter came nearest to matching the originals , as the membership roll of the Little Tough Guys included Billy Benedict ( a . k . a . ' Whitey ' among the Bowery Boys ) and Leo Gorcey's untalented brother David , whose contribution to the Bowery Boys epics seldom transcended such deathless dialogue as ' Gee , Satch ! What'll we do ? ' ' Little Tough Guys in Society ' features a gang of teenagers who aren't so little and don't look so tough , especially as some of them are played by actors who are well past their teen years . One genuine teen on offer here is Jackie Searl as Randolph Berry , the sensitive son of a society matron . Randolph spends all his time in bed reading philosophy treatises . This is clearly a crisis requiring immediate intervention , so the Little Tough Guys descend upon the Berry mansion en masse , determined to ' cure ' Randolph and turn him into a ' normal ' teenager . . . presumably stealing hubcaps and getting into gang fights . This counterfeit Bowery Boys movie has the same flaw as all of the genuine Bowery Boys movies , or at least all the instalments which place the Boys in high-toned situations . The plot lines depend ( for both their drama and their comedy ) on the contrast between the prole semi-hoodlum Boys and the hoity-toity ' society ' folks . But all of these movies are made on such low budgets that the depictions of ' wealth ' are always very unconvincing . Whenever the Bowery Boys ( or their imitators ) are turned loose in a mansion , a Las Vegas casino , or any other expensive locale , the low production budget is always their downfall . In ' Little Tough Guys in Society ' , Mrs Berry is supposed to be wealthy enough to employ a butler and a footman . . . but her ' mansion ' is clearly a dodgy set on the Universal Studios backlot . For lovers of old-time Hollywood , ' Little Tough Guys in Society ' does have one merit which renders it absolutely unique . Three of Hollywood's greatest character players - - Mischa Auer , Edward Everett Horton and Mary Boland - - are teamed here for the only time in their long prolific film careers . I personally dislike Boland , but I admire her professionalism . . . and Auer is one of my favourite character actors . Boland as the society matron ( Randolph's mother ) , Horton as her stuffy butler , and Auer as the dour physician who ministers to Randolph are all in splendid form here , despite a lacklustre script . For their presence , I'll rate this movie .
Not as naughty as it thinks it is .	' Two Kinds of Women ' was directed by William de Mille ( lower-case ' d ' ) , the brother of Cecil De Mille ( upper-case ' D ' ) and the differing orthography is significant : Cecil De Mille made upper-case movies in a big way , whilst William de Mille made lower-case movies in a small way . ' Two Kinds of Women ' is competent but not compelling . This drama dabbles rather shallowly in the haedonism of Prohibition-era America , with Miriam Hopkins checking into a posh Manhattan hotel and then sauntering into the speakeasy that operates openly right down the street . I've never fancied Hopkins , though in one scene here she wears a spectacular pair of black leather gauntlet gloves . She plays Emma Krull ( any relation to Felix Krull ? ) , a sheltered young woman from Sioux Falls , South Dakota ( speaking her dialogue in an odd accent with broadened vowels ) who accompanies her Comstocking senator father ( Irving Pichel , very good ) to sinful New York City . She crosses paths with Phillips Holmes as a Connecticut playboy ( speaking in a peculiar mid-Atlantic accent ; what is it with these accents ? ) . Now get this . Holmes's character has been a wastrel and a womaniser all his life , but as soon as he meets Hopkins he decides he wants to marry her and get a white picket fence . I thought this was the line he was telling her to get her into bed . . . but no , he really wants to marry Miss Krull and raise some little krullers . But while Phillips drinks a screwdriver , we learn his guilty secret . He once got drunk in New Haven and woke up married to Wynne Gibson . ( Serves him right for being in New Haven . ) Gibson has been bleeding him dry ( I'll have a dry Gibson , to go with that Phillips screwdriver ) ever since . Now he wants a divorce , but he won't let her shake him down for a settlement . Holmes offers to sell his sapphire studs , so I guess he must be desperate . The neurasthenic Phillips Holmes is a performer whom I consistently dislike , but here he's lumbered with some unfortunate dialogue . He tells Gibson she has an icebox for a heart , then in the next scene he tells Hopkins that Gibson has a cash register for a heart . Which is it , buddy : an icebox or a cash register ? Along the way , we get some really bad rear-projection shots of Manhattan . At the climax , when one character falls out a penthouse window , it's more obvious than it needs to be that the plummeting body is a dummy . More positively , one scene between Hopkins and Holmes takes place at a gymkhana , and de Mille stages this with actual equestrians riding past , instead of stock footage . One sequence impressed me very much . In the speakeasy , the camera pans along the hands of the customers at the bar , concealing their faces and bodies . Using only hand gestures and voice-overs , de Mille swiftly conveys several different dramas unfolding in this ginmill . Less effective is a party scene in which a mulatta songstress warbles jazz while the guests ' body movements keep time with the music . . . walking in tempo , drinking in tempo , but none of them actually dancing . Elsewhere , de Mille gives the actors ( or allows them to use ) some truly dire blocking , as if they were in a stage play rather than a movie . And why do so many doors in this movie have chequerwork panelling ? There are some excellent performances here . James Crane , previously unknown to me , is impressive as a desperate crook . Josephine Dunn is good in a comedy-relief role that turns out to be crucial to the plot . Stanley Fields ( whom I usually dislike ) and the very underrated Edwin Maxwell are good too . I was especially impressed with Robert Emmett O'Connor as Tim Gohagen , a mysterious party goer who seems to have contacts in high places : when the penthouse party gets raided , one of the detectives looks right at O'Connor and pretends not to see him . In all , I'll rate this movie . I wish that William de Mille were better known , but there's no question that his brother Cecil was the better director .
Tell me , pretty maid . . .	' Chasing the Chaser ' , directed by Stan Laurel and co-written by Laurel with Charley Chase's brother James Parrott , was one of the comedy shorts that tried to promote James Finlayson as a star comedian . ' Fin ' , of course , would ultimately achieve success as an adversary to the greatest comedy team of all time . . . but he's quite good here , running a gamut of facial expressions in a haberdasher's shop . However , the stand-out performance in ' Chasing the Chaser ' has to be that of Jules Mendel , who offers an astonishing female impersonation . ( Mendel had done a femme act in vaudeville as Jewel Mendel . ) We first see Mendel in full female disguise , seated at a desk in a detective agency . ( Address : 714 Grief Building . ) Two lady clients enter . This being 1925 , a woman can't possibly be the person in charge , so they ask to see the head man : the secretary whips off ' her ' wig , revealing Mendel underneath . Unfortunately , the sequence is set up so that I had a clear view of Mendel's adam's-apple and shoulders , tipping the wink before he took off his wig . This is something I've never quite understood about female impersonations : when the alleged woman takes off her hair , revealing a shorter haircut underneath , we're supposed to realise that she's a man . But if the rest of the female disguise is good enough to avoid suspicion , then why doesn't removing the wig merely make her seem a short-haired woman ? Maybe the larger brow ridge and higher forehead on a man are the give-away . Anyroad , Helen Gilmore's husband ( Finlayson ) is a philanderer , so she and neighbour Marjorie Whiteis engage Mendel to show up at Finlayson's house ( disguised as a parlourmaid ) and flirt with him . Mendel's female disguise is almost perfect . . . but , stupidly , he fakes a feminine swoon into Finlayson's arms . Won't Fin notice that this ' woman ' is heavy enough to be a man ? Later , when the maid gets ' her ' skirt torn off , we see that male Mendel has concealed his family Jules inside female directoire undergarments . Now , that's really getting into a role ! But why doesn't Mendel's character wear kirby grips to keep his wig in place ? A scene featuring Fay Wray as a nursemaid with a pram distressed me , because Fay leaves her infant outside in the street while she's inside a shop . . . for an hour , the title cards tell us . I hope the kid's parents fired her . The two lead actresses should have swapped roles : Gilmore , as the wife , isn't nearly so funny as Whiteis , whose haughty performance here reminds me of the great Edna May Oliver . As a comedy , ' Chasing the Chaser ' is slightly above average : I'll rate it . This movie will probably be of much greater interest to students of cross-gender disguise for Jules Mindel's near-perfect impersonation of a pretty parlourmaid .
The cow has the best scene	In the early days of talking pictures , many silent stars eased their transition into talkies by remaking some of their silent hits . Will Rogers had starred in the silent film ' Jubilo ' . He reprised the role for ' Too Busy to Work ' , a talkie remake with some minor plot differences which are improvements over the silent original . Rogers plays a tramp , nicknamed Jubilo for his habit of singing the old spiritual song ' In the Land of Jubilo ' . ( This song shows up on the soundtrack of almost every Civil War film . ) But he was a respectable man once . Back in 1918 , Jubilo enlisted in the American Expeditionary Force and went off to fight the Kaiser ; he reluctantly parted company with his wife and infant daughter , promising to return . After the Armistice , Jubilo came home to discover that his wife ran off with another man , taking her daughter along . Now , years later , Jubilo roams the byways of America in search of his daughter and wife . Jubilo comes to the home of Judge Hardy ( no ; not the one in the Andy Hardy movies ) . Judge Hardy is a respectable widower with an attractive daughter named Rose ( Marian Nixon ) and a handsome son , Dan ( Dick Powell in an early role ) . There's a touching scene between Rogers and Nixon when he teaches her to sing ' Jubilo ' . Unfortunately , in this sound film Will Rogers proves that his singing is perfect for silent movies . By now , Jubilo has learnt the truth : Judge Hardy is the man who ran off with Jubilo's wife , who died soon after bearing the judge's son Dan . Rose is Jubilo's long-lost daughter , now an adult . While Jubilo is trying to figure out what to do with this information , he witnesses a bank robbery . . . and he sees that Dan Hardy is the driver of the getaway car . As a stranger in town and a vagrant , Jubilo is afraid that the local sheriff will pin the robbery on him , so he leaves . SPOILER COMING . Dan Hardy is arrested for his role in the bank robbery . To save Rose's half-brother , Jubilo comes forward and reveals the truth : the robbers hijacked Dan's car and forced him at gunpoint to drive it during the robbery . By now , Jubilo realises that Judge Hardy has given Rose a good home , and that Rose sincerely loves the judge as her father ( not suspecting the truth ) . Unwilling to disturb his daughter's happiness , Jubilo takes up his tramping ways again and heads for the next town . ' Too Busy to Work ' has more plot ( and a better plot ) than is typical for a Will Rogers movie , and in many ways it's not a typical Rogers film . Several other actors from this period could have played the role just as well , if not better : in fact , the ending of this movie is very similar to the ending of ' Poppy ' , starring W . C . Fields . . . itself a remake of Fields's silent film ' Sally of the Sawdust ' . The ending of ' Too Busy to Work ' could have tipped into sentiment , but Rogers and director John Blystone wisely avoid this . Rogers has one splendid scene of visual comedy . When he tries to mooch a meal at Judge Hardy's house , he's told he'll be fed if he does some work : then he's given a milking-stool and a pail , and ordered to fetch some milk from the cow . The look on Rogers's face is priceless as he reveals that he's utterly ignorant of how to get milk from a cow . He stares at the stool , he stares at the pail , he stares at the cow and tries to figure out where the milk comes from . Hilarious ! Unfortunately , Rogers's folksy image works against him here : it's difficult to believe that someone so obviously rural could really be ignorant of how to milk a cow . On the other hand , Dick Powell's slight Arkansas accent ( which grated slightly when he played opposite Ruby Keeler in those Warner Bros musicals ) stands Powell in good stead here as Dan Hardy . I'm not much of a Will Rogers fan , but this is one of his better films . I'll rate ' Too Busy to Work ' . I might have given it a 7 , if not for the annoying scenes featuring Louise Beavers as a stereotypical black servant .
The winking elk , the bi-located omnibus	I viewed the Eastman House print of this film , which unfortunately is missing the original opening credits and inter-titles from the first reel . From the second reel onwards , there are some clever visual gimmicks in the titles - - at one point , part of a caption is replaced by footage of a boy riding a hobby-horse while the rest of the caption remains in place ; at another point , a title flips over on its vertical axis when the villains enter the room , turn round , and go out again - - so I wonder what pleasures I might have missed in those first-reel inter-titles . The title of ' The Flapper ' is ironic , as this movie's heroine is an innocent ingenue who merely pretends to be a jazz-baby flapper . The beautiful Olive Thomas ( age 25 ) plays 16-year-old Genevieve King , and in nearly every sequence she is believable as a teenager . Genevieve ( nicknamed ' Ginger ' for her high spirits ) is sent off to the girls ' seminary run by strict disciplinarian Mrs Paddles ( hmm . . . ) , where the students wear Peter Thompson sailor uniforms . Two of Ginger's schoolmates are played by Norma Shearer and her sister Athole , but they have no dialogue or specific business . Distinguished older man Richard Channing rides past the seminary every day , prompting romantic fantasies among the schoolgirls . When 16-year-old Ginger connives a sleigh ride with Channing , she tells him she's ' almost twenty ' . To Channing's credit , he dumps her toot-sweet when he learns the truth . This is one of those ladies ' seminaries that has a safe full of jewellery . A student named Hortense ( who definitely looks to be in her mid-20s ) heists the swag and runs off with her henchman Thomas Morran , played by Arthur Housman . This actor had a long career playing funny drunks , so I was pleased to see him in a dramatic role that let him stay sober . Director Alan Crosland stages one scene cleverly , with Housman on-camera aiming a revolver at Olive Thomas , who is seen only as a reflection in the mirror . Our little Ginger has got herself involved in the jewel heist . She behaves very implausibly . Among this film's pleasures are some beautiful wintry exteriors ( filmed near Ithaca , NY ) and some shots of Fifth Avenue in Manhattan . There are a few continuity errors . Among others : Olive Thomas boards an omnibus as it travels south in Fifth Avenue's west carriageway below 42nd Street . A moment later , as she steps off the ' bus , it's now travelling north in Fifth Avenue's east carriageway above 42nd Street . African-Americans are seen quite prominently in this film , but only as musicians and waiters with no dialogue . I was very impressed by a dramatic device at nearly the very end of this movie , when events in the lives of Ginger King and another character are presented as incidents in a ( non-fiction ) newsreel . This same device was later used in ' Citizen Kane ' , but I doubt that Orson Welles ever saw ' The Flapper ' : he was only five years old when this movie was released . Despite some implausible motivations , ' The Flapper ' is mostly a realistic comedy , so I was annoyed by an ' impossible ' gag in which a stuffed elk's head winks its eye at Olive Thomas . Even more distressing were two sequences with Ginger King in drama-queen mode : in the first , she attempts suicide ; in the second , she vows to become ' a dope fiend ' . The beautiful and talented actress Olive Thomas died shortly after this film was released , from what appears to have been an intentional drugs overdose . ( It was ruled an accident . . . but the facts indicate that it was a suicide , hushed up to avoid scandal . ) Because these sequences foreshadow Olive Thomas's tragic death , they manage to cast a sombre tone over the entire film . I'll rate ' The Flapper ' .
Baby , take a bough .	I viewed a print of " Helen's Babies " that was restored by the Library of Congress ; despite their laudable efforts , the first title card is missing , and the nitrate deterioration is prominent throughout the first reel . I mention these flaws not to chivvy the wonderful people at LoC but because Diana Serra Cary ( more about her later ) has told me she has viewed every known surviving print of this movie , and she claims that LoC's is the best print in existence . " Helen's Babies " is often cited as a Clara Bow movie , since she's the cast member who remains most well-known and popular . She has considerably less screen time here than Edward Everett Horton and the titular children , and Bow's hairstyle and make-up here are not the ones she wore during her stardom . Director William Seiter gives Bow no star treatment whatever : during her first scene ( oddly clutching a white cane : where's her tin cup and her guide dog ? ) , Bow receives no close-ups at all , and the sequence is blocked so that several other characters stand in front of her , preventing the camera from even getting a clear view of her . Because Edward Everett Horton is remembered for his distinctive vocal traits , it's intriguing to see him in this SILENT film . Horton displays less of the " nelly " body language here than he did in his later films , possibly because in this movie his character is attracted to Clara Bow . Horton's character here wears a wristwatch : a decade earlier , male wristwatches were often regarded in American culture as a symbol of effeminacy , but that stereotype was put paid during WW1 when wristwatches proved more useful than pocket watches for the doughboys in the trenches . The film's premise is strictly Plot-o-Matic : Harry Burton ( Horton ) has written a best-selling book about child-rearing even though he knows nothing about the subject . Because of his alleged expertise , his sister Helen Lawrence and her husband connive to put him in charge of their two young daughters while the parents go off on a holiday . To show what great parents they are , Mr and Mrs Lawrence depart BEFORE Horton arrives , leaving the wee tykes to their own devices . From here we're in Baby Herman territory , with the girls wreaking mayhem that causes problems for Horton . Oh , those girls ! Annoyingly named Budge and Toodie , they are refreshingly played by two genuinely delightful child actresses , giving affectless and believable performances . Budge is played by gap-toothed Jeanne Carpenter , but the ringleader of their mayhem ( Toodie ) is played by none other than Baby Peggy , in a truly virtuoso performance . Baby Peggy ( now known as Diana Serra Cary ) is still alive and well as I write this ; I first met her in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy : while watching " Helen's Babies " , I found it rather strange to be viewing the antics of a five-year-old in 1924 while realising that I KNOW her ( considerably older but still young at heart ) in 2007 ! In an early scene , Baby Peggy clutches a Felix the Cat doll : could this be an early example of product placement ? Much of this comedy's effect is down to the crucial fact that Toodie and Budge are genuinely guileless in all their mischief : unlike Beryl the Peril or the Katzenjammer Kids , they have no malice for their adult guardian . Most of the comedy works , although I disliked one scene in which Baby Peggy continually tweaks the face of the sleeping Horton without wakening him : since Horton's character wasn't drugged or comatose , I couldn't believe that he could sleep through this . Also , Horton's character often behaves implausibly . . . as when he gives the girls his wristwatch to play with , then he forgets to reclaim it . In several sequences the comedy depends upon suspense , with Toodie wandering into genuinely dangerous situations ( and no stunt double available for Baby Peggy ) . These sequences are staged and edited skilfully to keep the child actress safe while making her character seem to be in danger . . . as when Toodie falls off a high tree bough without Baby Peggy actually being placed at treetop height . Where the comedy really fails ( for modern sensibilities ) is in this movie's racial stereotypes . The Lawrences engage a black handyman who enters the house in a servile cringe , and who runs away from a frightening event at superhuman speed ( via undercranking ) . The black chauffeur's one dialogue title is written in " yassuh " dialect . More positively , black actress Mattie Peters gives a very realistic and humane performance here ( unlike her role in ' The Bedroom Window ' ) as the housekeeper who clearly loves the two little girls and who is likely the only reason they haven't died of neglect by their careless parents . Even more extensive ( and offensive ) than the stereotyping of the black characters in this movie is the extreme stereotyping of some Italian characters who arrive in a Romany caravan and speak in Chico Marx dialect . When Toodie and Budge wander into their camp , the sequence is staged to emphasise the swarthiness and foreign behaviour of these transients : the girls are potentially in danger not because they're among strangers , but rather because these are dark-skinned foreigners . The climactic sequence , with the two girls and a dog on a railway track while a train hurtles towards them , is well-staged and has one hilariously unexpected gag . Train-spotters will be intrigued that the choo-choo in this sequence is the only steam locomotive ever made which stops at the precise instant when the engineer pulls the brake , instead of half a mile farther down the rails . At least , that's what we see here . Despite an astonishingly good performance by Baby Peggy and one almost equally as good by Jeanne Carpenter , many of the gags in this movie were too obvious or too implausible or both . I would have liked this comedy better without the stereotyping of Negroes and Italians . My rating : , and most of that is for Baby Peggy's and Horton's performances .
It's been Dunne better elsewhere ; this ' Apartment ' is a flat .	Lowell Sherman had some success as an actor and some success as a director without ever becoming a major name in either speciality : the most interesting thing ( but one ) about ' Bachelor Apartment ' is that he both directed and starred in it . As a screen personality , Sherman was probably the nearest thing to George Sanders before Sanders came along : Sherman typically played a wealthy cad who seduced women solely for his own pleasure , with no concern for their welfare . In at least one movie , ' You Never Know Women ' , Sanders's character is perfectly willing to commit rape . As I've noted in a previous IMDb review , I find Sherman implausible in such roles . I know almost nothing about his offscreen life ( and I don't much want to know ) , but on the screen he tends to come across ( to me , at least ) as if he is gay . . . in that word's modern sense . Sherman nearly always played skirt-chasers , yet I invariably find him unbelievable as a playboy . He was a talented actor , yet seemed much more believable when playing characters who were epicene ( he was brilliant in ' What Price Hollywood ? ' ) or men whose sexuality was irrelevant to the plot ( as in ' Mammy ' ) . In ' Bachelor Apartment ' , Sherman portrays Wayne Carter , a millionaire businessman who's also a playboy . . . so credibility flies out the window . Carter's only roommate is his live-in butler , very well-played by Charles Coleman . . . but we understand that a vast series of women have spent their nights ( not all at the same go , mind you ) alongside Carter in his bed . I'd mentioned the most interesting thing but one about this movie . Here's the MOST interesting thing about it : the plot line of ' Bachelor Apartment ' seems to anticipate two much better works , namely ' My Sister Eileen ' and ' Neptune's Daughter ' ( the latter an MGM musical that had a much neater plot than usual for MGM musicals ) . Along to New York City come two small-town sisters : the older one level-headed , the younger one much prettier and flirty with it . ( Did anybody mention Ruth McKinney and her sister Eileen ? ) The younger one ( well-played by the obscure Claudia Dell ) meets the millionaire's butler and mistakenly believes ( for contrived reasons ) that the butler is the millionaire himself . When protective older sister Irene Dunne learns that her younger sister is involved with millionaire Carter ( actually the butler ) , she stomps into Carter's executive suite to straighten him out . For once genuinely innocent of womanising , Carter doesn't know anything about it . . . yet he finds himself attracted to Dunne , and he gets ready to award her the next notch on his bedpost . VERY OBVIOUS SPOILER . It's simultaneously bang obvious and wildly implausible what's going to happen , yet it happens anyway . Carter , planning to seduce Dunne , ends up sincerely falling in love with her . . . and ( get this , please ) he actually gives up his tom-catting to marry her and settle down ! Oh , pull the other one . I had more trouble believing this movie than I did with several other Lowell Sherman vehicles . Irene Done has never dunne ( I mean Irene Dunne has never done ) a thing for me ; I've never found her especially attractive nor especially sexy , and I simply couldn't believe that this millionaire playboy would chuck his sybaritic life for this particular woman . In this movie , Irene Dunne wears a hairstyle that renders her even more unattractive than usual . Further , I had the same credibility issue here that I do with most other movies in which a working-class heroine lands a wealthy husband : we're meant to believe that she sincerely loves him , yet she's fully aware that the huge bulge in his trousers is his bank balance . Since the husband is a playboy who has habitually exploited women , it's hard to believe that he never wonders if perhaps he is being exploited in turn by a gold-digger . On the positive side , ' Bachelor Apartment ' has one of those great old-movie casts with several interesting performers in supporting roles . Claudia Dell and Charles Coleman , both obscure , are excellent here . Perennial dress extra Bess Flowers has a larger role than usual here . Less favourably , Arthur Housman , in the role of a drunk ( what a stretch ! ) , does absolutely nothing here that he didn't do better and funnier while cast as a drunk in fifty other movies . Norman Kerry , cast in a supporting role in this early talkie , proves why his stardom ended in silent movies . ' Bachelor Apartment ' is well-made ; Lowell Sherman was an under-rated director , and might conceivably have gone on to greater success behind the camera after he became too old to carry on in skirt-chaser roles . ( He died suddenly of pneumonia , aged only 49 . ) Any film with a Max Steiner score and production by William LeBaron is worthy of attention . When the clichés settle , my rating for this movie is just .
Cocky Clyde Cook's concertina concert	With a title like ' Captain Lash ' , I expected the ' Captain ' to be genuine but the ' Lash ' to be a nickname : I'd thought this would be a movie about a genuine sea captain , nicknamed ' Lash ' for his cruelty . In the event , it was just the other way round : ' Lash ' is genuine and ' Captain ' is the nickname . Victor McLaglen gives one of his trademark performances , this time as a ship's stoker named Lash whose workmates cry him ' Captain ' for his authoritative manner . ( Having worked on ships , I can vouch that no sea captain would permit any of the men serving under him to be nicknamed ' Captain ' . A ship's dog or cat , maybe , but no ship can have two men cried ' Captain ' . ) The mere fact that the central character is a ship's stoker brings this movie firmly into Eugene O'Neill territory . But now ' Captain Lash ' begins to look like a rip-off of O'Neill's drama ' The Hairy Ape ' as brawny stoker Lash attracts the attention of Cora Nevins , a swanky society dame who normally wouldn't give a lug like Lash a look . What gives , then ? What gives is that Cora , for all her fashionable clothes and her stylish blonde bobbed hair , is actually a cheap crook . To be precise : she's a jewel thief . One of the passengers on Lash's ship is wealthy Alex Condax , and Cora has twocked his stones . . . his diamonds , I mean . She vamps ' Captain ' Lash to help her get the diamonds off the ship at Singapore . Meanwhile , Lash has a girl in every port , and his whore ashore in Singapore is a brunette named Babe , so you just know she's trouble . McLaglen ( whom I always like ) is good in this film , but he's upstaged by silent-film comedian Clyde Cook , who plays his cocky buddy Cocky . I'm prejudiced in Clyde Cook's favour , as I interviewed him shortly before his death , and he spoke very movingly to me about his long career . My favouritism aside , Cook gives a versatile performance here in a well-written role as McLaglen's sidekick . While Cook gives a po-faced recital on his concertina , the intertitles tell us that he's sending musical cues to his mate McLaglen . I only regret that Cook's role here gives him few chances to demonstrate his dazzling acrobatic slapstick talents . Clyde Cook - whose bill matter in vaudeville was ' The Kangaroo Boy ' - was the only silent-film acrobat who deserves to be mentioned in the same breath as Buster Keaton , Al St John and Lupino Lane . The direction ( by the underrated John Blystone ) and the camera set-ups are excellent . Arthur Stone is good as a crooked toff , but Claire Windsor and Jane Winton are not very effective in the female leads . I'll rate ' Captain Lash ' , largely for Clyde Cook's virtuoso performance .
Bill Frawley as Lord Haw Haw Haw .	WARNING : RACIAL EPITHETS AHEAD . Here's a musical short that was probably very popular in wartime 1942 ( notice its title ) , but which would now evoke a few protests from various quarters due to the comments against Japanese and Italians . Interestingly enough , the lead performer shown on-camera - - he's accompanied by two girls in majorette costumes , and backed by an offstage chorus - - is none other than character actor William Frawley , not usually considered a musical performer . Back in the days of American vaudeville , a very popular musical routine was " Ist Das Nicht Ein Schnitzelbank ? " , in which a schoolmaster with a comic German or " Dutch " accent would point to illustrations of various objects , with the other performers ( portraying the students ) replying in unison . Dozens of vaudeville acts did variations on this turn ; even the Marx Brothers ( with Groucho as the schoolmaster ) tried it in their early days . Frawley had been a vaudeville performer himself , and here he does a version of that routine with updated lyrics for World War Two . Wearing an academic gown and mortarboard , and with a long pointer in one hand , he points to a caricatured drawing of a Japanese man , and sings : " Isn't this a sneaky Jap ? " When the offstage chorus reply " Yeah , man , sneaky Jap ! " , Frawley sings the next line : " Will we kick him off the map ? " The chorus reply : " Yeah , man , off the map ! " . And so forth . Some of the lyrics are less imaginative than others . Pointing to a drawing of Mussolini , Frawley continues the call and response : " Isn't this Benito's jaw ? " ( Yeah , man , Benito's jaw ! ) " Haw haw haw haw haw haw haw ! " ( Yeah , man , haw haw haw ! ) Did someone get paid for writing this ? ' The Yankee Doodler ' is one of those songs in which each verse gets progressively longer , tacking on the responses of all the previous verses . But at least there's a snappy refrain : " Now we're gonna win ! Gonna win , gonna win ! " The entire routine is performed by Frawley on a bare stage , pointing at various drawings that illustrate his couplets . Well , ' The Yankee Doodler ' is clearly wartime propaganda , and the Japanese and Germans were saying worse things about us than we said about them . Fair enough . Frawley performs a snappy song-and-dance routine here , and ' The Yankee Doodler ' is interesting as an example of Frawley's musical abilities , as well as a ( modified ) example of the old-time Schnitzelbank routine . Still , I winced at those lyrics . . . not because they're so jingoistic and racist , but because they're just so ruddy AWFUL ! " Jaw " and " haw haw haw " ? Oh , blimey ! Kindly leave the stage ! My rating for ' The Yankee Doodler ' is just .
A Japanese Jekyll and Hyde .	What a weird film ! I sought out ' The Devil's Claim ' because it was written by J . Grubb Alexander , who did such a great job of turning Victor Hugo's unwieldy novel ' The Man Who Laughs ' into one of Conrad Veidt's greatest films . ' The Devil's Claim ' isn't in that league , though . I viewed the Eastman House print , which is duped from a 35mm nitrate positive found in Spain , with Spanish intertitles ( and insert shots of printed text ) replacing the English-language originals . The Eastman House print has re-translated the Spanish titles back into English , but the translation isn't very good . There are unwieldy terms such as ' a late-arriving musician ' , and several titles read like bad poetry or Mills & Boon dialogue . ( ' Jealousy is a sad adviser . ' ) Please note that my review is based on the re-translated titles , not the original versions . The story is set in New York City's ' French Quarter ' , but in real life there's no such neighbourhood . I don't know if this error was in the original script , or if it was created by the Spanish title writer . The first reel of the print is beautifully tinted in several colours , but after that we're stuck with monochrome . One of the denizens of the French Quarter is Akbar Khan , successful author of the exotic novel ' Karma ' . ( Sessue Hayakawa wears a turban for this role , which I suspect was inspired by the real-life poet Khalil Gibran . ) Khan has broken off an affair with the Persian damsel Indora ( Colleen Moore , looking far more Persian than I would have thought possible . ) Khan's literary technique seems to involve getting a woman to fall in love with him , using her as inspiration for his next novel , then tossing her aside . Along comes the ( very American ) Virginia Crosby ( Rhea Mitchell , previously unknown to me ) , who vows to make Khan come crawling back to Indora by unusual means . The first step in the process is to get Khan to fall in love with Virginia . If you say so . . . There's an improbable sequence at the Polly Ann Café , somewhere in that French Quarter . All the tables in the café are numbered , and there's a spinner on the wall . When the hostess ( presumably Polly Ann ) spins the wheel to a random number , the person at that table must get up and entertain everyone else . Wot , no karaoke ? Where this movie well and truly gets weird is in the story WITHIN the story . Khan churns out his latest novel ( ' The Mask of the Devil ' ) as chapters to be serialised in the magazine ' Metropolis ' . ( We see its cover ; it clearly resembles Hearst's ' Cosmopolitan ' . ) The editor ( William Buckley : no , not THAT one ! ) was daft enough to start publishing Khan's serial whilst it's still being written , with no guarantee of a last chapter , and now he's regretting that error . Meanwhile , we see Khan's novel being acted out . The hero is Hassan Marouf ( also played by Hayakawa ) , a somewhat idealised version of Akbar Khan . Hassan kills his own minion Kemal , but is then haunted by Kemal's ghost . . . and must placate the dead man by allowing Kemal to take temporary possession of his own ( Hassan's ) body . There are a couple of ludicrous scenes in which Hayakawa does a ridiculous Jekyll-and-Hyde routine , as the nominally benevolent Hassan is possessed by the soul of the evil Kemal . ( I'd walk a mile for a Kemal , but not this one . ) All through this movie , people keep materialising and vanishing . One shot of Hayakawa seated in front of a curtain placed him significantly off-centre , so I knew that somebody else would balance the frame composition either by emerging through the curtain or materialising out of thin air . Sure enough ; cue the ectoplasm . The film never establishes what time of year this is happening , but it seems to be late autumn : I was intrigued that the actors ' exhalations show up on screen during the exterior sequences , even though there's no snow . Even a cat's breath is visible . ( The cat gets shot dead : we see a close-up of a feline corpse that seems to be the same cat which appeared alive just a few seconds earlier . ) Colleen Moore and Rhea Mitchell wear nice gloves , although the camera doesn't emphasise these . At one point , Akbar Khan and Indora decide to get married . Instantly , a priest pops out of the woodwork - - he looks more like a bishop - - and he's conveniently wearing Christian vestments . Khan just happens to have a wedding ring in his pocket , too . After trying to establish the exotic Oriental credentials of these two characters , the film goes out of its way to assure us that they're entering into a white-bread Christian marriage . Hoo boy . Despite its title , there isn't any actual satanism in this movie . I'll rate ' The Devil's Claim ' just . Pass the mandrake root , sahib .
Runyonesque runt .	The first time I saw the movie ' Guys and Dolls ' , with its chorus line of phony Damon Runyon gangsters , I noticed that one character didn't fit in with the rest of the mob : a petty crook named Society Max , played by a runty little actor named George E Stone . His part was undersized ( like the actor himself ) , yet he seemed to be in a completely different movie from everyone else . ' Where'd they find this guy ? ' I wondered . ' Couldn't they have found someone who fit in with the rest of the cast ? ' But I noticed Stone , and as I learnt more about this actor I understood why he didn't fit in : because George E Stone was the genuine article in a crowd full of fakes . In real life , Stone was a drinking buddy of Damon Runyon and more than a few gangsters . If Stone's screen portrayals of petty crooks didn't fit the Hollywood template , that's because he based his performances on reality , instead of reinforcing cinema stereotypes . ' The Big Brain ' , a low-budget second feature , gives Stone a rare chance at a leading role , though he's playing a little man in the figurative sense as well as the literal one . Max Werner ( Stone ) is a runty egotist who fancies he's catnip to the ladies . A confidence trickster named Sam Ryan is impressed with Werner's nerve , and gives him a job as a bonds salesman . . . selling fake bonds . Werner decides he likes being a crook , but the bond racket is getting too hot for him , so he scarpers to England ( courtesy of some unconvincing RKO set design and stock shots ) , and starts swindling the milords and the miladies . But then Werner meets a pretty woman who seems to be attracted to him . Does she actually see something in this guy , or has she got a cute angle that he's too obtuse to notice ? George E Stone's sheer talent and personality go a considerable way towards putting this over , but he's seriously undercut by the fact that the English characters in this movie are all very implausible stereotypes of the ' I say , old boy ' variety . . . despite the presence of a couple of genuine Brits in the cast . The movie's pacing is poor , the direction is weak , and some camera set-ups are downright annoying . The script is more than slightly amusing , but the ending manages to be both contrived and obvious . SPOILER : The lady who seems to love Werner is really just a decoy to get him arrested . Robert Emmett O'Connor ( the second-team William Frawley ) , who played sour-faced detectives in several other movies , repeats that turn here . . . and his presence is welcome , even though O'Connor doesn't do anything here that he didn't do better in ' A Night at the Opera ' . Lucien Littlefield is amusing in a supporting role . Littlefield was a sorely underrated performer , who was so protean that most viewers don't realise his wide range of portrayals were all the same actor . Phillips Holmes gives his usual neurasthenic effeminate performance . Fans of Fay Wray will see nothing special here . Mostly from the pleasure I got in seeing George E Stone play a lead role , I'll rate this weak movie .
Snowballs	' Eternal Love ' stars John Barrymore in semi-swashbuckling mode with the beautiful Camilla Horn . This is one of those late silent films that were released with soundtracks consisting of music and sound effects . In ' Eternal Love ' , several gunshots are heard at climactic moments . . . but they're all pathetic little popgun sounds . Still , in 1929 any sound that emerged from the movie screen must have thrilled audiences . This film is directed by the great Ernst Lubitsch , though several of his other movies from this period are much better . The story begins in 1806 , when France and Austria are " at each other's throats " ( as a title card ludicrously claims ) , and the Swiss village of Pontresina is caught in the middle . The French military officers demand that all men in the village surrender their weapons . . . and all the men immediately do so ( I found this wildly implausible ) except for Marcus Paltram ( Barrymore ) , who is clearly supposed to be the only ' real man ' in the village . Marcus is in love with the beautiful blonde Ciglia ( Horn ) , who lives with her uncle the minister ( good performance from Hobart Bosworth ) . Marcus's bitter rival is Lorenz Gruber , played by Victor Varconi ( a handsome and talented silent-film actor who usually played unsympathetic roles ) . Marcus is pursued by Pia , a dark peasant girl whose desire for him is frankly carnal . After setting up an intriguing premise , with the peaceful Swiss villagers living under French military occupation , this is dropped by the second reel and never mentioned again . The villagers throw a masked ball , with surprisingly elaborate costumes and masks . With bludgeon-heavy symbolism , Pia's mask gives her the face of a crone , while Ciglia's mask depicts a woman's face with exaggerated beauty . After the ball , Marcus makes a drunken pass at Ciglia ; in a moment of anger , she spurns him . Marcus does the gentlemanly thing , and leaves . . . only to run into Pia , and they end up in his bed together . ( So that Barrymore's character remains sympathetic , the film clearly establishes that she seduces him , not the other way round . ) SPOILERS COMING . The film degenerates into soap opera . Pia's mother demands that Marcus marry Pia . This enables Lorenz to marry Ciglia . When he realises that she still loves Marcus , Lorenz tries to murder his rival . Eventually , Marcus and Ciglia flee into the Alps , where Ciglia prays to God to let the two of them die together . God obliges with a friendly avalanche . ( I really dislike films in which God takes an active hand in the proceedings : if that's the way the universe works , then why doesn't God do this more often ? ) ' Eternal Love ' features some splendid photography . Especially noteworthy in this movie ( filmed in California but set in Switzerland ) are some superb glass-shots to create the Swiss Alps in the background . An early sequence which allegedly takes place up in the mountains looks more like it was filmed in Bronson Canyon . . . in the same spot where they filmed ' Robot Monster ' . Barrymore is good in his role , but this is one of those movies in which every supporting male character is depicted as a spineless wimp so that the male lead is both the most macho character and the most principled character . ( I cringed during the scene in the tavern , when Barrymore helps himself to several other men's drinks . . . and not a man in the place has the guts to challenge him , not even in a group . ) Still , the good points in this film outweigh the bad . I'll rate ' Eternal Love ' . Yodel-lay-he-hoo !
The bang-bang gang	Richard Kern was an underground filmmaker who specialised in transgressive themes , and images that are violent and erotic at the same go . Like Kenneth Anger , who seems to have been an influence on him , Kern is less interested in coherent narrative than in presenting themes and images that will provoke us , shock us and . . . possibly . . . arouse us . " X is Y " is a very short film , consisting of images of young women handling automatic handguns and rifles . The women's physical appearances and the overall direction are clearly intended to eroticise the firearms whilst emphasising the phallic aspect of the weapons . The film's title is not explained , but it apparently has a genetic basis : X is the female chromosome and Y the male chromosome . Apparently , Kern is suggesting that handguns are ' supposed to be ' male objects , yet here are these very sexy and unquestionably female women engaged in the ' male ' activities of gun-love and shooting . " X is Y " features some thrash music by a band with the appropriate name Cop Shoot Cop . Kern shows some genuine directorial talent within his narrow self-appointed genre , and the women in this movie are very delightful to look at . I'll rate this quickie .
Mickey's mask , Roland's penguins , Ken on a boulder . Where's Tarzan ?	This is one of the short-subject films that made a trip to the movies in the 1930s a full bill-of-fare . The ' Hollywood on Parade ' series of shorts were cheaply produced because they recycled screen tests ( of big stars ) and out-takes from feature films . The ' Hollywood on Parade ' shorts were distributed by Paramount , so ( by an amazing coincidence ) each instalment featured a clip from a Paramount film , and a plug accordingly . . . but the series played fair , and gave attention to the stars and productions of other studios as well . Which Hollywood personality named Mickey had the biggest ears ? If you think it's Disney's mouse , wrong answer ! Keep reading . . . After the brassy ' Hollywood on Parade ' theme song - - one of the better examples of a short-subject tune , with a good lyric - - we are confronted by a cloaked figure in a domino mask , resembling the Phantom of the Opera . In a deep voice , he intones that he is the Index , or the Table of Contents , or the Appendix , or the something-or-other for what we are about to see . When I saw those jug-ears protruding from his domino mask , I knew who he was : sure enough , the mask comes off and he's Mickey Daniels . . . one of the ugliest males who ever stepped in front of a camera . As soon as he's unmasked , Mickey drops the deep voice and he speaks in that annoying Wyoming squeal that he used in the ' Boy Friends ' comedies , while his lugs quiver . We see Maurice Chevalier singing ' Louise ' , although without the elaborate hand gestures which almost got songwriter Leo Robin sacked from Paramount . ( When Chevalier used these hand gestures during a performance of the song , lyricist Robin loudly complained that the audience would be looking at Chevalier's hands instead of paying attention to the words . ) Next is a brief filmed interview with actor Roland Young , in which he shows us his collection of toy penguins . If any actor had to be a penguin-collector , I can't think of a better choice for the job than Roland Young , except possibly Melville Cooper . ( Who said Burgess Meredith ? ) Next we go outdoors for a brief visit with cowboy star Ken Maynard , this time bereft of his famous horse Tarzan . Maynard mounts a rock sculpture shaped like a horse , which looks deeply distressing . By the way , I hope some Ken Maynard fan can explain this to me : Edgar Rice Burroughs , author of ' Tarzan of the Apes ' , never hesitated to sue anyone who displeased him . . . so I've never been able to understand how cowboy actor Maynard was able to have a long successful Hollywood career astride a horse named Tarzan without getting sued . Anybody know ? The ' Hollywood on Parade ' shorts are pleasant time-passers , but I doubt that they give us a genuine look at what Hollywood's personalities were like in ' real ' life . For instance , did Roland Young genuinely collect penguins , or was this hobby dreamt up by some publicist to give Young some attention ? When Lizabeth Scott first came to Hollywood , every interviewer wanted to know what her hobby was . Finally , to shut them up , she bought a bunch of miniature glass animals , threw the glass menagerie on a table top , and claimed these were her hobby . Roland Young's penguin collection might be equally inauthentic . I'll rate this short . You can dismount from that boulder now , Ken Maynard .
A power failure , but briefly glorious .	Graham Greene's novel ' The Power and the Glory ' got the Hollywood treatment in 1947 , as a film called ' The Fugitive ' ( starring Henry Fonda and directed by John Ford ) . It's a decent movie , quite faithful to Greene's novel . . . although the title change suggests a cynical ( and misleading ) attempt to dilute the very Catholic themes of Greene's story in favour of a more ' box-office ' chase drama . The 1961 version of ' The Power and the Glory ' is also faithful to the novel , but is very different . This version was produced by David Susskind for U . S . television ( and for cinema release in Europe , where I saw it ) . Alas , it suffers from a low budget and very slow , stolid direction . All of the exterior scenes were very obviously shot on an indoor soundstage . Although a big-name cast are on offer here , most of them are sadly miscast . Early in the story , Laurence Olivier plays a scene with a young Mexican girl . . . depicted by Patty Duke . Even at this young age , Patty Duke was an astonishingly talented actress . . . but not for one instant do we accept her as a Chicana , and this lapse is absolutely fatal to her characterisation . Similarly , Keenan Wynn ( who has impressed me in many other roles ) is about the most un-Mexican actor I've ever seen , and he too is miscast here . I shan't even discuss Roddy McDowall as a Mexican Indian . . . Another casting choice is unfortunate in hindsight . The comedian James Coco ( already going plump at this early age ) appears briefly , unbilled , in a serious role as a Mexican soldier . Unfortunately , when he strolls across the screen ( sauntering in a most unmilitary gait ) , modern viewers will recognise Coco from his comic roles , and this harms the dramatic effect of his two brief appearances . Olivier plays a ' whisky priest ' in post-revolution Mexico : a Catholic cleric who risks his life by continuing to conduct the Catholic Mass in secret after the totalitarian government have outlawed the Catholic Church . In order to confer the Christian sacraments , the priest must have wine . . . but his attempts to obtain wine will call attention to his clandestine activities . Despite Keenan Wynn's miscasting , there is an excellent scene in which Olivier purchases wine from black marketeer Wynn and his crony . To avoid arousing suspicion with his wine purchase , Olivier buys some whisky too . After the deal is done , Wynn and his partner bully Olivier into ' sharing ' the wine with them . . . meaning that Wynn and his partner proceed to guzzle all the wine ( which Olivier needs ) while letting Olivier keep the whisky ( which he only needed as a decoy ) . Olivier's reactions are very believable indeed . Although most of the actors here are excellent , the whole affair has a stagebound flavour . Acting for the camera ( whether movie or television ) is a very different craft from stage acting , and most of the performers here seem to be working in stage-play mode . Julie Harris is very appealing here , both physically and emotionally . This is a slow , earnest drama with a great deal of dialogue and very little action , but there are several good performances . . . and most of Greene's themes and ideas make the transition successfully . If you're hostile towards the Catholic Church , be advised that this production depicts the Catholic clergy as the good guys . I'll rate this production .
F . W . Murnau plays it for laughs .	Any film directed by F . W . Murnau merits serious attention , but " The Grand Duke's Finances " is especially noteworthy because it's one of Murnau's rare attempts at comedy . Based on this one film ( the only Murnau comedy I've seen to date ) , Murnau's comedic skills were far less developed than his flair for drama and melodrama . However , there are some good points throughout this film . The plot is not especially credible nor especially funny , and each chapter of the story is prefaced with an introductory title which ( except for the climactic one ) features a long , long description of who these people are and what they mean to accomplish . The best performance in the film is given by Alfred Abel . I've seen Abel in a few other comedies , and I usually find him stolid and stiff . Here , surprisingly , he's quite funny as a wealthy eccentric who resorts to various scams and false identities to enrich himself even more . Wearing long sideburns and an unusual makeup , in this film Abel looks remarkably like Eddie Foy Junior ! Abel also gets the funniest dialogue in the film , courtesy of the silent intertitles . When beautiful Mady Christians wants to evade her pursuers , Abel deftly makes her look extremely unattractive and then he remarks : " This is how I expect my wife to look . " When she faints at Abel's table in a bistro , he suavely asks the waiter for a glass of cognac , apparently to revive her . . . and then Abel drinks it himself . I anticipated as much , but then Abel uses the cognac's lingering fumes to revive her . Although long stretches of this comedy are unfunny , nevertheless " The Grand Duke's Finances " contains the earliest example I've ever encountered of a perennial sight gag that I call " the punctuated stampede " . We've all seen this gag in dozens of cartoons : a mob of figures rush across the screen , followed by a pause , and then one last little straggler brings up the rear . In this film , for no discernible reason , a top-hatted Abel contrives to send a pack of wolfhounds racing through his own mansion . . . with a little dachshund bringing up the rear to punctuate the stampede . In the central role of Don Ramon the Twenty-Second , Grand Duke of the Mediterranean nation of Abacco , Harry Liedtke is only vaguely amusing . Fans of " Nosferatu " will be intrigued to see Max Schreck's name in the cast list here . Schreck plays one of a quartet of political agitators . He wears a long straggly beard and looks impressively gaunt but has almost nothing to do , except for one amusing bit of physical business when a maidservant chases him out of the Grand Duke's castle . A far more impressive ( and much more physical ) performance is given by Hans Schaufuss as Schreck's hunchbacked co-conspirator . Schaufuss leaps , capers , goggles at the camera , swings from a rope , and gives a performance even more athletic than Lon Chaney's Quasimodo . The exterior photography is excellent , and I felt a nostalgic twinge during a shot of a tram moving through a city's streets at night . Several sequences were shot on shipboard , and I was pleased to see the horizon heaving up and down realistically , unlike in so many Hollywood films which feature stationary cameras in " shipboard " sequences . Near the end , there's a funny shot of a woman chasing a man into the distance . . . but Leo McCarey would have done it better . Murnau was a great director of dramas , but his comedic efforts fall very far short of Ernst Lubitsch's comedies . I'll rate " The Grand Duke's Finances " .
Tap-dancer Mahoney is the transition between Ray Bolger and Ann Miller .	American performers Will Mahoney and his wife Evie Hayes were very popular in Australia , where I was raised : they were slightly before my time , but I've met several old-time Aussies who spoke very fondly of seeing Mahoney or Hayes ( or both ) in live performances . Will Mahoney had some success in vaudeville as an eccentric dancer . His speciality was his dazzlingly proficient nerve taps , done with his right foot only . I'm not aware of anyone who did better nerve taps than Mahoney until Ann Miller came along : she could do nerve taps with BOTH feet , and she contrasted these with her sex appeal . Mahoney , lacking sex appeal , had to integrate his nerve taps with comedy material similar to Ray Bolger's , in which he pretends to miss a step and loses his balance . But Ray Bolger would skilfully recover his balance and go on to the next part of his routine ( a much more impressive recovery ) , whilst Mahoney ( as seen in this film ) would do a clumsy pratfall , losing the pace of his routine while he got up and started dancing again . This is one of those mini-musicals with a vague attempt at a plot . In 1934 , the vogue for hillbilly musicians was ending and the vogue for Hawaiian musicians was starting , so I laughed at a gag here featuring a hillbilly ensemble called the Mountain Melodeers . Told that Hawaiian musicians are more popular , they start playing their bass and banjo on the high frets to sound like ukeleles . I could have altogether done without the Five Spirits of Harmony , a quintet of annoying little black children who sing a-capella and talk in annoying " darky " dialect . One of them keeps kissing a boy who clearly doesn't want to be kissed . Elsewhere , we briefly see two blonde girls who dance time steps on roller skates and do hitch kicks and airplane steps without the skates . I wanted to see more of their act , instead of all the screen time given to those black " chillun " . Al Christie's Educational studio was bottom of the barrel , so I was intrigued by an attempt here to dress up some stock footage of ocean liners with a series of optical-wipe transitions , with the wipes oddly in the shape of an inverted triangle . The stupid plot has Mahoney stealing another man's name , then - - when the other man turns out to be a wanted criminal - - he has to prove he's no phony-baloney Mahoney by doing his vaudeville act . This all turns out to be part of his Jewish agent's scheme to get him to perform on a cruise . Oy vey ! My rating for this one : , and Mahoney is especially endearing while performing the title song ( although he swallows his lyrics ) . In a small role , Marion Martin is just a wee bit too sexy to be plausible .
Cheesy Danish potboiler	I saw an excellent print of ' Den Hvide slavinde ' ( ' The White Slave ' ) at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy , in October 2006 . During the early 20th century , a popular theme in sensationalist literature was the crime of ' white slavery ' : white slavers were organised rings of criminals who abducted young women and forced them into prostitution , sometimes in a foreign nation where they had no friends and couldn't speak the local language . Undoubtedly , this crime genuinely existed - - and still does , in the early 21st century - - but I have difficulty believing that it was ever as glamorous or exotic as it was depicted in novels and films of the period . The 1905 novel ' Den Hvide slavinde ' by Danish author Elisabeth Schøyen recounts the tale of a virginal Danish girl who is abducted to an Arabian sultan's harem ; lest anyone think that Schøyen means to titillate us , the girl ends up a corpse in a medical school . This 1907 one-reel film is clearly intended to cash in on the success of Schøyen's popular novel , but - - being unable to sustain a novel-length plot , and probably also to avoid plagiarism charges - - the movie deviates from Schøyen's plot line . Pigen , a small-town girl ( Gerda Jensen ) , reads a newspaper advertisement offering well-paid employment in the big city to good-looking young women . She shows this to a young yokel who seems to be her unofficial fiancé ( Viggo Larsen ) . He wishes her luck but clearly has some scepticism , as he gives Pigen the rather unusual going-away present of a homing pigeon . ( I was hoping she would name it Walter . Boom boom ! ) SPOILERS COMING . Sure enough : in the big city , Pigen is taken in hand by a sour-faced dowager who puts her into an evening gown and then conveys her to a cheesy Danish brothel . Conveniently , Pigen has managed to keep possession of her pigeon ; now she releases the bird , who duly wings homeward to Viggo , who frees Pigen from her coop with implausible ease . Gustav Lund hovers about as Pigen's father . Credibility is not this movie's strong suit , and I regret that most of the films in the white-slavery genre are so escapist and sensationalist that they make the real problem of sexual enslavement seem a joke . What this movie does have in its favour is some fascinating photography , depicting not only the scenery and railway of 1907 Denmark but also some intriguing female fashions . It's clear that most or all of the women in this film are tightly corseted , and their figures simply don't resemble modern women's at all . More for its historic value than anything else , I'll rate this potboiler .
I only saw the top half of this movie !	I saw this early U . S . ( Paramount ) sound short in 1990 , at a meeting of a film society in s'Gravenhage : most of the film society's members were from Holland or the Low Countries . One Benelux gentleman had a print of this film with the original American soundtrack , but with extremely obtrusive subtitles ( in French ) dominating the lower half of the screen and blotting out much of the image . The subtitles were actually so distracting that , after a minute or so , I put a business card in front of my face to block out the lower part of the screen ! Fortunately , most of the humour in ' If Men Played Cards As Women Do ' comes from the dialogue and its delivery , rather than anything actually happening on the screen , so I still got a fair notion of the actors ' performances . Unfortunately , this same print also had the front and end credits ( and their original leaders ) cut off ; the end credits ( if there ever were any ) had been replaced with a newer piece of leader stock . More annoyingly , the opening credits were entirely gone and replaced with a leader strip which simply gave this film's title translated into French . No cast list , no production credits , nowt . Was there ever a cast list in the first place ? ( IMDb don't list one . ) Watching this 1929 film , I had a deja-viewish feeling that I ought to recognise a couple of the American actors , but so far no pennies have dropped . The four men in this film address each other by forenames , but these are clearly the names of their roles . The sound recording was bad ( no surprise for 1929 Paramount ) , and the print I viewed ( an acetate dupe ) was dark , so the actors ' voices and faces were unrecognisable to me . For what it's worth , I suspect that this short movie was filmed at Paramount's east-coast studio in Astoria , NY , rather than in Hollywood . The 1942 flag-waving musical ' Star Spangled Rhythm ' ( also from Paramount ) contains a sketch with the same title as this short movie : in that version , Ray Milland , Fred MacMurray , Franchot Tone and ( male ) character actor Lynne Overman play themselves performing this material as a skit . Apart from the casting , the two versions have two major differences : the actors in this 1929 short have much better timing and delivery than those old pros in the ' 42 version , and the 1929 version has a radically different ending . For both of these reasons , the 1929 version is funnier . ( I enjoyed ' Star-Spangled Rhythm ' for several reasons , but not for this particular sketch . . . the most protracted and least funny longueur in the entire film . ) From here onward , my review refers to the ' 29 version . A tired businessman ( that's how he's dressed , at least ) invites three of his mates over for a game of cards . But instead of a straightforward card game , they indulge in all the various diversions and distractions that are more typical of women's cardplaying . The joke - - and it's a VERY funny joke , when performed properly ( as it is in the ' 29 version , unlike the ' 42 version ) - - is that the men look , act and speak like regular blokes : they are not in any way effeminate . The title is accurate : this is not what life would be like if men acted like women , but rather if men played CARDS like women . During their cardplay , one man admires another man's hat - - a perfectly normal trilby - - so the man wearing it offers to let the admirer try it on ; the latter eagerly accepts . One man can't remember the difference between spades and clubs , so he shows his hand to the man next to him ( an opponent ) , who plays fair by showing HIS hand to point out which suit is which . All four men chatter away about trivialities completely unrelated to the game , and also unrelated to any of the important subjects men actually talk about during card games ( in descending order of importance ) : Politics , Business , Sex and Sport . SPOILER NOW . The 1942 version of this skit ended with a mouse entering the room , prompting all four men to jump onto the table and lift their trouser turn-ups . I found that gag stupid and contrived . . . especially since I've seen plenty of real-life WOMEN reacting to mice and other vermin , and not one of them ever did the " eek-a-mouse " routine that Fred MacMurray did in ' Star-Spangled Rhythm ' . This 1929 short , conversely , ends with one of the cardplayers gossiping that another ( male ) friend absent from the game is ' expecting ' a baby . . . presumably with the aid of his wife . When the cardplayers realise that the expectant friend has only recently got married , they all gleefully throw down their cards and start counting the months . . . calculating whether the friend will have been married for a full nine months before the baby arrives . Hoo boy . I found this ending more plausible than the one in ' Star-Spangled Rhythm ' , not to say funnier , but it's very much an anticlimax compared to the very effective underplaying of the actors in the rest of this skit . The film's direction ( by Joseph Santley , according to IMDb ) is brisk and efficient : I certainly wish I could verify Santley's participation from this film's opening credits , but the French print didn't have any . ' If Men Played Cards As Women Do ' ranks as one of those notions for which the basic idea is funnier than the execution . This material wants a really good punchline , and neither of these two film versions supplies it . Maybe I'm being ungenerous because I only saw the upper half of this movie , trying to block out those annoying subtitles in the lower half . My rating for this 1929 short : .
Thomas Meighan is upstaged by his own reflection .	I haven't yet viewed a print of Thomas Meighan's 1919 film ' The Miracle Man ' ( and I fear that none still exist ) , but that was reportedly one of his best performances . Here , in ' The Confidence Man ' , Meighan plays a role nearly identical to the one he apparently played in that earlier film - - a confidence trickster who gains a conscience and gets reformed - - but his performance here is so stolid and leaden that I've difficulty believing he was much better in the earlier film . If he was , it must have been down to the director's skill . ' The Confidence Man ' is directed by Victor Heerman , a mere workman who remains semi-famous merely because he directed the Marx Brothers in their great ' Animal Crackers ' . ' The Confidence Man ' also somewhat resembles the 1950s film ' The Music Man ' . . . and , again , suffers by comparison . Here we have virginal Virginia Valli as the small-town gal involved in charity work . She and Meighan " meet cute " when she tries to sell him a necktie for some charity cause . She's got a whole wicker creel full of cravats . In this scene , Meighan is wearing a polka-dot bow-tie and he doesn't much seem interested in neckties , while Valli is wearing some weird sort of Windsor tie . As the title tipped us off , Meighan has come to town to unload some worthless oil stock . ( Is he planning to water the stock , or water the oil ? ) In ' The Miracle Man ' his con involved a local patriarch ; this time round it involves a local matriarch . Margaret Seddon is a resident of the local old-ladies ' home , and she seems to see virtues in Meighan that nobody else can spot . Of course , it's not long before Meighan's confidence trickster starts feeling guilty about what he's planning to do . Actress Seddon is deeply impressive in her character's death scene . In his big scene , Meighan squares off against himself in a looking-glass . " You hypocrite ! You cur ! " he snarls into the intertitles , and then he punches his reflection in the face , shattering the mirror . ( His reflection has a glass jaw . ) It shows what a weak actor Meighan is , that he's out-acted by his own reflection . Now that he's done some moral reflecting , the rest of this movie is purely Script-o-Matic . The similarities between this film and ' The Miracle Man ' ( judging from its 1930s remake , which I HAVE seen ) are so similar , I shouldn't wonder if Meighan made ' The Confidence Man ' as a deliberate attempt to recapture the success of his earlier film . Charles Dow Clark is splendid as local miser Godfrey , the target of Meighan's scam . . . although Clark's role is badly written and implausible . ( How many naive misers actually exist in real life ? ) Laurence Wheat , as Meighan's comical henchman , is even more impressive than Clark : wearing some very un-subtle outfits , Wheat gets laughs ( from me , at least ) with extremely subtle facial business . I'll rate this film , although during much of the plot I knew exactly what was going to happen . . . and then it did , bang on schedule .
Mitchell & Durant shanghai this ship	The extremely beautiful ( and sexy ) Alice Faye has long been underrated as an actress and a singer . One of the best moments of film acting I've ever seen was Faye's big scene in " Alexander's Ragtime Band " , as the former girlfriend of bandleader Tyrone Power who has come to attend a performance of his Army show in the hopes of going backstage afterwards to tell him she loves him after all and she's decided to take him back . The show ends with a stirring finale , as Power and his cast ( all in uniform ) march up the theatre's gangway singing " We're on our way to France " . The show has ended every performance with this number . Faye's great scene comes at the moment when she realises that this time it isn't an act : Power and the other soldiers are marching directly from here to a troopship , and if she can't get through the theatre crowd in time to say goodbye to him , he'll never know how she really feels . . . Faye's emotional response is riveting , and absolutely believable . Sadly , for most filmgoers , Alice Faye is either altogether forgotten or a camp icon . In the original screenplay for ' The Last of Sheila ' , Stephen Sondheim and Anthony Perkins made a cheap joke about Alice Faye's name being pig-Latin for ' phallus ' . She deserves better . ' She Learned about Sailors ' , regrettably , is typical of the fare that 20th Century-Fox usually lumbered Faye with . She plays a nightclub chantoozey in Shanghai , although ' Shanghai ' looks just like one of Fox's low-budget Chinatown sets . The later action shifts to Stateside . . . which also looks like one of Fox's sets , but not quite so low-budget . The great delight of this film is the knockabout comedy team of Mitchell and Durant , as two sailors who play a ' joke ' on Faye and their shipmate Lew Ayres . Short stocky Frank Mitchell and tall urbane Jack Durant were a vaudeville act whose turn consisted of bizarre acrobatics and violent knockabout , with Durant picking up Mitchell and flinging him all over the stage . They first made their impression on film in ' Stand Up and Cheer ' . Like a lot of other vaudeville acts , they soon discovered that the act they'd honed for years on the vaude circuit would get stale very fast on the movie screen . In ' She Learned about Sailors ' , blessedly , Mitchell and Durant get to perform two knockabout routines , and these are classic examples of vaudeville pratfall humour . This film and ' Stand Up and Cheer ' used up all their material . Afterwards , Mitchell drifted out of showbiz . Durant , a handsome man who strongly resembled Clark Gable ( and who could have worked as Gable's stand-in if he'd signed with MGM ) , drifted through several more films , playing bit roles with no lines , such as his brief appearance as a lighthouse engineer in ' Captain January ' . When Mae West left Paramount for Fox , Durant briefly dated her . . . but it was a publicity stunt to hype her fading career and give him some name value . Alice Faye sings pleasantly ( and briefly ) in ' She Learned about Sailors ' , but none of her material here is memorable . Harry Green does his usual annoying little Jewish guy routine , this time hiding behind a Spanish name . I'll rate this movie , mostly for those two comedy turns .
Oy vey ! My son is a shikseh !	I can usually laugh at drag humour , but the extended drag sequence in " Don't Tell Everything " makes me uneasy . Still , there are some good laughs in this Max Davidson comedy . Max plays a widowed tailor named Ginsberg , who has a son named Asher ( played by the very ugly Spec O'Donnell ) . Asher is apparently a teenager , but he acts like he's about eight years old : he carries a toy catapult and keeps using it to annoy various adults . . . including James Finlayson , who plays a lawyer named Goldblum ! ( Funny , he doesn't look Jewish . ) Finlayson is wasted in the first half of the film , but he justifies his presence later . Max meets the wealthy widow Finkelheimer . ( As he shakes her hand , he feels the quality of her fur coat to gauge her wealth . ) When Asher annoys her with his juvenile pranks , Mrs Finkelheimer asks Max ' Who is that brat ? ' . Max is already planning to marry the rich widow , so he denies all knowledge of Asher . Max and Mrs Finkelheimer get married with amazing rapidity , and Max moves into her house . . . but Asher is left out in the cold , because Max dares not acknowledge that this ' brat ' is his son . Now comes the drag part that I disliked . Asher decides to dress up as a girl and get Max to hire him as the ' maid ' so that he can live under the same roof as his father . We find out about his scheme before we actually see the results onscreen , via an insert shot of a handwritten note announcing Asher's intentions to become a girl . O'Donnell was a very unpleasant-looking young man , so I wasn't looking forward to seeing him in drag . But when he made his entrance as the ' maid ' , I was amazed . O'Donnell is actually believable as a girl . . . a very UGLY girl , mind you , but he actually manages to look and move like a biological female . When he takes off his dress , he reveals that he's wearing a girl's undergarments , which suggests a deep commitment to his role . ( Or maybe something else . ) There are some continuity errors involving O'Donnell's stockings and his lipstick , which comes and goes during one scene . Late in the film , we find out that Asher keeps his catapult tucked into his girly undergarments . . . which raises some questions about what he's planning to do . The part that distresses me occurs when the ' maid ' reveals his true identity , and Max eagerly embraces his son . . . who is still dressed in a wig and girls ' underwear . There's something very distasteful about a man embracing a teenage boy who's dressed as a girl ( and only in undergarments , yet ) , and matters are not improved by the fact that the man and boy are meant to be father and son . I stopped laughing at this point . There's a funny gag a bit later when O'Donnell runs out into the street , still wearing a blonde wig and girls ' undergarments but no dress . When a policeman accosts him , O'Donnell explains ( in a title card ) that it's O . K . because he's not really a girl : he's a boy ! Then he walks away , mincing like a girl . This grotesque scene is actually quite funny because O'Donnell well and truly does look like a ( very ugly ) girl , not a boy in girls ' clothes . The scene is made even funnier by the fact that it was obviously filmed on a real Los Angeles street ( not a backlot set ) , and all the baffled bystanders are ( apparently ) genuine pedestrians who weren't aware of the joke . . . not extras playing a scene . I stopped laughing in the next scene . After O'Donnell ends up in some paint , he goes to Mrs Finkelheimer's house , strips out of his girl-clothes and decides to take a bath . . . still wearing his girl's wig . Loving father Max scrubs his naked teenage son . This is meant to set up a gag in which Mrs Finkelheimer glimpses Max scrubbing the naked ' maid ' , but I found it too tasteless to be funny . Why is a man bathing his naked teenage son ( who is old enough to bath himself ) , and why is the son still wearing a girl's wig in the bathtub ? This sequence implies that Asher actually wants to be a girl ( instead of adopting female disguise only as an expedient ) , and it also implies that Max prefers his son as a girl . I couldn't laugh at this scene . James Finlayson was famous for his ' double-take and fadeaway ' , to which playwright Alan Ayckbourn paid tribute in ' Comic Potential ' . Late in this film , " Fin " does one of his funniest double-takes ever , but it relies on a mechanical gag . While Finlayson stares at Max bathing the naked maid , the bowler on Finlayson's head starts to wibble-wobble all by itself . This is funny , but we know there's a physical gimmick involved . " Fin " didn't need that sort of help . SPOILER COMING . The first half of this film has a funny routine involving Max and a garage mechanic . . . which seems to be irrelevant to the rest of the film , but it all comes together for the final gag . I'll rate ' Don't Tell Everything ' . It's funny , but it's not one of Max Davidson's best . Unless you want to see a teenage boy walking down the street disguised as a half-naked teenage girl , in which case this is definitely the movie to watch .
Strange Depression musical	' Moonlight and Pretzels ' is the barely relevant title of this Depression-era musical . Made by low-budget Universal Pictures ( though not filmed on the Universal lot ) , it somehow feels as if it were made by one of the more prestigious studios . The dance numbers resemble what Busby Berkeley was doing at Warners . Brassy songstress Lillian Miles seems to be imitating Alice Faye at 20th Century-Fox . Roger Pryor , bereft of his usual moustache , emotes like the B-team Clark Gable but does a splendid job of pretending to play the piano . Less felicitous is the incredibly bad shot-matching by one Robert Snody ( who ? ) all through this movie . This is one of those " Let's put on a show " musicals , much of its score written by Yip Harburg and Jay Gorney , who had recently scored a hit on Broadway with " Brother , Can You Spare a Dime ? " . The climactic song here , a weirdie Depression number cried " Dusty Shoes " , seems to be trying to copy that previous song's success . Oddly , one dialogue scene seems to be a song cue for " It's Only a Paper Moon " , a song that Harburg had written a few months earlier ( for a Broadway show ) , but that hit standard never occurs here . Top billing is given to Leo Carrillo as an excitable Greek who puts the em-PHA-sis on the wrong syl-LA-ble , but he's definitely playing a supporting role . Much better performances are given here by William Frawley as the sardonic stage manager ( ' Here come some early worms to give us the bird ' ) and Bobby Watson as a ' nance ' dance director . Louis Sorin and Alexander Campbell are good as the Hobart Brothers , villainous impresarios . SLIGHT SPOILER . There's a weird piece of plot business dealing with a 25-cent piece that has two tails , rather than two heads . When a gambler flips this coin to settle a bet , I was genuinely surprised by what happened next . Some bits and bobs of this movie work very well indeed , but other parts are overblown . My rating : just .
Joe E . Brown as Clark Kent	' The Gladiator ' , by Philip Wylie , was a serious science-fiction novel about a man who is scientifically enhanced with superhuman powers . Although a minor novel , Wylie's book is extremely significant because it inspired two teenagers from Cleveland named Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster to create their comic-book character Superman . The 1938 movie ' The Gladiator ' ( released barely two months after Superman's comic-book debut ) is ostensibly based on Wylie's deadpan novel , but the original premise has been drastically rewritten as a comedy vehicle for Joe E . Brown . Given the strange decision to play this story for laughs , Brown is an excellent choice for the role . Joe E . Brown had a great deal in common with Buster Keaton , beyond the fact that they both had a drinking problem which led to both of them ( consecutively ) falling into the clutches of the same woman : a detox-ward nurse named Mae Scrivens . Keaton and Brown were both Midwesterners who performed professionally from early childhood . Both were small men who looked like weaklings , but both were actually acrobats with prodigious physical strength . On screen , Joe E . Brown often played ineffectual men . . . so the effect was startling when he would suddenly execute a cartwheel or some other acrobatic stunt . In vaudeville , Brown worked with the professional wrestler Man Mountain Dean in a stage act in which little Joe E . would lift the huge Man Mountain over his head with only one hand . This stunt was absolutely genuine , with nothing faked . Brown repeats it in this movie , with Man Mountain Dean playing himself . . . but because this is a movie , audiences will assume there must be some sort of trickery going on . The biggest difference between Keaton and Brown on screen is that Keaton was resolutely unsentimental , whereas Joe E . Brown was usually much TOO sentimental . In a blatant bid for audience sympathy , Joe E . starts this movie in a hospital ward , where he is telling bedtime stories to little crippled boys ! Soon afterwards he is sent on an errand which requires him to enter a cinema . . . but the movie house is holding Bank Night , and Joe E . accidentally wins $1 , 500 . ( Nowadays nobody knows what Bank Night is . ) Apparently $1 , 500 is enough money in 1938 to buy a college education , so Joe E . straightaway enrols in college . . . hoping to get an education so he can earn lots of money and adopt crippled orphan Dickie Moore . ( Full disclosure : I interviewed the grown-up Moore several years ago , while he was running a publicity agency in New York City . He's a fine man and is very embarrassed by some of his child-actor performances . ) On campus , Joe E . meets a crazy scientist ( played by the brilliant character actor Lucien Littlefield , who also played the mad scientist in Laurel and Hardy's ' Dirty Work ' ) . Littlefield has invented a super-serum , which he injects into a monkey , causing the monkey to act like a gorilla . While Joe E . is asleep , Littlefield jabs him with the super-soup . Joe E . wakes up with super-powers , and with no idea how he got them . When a college student wakes up with super-powers that could be used for the benefit of all humanity , of course he has to try out for Varsity . Soon Joe E . is the big man on campus , winning letters in every known sport . Bland actress June Travis plays a pretty co-ed who dislikes Joe E . but is persuaded to pretend to like him for the good of the team . ( Later , of course , her phony feelings become genuine . . . ) SLIGHT SPOILERS NOW . There are some funny sequences in which the befuddled Joe E . shows off his newfound super-strength , and Joe E . Brown's genuine athleticism ( in a seemingly unathletic body ) is shown to fine advantage here . The funniest moment comes during a wrestling match with Man Mountain Dean , when Joe E . ' s super-strength suddenly wears off at the worst possible moment . ' The Gladiator ' is a good film , not a great one , and I'll rate it . Watching this movie , I wish that somebody had done a straight version of Philip Wylie's original novel , which made some intelligent observations . This movie replaces Wylie's themes with easy slapstick and cheap sentiment .
Unfunny ' honey , I'm home ' sitcom .	' Is My Husband Not Fabulous ? ' would be the literal translation of this German film's title . ' Ist mein Mann nicht fabelhaft ? ' was produced in Germany a few months after Hitler became Chancellor . This marital comedy is such light-hearted froth that I'm tempted to say that Hitler's regime hadn't yet cast its shadow over the German film industry at this early point . However , I've seen quite a few German comedies from the later 1930s and the war years , and I can assure you : even when the Nazis had a firm grip on the German and Austrian film industry , the production companies were still churning out light-hearted froth like this movie . ( Yes , of course there were also propaganda movies . . . but there were also plenty of German films in this period which contained NO references to Nazism , Hitler , lebensraum , anti-Semitism or any of the other problems of that time . ) In hindsight , it would be very interesting to know the mindset of contemporary German and Austrian cinema audiences when they stepped out of the Third Reich for an hour or so to watch one of these frothy comedies on a flickering screen : Were they seeking escapism from the very real problems in their society ? Or were they wilfully blind to the increasing horror , just as many of them were wilfully blind when their non-Aryan neighbours suddenly disappeared ? Anyway , there's none of that heavy stuff in this light-hearted film . Viktor and Lu Brandt are happy newlyweds , and Viktor ( handsome Georg Alexander ) has a fine job as publicity director for a large music store . But he's so attentive to his wife ( Lien Deyers , quite pretty ) that it affects his work performance . His hot-headed boss demotes him to floorwalker , or whatever the German equivalent of a floorwalker is , with a cut in his wages . This movie being about as realistic as an ' I Love Lucy ' episode , Viktor deals with his demotion by telling Lu that he's been promoted to general manager ! ( She doesn't express much curiosity about the extra pfennigs he's now supposedly earning . . . nor does this movie explain how the Brandt household manages to carry on at the same level with LESS money in Viktor's wage packet . ) Of course , Lu unexpectedly shows up at the shop to see her husband in his fine new executive job which he doesn't actually have . From this point , the movie degenerates into one of those sitcom episodes where the lowly underling has to pretend he's a bigshot in the workplace . Some of the female employees conspire with Viktor to help him deceive his wife that he's the general manager . These women are attractive , so it's interesting that neither the audience nor Viktor's wife ever suspect that he might be philandering with any of them , or hoping to do so . SPOILERS COMING . Anyway , it just happens that Viktor has a fine heldentenor singing voice , and it further just happens that his boss needs a new singer at the precise moment when the regular singer ( Marcel Wittrisch ) can't perform . So of course there's a happy ending . Ignore those jackboots you hear approaching in the distance . . . and the sound of breaking glass . It's all nothing , really . This is Germany , 1933 . Laugh and be gay ! Well , not gay , but . . . Trude Hesterberg gives a very funny and touching performance as a faded diva , but Martha Ziegler is far less effective ( and slightly too old for the role ) as her daughter . There's some pleasant music in this movie , but - - from my 21st-century perspective - - most of ' Is My Husband Not Fabulous ? ' feels like a very stale ' Honey , I'm home ' sitcom . . . and I strongly suspect that , had I seen this movie in 1933 , with the perceptions of the times and no precognition , it would have seemed much the same . The German movie companies were still churning out this sort of froth six years later . My rating for this one : , mostly for the actors ' performances ( despite the trite script ) and some nice exterior photography .
She drops her panties but he's watching the clock .	I saw ' Die Hose ' in October 2007 at the silent-film festival in Pordenone , Italy ; they screened a print from the Murnau archive in Wiesbaden . The official English-language title of this film is ' A Royal Scandal ' , but a more accurate translation of ' Die Hose ' would be ' The Pants ' , with the double meaning of either outer trousers or inner undergarments : indeed , this somewhat stagey film ( based on a stage play ) has the general feel of one of those old Whitehall farces in which Brian Rix would predictably lose his trousers . Werner Krauss plays Theobald Maske , a low-echelon bureaucrat whose job is one of dull routine . Henry James once described one of his protagonists as ' a man you can set your watch by ' , but Theobald Maske seems to be a hostage to the clock . Arriving at his time-serving desk job , he has nothing to do but fuss with his moustache and watch the clock . . . until noon , when he mechanically eats his packed lunch . Then back to clock-watching . SPOILERS COMING . But it's not Werner Krauss who loses his trousers here . ( I'm not sure that the world is ready for Dr Caligari in his underpants ! ) The titular garments belong to pretty Jenny Jugo , as Maske's much younger wife . At the climax of the film , she loses her step-ins ( the stylish knickers of the 1920s ) . It's a moment fraught with possibilities , but we know that this 1927 film isn't going to do anything really dangerous . I was slightly annoyed that this film never indicated why the pretty and vivacious young Luise ( Jenny Jugo ) would be married to the older , tubby and porridge-faced Theobald . However , plenty of other films have presented similar pairings with no more explanation , so it would be unfair of me to single out ' Die Hose ' for this lapse . According to the programme notes at Pordenone , when ' Die Hose ' was originally released , a Berlin film critic compared Krauss's characterisation to a George Grosz character . I wish that I hadn't read this comment before the screening ; I'm somewhat familiar with Grosz's work ( he was a satiric artist and political cartoonist who often depicted blimpish bureaucrats ) , and now I wonder if I would have spotted the resemblance myself without that comment in the programme notes . ' Die Hose ' is the nearest thing I've seen to an Ernst Lubitsch comedy that wasn't made by Ernst Lubitsch . Unfortunately , although this movie hits many of the same notes so typical of Lubitsch , it tends to pound them heavily rather than utilising Lubitsch's famously light touch . My rating : only .
Same old tricks with a new Trixie .	' The Honeymooners ' was one of the greatest shows in the history of television . Not only was it consistently hilarious , but the Kramdens and the Nortons were well-defined believable characters we could actually care about . More than once , I've genuinely empathised with Ralph Kramden's frustration as yet another of his get-rich schemes fails . " The Honeymooners Second Honeymoon " ( wot , no apostrophe ? ) isn't very good , but the mere fact that it was made at all is noteworthy . We're back in the Kramdens ' familiar walk-up apartment in Bensonhurst ( an amazing reconstruction of the original set , this time in colour ) , and it's depressing to see that the Kramdens STILL don't have a telephone nor a television . Ralph , getting on in years , is still driving a bus . Ed Norton is still working in the sewer , although Art Carney's girth has reached the point where he can barely fit through a manhole . Audrey Meadows was NOT the original Alice Kramden ( that would be actress Pert Kelton ) , but she's the one whom Honeymooners fans remember , thanks to those ' famous 39 ' episodes which have been in constant syndication since their original broadcast . Here , she returns to her role . Alice's mother is staying with the Kramdens for a few days , so of course Ralph ( who hates the old bat's guts ) is in a foul mood . Also , Ralph has to sleep in the kitchen so that Alice and her mother can share the bedroom . Due to some incredibly contrived circumstances , Ralph thinks that Alice is pregnant ! This could have been the premise for a classic ' Honeymooners ' episode back in 1956 , but twenty years on - - with Gleason and Meadows both well past middle age - - it somehow doesn't feel the same . And too many of the jokes here are painfully obvious . Contemplating the arrival of his child , Ralph tells Ed Norton : ' I want you to be the godfather . ' So , of course that's Art Carney's cue to hum a few bars of guess-which movie's theme tune , followed by a bad Marlon Brando imitation . Sheesh ! SPOILERS COMING . At the end of the episode , Ralph of course learns that Alice isn't pregnant after all . However , in some amazingly euphemistic dialogue , she informs him that it's still biologically feasible for her to get pregnant . ( What sort of marriage have they got , if he needs to be told this ? ) Gleason's face lights up as he loosens his necktie and he ushers Meadows towards the Kramdens ' offstage bedroom . " Let's go-h-h-h ! ! ! ! " he tells her . ( I was hoping he'd say " And awaaaaay we go ! " ) Just then the bedroom door opens , and out comes Alice's mother : her hair in curlers , her face covered in cleansing cream . Ralph's romantic urges are killed right there . The pleasure we get from seeing the Kramdens and the Nortons one more time is mingled with the very depressing fact that they still haven't moved up in the world . ' Honeymooners ' purists may wonder why this special features Jane Kean ( the second actress to play Trixie Norton ) rather than Joyce Randolph ( the original Trixie ) . Wonder no more . In 1976 , Randolph was happily married to millionaire Richard Charles ( who disapproved of her acting career ) , and she was not circulating in showbiz . Kean , a working actress who had already played Trixie several times , happened to be present at a dinner with Gleason and his long-time producer Jack Philbin when Philbin announced to the press that Gleason would be reviving his classic Honeymooners characters . To milk the moment for maximum effect , Philbin also told the reporters that Kean would be back in ' her role ' as Trixie Norton . Joyce Randolph was never offered the part ; she admitted afterward that she felt insulted by this . My former sister-in-law informs me that when ' The Honeymooners Second Honeymoon ' was aired in New York City on a network station , the local channel which normally aired Honeymooners reruns in syndication hired Joyce Randolph to host a special marathon of Honeymooners episodes , apparently hoping that viewers would tune in to see the original Trixie in old episodes rather than the original Ralph , Alice and Ed Norton in a NEW story . Nice try , Trixie . I'll rate this Honeymooners special , mostly for old times ' sake .
Beggar thy neighbour	Friedrich Dürrenmatt's dark comedy ' The Visit of the Old Lady ' has been filmed several times , and staged frequently : it was the last play performed on Broadway by Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne . At the time that I write this , there are plans afoot for a musical version to open on Broadway , starring Angela Lansbury . Here's hoping . This French television production benefits from the brisk direction of Alberto Cavalcanti , a Brazilian who is surely best known for the films he directed in Britain in the 1940s . SLIGHT SPOILERS AHEAD . The action takes place entirely in a small town , where everyone knows everyone else and nobody has any secrets . The town's economy is in sharp decline , and everyone is in debt to the merchants . There is much excitement over the imminent arrival of Clara Zachanassian , the wealthiest woman in the world . She is a native of this town ; forty years ago , she and handsome young Alfred Ill ( what an unfortunate name ! ) had a sexual liaison that resulted in her pregnancy . ( For those who are reading this web page in a sans-serif font , this character's surname is ' ILL ' as in ' sick ' , not a numeral as in ' King George III ' . In the original stage play , this character's name was Anton Schill , not Ill . ) When young Clara tried to compel Alfred to marry her , he persuaded two of his young male friends to lie under oath on his behalf , swearing that they'd had sex with Clara too . She left town in disgrace , never returning until now . ( Alfred's two friends vanished shortly after the trial , never heard from again . ) In the intervening decades , through strategic marriages and guile , Clara has amassed a fortune . She has also lost a leg , and her health is declining . The burgomaster and the people hope that Clara can be persuaded to bequeath some money to the town , for old time's sake . Surely her former lover Alfred ( now long since married to townswoman Mathilde ) can persuade Clara to loosen her purse-strings ? Clara arrives with a pegleg and an elaborate retinue : her maid , her elderly butler Boby and her manservants Koby , Loby , Roby and Toby . Koby and Loby are burly studs who bear Clara in a palanquin , while Roby and Toby are blind eunuchs whose usefulness is not clear . ( Cavalcanti's cynical direction implies something very sinister : namely , that Clara is sexually stimulated by the brawny physiques of Koby and Loby , but she compels the blind eunuchs Roby and Toby to give sexual service to these musclemen so that Koby and Loby won't try to pressure Clara for sex . ) Shortly after she arrives , Clara makes a public announcement : she will happily give a large financial endowment to the entire town , and also give a large financial gift to each individual citizen . In exchange , they must grant her a small favour : they must murder Alfred Ill ! It develops that Clara is obsessed with revenge . Roby and Toby turn out to be the two witnesses who perjured themselves to disgrace her ; Clara has abducted them , blinded them and castrated them . She wants Alfred dead - - killed by the townspeople who years ago took his side against her - - and she's confident that human greed will take its course . At first the townspeople are horrified , and they decline Clara's proposal . But then , one by one , the townspeople start making purchases on tick , receiving credit on the expectation of Clara's endowment . Even the police chief has no objection to one teeny-weeny homicide . Alfred learns that , one by one , the people are turning against him . Even his wife . . . This television production appears to have been filmed in a two-camera set-up , preventing Cavalcanti from indulging in the deft camera-work and editing that enriched his English films . The best visual device here is one that occurs in Dürrenmatt's script , a device which Cavalcanti stages well but cannot take credit for . One at a time , the people of the town acquire brand-new shoes : bright yellow sabots , which sharply contrast with their subdued clothes . ( I saw a monochrome kinescope of this production , but the device still works . ) Cavalcanti expertly stages a series of scenes so that , again and again , Alfred Ill has a confrontation with one or another character whose feet are concealed from our view , until - - stepping out from behind a desk , or lifting a skirt's hem or a priest's cassock - - the feet are revealed to display yet another pair of the fatal yellow shoes . Much of this play's action takes place outdoors ; an effect which Cavalcanti is unable to stage convincingly in the small television studio where this production was mounted . But the actors give an impressive ensemble performance , and the two leads - - Louis Arbessier and Mary Marquet - - are superb in their scenes together . I'll rate this production .
George Bernard Shaw is wrong again .	' Melody of the World ' is one of the very first German sound films . Although this film was produced more than a year after ' The Jazz Singer ' ( which isn't really the first talkie , but let it pass ) , ' Melody of the World ' seems to be firmly convinced of its own importance as the first talking picture , or at any rate the first one seen and heard by German audiences . We first hear the blast of a steam whistle as an ocean liner pulls out of Hamburg's harbour . A breathless narrator excitedly tells us that we're embarking on a voyage round the world , and we will be witnessing sights and sounds from many nations . From here , the film is a melange of travelogue clips . People of diverse nationalities offer bland good-will messages directly to the camera ; these are intercut with wildlife scenes from exotic climes . I suppose that the opportunity to see these things - - and , even more so , to hear them - - was exciting for cinema audiences in 1929 . Near the end of this film , we are treated to a rather static conversation between George Bernard Shaw and English film director Ivor Montague . Their discussion is self-conscious and stilted , with neither man displaying much screen presence . In dialogue that sounds suspiciously rehearsed , the two men agree that this wondrous new invention , the talking picture , will dissolve boundaries between nations and between people . I found this wishful thinking to be more than slightly ironic . In the days of silent film , movies were praised as a universal visual language that had no national barriers . It was only with the arrival of sound recording - - when each movie had to acquire its native tongue - - that films ceased to be universal . Most of the photography in ' Melodie der Welt ' is clumsy even by 1929 standards , but this is likely down to the unwieldy sound-recording equipment that was necessary at that time . More for its historical significance than for its entertainment value , I'll rate this movie .
Not as good as John Ford's remake	Five years before Victor McLaglen starred in John Ford's Hollywood film ' The Lost Patrol ' , his younger brother Cyril starred in a low-budget British-made film of the same story . This little-known version ( with a cast who were largely obscure even in Britain ) isn't nearly so good as Ford's remake , but it differs from that version in some interesting ways , and is worth viewing on its own merits . This silent film reminds me of ' The Flight of the Phoenix ' . Both depict the struggle to survive among men in the desert during wartime , who get picked off one by one . More significantly , both ' Lost Patrol ' ( this version ) and ' Flight of the Phoenix ' are all-male stories that still manage to put some female characters on screen ( for the sake of the box office ) through dramatic devices . In ' Flight of the Phoenix ' , we hear a woman's voice singing on the radio , and one of the stranded men hallucinates a beautiful Arabian dancing girl ( played by the very non-Arabian Barrie Chase ) . ' Lost Patrol ' recycles a device that was used much more effectively the previous year in ' Legion of the Condemned ' . Through flashback , we see the previous history of each member of this army patrol . One man was a clerk who got conscripted into the army , another was a drayman , one more was a farmer . One was a variety artiste , yet another a painter . The most interesting of the lot is Sanders , a former evangelist . Only the nameless Sergeant , played by McLaglen , is a career soldier . It is in these flashback sequences that we see the only women who appear on screen in this movie . ( John Ford's remake had no women at all . ) Unfortunately , the flashbacks are poorly paced , and add nothing to the structure of this film beyond padding its running time . They attempt to provide backstory for each member of the patrol . . . but it's clear that these men are doomed , so we have difficulty caring about who they were before they arrived in this forsaken place . I have been told that this silent film is more faithful to the original novel ( ' Patrol ' by Philip MacDonald ) than Ford's remake was . Not having read it , I can't judge . At all events , the plot and premise of this ' pre-make ' are nearly identical to the Victor McLaglen version . During the Great War , a patrol of eleven men go into the Mesopotamian desert with only minimal supplies . For some implausible reason , the commanding officer ( Lieutenant Hawkins ) is the only one who knows the patrol's mission and destination . When Arab snipers pick him off , the remaining men are stranded in the middle of nowhere . . . with no notion of where they're supposed to go , nor where to find supplies . And they haven't much ammunition . Nor a compass . Naturally , there's some dialogue ( in the silent-film intertitles ) about how they should save one bullet apiece for themselves . . . More from blind luck than skill , the patrol manage to find an oasis . Realising that they've a better chance of surviving if they stay here and wait to be rescued than if they press on blindly , they make camp . Of course , the snipers pick them off one by one . . . Cyril McLaglen is good in the lead role , as the sergeant who is forced to take command . It's obvious why McLaglen never had a major film career : he looked ( and very likely sounded ) too much like his brother Victor . I've never seen a photograph of the two brothers side by side , but it appears that Cyril was even taller than Victor . In ' Lost Patrol ' , there's a good performance by Sam Wilkinson , as the god-botherer who goes insane from the strain and develops religious mania . Wilkinson is better here than Boris Karloff was , playing the same role in the remake . ( I'm a Karloff fan , but ' The Lost Patrol ' was not his finest hour . ) In John Ford's remake , Lieutenant Hawkins - - the only one who knows the unit's mission - - is killed straight away after the opening credits . In this silent version , the character actually has some screen time ( and some expository dialogue ) before catching a packet . Hawkins is played here ( apparently in his only screen role ) by Arthur Woods , who acquits himself well during his brief screen time . The casting of Woods in this role is extremely ironic . In the years leading up to the Second World War , Woods distinguished himself as a brilliant director with a promising career ahead of him . I consider his ' They Drive by Night ' one of the greatest films ever made , solidly in the Hitchcock genre yet easily the equal of anything by Hitchcock . . . and that's high praise indeed . Unfortunately , Woods was killed in combat during WW2 , much as Lt . Hawkins ( in the previous war ) gets killed in this film . This silent version of ' Lost Patrol ' is not as good as Ford's , but is an interesting variation . Unfortunately , it's less convincing than the remake . The ' oasis ' in the Mesopotamian desert looks like someone dug a hole in the Sussex Downs and then poured water into it . Also , there are no insects at the oasis . . . an absence which made this film less believable for me than it could have been . I'll rate ' Lost Patrol ' .
Nary a bazooka . . .	Bob Burns was a popular radio comedian who had rather less success in movies . Billing himself as ' the Arkansas Traveler ' , Burns played a folksy small-town southerner ( a slight self-caricature ) , telling corny stories about the folks down home . Burns is now remembered only for inventing the word ' bazooka ' . He devised a peculiar musical instrument , consisting of a hollow cylinder and a truncated hollow cone . The two pieces were not connected ; Burns blew through the cylinder and waved the cone back and forth in front of it , creating a kazoo-like sound . You can see him briefly play the bazooka on screen in ' The Big Broadcast of 1937 ' and in ' Fast Workers ' , in which Burns played a ( small ) dramatic role . His greatest success as a bazookist was on the radio , where the bazooka's weird sound left audiences wondering what this wind instrument looked like . Burns's radio career was at its peak when the U . S . Army devised a pipe mortar which was promptly named the bazooka in his honour . The 1938 film ' The Arkansas Traveler ' is tailor-made for Burns as a showcase for his acting abilities , with no bazookas to be seen nor heard . Unfortunately , his acting abilities aren't much . Burns's protagonist in this film is known only as ' the Arkansas Traveler ' , and he hails from Van Buren , Arkansas : this was Burns's real birthplace , which he often mentioned in his radio material ( much as Max Miller often mentioned Brighton ) . Naturally , the folk tune ' Arkansas Traveler ' is heard on the soundtrack . Burns's character here is a ' journ ' ( journeyman ) printer , an itinerant tradesman of a sort who travelled through the southern United States at one time . ( Mark Twain was briefly a journ printer . ) Here , the Traveller wanders into a small southern town where he gets a job typesetting the Daily Record , an impoverished gazette run by widowed Mrs Allen . Most of the businesses in town are beholden to crooked mayor Daniels ( Porter Hall , brilliant as usual ) . The mayor's honest and clean-cut son is in love with Judy Allen , the widow's daughter . Daniels disapproves of the marriage , as Judy's father - the Record's original publisher - used his newspaper to criticise Daniels . SLIGHT SPOILERS NOW . It's no surprise that the Traveller puts everything right , and it's also no surprise that - his job done - the Traveller moves on to his next port of call . It's unfortunate that Burns's on screen character has no name , as this makes it obvious that he's one of those righteous men of mystery , like the Lone Ranger and various Clint Eastwood characters . There are good performances by Lyle Talbot ( as the mayor's henchman ) , Harry Hayden ( as a dyspeptic banker ) and by Joseph Crehan . Dickie Moore is less twee than usual as Judy's bratty younger brother . ( I once interviewed him , well past his child-actor career , at his public relations firm Dick Moore & Associates . ) Joyce Mathews is glimpsed briefly as a tall and shapely Daisy Mae . Alfred Santell's direction is brisk and workmanlike . As the ingenue , Jean Parker is pretty to look at , but slightly too worldly and sultry for her role . The only shoo-fly in the pie is Irvin S Cobb as the constable who locks up the Traveller in the town hoosegow . Cobb was a very talented author and a friend of Will Rogers ; after Rogers's death , there was some attempt to turn Cobb into a screen personality : a combination of Will Rogers and Robert Benchley . However , Cobb's extremely unpleasant appearance and his thick southern accent foredoomed his career as a screen idol , and his talents as an author did him no credit as an actor . I'll rate this movie .
Heather Thatcher ! None can match her !	The American character actor Edward Everett Horton had the sort of precise , well-modulated diction which American audiences tend to mistake for an upper-class English accent . In " It's a Boy " , Horton actually plays an Englishman . Even more amazingly , he does so in a British film ( from the splendid Gainsborough Pictures ) made by producers who had their pick of genuine English actors . Presumably , Horton's presence here was intended to make this British movie more attractive to American audiences . The movie's director ( Tim Whelan , who helmed several excellent English films ) is also American , although this fact was unlikely to matter to American filmgoers . " It's a Boy " stars Horton as Dudley Leake , who is betrothed to Mary Bogle ( the very pretty Wendy Barrie ) . Shortly before the wedding , Dudley blurts a confession to his friend and best man , Jim Skippett : 20 years ago , Dudley had a brief affair with a certain Miss Piper , but he's never heard from her since then . Next day , who should suddenly appear ? A youth about 19 or 20 years old , claiming to be named Joe Piper . Is he Horton's son , or is Skippett playing a practical joke ? What will Mary say when she finds out that Dudley Leake has leaked on a previous occasion ? " It's a Boy " is funny , but not nearly so funny as it ought to be . Part of the problem is that Joe Piper ( supposedly the son of the character portrayed by Horton ) is played by an actor who doesn't resemble Edward Everett Horton at all . Also , Horton's characterisation here as Dudley Leake comes very close to the fussbudget ' nelly ' character he played in so many Hollywood films , which makes it somewhat implausible that Leake would be in this particular situation . There's one sequence which I found especially wince-worthy , when male actor Leslie Henson dons a makeshift bridal train and links arms with a very discomfited Horton . . . as if the two men were bride and groom . The English character actress Heather Thatcher was one of those rare actresses who could be funny and sexy at the same time . The tall blonde Miss Thatcher was gawky , beak-nosed , often cast in unattractive roles , yet I find her extremely compelling on screen and she's always a joy . In " It's a Boy " , she gives an hilarious performance as a novelist named Anita Ginn ( geddit ? ) . To complicate matters , her character writes under a male pseudonym . . . and her male identity inevitably intrudes into this movie's farcical proceedings . Dudley Leake's prospective father-in-law ( well-played by Alfred Drayton ) rejoices in the name Eustace Bogle . This sounds like the monicker of a character in a W . C . Fields movie . I kept hoping this movie would reach the glorious heights of hilarity and surrealist humour that were typical for W . C . Fields . Alas , no . I'll rate " It's a Boy " . Edward Everett Horton was never one of my favourite character actors , but he works hard here . . . and he and the delightful Heather Thatcher play off each other very capably .
Not with a bang . . .	Infernal Machine ' is a suspense film with a promising set-up . It takes place aboard a moving vehicle ( an ocean liner ) , so we have a sense of the characters surging forward even if the plot is becalmed . Also , there's a clearly-established zero hour - a time bomb is set to go off at midnight - so there ought to be a taut sensation of a race against time . Unfortunately , after the wheels of this premise are trundled into place , the film fizzles out . Chester Morris plays disaffected intellectual Robert , who has a passion for socialite Elinor ( Genevieve Tobin ) , who is engaged to snobbish banker Spencer ( James Bell ) . Indigent Robert is firmly convinced that he can persuade Elinor to ditch wealthy Spencer , if only she'll just listen to him for a few minutes . Elinor and Spencer have booked passage aboard the S . S . Lucerne , sailing across the Atlantic , with Elinor's aunt as chaperone . Robert is so determined to get Elinor's attention , he stows away aboard the ship . This leads me to wonder about something . In movies and novels from the days of steamship travel , fictional characters are constantly stowing away aboard ocean liners . They board them easily , they have no difficulty evading the crew and officers , and they seem to obtain easy access to food and drinking water throughout the crossing . . . which lasted many days . I really wonder how many people in real life successfully stowed away aboard a transatlantic ship and managed to get through the entire crossing without getting caught . Anyway , while Robert is hiding in the hold , the captain of the Lucerne receives a radiogram from Scotland Yard . Somebody has hidden a time bomb aboard the ship , and it's set to go off at midnight . In the course of searching the ship for the bomb , the officers discover stowaway Robert . They mistakenly but understandably assume he's the mad bomber . ( But why would the bomber stow away on a ship he's planning to blow up ? ) Now , here's where it gets stupid . Robert is so eager to get some time with Elinor , he falsely confesses to being the bomber . He also agrees to defuse the bomb ( at the last possible moment , of course ) providing he gets some time alone with Elinor . . . specifically , the 50 minutes from 11 . 10pm until boom-boom time . Robert really doesn't know anything about defusing bombs , but we figure he'll have to learn in a hurry . . . and he'll probably do a bang-up job . Surprisingly , everybody on the ship agrees to this idea , except Elinor . One by one , all the hoity-toity passengers on the Lucerne give Elinor high-minded reasons why she should be willing to tryst with a terrorist ( as they assume Robert to be ) . Some of this premise is borrowed from Guy de Maupassant's story ' Ball of Suet ' , with a similar resolution . The movie sets up a very intriguing premise , but fails to pay off . The suspense should ratchet upwards as the clock ticks towards midnight . Instead , the movie sinks into implausibility and dodgy motivations . Chester Morris was probably the best possible choice to star in this uncertain film . Morris was handsome enough to be acceptable as a standard leading man , but there was a harshness and a coarseness to his features which made him plausible as a villiain . We find it very plausible that the passengers and officers of the Lucerne would believe that this man is a mad bomber , even while we accept that he isn't . There are a few good character performances along the way , notably from the very underrated Arthur Hohl as the captain of the Lucerne . Gawky actress Elise Cavanna is good as one of the passengers . A ' surprise ' near the end of the film is a lot more obvious than it thinks it is . On the way to that ending , at least we get to see some impressive set designs . I'll rate this movie . Unfortunately , all the best things in this movie are in the early scenes : ' Infernal Machine ' gets steadily worse as it ticks towards zero hour .
Not bad , but Preston Sturges did it better .	SPOILER ALERT ' Gretel Wins the Jackpot ' is a frothy German comedy , if that's not an oxymoron . Interestingly , the premise of this film anticipates the very similar premise to Preston Sturges's ' Christmas in July ' . But Sturges's film is funnier and more plausible . Pert actress Lucie Englisch plays Gretel , a young stenographer with a tyrannical boss . Today is Gretel's birthday , and she delays her morning commute for a simple celebration while she expresses hope that maybe her lottery ticket will win today's big drawing . She pauses for some innocent flirtation with a local cabaret musician , played by handsome young Hans Brausewetter . As a result of this brief dawdle , Gretel is late for work . The supervisor orders her to report to the boss's office for disciplinary action as punishment for her idle dawdle . While Gretel is kept waiting in the anteroom , she checks the lottery number in the morning paper . Amazingly enough , the number on Gretel's ticket is exactly the same as the winning number in the newspaper . . . except for the last digit . In an idle doodle ( to make up for her idle dawdle ) , Gretel uses her stenographer's pencil to alter her ticket , changing the last digit from a 3 to an 8 so that she has the winning number . This scene is directed so that we understand Gretel is engaging in wish-fulfilment ; she isn't really planning to defraud the lottery . Gretel's boss ( amusingly played by Jakob Tiedtke ) is greedy as well as cruel . He discovers that Gretel has the ' winning ' ticket . At this point , the movie borrows a plot device from the Smith and Dale comedy ' What Price Pants ' . Pretending not to know that ( he thinks ) Gretel has won the lottery , her boss straight away offers Gretel a partnership in the firm . . . providing that any ' windfalls ' which come to her will be invested in the company . After Gretel leaves , the office boy overhears the boss exclaiming over Gretel's lottery winnings . The office boy notifies the newspapers . . . and suddenly Gretel is a celebrity for winning a lottery that she hasn't actually won . SPOILERS COMING . If Gretel hasn't got the winning ticket , who does ? Ach du lieber , now here comes the coincidence . Remember that cabaret kapellmeister ? Jawohl , he's got the winning ticket . Since he and Gretel already like each other , and since he is now wealthy with his genuine lottery winnings , the happy ending is obvious . And Gretel's boss is made to look an idiot . ' Gretel Wins the Jackpot ' is enjoyable , and the director maintains a brisk and entertaining pace . But there are no surprises here , and nothing special . It's nice to see that Germany's film industry could spin such candyfloss in the last months before Hitler solidified his power base . I'll rate this little trifle .
She cuts up his sausage .	Harvey Schmidt and Tom Jones ( no , not the Welsh singer ) were classmates at the University of Texas who decided to write a simple little stage musical : the result was the incredibly successful ' The Fantasticks ' , adapted from a French play . Over the decades , Jones and Schmidt occasionally collaborated on other projects , but they remained so comfortable on the profits from their first collaboration that they lacked the incentive to be more prolific . Their later musicals are quite respectable ( I especially enjoy " I Do ! I Do ! " ) , but none of their other works has achieved nearly so much success as ' The Fantasticks ' . . . indeed , it's hard to see how they COULD match it . This is a very low-budget production of Schmidt's and Jones's ' Philemon ' , which I expected to be a dramatisation of the Greek myth of Baucis and Philemon . It turns out to be wholly unrelated to that story . ( The myth is pre-Christian and has fantasy elements ; this story takes place in New Testament times and has no supernatural events . ) IMDb's synopsis is accurate . Much of this story takes place outdoors in Antioch , but the entire musical is shot on an indoor soundstage . Everything is sterile and antiseptic , and this calls attention to the stagebound origins of this story . One trait which I dislike about dramas set in ancient times is that they nearly always depict the society of that time as far cleaner and healthier than it actually was . In ' Philemon ' , we get an excellent song about the streets of Antioch and how filthy they are . We're never actually told precisely what sort of filth begrimes Antioch , but . . . well , oxen and cattle are probably somewhere just offstage . Annoyingly , this production undercuts the realism of that song by offering clean sets , neat costumes with machine-made stitching , and well-fed actors with excellent orthodontia . The libretto is ever so slightly daring about sexual matters and other ' dirty ' subjects . We see travelling performer Cockian and his wife / co-star Kiki performing a comedy routine in which he wields a sausage and she keeps taking slices out of it , while Cockian ( the superb Dick Latessa ) reacts as if Kiki were carving up an intimate portion of his anatomy . This scene is handled about as boldly as American television would tolerate for 1976 : it even acknowledges that the sausage is a phallic symbol without getting more explicit . Sadly , ' Philemon ' is very much a minor work in the Jones / Schmidt canon . Their musicals tend to feature at least one hauntingly beautiful ballad per score , whether it's " Try to Remember " , " My Cup Runneth Over with Love " or " Everything Beautiful Happens at Night " . I found the songs in " Philemon " to be pleasantly enjoyable , but no more than that . I did enjoy Latessa's big number , scored for piano and clapsticks , in which Cockian wonders whether he is fated to spend his life merely as a professional buffoon or whether he can become something greater . . . while behind him Roman soldiers sing a counter-melody : " Bravo , Cockian . Ha ha , Cockian . " I give Jones and Schmidt extra credit for choosing such unusual subject matter , and I'll credit director Norman Lloyd for his efforts to depict early Christian Antioch with some accuracy despite a low budget . Even so , I can't rate this one better than .
Hardboiled yeggs	The main character in ' 60 Cents an Hour ' is Jimmy Kirk , a soda jerk . I wish his name were James Kirk , so I could make a few Star Trek jokes in this posting . Actually , this is a pretty good comedy so there's no need to make fun of it . Jimmy Kirk is played by Walter Hiers , whom I've seen in character roles elsewhere . Here , he gets a rare chance at a lead role and acquits himself well . CONTAINS SPOILERS . Jimmy's salary is a whacking huge $7 . 50 a week ( this is 1927 , remember ) , but he has an eye on bigger things . For one thing , he's in love with the banker's daughter . Her name is Mamie Smith , which I found hugely implausible . ' Mamie ' is a working-class name , and I just couldn't believe that a banker would give his daughter such a monicker . Ambitious Jimmy gets a job as night watchman at Smith's bank . But a smoother and handsomer ( and slimmer ) rival for Mamie's affections tosses some firecrackers into the bank . When they go off , Jimmy assumes that someone has dynamited the bank vault , and he raises the alarm . . . then looks a fool . The next night , there's another explosion in the bank . This time , Jimmy doesn't even bother to investigate . He just assumes it's another false alarm . But this time the firecrackers are really safe-crackers . Some actual yeggs have blown the vault and scarpered with the boodle . Naturally , Jimmy gets sacked . Now we come to the jitney . Anybody here remember jitneys ? In the 1920s , a jitney was a hire-car that required a steady supply of coins to continue running . Jimmy rents a jitney for 60 cents an hour ( this film's title ) and takes Mamie for a drive . ( Why is she even acknowledging his existence , considering he stood by while her dad's bank got robbed ? ) Rather implausibly , the crooks have cached the cash in the jitney : a car that just anybody can hire and drive off with . ( This is such a howler , I won't even make a wisecrack about it . ) Anyway , all this implausibility sets up an exciting and funny climax . The crooks take off in their own car , pursuing Jimmy and Mamie ( and the loot ) with guns drawn . Jimmy loses control of the steering wheel , causing the car to weave crazily , and attracting the attention of the police . So the cops and the crooks are all chasing the jitney . Meanwhile , the moolah starts leaking out the back of the car , causing chaos . SPOILER NOW : After the dust settles , it turns out that a surveyor's error has put three inches ' worth of the bank on Jimmy's property . And they can't move the bank , so . . . ' Sixty Cents an Hour ' is hugely implausible : an acceptable sin for a comedy , but less than half of this movie's implausibility is in the service of the humour . The long chase climax is thrillingly shot and edited . This film makes me wish that Walter Hiers had played more lead roles . But he was extremely heavy-set ( even bulkier than Roscoe Arbuckle ) and physically unattractive with it , which is probably why he isn't better known . And it's difficult to sympathise with his character : he's a night watchman who sleeps on the job and ignores an explosion . Ricardo Cortez , Charles Ogle and Lucille Ward give splendid performances , but I was less impressed with Jacqueline Logan as the banker's fair daughter . I'll rate ' 60 Cents an Hour ' .
Heckle and Jeckle just gestating .	There is no " McDougal " in this cartoon , unless perhaps that's Dimwit the hound under another name . Here we have a very early Heckle and Jeckle cartoon , when the two magpies ' personalities were still in flux . They're drawn a bit differently here , with their beaks a bit longer and sharper than they would later become . Both magpies speak with prole American accents here ; I never particularly liked Jeckle's alleged " British " accent ( which changed alarmingly from one toon to the next ) , so I thought this was an interesting difference . Most significantly , in " McDougal's Rest Farm " Heckle and Jeckle are merely two magpies ( the leaders ? ) out of an entire squadron of identical magpies . They're looking for a place to build a bird house , and they decide to do so on McDougal's Rest Farm , which is reserved for peace and quiet . Dimwit , apparently the guard dog here , tries to stop all the racket . There's the usual Terrytoon violence , although a bit less of it than usual because some screen time is wasted on gags involving a nappied piglet who is meant to be cute but is merely twee and annoying . The fade-out joke ( a pun , not a sight gag ) has Heckle and Jeckle showing some atypical generosity and kindness towards poor old Dimwit . I did like one gag earlier on , in which we expect a plummeting platform to land on Dimwit's head , but instead it just barely misses him . I give this Heckle and Jeckle toon some credit for varying their usual formula . . . but , because it's less violent than usual , it's also less funny than usual . My rating : only .
A fare effort	I saw ( but didn't hear ) this very early English musical film ( with its credits missing ) in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . Aye , a production company in England was making MUSICAL films in 1909 ! The Warwick Trading Company released silent films with musical phonograph discs , which the projectionist was meant to play in synch with the images on screen . Since the characters on screen were moving in time to the music , it did no harm if the phonograph started a bar behind or after the movie . . . so long as the phonograph and the projector both kept their proper running speeds . ( Or , in the case of this particular movie , its taxi metre . Boom , boom ! ) This is a ' trick ' film , similar to the better-known French efforts of Georges Melies . A London cabbie falls asleep in his taxi . He is knocked up by an elaborately-dressed man , whose baggage labels proclaim that he is A . Presto , Conjuror . ( An obvious pun on ' Hey Presto ! ' . ) The cabbie takes the magician to his destination . But , when Presto disembarks , a vast contingent of other characters get out with him . . . courtesy of his magic bag . It then turns out that the cabbie was merely dreaming . It's a shame that , as late as 1909 , these English film-makers felt a need to ' explain ' the magical events in their movie by having them turn out to be a dream . Melies was pulling off more elaborate events in his movies ten years earlier , and felt no need to explain them : they were clearly magic for the sake of magic ! And , indeed , Melies's trick films of circa 1903 are more impressive than this well-meaning but half-hearted English effort from 1909 . My rating : just . Taxi !
Mills & Boon companions	James M Barrie is now remembered solely for ' Peter Pan ' , but his play ' Quality Street ' was once extremely popular . . . so much so that in Britain a brand of filled chocolates were named Quality Street . Barrie's play ( despite this film version and a remake ) is now out of fashion , but the Quality Street choccies are more popular than ever . . . and are exactly the sort of sweets that would be devoured by some lovelorn woman whilst reading a Mills & Boon romance paperback containing the sort of historical claptrap contained in this film . I screened a videotape of ' Quality Street ' that was transferred from a nitrate print that had already begun to deteriorate . In my several decades of movie-watching , I've viewed hundreds of reels of nitrate films that have begun to decompose , and I've got pretty good at ignoring the ripples and slurries while concentrating on the surviving portions of the image . Yet , because I'm accustomed to absolute image clarity when watching videos or DVDs , I found the very minor nitrate deterioration in this video transfer to be deeply distracting . When I see the ripples of deteriorating nitrate , I expect to smell the odour of vinegar . . . but on this video , all I could smell was the head-cleaner solution . Much has been said elsewhere about the relationship between Marion Davies and her backer WR Hearst . Davies proved that her real talent was for frothy comedies of manners in modern settings , but Hearst preferred to cast her in elaborate costume dramas that would present her as a ' serious ' actress . ' Quality Street ' was clearly chosen for her by Hearst . This story takes place in England during the Napoleonic wars : there are plenty of scoop bonnets , mob caps , plumed shakos and Empire waistlines on offer here . We're solidly in Jane Austen territory , but with a story and characters below Jane Austen's standards . SPOILERS COMING . The basic storyline here is very similar to ' Madam Satan ' and ' Two-Faced Woman ' : when a man loses interest in a woman , she creates a younger and more vivacious identity , then proceeds to regain his interest as this ' other ' woman . The leading man here is Conrad Nagel , who zombies his way through this role even more dully than usual for him . When Dr Brown ( Nagel ) appears to be no longer enamoured of Phoebe Throssel ( Davies ) , she becomes her own niece Livvy . The doctor seems to prefer Livvy to Phoebe . The end of this story is deeply unconvincing , when Brown announces that he prefers Phoebe after all . A maidservant ( Kate Price ) has already revealed the imposture to Brown . . . so we never know whether his preference for Phoebe is genuine . The costumes and sets are impressive throughout , except for an anachronistic house number outside Phoebe's residence at 56 Quality Street . ( British residences didn't have house numbers until Queen Victoria's reign . ) Even more impressive here is the virtuoso camera work by Hendrik Sartov , who filmed this movie's dolly shots with a hand-held camera while wearing roller skates . But we get the usual flaw of movies set in the past : everything is too clean , and everyone's teeth are too good . This is especially conspicuous during one sequence featuring Flora Finch as the local gossip . Sartov's camera skates in for a tight close-up of Finch's mouth , and he holds this while we notice how impeccable Finch's teeth are . I doubt that anyone in Georgian England had such fine choppers . The intertitles feature lots of ' La , sir ! ' dialogue that should please readers of Regency romances . This really isn't my sort of story ; I kept expecting Dame Barbara Cartland to show up . I'll rate ' Quality Street ' .
The one about the farmer's daughter .	' Lügen auf Rügen ' would roughly translate into English as ' Scams Out of Bamboozles ' . It's meant to be a light-hearted comedy . This film is somewhat idiotic , but - - in fairness - - it's no worse in this respect than a lot of Hollywood and British films of the same period . The attractive Maria Solveg plays a farmer's daughter named Vanda Bilt . Can you see where this is heading ? When her photograph is chosen in a contest for a toothpaste advertisement , she wins a holiday at a resort on the Baltic Sea . Fräulein Bilt's accommodations at a seaside boarding-house are arranged . So far , so good . Now it gets contrived . The landlady of the resort hotel receives a ' phone call , telling her to expect the arrival of ' das Fräulein Vanda Bilt ' . The landlady misinterprets this as ' das Fräulein Vanderbilt ' , and she assumes that an American millionairess is arriving . Naturally , the landlady tells everyone else . Naturally , when Vanda arrives - - suspecting nothing - - everyone falls about giving her the royal treatment , which she assumes is part of her toothpaste prize . Nobody wonders why an American heiress speaks German with a Berlin accent ( which is inappropriate to Solveg's character , as she's playing a country girl ) . SPOILERS COMING . Eventually , she meets Paul Hörbiger , who is attracted to Vanda but ( thinking she's wealthy ) dares not make a move for fear of being perceived a fortune-hunter . Of course , once the truth comes out , there's no impediment to romance . And it's all due to toothpaste . This movie isn't as amusing as it thinks it is , but I did laugh at the antics of Ralph Arthur Roberts and Otto Wallburg as the partners in the toothpaste company . One of them is in charge of brushing the upper teeth , the other one brushes the lower teeth . ( No , I made that up . . . but it's as funny as anything in this movie . ) I'm intrigued that quite a few German movies of the early thirties - - another one is ' Ferien vom Ich ' , made in 1934 after Hitler's premiership had begun - - have plots involving American millionaires , and always treating Americans ( especially rich ones ) admiringly . Of course , Germany was struggling with terrible economic problems at this time ( one reason why Hitler's drastic policies were welcomed ) , and it's understandable that Germans would be attracted to wealth . Still , these German films seem genuinely to admire and appreciate Americans , rather than regarding them as fat pigeons for the Herrenvolk to pluck . I was in a good mood when I saw this mildly amusing film , and I'll rate ' Lügen auf Rügen ' .
Danish blue-blood mellerdrammer	This film by Carl Dreyer is titled ' The President ' in the old-fashioned European sense of the word ' president ' : the title character is the presiding official of a European town ; not quite the mayor , nor quite the chief magistrate . Like its title , this entire film is very much a product of the fading days of imperial Europe . The film's premise takes it for granted that aristocratic noblemen are somehow innately different from the common folk , with a different set of priorities , a different set of duties , and a different form of justice . The film is set in 19th-century Denmark . The main plot is some hoo-ha about a greying blue-blood ( Halvard Hoff ) who must preside over the trial and sentence of a young governess ( Olga Raphael-Linden ) accused of murdering the child in her charge . The governess pleads guilty , but for some reason she's going to be put on trial anyway . ( I know nothing about 19th-century Danish law ; would a defendant who pleads guilty to a capital offence be made to stand trial ? ) The president abruptly learns that the governess is his own daughter , born of a tryst with a working-class woman whom he didn't marry due to their social disparity . Naturally , because this total stranger is his own daughter he must now intercede . What follows is mostly deepest bathos . The action of this sprawling movie takes place over three generations . Two of the actors in this film ( Hoff and Elith Pio ) each play their characters at two radically different ages ; unfortunately , the old-age makeup on these two young actors is very unconvincing . Also unconvincing is the hairpiece worn by Richard Christensen ( the best actor in this film ) as the governess's defence advocate . I was distressed that Christensen bears a striking resemblance to Michael Palin . Talking of makeup : the governess wears lip rouge in her death cell . Whoever handled the set dressing on this movie should have cut down on the caffeine : one character's home is decorated with dozens of silhouette portraits , while another character's home is festooned with miniatures arranged in geometric patterns . The keys for the cells in the local prison are hung on a wall-rack shaped like a bat ; it looks like it would have been more appropriate in Dreyer's film ' Vampyr ' . One shot in this movie , depicting a servant seen only in shadow , reminded me of a famous shot in ' Vampyr ' . In all the long length of ' The President ' , Dreyer's camera hardly ever moves and always does so clumsily . Fortunately , Dreyer's static camera gives us some strikingly beautiful compositions . All of his exteriors are exquisitely framed and lighted . ( I wonder if he used reflectors . ) A few brief sequences are rather obviously shot day-for-night . I was impressed by one shot when lovers meet on a bridge ; we see their reflections in the water rather than the lovers themselves . There are a few weird lapses here . One character wears spectacles in medium-long shot , then Dreyer cuts to him in close-up and the spectacles are gone . The president's cook carries live terriers in a closed satchel with no airholes , to no ill effect . The cook is played by Fanny Petersen , who strongly resembles Beryl Mercer , one of the most annoying actresses in film history . ' The President ' has many flaws , most notably a turgid and overly complicated storyline . However , Dreyer's directorial skill is manifest here , and most of his actors give good performances . I'll rate this deeply old-fashioned movie .
. . . and it ' Blows ' and it ' Blows ' .	' The Trumpet Blows ' deserves some credit for sheer nerve , just for casting Adolphe Menjou , George Raft , Sidney Toler and Edward Ellis as Mexicans . Credulity is strained even more by casting Menjou and Raft as brothers . Menjou is Pancho Montez , a former bandito ( clearly based on Pancho Villa ) now living in the town of Corrales under the alias Pancho Gomez . He hopes to marry the beautiful dancer Chulita ( wot , no last name ? ) , played by the beauteous and classy Frances Drake . Pancho's brother Manuel has been living in the USA ( which explains Raft's accent ) , but now he comes to live with Pancho . Big brother Pancho has a wife all picked out for Manuel , but the latter prefers Chulita . I was expecting the brothers to fight over Chulita . Instead , when Manuel learns the truth , his respect for his brother compels him to leave town to give Pancho a clear field . Manuel goes off to Mexico City and , with laughable ease , he becomes a big-league matador . Meanwhile , the police have finally caught up with Pancho . When Manuel learns of this , he rushes back to aid his brother . This movie is seriously compromised by the fact that most of the actors are not remotely believable as Mexicans . I especially loathed Nydia Westman , whose twittering voice and smirking face are invariably annoying but who is here more annoying than usual because she's so implausible as a Latina . Al Bridge , whom I usually like , is unbelievable here as a gravel-voiced Mexican constable . Katherine DeMille ( Cecil B DeMille's adopted daughter , who may genuinely have had some mestiza blood ) is plausible , and Frances Drake is superb . Sidney Toler's facial bone structure is really weird : he never quite looks plausible as a caucasian ( even though he was one ) , and never quite looked right in Chinese makeup as Charlie Chan . Here , as a mestizo , he looks flat-out ridiculous . I haven't seen so many fake Mexicans since John Garfield , Spencer Tracy , Sheldon Leonard and Frank Morgan donned sombreros and serapes for ' Tortilla Flat ' . The script and direction in ' The Trumpet Blows ' aren't bad , but would have been vastly more effective if this film had been cast with genuine Latino actors . That's not political correctness : I'm just being pragmatic . No movie with Nydia Westman in it will ever get a perfect 10 rating from me , but the other actors work hard in this one . As for George Raft in matador drag . . . did somebody mention ' bull ' ? I'll charitably give this one .
Dix in a fix in the Mexican sticks	Here's Richard Dix ( did his friends call him Dick Dix ? ) in an action movie that seems like it might be more appropriate as a vehicle for Tom Mix . But Dix or Mix , this movie isn't very good . Dix plays a U . S . Army lieutenant on duty at the Mexican border , where he's assigned to catch drugs smugglers . ( Little did the makers of this 1923 movie suspect that , more than 80 years later , the border STILL isn't safe from this problem ! ) Helene Chadwick is well-cast as a government agent . She must be working undercover , because her character doesn't even have a name . Dix's leading ladies tended to be fainting damsels , but here Chadwick plays a heroine who can hold her own in a fight . Dix's sergeant is a black man , which makes sense : most of the U . S . Army troops who patrolled the Mexican border in the 1920s and earlier ( while the Army was still segregated ) were African-American servicemen . Unfortunately , the actor who plays Sergeant Johnson ( Tom Wilson ) is clearly a white man in dark make-up . Couldn't this movie company find a black actor ? Worse luck , Sergeant Johnson is meant to be a comedy-relief role , embodying nearly every minstrel-show stereotype except cowardice . The main baddie here is Alan Hale , ably abetted by some of the nastiest villains of the silent screen . . . including Jean Hersholt , Walter Long and Lionel Belmore . ( I also spotted Richard Arlen as one of Dix's enlisted men . ) All the baddies like to hang about at the local cantina . Eventually , the villains kidnap Helene and the regiment's colonel . Now get this , please : Dix has an entire regiment of armed and trained cavalrymen at his beck and call . So what does he do ? Natch , he goes off to rescue the hostages single-handed . SPOILERS COMING . There's a spirited and very well-choreographed climactic fight , as two - fisted Dix takes on about a dozen ornery varmints , with Chadwick covering his back . However , even Richard Dix can't triumph against these odds , so eventually the villains close in on him and Helene . It looks like the end is near . . . so Dix draws his service revolver ( why didn't he do this before ? ) and places the business end against the fair Helene's throat , apparently intending to save her from a fate worse than death by killing her . Suddenly , these silent-film actors react to a sound that we can't hear . A bugle call ! The cavalry are coming to the rescue ! What a movie ! There are several lapses in logic in ' Quicksands ' , but no more so than in plenty of other action movies . That title is irrelevant : if there are any quicksands in ' Quicksands ' , I must have blinked and missed them . I'll rate this he-man brawlfest a solid . I might have rated it higher if the sergeant hadn't been a racist caricature .
Heckle & Jeckle meet Doctor Strangelove	With a title like ' Hula Hula Land ' , I was afraid that this Heckle and Jeckle cartoon would contain racial stereotypes of exotic " natives " . Fortunately , that isn't the case . ' Hula Hula Land ' contains nothing but wholesome hilarious violence . . . nothing remotely objectionable . The two magpies are hot-dog salesmen this time , and they set up their keester on a tropical beach . They charge ten cents for a hot dog ; I wonder if that was a fair price in 1949 , when this cartoon was made . Jeckle puts on a grass skirt and dances an alleged hula ( so he's a female impersonator , then ) while Heckle goes into his spiel . The weenies come alive and start moving about ; I found this gag distressing when Felix the Cat did it in ' April Maze ' ( 1930 ) and it's only slightly less distressing here . The Heckle & Jeckle toons were extremely variable , not only in their humour quotient but also in their production values . ' Hula Hula Land ' is one of the shoddier ones , and looks it . One animation sequence here - - the magpies ' exit from a bath-house , dressed in swimming cozzies - - was recycled from ' The Intruders ' ( 1947 ) , a much funnier and more elaborate toon in their series . The feathered chums soon attract the attention of that bulldog constable ( did he ever have a name ? ) and Dimwit , the dumb hound . We get a variation on a gag the Marx Brothers used in their film ' Go West ' : Heckle sells Dimwit a frankfurter with a string attached , so that he can snatch it back repeatedly . From here , we're into standard-issue Terrytoons violence , unfortunately more generic and less imaginative than usual . . . until the final gag . SPOILER NOW . The bulldog bombs the birds with an explosive so powerful , it raises a mushroom cloud ! I guess this was meant to be a topical tropical reference to the atomic-bomb tests which Uncle Sam was conducting on tropical atolls at this time . Fortunately , the fade-out shows that our magpie friends are still alive and well . ' Hula Hula Land ' is an amusing entry in their series , but no better than that . My rating : .
" Chinatown " in Turkmenistan ; or , the peasants are revolting .	I'm not nearly as fluent in Russian as I'd like to be . One way I gain familiarity with the language is by watching Russian movies ( preferably recent ones , with contemporary dialects ) and trying to follow the dialogue . A friend of mine from Kiev recommended this early Russian sound film to me : although it's officially a talkie , most or all of the footage was clearly shot silent and then post-dubbed . Very little of the story is dependent on dialogue , and so it was easy for me to follow the action . This movie is also interesting due to its location scenes in a part of the world that didn't get filmed very often in the 1930s . " Earth Is Thirsty " takes place in Turkmenistan , specifically in a barren desert region where the peasant farmers are barely subsisting . In Stalin's economic system , these people are " bednyakyi " ( peons ) . Enter stage left a " kulak " ( the Russian equivalent of a hidalgo ) , portrayed by Leonid Vikhrev from the Moscow branch office of the Snidely Whiplash Dramatic Academy . He manages to divert the region's only water supply for the sole benefit of his own land . Nyah-ha-ha ! The starving peasants start starving even faster . But help is on the way , comrade ! Along come the courageous Soviet civil engineers , selflessly dedicated to serving the impoverished proletariat . Using modern irrigation techniques , they re-reroute the water supply back to the peasants ' land . The film has an upbeat finish , with the peasants dancing , singing and celebrating . I have no idea how accurate this movie is . I'm generally quite sceptical of Soviet propaganda films . This one seemed to have a greater ring of accuracy than most others I've seen , but the difference may be down to the fact that this movie's story is more concerned with helping the peasants survive rather than uplifting their political sensibilities . In some ways , this film reminded me of King Vidor's ' Our Daily Bread ' , which similarly flirted with communism and collectivism . And the shenanigans with the water supply inevitably reminded me of ' Chinatown ' . None of the actors here give subtle performances . The peasants are depicted as the honest salt of the earth . . . but OF COURSE they're honest , since there's nothing hereabouts worth stealing . The role of the kulak is scripted as a double-dyed villain , and played by Vikhrev accordingly , so I was intrigued that he doesn't face any sort of come-uppance , nor even a reformation in the style of Ebenezer Scrooge . The film ends with Vikhrev sulking in his dacha while the peasants celebrate . My rating for this one : .
Strike a light , Vesta !	I've never understood the appeal of the male impersonator : the actress who pretends to be a boy or a man . The only context in which this makes sense to me is the British panto , in which the ' principal boy ' is played by an actress whose male costume of tight-fitting breeches actually emphasises ( rather than conceals ) her very female attributes . I also understand that certain ' trouser roles ' in classical opera are easier for the female voice to perform than the male . But , as for the actresses who make a speciality of genuinely trying to pass as male . . . what's the point ? Yet for some reason , from the late Victorian era up until the 1930s , male impersonators were hugely popular in Britain . Ronnie Barker's cheeky anthology ' Sauce ' reprints a piece of Victorian doggerel about two brothers who did an act in the variety halls : realising that sister acts were more popular than brother acts , they billed themselves as women but appeared onstage in masculine dress . . . and became far more successful as ' male impersonators ' than they would have been as male performers . One of the most popular and successful male impersonators was Vesta Tilley ( 1864-1952 ) . She had a repertoire of male characters , most notably Burlington Bertie ( a homeless man who sleeps in the Burlington Arcade but boasts about his social contacts ) . Dressed as a sailor , she performed ' Jolly Good Luck to the Girl Who Loves a Sailor ' . As a roguish womaniser , she sang ' I'm Following in Father's Footsteps , I'm Following Me Dear Old Dad ' . Her sentimental ballad was ' Sweetheart May ' . As Tilley sang all of her songs in the contralto-soprano range , one wonders why she bothered with the male disguises . ' After the Ball ' ( named for another of her song hits ) is ostensibly Tilley's life story , filmed on a painfully low budget . All the usual showbiz clichés are here . The most interesting scenes are Tilley's interactions with various British and American theatrical figures . In New York City , she works for impresarios Tony Pastor and Oscar Hammerstein : the latter is not the lyricist , but his namesake grandfather . Sadly , this film doesn't even make a token attempt to depict these men accurately . Pastor was massively fat , and Hammerstein ( the original ) had an elaborate beard : you'd never know it from the actors on offer here . I was intrigued to see George M Cohan's name in the cast list of this movie . Apparently , Tilley actually performed in a stage comedy with Cohan at least once . Here , Cohan is played brashly by obscure actor Mark Baker . It's disappointing that Cohan ( or , rather , Baker as Cohan ) never once cuts loose with some ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' song-and-dancing here . More regrettable is the fact that Baker hasn't got even a fraction of the dynamic presence of Cohan himself , nor of James Cagney nor Joel Grey : two performers who have played Cohan far more memorably than Baker does here . The romantic male lead is essayed by Laurence Harvey , as the titled Englishman who becomes Vesta's match . Whenever you see the words ' romantic lead ' and ' Laurence Harvey ' in the same sentence , you know something's wrong . Harvey is so cold and unemotional here , he seems to be practising for his role as the brainwashed zombie in ' The Manchurian Candidate ' . In the central role as Vesta Tilley , Pat Kirkwood is attractive and personable but utterly fails to convince me that she was one of the leading stage performers of the early twentieth century . Kirkwood's forays into male garb are embarrassing ; she seems to be eager to convince us that she really isn't a man . More intriguing , in her brief appearance , is child actress Margaret Sawyer playing Tilley as a child . I have a deep passion for the history of the British entertainment industry during precisely the time period depicted in this movie , yet ' After the Ball ' largely fails to capture the spark and excitement of that era . The very poor art direction doesn't help . I'll generously rate this movie .
No gold in them thar hills , but some merits anyway	' The Naked Hills ' is an Allied Artists picture , and it follows the very distinctive format of that low-budget studio : at the very beginning of the movie , we see a clip of the most exciting scene in the picture , shown out of sequence as a teaser . . . even though we don't yet know who these characters are , nor their relationships to each other . After this scene , the opening credits roll , and then the film proper begins . Eventually , we reach the teaser scene in the middle of the movie , at its proper point in the plot line . . . at which point we sit through a verbatim repeat of this scene exactly as it ran in the teaser . Other Allied Artists films that use this structure are ' Indestructible Man ' and cult favourite ' Attack of the 50-Foot Woman ' . I really dislike this teaser structure : it always confuses the audience at the beginning of the film . . . and when we reach the most exciting scene in the picture , we already know what will happen because we've seen it before . In ' The Naked Hills ' , the teaser scene is a violent confrontation between meek hero David Wayne and tough villains Jim Backus and Keenan Wynn . ' The Naked Hills ' is a very low-key ( and low-budget ) western , extremely downbeat , with little emphasis on gunplay or the usual elements that appeal to horse-opera audiences . Wayne plays a family man obsessed with striking gold . He stakes a claim in the middle of the desert , which is his first mis-stake : any good prospector knows that the best place to look for gold is near running water , just as the best place to look for silver is above the timber line . Wayne incurs the anger of local tyrant Jim Backus . Backus was an underrated actor , now sadly remembered for ' Gilligan's Island ' and Mr Magoo instead of for his dramatic roles . This film is the only one in which I've seen Backus play a villain , and he's excellent . Keenan Wynn is good too , as Backus's goon , but in Wynn's case the casting is no surprise . The most pleasant aspect of ' The Naked Hills ' comes during the opening credits , when James Barton sings a Western ballad . Barton was a Broadway star who never quite caught on in films ; among his other stage roles , he starred in the musical ' Paint Your Wagon ' , in the role Lee Marvin did in the film . As a character type , Barton was similar to Walter Huston . . . and had a similar singing voice . SPOILERS COMING . ' The Naked Hills ' has a very simple plot . Basically , family man Wayne gradually abandons every other aspect of his life in order to work a goldmine stake that shows absolutely no promise of ever striking gold . His wife and their son Billy plead with him to give up the mine and settle into a normal life with them . The end of the film is surprisingly downbeat : after years of following his obsession , during which son Billy has grown to manhood largely without a father , the defeated Wayne calls it quits . He gives up the mine , and rejoins his family . This is a very surprising ending for a Hollywood film . The clichés require that the obsessive hero must eventually be vindicated , finally striking gold . Failing this , he must die tragically . ' The Naked Hills ' avoids those clichés in favour of a far more uncertain ending : the protagonist abandons his obsession , but we never learn if he goes on to a better life with his wife and son . This ending is the best , most original and most surprising aspect of ' The Naked Hills ' , which in all other ways is an extremely routine Western : slower , duller , less violent ( and made on a much lower budget ) than most . ( Denver Pyle and Fuzzy Knight turn in precisely the same performances they've given in a hundred other sagebrush sagas . ) For that courageous ending and the pleasant theme song - and the performances of Wayne , Wynn and especially Backus - I'll rate this movie .
Is that you , Josephine ?	Larry Semon made ' The Bakery ' during the phase of his career when he was trying to be Chaplinesque . We see him here in the titular bakery as the general dogsbody , just as Chaplin was employed in various workplaces in several of his Essanay and Keystone comedies ( notably ' Dough and Dynamite ' , also set in a bakery ) . And here , as in several of Semon's other comedies from this period , Oliver Hardy is cast as a villain very much in the mould of the characters played by Eric Campbell in Chaplin's comedies for Mutual . In ' The Bakery ' , Hardy is even wearing bushy eyebrows and a moustache that make him resemble Campbell in ' The Adventurer ' . For once , Semon makes a distinctive entrance . We first see his character only from below the waist , the upper half of his body concealed beneath the stack of parcels he's carrying . Only after he stumbles through a trap door do we see his face : one of the most naturally comic faces in all of silent films . Too bad that Semon's comedic inventiveness never caught up with his appearance . Some of Chaplin's short comedies got a great deal of comic mileage out of one unusual prop ; notably the escalator in ' The Floorwalker ' . In ' The Bakery ' , Semon gets impressive mileage out of a rotating pillar of shelves , each shelf containing a different cake . Semon spins the pillar so that its protruding sign spins round and hits Hardy in the back of the head . Then Hardy chases Semon round the pillar , prompting Semon to take the natural ( and very Chaplin-like ) lurk of riding the pillar while it revolves , so that he can relax while Hardy pursues him . There's even a Chaplinesque plot line here , with a shortage in the bakery's books . I expected Hardy , as the villain , to be the culprit here . . . and was surprised when things went otherwise . Elsewhere , there's a Prohibition gag involving a bottle labelled ' Home Brew ' . ( Which makes as much sense as a bag of cocaine marked ' Cocaine ' . ) I'll give a good-sport award to actress Eva Thatcher for a sequence in which a mouse climbs into her clothing ; too bad the routine isn't funny . The real mystery of this Semon short is the brief but virtuoso performance by a trained monkey . This monkey looks exactly like Josephine , the monkey who gave such remarkable performances in Harold Lloyd's ' The Kid Brother ' and Buster Keaton's ' The Cameraman ' . But those movies were six and seven years after ' The Bakery ' . . . is it possible that Josephine's movie career lasted for so long ? I'm absolutely certain that this is the same monkey ; I wish I could verify it . ' The Bakery ' is well above Larry Semon's average , largely due to the fact that for most of its length he's emulating Chaplin's brand of comedy . Unfortunately , by the end of this short movie , Larry Semon has reverted to his true nature , and we get one of those wildly implausible Semon gag sequences : this one involving a ladder that manages to tip its occupants into ladies ' bathrooms and other inconvenient places , in a manner that's too implausible to be funny . There's too much cakery fakery in ' The Bakery ' , but at least it's concentrated into the last 300 feet or so of this short movie . I'll rate ' The Bakery ' , much higher than I'd usually rate a Semon film .
Ethereal and erotic	Asta Nielsen was an ethereally beautiful silent-film actress who made only one sound film , then went into a long Garbo-like retirement . There are some strong parallels between Nielsen and Garbo , including some roles they both played ( notably ' Mata Hari ' ) . It's intriguing that Nielsen and Sarah Bernhardt both played the ( male ) title role in ' Hamlet ' . Bernhardt played the role as a man when she was too old to play Ophelia ; whilst Nielsen ( astonishingly beautiful in male costume ) played the role as a young woman who had been raised as a male . Most of Nielsen's career was in German films ; ' Afgrunden ' is one of only four films she made in her native Denmark . I viewed a print of ' Afgrunden ' that was digitally restored by the Danish Film Institute but had many individual frames missing , resulting in bizarre jump cuts when characters who were about to step out of frame simply vanished . There is one intentional jump cut when Asta Nielsen flings a lasso at Poul Reumert : the jump cut enables the noose to encircle his neck even though Nielsen missed . Nielsen plays Magda Varig ( not Vang ) , a mousy piano-teacher who is engaged to a respectable businessman , until she visits Cirkus Fortuna and is intrigued by a macho performer whose handbill identifies him as Mr Rudolph ( Reumert ) . Magda kicks off her past life and joins the circus . From there , it's a maelstrom of depravity . The very beautiful Nielsen is tightly corseted throughout this film , except for one astonishing scene in which she ties up Reumert with his own lasso , then she performs a deeply erotic dance all round him , shaking and shimmying her very definitely UN-corseted midriff . This scene was cut out of British and American prints of the film . However , Nielsen's dance consists largely of rubbing her buttocks against Reumert , rather than her front-side ; perhaps in 1910 even the Danish weren't ready for THAT degree of eroticism ! In an earlier scene , Nielsen is wearing corset-stays and all the usual female garments of 1910 ( floor-length skirt , petticoats , the lot ) when Reumert hauls her aboard his horse and gallops away : it occurred to me that this must have been a very uncomfortable situation for a woman in all those clothes . There are some beautiful exterior shots here , and one splendid sequence aboard a double-decker tram in Copenhagen . A postman and a vicar wear ( respectively ) a uniform and vestments which are so elaborate that modern audiences might laugh . More fatally , all through ' Afgrunden ' the entire cast ( including Nielsen ) overact with hand-to-brow theatrics . One character is stabbed in the chest ; instead of just dying , he has to do a melodramatic " I'm dying ! " gesture and THEN die . SPOILERS COMING . This is one of those misogynist films which says that nothing is more dangerous than a woman's sexuality . Having discovered her sensual side , the former piano-teacher Magda is now poison for every man she meets . The film ends with Magda going to prison , presumably to remain there until she's no longer a danger to society ( i . e . , when she's menopausal ) . I viewed a DFI print with Danish titles , at a screening in London . Unfortunately , the very last title card in the print reads " SLUT " . . . which is Danish for " Finish " ( or maybe Finnish for " Danish " ) , but which the London audience ( probably knowing better ) chose to misinterpret , and to receive with mocking laughter . A shame , really : Nielsen's role here anticipates the ' vampire ' roles of Theda Bara and Pola Negri , so I wish that ' Afgrunden ' could have celebrated female sexuality more honestly and positively . My rating : .
Falling nimbly down the chimbley	Here's a real piece of Dickensian mellerdrammer , courtesy of D . W . Griffith . George Nichols plays Paulton , a miser . Griffith establishes that Paulton's a miser by showing him gloating over his money , as if he were Ebenezer Scrooge or Silas Marner . Paulton's only daughter Alice has decided to marry , but Paulton disapproves of her choice . I don't much blame him , as Alice's beloved is played by Mack Sennett , looking very nearly as loutish here as he would be a few years later when he intentionally played burly louts in his early Keystone films . Paulton wants Alice to marry Alfred Paget , who is better-looking ( and thinner ) than Mack Sennett but not discernibly better otherwise . Alice marries Mack ( he has no screen name here ) without her father's approval , so of course Paulton disinherits her . Time passes . ( Or , as we say in Japanese : tempus Fujitsu . ) Alice's husband has no discernible ability to earn a living , but he's managed to put a bun in her oven and they now have a little golden-haired child . ( Is my revolver loaded ? ) In a contrived string of expositions , Paulton has vacated his house and he now lodges in ( get this , please ) the flat directly above his own daughter ! Being a miser , he of course hides his money in the chimney . Oh , blimey ! Before the New Deal , banks in America were far less reliable than they are now , so I can readily understand why so many characters in American melodramas concealed their moolah in hiding-places rather than in savings accounts . I'm sure that real-life people of that time did the same thing . What utterly infuriates me is that so many fictional characters from that time period make a point of stashing their cash in stoves , ovens and chimneys . . . places , in other words , where FIRE could endanger the money ! This stupid cliché turns up at least as recently as the Broadway musical ( and film ) ' The Unsinkable Molly Brown ' , in the 1960s : a fictional work about an actual person . SPOILERS COMING . Anyway , sweet Alice's husband Mack Sennett is at death's door ( too many custard pies , I guess ) , leaving Alice penniless . Her little golden-haired child decides to pray for divine intervention , for some reason aiming her prayers up the chimney . I guess she's trying to contact Santa Claus , or maybe Mary Poppins . Of course , Paulton's money falls down the chimney . Of course , Alice and her daughter find the dosh . . . and interpret it as an answer to their prayers . I was intrigued to see future film director Henry Lehrman in this movie , in a brief role . I'd known that Lehrman apprenticed with Griffith , but I also knew that Griffith despised him . Lehrman ( an Austrian ) obtained work under Griffith by claiming to have worked at the Pathé studio in Paris : Griffith correctly suspected that Lehrman was lying but took him on anyway . It was Griffith who hung on Lehrman the nickname " Pathé " which followed him for the rest of his career . Lehrman , a genuinely evil man , later took advantage of the death of his mistress Virginia Rappe by claiming to have been her fiancé ( and buying an engraved engagement ring to that effect ) so as to aid his own career by helping to turn public opinion against the innocent Roscoe Arbuckle . My instinctive reaction to " A Child's Faith " is to cry this film wildly implausible - - why would any sensible person keep his money in a chimney ? - - but I'm aware of similar cases in real life . The Grand Ole Opry comedian Stringbean and his wife were murdered by men who'd heard a rumour that Stringbean kept a large amount of money in his cabin : after the murders , the cabin was bought by an unrelated man who discovered one day a gentle fall of green confetti in his chimney . Mice had built a nest inside the chimney , using at least one thousand $100 bills for that purpose : all ruined by the mice . I could have used that money to make a better movie than this one . In fairness to " A Child's Faith " , this movie was precisely the sort of thing that audiences in 1910 wanted to see . I found it laughably maudlin , but I recognise that Griffith made this film for audiences of his own time . . . not mine . It achieves much of what it was apparently meant to do , so I'll rate this movie . But this film would have been more plausible if some set-dresser had thought of putting some soot in that chimney .
Silent German chick-flick , amazingly restored .	I saw ' Inge Larsen ' in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . The five-reel restored print was patchworked from sources in Deutsche Kinemathek ( Berlin ) and Gosfilmofond ( Russia ) . These had some of the original intertitles but also had ' flash ' titles that were handwritten ! Worse luck , some of the flash titles were only keywords , and one was illegible . Any reconstruction of these is guesswork at best . Further , there's evidence ( from trade publications of the time ) that ' Inge Larsen ' was originally a seven-reeler butchered before its release . ( The usual procedure is to butcher a silent film AFTER its release . ) The beautiful brunette Henny Porten had been a star at Ufa until producer Hanns Lippmann lured her away with the offer of her own production company . ' Inge Larsen ' was filmed by that company for distribution by Ufa . The original release was scheduled for December 1922 . . . yet there were later retakes , and the film's eventual Berlin premiere was in October 1923 . Apparently , Henny Porten - - the film's nominal producer as well as its star - - radically shortened or removed sequences in which she didn't appear , deleting subplots and obscuring motivations of subordinate characters . My synopsis of this movie may seem simplistic ; the film seemed that way when I saw it . SPOILERS AHEAD . Wealthy aristocrat Baron Kerr holds a minor government post , and is sexually involved with sloe-eyed temptress Evelyne . A storm at sea shipwrecks the injured baron near the remote home of impoverished fisherman Larsen ( Leopold von Lebedur ) and his wife , who live with their virginal young daughter Inge ( Henny Porten , looking beautiful but not very virginal ) in their wee hut ( which looks more like a garden shed I owned once , or an Anderson shelter ) . Inge is chastely involved with Jan Olsen , a strapping local youth who is missing a few straps . While Inge nurses the injured baron , he proposes marriage . She ups sticks and straight away becomes Baroness Kerr . . . but we see that Inge's no gold-digger , because she and the baron live quietly in a small rural estate . ( Next-door over to Madame Bovary , no doubt . ) Conveniently for the plot , the Baron is suddenly appointed to a cabinet position , requiring Inge to force herself to move into a mansion in the big city and attend posh parties every night . However , Inge now gives birth to a bairn ( a baronet ? ) , proving that the baroness isn't barren . Having tasted the high life , Inge now stints everything else but her child . . . even neglecting her husband . The baron , meantime , has renewed his relationship with Evelyne . Meanwhile ( this movie has no end of meanwhiles ) , Jan has come to the big city and befriended the baron's valet Wronsky . ( Wronsky is played by an actor named Vronski ; I always find this sort of thing distracting . Did they have to name the role after the actor ? ) Anyroad , Jan and Wronsky go to a fascinatingly sleazy cabaret where Sally Bowles would have felt right at home . A fight breaks out , and Jan is injured . Wronsky takes the injured Jan back to the mansion , where Inge bandages him ; their reunion is fond but innocent . However , the baron - - still tucking in his shirt-tails from his latest tryst with Evelyne - - sees Jan departing , and hypocritically accuses his wife of infidelity . Jan gets arrested on a charge of SCENE MISSING . The distraught Inge has been a devoted mother . . . but now she decides to jump into the river and take her baby along for drowning lessons . ( The baby is wet anyway . ) This being apparently Berlin , the river Inge chooses is presumably the Spree . But her Spree is interrupted : just as the peeress jumps off the pier , Inge and her baby are fished out of the water by Wronsky . ( Shouldn't that be Jan's job ? He's the fisherman ! ) The valuable valet brings Inge home to her parents ' remote fishing hut . Jan is acquitted ; he trudges home , and he and Inge look for happiness together . ( It's over there , behind the hut . ) Und baby makes drei , although maybe not dry . Fade out . I truly couldn't follow some parts of this movie at all , which may due to my dwindling powers of comprehension but which could also be down to the original production problems with this film . . . made worse by the ( impressive , but far from perfect ) restoration . There are some beautiful exterior sequences filmed on the coast of Rügen ( a Pomeranian island in the Baltic Sea ) for the scenes among the fisher-folk , and in Copenhagen for the scenes of Inge's posh married life . Henny Porten's heroine Inge is showcased prominently in the location sequences , whilst the sequences without Porten tend to be interiors which were probably studio-based . Henny Porten was typically cast as women who were compassionate rather than merely passionate ; her sex appeal was usually tempered by casting her in roles with a maternal aspect . I must give her credit : during the Third Reich , Porten was placed under considerable pressure to divorce her Jewish husband . She stood by him , fully aware that this would ruin her career ( it did ) as well as endanger her life : amazingly , she made a modest post-war comeback even though her beauty had faded . ' Inge Larsen ' is a turgid soap opera which is well-staged and has some excellent production values , but which ( in this butchered form , at least ) offers little that isn't on better offer in ' Madame Bovary ' or ' Camille ' . I usually consider the term ' chick flick ' to be reductive and dismissive , but in this case it's a fair description . Henny Porten's beauty and talents are adequately displayed in her surviving Ufa films . In its current form , ' Inge Larsen ' is most useful as testimony that , as early as 1921 , an actress was willing to butcher a film to serve her own ego . . . and , more happily , also as testimony to the dedication and commitment of modern-day film archivists and restoration workers . To these unsung heroes and heroines , I say ' Skoal ' ! I'll rate ' Inge Larsen ' a cautious .
sideways Orient-ation	I viewed a print of this short movie courtesy of Lobster Films , Paris . Here we have a French ' trick ' film by the Pathe Brothers , from the same period in which Georges Melies was making his very popular trick movies . However , in Melies's films the trickery was accomplished by jump cuts , and spectacle was provided by elaborate sets and audacious story lines . In ' The Kiriki , Japanese Acrobats ' , we have a fairly straightforward acrobatic performance , abetted by some trickery that is far simpler than Melies's box of tricks , yet no less satisfying . We see some men , women and children in gymnastic clothing , clearly Caucasian yet made up to look vaguely Oriental , with ridiculously built-up foreheads covered by ludicrous hairstyles . The women creep back and forth in that ridiculous shuffling gait ( move the feet very quickly but in very tiny steps ) that western performers affect to simulate Orientals . I realise that , in the first decade of the twentieth century , the most proficient acrobatic troupes were nearly all Japanese . . . but frankly , this ying-tong Japanoiserie did absolutely nothing to add to the proceedings , and should have been dispensed with . In small groups , the troupe rapidly execute a series of acrobatic manoeuvres which are so dazzling that they seem nearly superhuman . There is , of course , a trick : a deceptively simple one , yet done so skilfully that some viewers may have difficulty figuring it out . TRICK EXPLAINED NOW . Except for some ' book-end ' footage at the beginning and the end , which is shot conventionally , the entire movie is filmed with an overhead camera shooting STRAIGHT DOWN onto a black velvet dropcloth surrounded by four upright walls . The actors , lying on this surface , affect postures to indicate that they are standing upright , with one of the walls being treated as a horizontal floor . When the tumblers move ' upwards ' , supposedly defying gravity , they are in fact merely moving horizontally , away from the wall representing the ' floor ' and towards the opposite wall representing the ' ceiling ' . The lighting , from directly above , eliminates side shadows and makes the trickery less obvious . The trick is made more difficult to spot because the stunts are done quickly and proficiently , and the performers demonstrate some genuine agility . To call this a ' trick ' film is slightly demeaning to their efforts , since there is some genuine acrobatic work going on here : just not in the direction that it seems to be . I was amused and impressed by this movie , but I would have enjoyed it far more without the utterly unnecessary racial stereotyping . My rating for this one : .
We never do meet the " monster " .	What a weird movie ! IMDb's website describes ' The Last Moment ' as a horror film , but I would classify it as an adventure film that gradually creeps into melodrama . I found several sequences to be unnerving , but I never once got that shivery frisson that a good horror movie provides . In the first reel of ' The Last Moment ' , a scientist journeys to Patagonia to capture a creature which is apparently some sort of missing link between humans and apes . Sure enough , he nabs the specimen and puts it into a cage . Throughout the film , this unfortunate creature is identified in the intertitles as - - by turns - - either " the Beast " or " the Thing " . With his beastie in tow , the scientist books passage aboard a freighter bound for the United States , captained by a tough sea-dog known only as the Finn ( Louis Wolheim , giving a performance that deserves a better script ) . The Finn turns out to be totally evil . He chucks the scientist overboard in mid-ocean , planning to keep the Beast for himself and sell it . ( Where would he sell it ? Beasts-R-Us ? Monsters-U-Like ? ) Whilst his ship is in port , the Finn encounters debutante Alice Winthrop ( Doris Kenyon ) and a nervous bookworm who rejoices in the name Hercules Napoleon Cameron ( Henry Hull , streets away from ' Werewolf of London ' ) . Straight off , the Finn shanghais them . I found this utterly ridiculous ; Alice and Hercules ( despite his name ) are a couple of weaklings who are obviously useless as deckhands , and Alice ( as played by Doris Kenyon ) is only mildly pretty , hardly likely to ignite a sea-dog's lust when surely there are sexier women available . Anyway , they're all at sea ( so is the script ) and the Thing is still snug in its cage . The Finn threatens Alice when she fails to fall for his charms . Hercules valiantly rushes to her aid , and the Finn promptly beats the tar out of Hercules . ( This is the most believable scene in the whole movie . ) SPOILERS COMING . Eventually there's a storm at sea . The Thing finally breaks out of its cage . Hercules confronts the creature in the gunwales , and actually stares the Beast down ! As the storm rages , Hercules and the creature go overboard together , and fight in the water . Credibility goes down for the third time , and never comes up for air . The most interesting character in this movie is that half-human creature in the cage . Unfortunately , we never do get a good look at it . In the early sequences , when the creature is kept in shadow or the camera's sightlines only just bypass it , I assumed that the director was holding back for a climactic sequence in which we finally get a good look at this humanoid . Some hope ! I did manage to get just enough of a squizz at the Thing to realise that the actor in the cage is a negro . I'm not sure if this casting is racist or not ; it seems to indicate that a black man is the best choice to play a creature who's less fully evolved than a human being . I'll rate ' The Last Moment ' just for being such an unusual film , but the climax is a letdown and most of what comes before it is implausible .
The horse upstairs	Film production in silent days was radically different from movie-making in the sound era . Silent films were usually shot from a scenario - - a detailed synopsis - - rather than a precise script . In post-production , the editor and title-writer of a silent film had great creative freedom to restructure the footage , often turning a languid drama into an over-the-top comedy . I have a strong suspicion that ' The Sporting Chance ' was shot in such free-and-easy circumstances . This film starts out as a fairly straightforward drama with some touches of drawing-room comedy . As it progresses , the film's events ( and the characters ' behaviour ) become increasingly implausible , and the climactic horse race casts plausibility to the winds , resembling a real-life race meeting about as much as the climactic football game in ' Horse Feathers ' resembles an actual football match . I never fault a comedy movie for being implausible , but I do feel that any movie ( or other narrative work ) has to establish its ground rules at the beginning . The first few minutes of ' Horse Feathers ' ( or any Marx Brothers movie ) make it clear that we're going to see something that bears no semblance to reality . ' The Sporting Chance ' doesn't get screwy until the third reel , and so we've been led to expect a fairly realistic story . I laughed several times during this movie , but I felt as if I'd been misled by the film-makers : baited with one type of story , then switched to something much less plausible . Lou Tellegen gets top billing in this film , but in fact he's the villain . Darrell Thornton ( Tellegen ) is a jaded playboy who throws elaborate parties with kinky trimmings . He holds an indoor horse race , consisting of six ' flappers ' galumphing through his house on little tiny ponies . Then he invites his guests to see the trained sea lions in his pool : these turn out to be girls in oilskin swimming cozzies , imitating trained seals . This movie was made during Prohibition , so of course we see lots of debauched rich people quaffing cocktails . Thornton can afford any woman who comes with a price tag , but for some reason he sets his sights on demure Patricia Winthrop . . . played by Dorothy Phillips , who is ( shall we say ) not the most gorgeous woman in the history of Hollywood . ( Nor the most talented actress , either . ) Patricia's father Caleb was a grand old country squire , but his money has run out . The family's only remaining asset is Kentucky Boy , a thoroughbred racehorse . Caleb Winthrop has reluctantly used Kentucky Boy as collateral against notes on his home . . . now , Thornton has bought the notes , as part of his scheme to nab Dorothy . Insert moustache-twirling here . The film's leading man is bland Theodore von Eltz as Robert Selby , who is of course in love with the patrician Patricia . When Thornton calls in the notes , he has the sheriff seize Kentucky Boy . Sheldon Lewis gives a good performance as Robert's wiseguy buddy , a Mercutio to Robert's Romeo . The two cronies steal the horse out from under the nose of a deputy bailiff , by a method that's extremely implausible in a silent movie and which wouldn't be remotely credible in a movie with a soundtrack . SLIGHT SPOILERS COMING . This is where the film starts getting weird . When you need to hide a horse , where do you put him where nobody will think of looking for him ? Upstairs in a private house , of course ! I would have found the improbabilities in this movie much funnier if the director or the script had properly prepared for them in the opening sequences . Needless to say , the Winthrops can pay off their debts if Kentucky Boy wins the big race . Needless to say , Darrell Thornton tries to prevent this . Needless to say , Robert gets the horse into the race . . . just in time ? Actually , no : Robert gets the horse into the starting gate after all the other horses have already left . From this point , the climactic race descends into crude slapstick which - - in real life - - would provoke a flurry of steward's inquiries , but which go over perfectly happily here . It doesn't help matters that Kentucky Boy is obviously played by at least two different horses : one in the racing scenes , one in the hide-a-horse sequences . Neither Lou Tellegen nor Theodore von Eltz gives a credible performance here , but Dorothy Phillips's thespian abilities make both of them look a right couple of Barrymores . Far and away the best performance here is given by character actor George Fawcett as the old patriarch . Sheldon Lewis is good too , but his performance seems to belong in an entirely different film . I'll give ' The Sporting Chance ' a sporting chance and rate it : much of this film is inept , and most of it is implausible , but I laughed several times anyway . . . so , on that level , I'll call this movie a success .
A Brazil nut in the Viennese pastry	' Grenadiers of Love ' is a Spanish film starring the Brazilian leading-man Raul Roulien , who ( at this point ) was young and handsome , but an untalented actor with no onscreen chemistry . Roulien had a brief attempt at a Hollywood career that went nowhere ; it's not surprising that his movie career in Spain didn't get very far either . I'm tempted to refer to ' Grenadiers of Love ' as ' The French Lieutenant's Señorita ' , because the structure of this film - not its plotline , but its structure - remarkably prefigures the structure of John Fowles's ' The French Lieutenant's Woman ' . . . not just because both stories involve a French lieutenant , but because in both cases a period military drama is contrasted with modern-day protagonists . Since Roulien's Brazilian accent would sound foreign to Spanish film audiences , he is appropriately cast here as a foreigner : namely , a Viennese ( ! ) composer named Karl , who has a successful career writing popular songs in a modern vein . For some reason , his friends ( ? ) want him to tinker with this successful formula and turn his hand to writing old-fashioned operetta instead . Searching for inspiration , Karl journeys to the Tyrol ( apparently hoping to study Tyrolean operetta ) where he arrives at the castle of Baron von Keller ( Andrés de Segurola ) and the Baron's daughter Maria ( Conchita Montenegro , quite pretty but not remotely Tyrolean ) . Giving Karl a tour of the castle , Maria shows him an old painting of Napoleon's troops invading Austria . Next thing we know , there's a sudden flashback to the days of the Napoleonic wars . . . with the same actors in different roles . Roulien , who played the Viennese composer , is now playing a French lieutenant . Montenegro , who played the baron's daughter Maria , is now playing one of Maria's ancestors : an Austrian noblewoman unwillingly betrothed to a cruel aristocrat ( Valentin Parera ) . The lieutenant must rescue the fraulein from her fiance even while he's invading her homeland . SPOILERS COMING NOW . It's never quite clear what's happening here : have the modern Karl and Maria somehow travelled back in time , to become ' pre-incarnated ' as these other people ? Or is Karl having a daydream ? Or something else altogether ? After the lieutenant swashbuckles his way into the lady's heart , we are whisked forward to . . . not the present , but beyond it and into the near future . Inspired by his glimpse into the past , Karl has written a brilliant symphony which has been performed to great acclaim , and he and Maria are now betrothed . Happy ending all round . ' Grenadiers of Love ' features some very beautiful outdoor photography , although I never for an instant believed that these Iberian locations were anywhere in the Tyrol . Also , none of these actors are convincingly French or Austrian . But there is an exciting rescue scene at the climax , well-paced and well-edited . And the production values are impressive . I'll rate this movie .
He pants for his trousers .	I saw ' Seraphin ; or , The Naked Legs ' in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone , Italy . The festival screened a print on loan from Cinémathèque Française , Paris . Georges Biscot ( who stars in this crude comedy ) became a film comedian by an unusual route : he started out in the movies as a film technician ( for Pathé ) , then worked as a music-hall projectionist before France had purpose-made cinemas . While watching the live acts in the Bobino music hall , Biscot caught the stage bug and became a variety performer . In 1916 , while impersonating Chaplin's tramp ( ! ) , Biscot was discovered by Jacques Feyder and given a film contract . Between May 1921 and February 1922 , Louis Feuillade starred Biscot in six comedy shorts , all filmed in Nice . These movies were popular and financially successful , but Biscot played an entirely different character in each film . . . thus he failed to develop the momentum of film comedians such as Chaplin - - or Biscot's compatriot André Deed - - who sustained a recognisable characterisation through a series of movies . In this one , Biscot plays Seraphin , the very proper and dignified manager of an accident-insurance company . Unfortunately for Seraphin ( but fortunately for us ) , he suffers a series of accidents which not only humiliate him but also require his company to make payments to beneficiaries . Feuillade ( who wrote the script as well as directed ) and Biscot do a fine job of escalating the indignities in this 37-minute comedy , so that Seraphin's humiliations get steadily worse . Unfortunately , this film's title gives away the ending : as his crowning indignity , Seraphin loses his trousers ! ( Only four years later , Harold Lloyd - - while shooting ' The Freshman ' - - had to be persuaded by his writers to do a similar gag ; Lloyd considered the joke a very corny one indeed . ) What lifts Biscot's performance above the work of Brian Rix and other trouser-losers is that Seraphin undergoes the semi-novelty of losing his trousers in the middle of a public street , rather than indoors . Still , it was already a VERY old gag in 1921 , and the ' climactic ' gag of this comedy is something of an anticlimax . I laughed at this comedy - - Feuillade's and Biscot's talents are clearly displayed at this early point - - but I don't believe that it deserves better than a rating of .
A curate's egg	I was eager to see ' Alias the Deacon ' because it's based on a play co-written by John B . Hymer . The play's original title was ' The Deacon ' . The film version , adding that word ' Alias ' , makes the title funnier and also more accurate . Hymer was an extremely successful playwright in the 1920s , but his work has dated badly and is unworthy of revival . What intrigues me about him is that he's the father of Warren Hymer , one of my all-time favourite supporting actors of 1930s films . Warren Hymer specialised in playing dim-witted crooks ; his onscreen characters would have fit right into the plays written by his father . Jean Hersholt gives a deft performance as a card-sharp nicknamed the Deacon , who wears clerical garb and affects a priestly manner . ( The intertitles give him some very pious dialogue . ) Annoyingly and implausibly , the Deacon is an embodiment of the ' good thief ' stereotype that occurs so often in fiction and so seldom in reality . The Deacon only robs people who ' deserve ' it , and he gives most of the money to unfortunates . This is an obvious ploy to make a dishonest protagonist sympathetic . There's a very funny scene between Hersholt and a crooked fight promoter played by Ned Sparks ( another of my all-time favourite character actors ) . When the Deacon ' accidentally ' flashes a bankroll , Sparks offers him a chance to double it in a quick game of draw poker . ' Draw poker . . . what's that ? ' asks the Deacon innocently . During the game , the Deacon can barely conceal his excitement as he realises he's got two pair . Naturally , this encourages Sparks to double up his wager . At the call , the Deacon reveals his two pair : a pair of kings , and another pair of kings . Four of a kind ! Tom Kennedy , a very underrated comic actor , is very funny as Sparks's boxer , who gets into a fixed boxing match with Ralph Graves as an earnest young man who needs money to buy furniture so he can get married and settle down with the pallid June Marlowe . Myrtle Stedman is slightly amusing as the proprietress of a rural hotel , who falls for the Deacon's schemes . The brief exterior sequences are well-photographed . The casting of Jean Hersholt in the lead role is intriguing . In real life , Hersholt was one of the most saintly men in Hollywood , active in many charities . Onscreen , due to his unpleasant looks , he tended to play extremely unsavoury villains . Here , Hersholt has the appearance and demeanour of a priest while actually playing a dishonest man , yet the role is written so as to make Hersholt's thief sympathetic . Possibly by coincidence , immediately after this film , Hersholt starred as another crooked deacon in ' 13 Washington Square ' . I usually dislike movies in which the audience are encouraged to sympathise with a thief , but ' Alias the Deacon ' is more charming with it than is usual for that subgenre . I'll rate this comedy , mostly for the performances of Hersholt , Kennedy and Sparks . Warren Hymer would have fit right in .
Not as good as Veidt's , but this has its merits .	I should declare a personal interest here : the Austrian film ' The Grinning Face ' is based on one of my all-time favourite novels , ' The Man Who Laughs ' by Victor Hugo . How much of a favourite is it ? Well , the protagonist of this novel is named Gwynplaine ( Hugo's imperfect attempt at creating a British name ) . When I first encountered this novel in my adolescence , I found Gwynplaine's exploits so inspiring that I took his name as my own middle name , changing my name legally by deed poll . Anyone reading this page is likely to know that Paul Leni directed a very impressive film version of ' The Man Who Laughs ' in Hollywood , at the very end of the silent era , starring the brilliant actor Conrad Veidt . That movie made several changes to Hugo's novel ( including the addition of a happy ending ) , but on the whole it's an excellent film with superb production values and a brilliant central performance by Veidt . This earlier Austrian version sticks closer to Hugo's novel . . . which isn't entirely a point in this film's favour , as Hugo's novel has a rambling plot that places too much attention on peripheral characters , most of whom should have been deleted altogether . Linnaeus Clancharlie ( how's that for an Englishman's name ? ) is a baron in the British peerage . He's also the Marquis of Corleone in Sicily , but he'd rather live in England and be a baron instead of being a marquis in Sicily , even though a marquis is three rungs higher up the peerage . In 1682 , Clancharlie incurs the displeasure of King James the Second . . . who has the baron murdered . The king also orders the murder of the baron's young son and heir , two-year-old Fermain . But the corrupt Doctor Hardquanonne sells the boy to some bandits , who mutilate Fermain's face so that they can exhibit him at funfairs . They carve his mouth into a permanent grin . Years later , in the reign of Queen Anne , the mutilated boy - - who has no knowledge of his noble birthright - - is now the young man Gwynplaine , manly of figure and presumably handsome of face except for the mutilation of his cake-hole . Gwynplaine lives with Ursus , a travelling mountebank who sells folk remedies . Their jolly family is completed by Dea , a beautiful foundling who is blind . She is passionately in love with Gwynplaine , all unaware of his deformity . Whenever Dea passes her fingers across Gwynplaine's disfigured face , she assumes he must be happy because of his broad grin . But meanwhile , under torture in Queen Anne's dungeon , Hardquanonne has confessed Gwynplaine's birthright . . . This film presents a fairly straightforward and simplified retelling of Hugo's novel . Comparisons to the Leni version are inevitable , so here goes : although the Leni film had superb production values , its depiction of early 18th-century England was not especially convincing . ( I still cringe when I recall the Ferris wheel in the funfair sequences . ) This Austrian film was made on a far lower budget , but the costumes and sets are vastly more convincing than in Leni's version . Leni's film boasts the splendidly sensitive performance of Conrad Veidt , and several excellent supporting performances . In this Austrian ' pre-make ' , most of the actors are dull and stolid . The actor who plays Lord Dirry-Moir should have been deleted from this movie altogether . One exception is Nora Gregor as Princess Josiana , the jaded heiress who is attracted to Gwynplaine precisely because of his deformity . Gregor makes it clear that Josiana is sexually aroused by Gwynplaine's deformity ; the Leni remake was very close-mouthed on this subject . In the central role of Gwynplaine , Franz Höbling possesses barely a fraction of Conrad Veidt's electrifying presence and sensual virility . Höbling is further handicapped by a wretched makeup job simulating the mutilation of his face . In his own performance as Gwynplaine , Veidt expertly rose to the challenge of being unable to use the lower half of his face to convey emotion , skilfully employing his eyes and his hands to convey emotions that radically contradicted the broad grin on his face . Höbling is simply unable to do justice to a role that requires him to keep his mouth immobile . As the blind heroine Dea , Lucienne Delacroix is a disaster , but I shan't blame the actress for this . One of the weak points of Hugo's novel is that Dea is really a compendium of frailties rather than a fully realised human being . She resembles those doomed Victorian heroines - - Little Nell , Eva St Claire - - who exist for the sole purpose of dying tragically young . That's how Delacroix plays the role here . Unlike Leni's version , this Austrian movie retains the tragic ending of Hugo's original novel : Dea abruptly dies at sea , and Gwynplaine flings himself overboard to a watery grave . I enjoyed ' The Grinning Face ' , but I'm prejudiced in its favour . In a few aspects , it actually surpasses the Leni film . But , on a point-for-point basis , there's no question that the Leni version is superior . I'll rate ' The Grinning Face ' .
Felix salutes Edgar Allan Poe and the Ritz Brothers .	' Bimbo's Initiation ' ( 1931 ) is generally considered one of the very best cartoons from the Fleischer studio . Here we have ' Skulls and Sculls ' , a Felix the Cat cartoon made a year earlier at a different studio , yet using exactly the same premise . Felix the Cat is walking along when he is abruptly blindfolded and subjected to an elaborate ordeal which turns out to be ( as the title hints ) a fraternal initiation . The whole premise of this cartoon makes it a period piece . The peak years of fraternal organisations in the United States coincided exactly with the years of Prohibition . That's no fluke . During Prohibition , an American couldn't ( legally ) walk into a bar and sup some booze , but fraternal organisations were permitted to serve alcohol to their members at no charge . . . so , naturally , a lot of thirsty men joined one secret order or another . Contrary to popular belief , it was not illegal to drink alcohol during Prohibition : what was illegal was the manufacture , transport and sale of spirits , not their consumption . In ' Skulls and Sculls ' , as in the later ' Bimbo's Initiation ' , most of Felix's ordeal is somewhat spooky . I was very impressed by one sequence in which Felix is menaced by a dangling blade which is clearly inspired by Poe's story ' The Pit and the Pendulum ' . Here we have solid proof that a cartoon gag-writer has actually read Poe ! Eventually , Felix is accepted into the feline fraternity ( a cat house ? ) by two cats wearing letterman sweaters bearing the letter C . . . but we're never told what this initial stands for . Cartoon Cat College , maybe . Like the other Felix cartoons from the Messmer period , ' Skulls and Sculls ' was made on a very low budget . The Felix toons were post-dubbed with unsynchronised sound effects and music . I was very intrigued that the soundtrack here included a few bars of a song ( very popular at the time , now obscure ) called ' Collegiate ' . This song was introduced by the Ritz Brothers during their vaudeville days ; it's now best known - - if it's remembered at all - - as the tune Chico Marx played during his piano routine in ' Horse Feathers ' : the one and only occasion when the Marx Brothers paid tribute to the Ritz Brothers . I wish that a few of the Ritz Brothers ' jokes had made their way into this cartoon . I'll rate ' Skulls and Sculls ' just . Try again , Felix .
Which way did he go , George ?	Douglas Corrigan was an early example of the ' 15 minutes of fame ' phenomenon . A working-class Texan from a family with strong Irish-American roots , Corrigan bought a junked aeroplane and fixed it to his own satisfaction - some parts literally held on with baling wire - and in 1938 he flew cross-country from California to New York , intending to do a Lindy and fly solo across the Atlantic to Ireland . In New York , flight officials refused to certify Corrigan's airborne jalopy as airworthy for the transatlantic flight , and he was ordered to turn round and fly back home . ( The certification standards were laxer for an overland flight , for reasons which I assume are obvious . ) Corrigan agreed to fly west from New York , and was cleared for take-off . Straight away he was in the air , Corrigan volte-faced as his ' plane did an about-turn and flew east . Several thousand miles later , when he landed , he affected to be greatly surprised that he was in Ireland rather than California . . . claiming that he had flown above cloud cover for the entire trip , and hadn't realised he was flying over ocean instead of land ! He also claimed that his instruments were defective ( I believe that part ) , so he'd thought he was flying west instead of east ! Corrigan was promptly nicknamed ' Wrong Way ' Corrigan by an affectionate public who knew damned well he was lying , but who admired his brass-bottle gumption . To this day , one continues to encounter the nickname ' Wrong Way Corrigan ' hung on anyone who proceeds in the wrong direction . ' The Flying Irishman ' is a quickie film , cashing in on Corrigan's exploit and starring himself in the lead role . A sizeable number of the supporting roles in this film are played by veteran character actors , which in this case is a disadvantage : we're supposed to see this film as a factual enactment of real events , but the presence of familiar faces Robert Armstrong , Paul Kelly , Donald MacBride , Charles Lane , Frank Faylen , & c , constantly remind us that we're watching a movie . Corrigan is no actor , so his interaction with these old pros is jarring . He does nicely enough in a brief scene with blonde Joyce Compton as a blowsy waitress . The film attempts to tell Corrigan's entire life story up to his wrong-way flight , depicting his early days and his relationship with his brother Henry . None of this material is very interesting , especially as it appears to be the usual Hollywood bio-pic confabulation . We're really here to see Corrigan's flight and what happened afterwards . Since I already knew Corrigan's story before I saw this film , there were no surprises for me here . When this movie was made , in 1939 , practically everyone in America knew Corrigan's story . . . so , my criticism on that point is valid . Still , modern viewers - who have heard of Corrigan but don't know anything about him - might enjoy watching this movie . Also , I admire Corrigan for his real-life nerve ( risking his life to prove he was right and the aviation officials were wrong ) . I admire him for breaking the rules in a context that jeopardised no-one but himself , and I admire him for getting away with it afterward . I wish that screenwriter Dalton Trumbo had spent more time writing movies like this , and less time in some of his other activities . ( Guess which ones , comrade . ) I'll rate this movie . Cleared for take-off !
Impressive military scenes	Werner Krauss was an important actor in German silent films , and many of his films from that period were well-received in Britain and America . Krauss never received any offers to work in Hollywood . . . possibly because he was too similar in type to Emil Jannings , who had a fine Hollywood career in the late silent era . Unfortunately , Krauss's thick accent and his difficulty with English ensured that his early talkie films would get only a very limited release outside of Germany , Austria and Switzerland . In ' Yorck ' , Krauss plays an historical personage : General Yorck von Wartenburg of Prussia . During the Franco-Prussian Alliance , King Friedrich Wilhelm ordered all his generals and field marshalls to place their armies at the disposal of Napoleon for the invasion of Russia . ( The Prussian king was less interested in helping France than in conquering Russia . ) Yorck was the only Prussian commander who defied his king , thereby saving the lives of his men when Napoleon's Russian invasion failed . A statesman as well as a strategist , Yorck negotiates a separate peace between Prussia and Russia . The military scenes in this film are impressive ; director Gustav Ucicky deserves to be better known . Theodor Loos is splendid in a supporting role . The pace of the film is compromised by an unnecessary romantic subplot between Yorck's daughter Barbara ( the pallid actress Grete Mosheim ) and Yorck's lieutenant ( Hans Rehmann ) . I confess that I'm only vaguely familiar with the history involved here , so I can't tell how much of this movie is factual and how much is fictional . I suspect that the subplot is fictional . I'll rate ' Yorck ' , and I commend Werner Krauss's performance .
Hoot Gibson meets Ben Hur	I haven't seen many Hoot Gibson movies - - I'm more familiar with the work of his wife , stuntwoman Helen Gibson - - but I suspect that " Let ' er Buck " isn't typical Hoot Gibson fare . Among other things in this movie , Hoot competes in a chariot race ! CONTAINS SPOILERS . Texas Cowhand Bob Carson ( Gibson ) is in love with Jacqueline McCall , daughter of a wealthy ranch owner . And the feeling is mutual . But then Carson gets into a gunfight with Jacqueline's cousin Jim Ralston , and shoots him dead . To escape prosecution for murder , Carson hops a freight car and lands up in Pendleton , Oregon . . . just before the world rodeo championship competition . ( Outside of the USA and Australia , how many nations compete in a ' world ' rodeo championship ? ) Ranch owner Mabel Thompson has a bronco she wants to enter in the competition , but the horse is an ' outlaw ' because no man can ride him . Carson proves his ability to ride the bronc , and agrees to represent the Thompson ranch in the contest . Meanwhile , a contingent from Texas arrive to compete in the contest . To be precise , the contingent are from Colonel McCall's ranch . . . and are headed by Jim Ralston , who ain't really dead after all . ( That no-good cowpoke . . . ) Jacqueline wants Carson to ride for her father's ranch instead , but Carson believes he owes his loyalty to Mabel Thompson , who had faith in him when he was down and out . The night before the big rodeo , Ralston and his galoots kidnap Carson . Of course he escapes just in time , and competes in the rodeo's chariot race . ( I wonder if this scene inspired the climax of the Marx Brothers ' ' Horse Feathers ' . ) Of course , Carson wins the race , the rodeo and the heart of Jacqueline . I'm tempted to say I don't give a Hoot about Gibson , but in fact Hoot Gibson is quite good in this film , despite its by-the-numbers script . ( There's never any doubt that Hoot will triumph , so there's no suspense . ) The direction by Edward Sedgwick is efficient , and his sister Josie gives a good performance as Hoot's patroness . The camera work by Virgil Miller is excellent . " Let ' er Buck " benefits from some authentic footage of the Pendleton rodeo championships , and it's amusing to see that the popularity of ' Ben Hur ' led to such fads as a rodeo chariot race . I'll rate this movie .
She's a winner , Max is a whiner and Jacob's a weiner .	Jenny Jugo was a Teutonic brunette who specialised in light comedy ingenue roles , similar to Deanna Durbin but with less singing . Well into her forties , Jugo exhibited a girlish quality and an easy grace that enabled her to give excellent and believable performances in roles for which she was frankly too old . ' Wer Nimmt die Liebe ernst . . . ' would translate as ' Who holds love earnestly ? ' The ellipsis in the film's opening credits refers to the fact that this title is also the first line of a song performed during the film . Since there's no question mark here , I wonder if German film producers share the superstition of their Hollywood counterparts , holding that a question mark in a film's title will bring bad luck . ( Thus we get movies such as ' Who Framed Roger Rabbit ' . . . in which the title is a question but there's no question mark . ) Handsome Max and clever-clogs Jacob live in Berlin , where they are a couple of . . . well , I'm not sure of the Berliner word for these boyos , but in London we'd call them wide boys . A wide boy is a sharp young hustler who usually stays just wide of the law ( hence the name ) : he'll try any money-making dodge that doesn't involve hard work or long hours , and it's only coincidence that most of the jobs in that category are illegal . After arousing the wrath of the police , Max and Jacob split up and flee in separate directions . With the police closing in on him , handsome Max ducks into a small flat which turns out to be the bedsit of pretty Ilse ( Jugo ) . Just as the two of them are about to ' meet cute ' , in walks Ilse's landlady ( Hedwig Wangel ) . Finding a man in Ilse's room , this hausfrau jumps to the most obvious conclusion and decides that Ilse is a prostitute . The landlady chucks out Ilse and Max . Having inadvertently got Ilse evicted , Max decides to make it up to her by taking her to a fun fair ( no comment ) . Max finds himself attracted to Ilse : she , understandably , is annoyed at the trouble he's caused her . At the fun fair , someone suggests that Ilse should enter the beauty contest which is conveniently just about to start . Ilse is skint and needs money , so she enters the contest hoping to win a useful prize . SPOILERS COMING . Here I should say something about actress Jugo's looks . Although she certainly wasn't ugly , she was only moderately pretty even by the standards of the 1930s . In a beauty contest with a large field of contestants ( like the one shown in this movie ) , it's unlikely that she would have won . SPOILERS NOW . But win she does , and straight away Ilse is hustled off to a prize-winner's feast . The contest judges glance at Max's shabby clothes , and make it plain he's not welcome to join the feast . Nor does Ilse speak up on his behalf . Max was beginning to hope that Ilse might reciprocate his feelings : now he realises otherwise . And the carnival's band is conveniently playing ' Wer Nimmt die Liebe ernst ? ' , whch Max sorrowfully adopts as his own philosophy . This movie is froth , so the ending is what you'd expect . Max wanders about Berlin feeling sorry for himself , then eventually returns to his flat . . . to find Ilse waiting for him . ( If he ever told her his address during the movie's dialogue , I must have missed it in the poor sound recording . ) I will cynically point out that Ilse's sudden interest in Max might be down to her no longer having a place to live . I'll rate this movie , mostly for Jugo's endearing personality , some attractive fun-fair sequences , and a few pleasant tunes .
Heaven will protect the working girl	' Bertha , the Sewing-Machine Girl ' is as dated and awkward as its title . This film was made in 1926 but seems more typical of the film fare of 1916 . The heroine is a working girl ( whom heaven will protect ) , yet who spends just enough time in a sweatshop to justify the film's title . She quickly gives up her sewing machine for better employment as a switchboard operator , and then even better employment as a lingerie model . Of course , this job makes her prey for men with big black moustaches . The chief villain is one Jules Morton , who lures our Bertha to his yacht and then whisks her off to sea , so she won't be able to walk home when he boards her gunwales . Morton also indulges in a spot of embezzlement , even though he's already filthy rich . ( Well , he's filthy , at least . ) So far , Morton's villainy has been firmly in the Snidely Whiplash mould . Halfway through the film , he moves into Ming the Merciless territory when henchman William Bakewell incurs his displeasure , so Morton whips out a revolver and kills the guy . How do these evil masterminds manage to maintain a staff of loyal minions ? Morton spends much of his screen time poncing about in a yachting cap , so maybe he's the offspring of a one-night stand between Snidely Whiplash and Thurston Howell the Third . The classy and attractive Anita Garvin is excellent as a brunette damsel who has previously fallen into Mason's clutches . There's a fairly exciting climactic chase , made more interesting because it's a chase between a railway engine and a yacht , with some motorcycles chucked into the mix . The usually reliable J . Farrell MacDonald and Ethel Wales are less credible than usual as Bertha's parents . Allan Simpson is quite transparent as the leading man . Arthur Housman , nearly always typecast as an inebriate , has a rare chance to play sober here in a brief comic turn . ' Bertha , the Sewing-Machine Girl ' is hugely implausible but manages to be entertaining despite this , and I'll rate this movie .
Another ' lost ' film comes home .	I saw " Broncho Billy's Adventure " - - an allegedly ' lost ' film - - in October 2006 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Sacile , Italy . This movie proves my point about so-called ' lost ' films : namely , that many film archives don't know precisely what they've got , and therefore nobody should claim definitively that a particular film no longer exists . ( Unless every print of the film has been aggressively tracked and monitored throughout its distribution , as was very occasionally the case . ) The wonderful Eastman House archive in Rochester , NY , holds hundreds of reels of nitrate film which they've not been able to restore , archive and catalogue , simply because they lack the funds and staff to do this job properly : as a result , they can't be certain of what ' lost ' treasures are in their possession . Sadly , many early films which were safely stored someplace have vanished anyway , because the highly unstable nitrate emulsion in their film stock has deteriorated . The staff at Eastman House ( and other film archives ) are desperately racing against time to transfer these images to acetate stock before it deteriorates beyond retrieval . I've received some correspondence from people asking me to give them ( or sometimes even demanding ) access to some private film collections known to me , containing films which I've occasionally been permitted to view before writing my IMDb reviews . To all you people who want ' lost ' films to become available , the remedy is simple : make a donation to Eastman House or another archive , and help save an old movie ! " Broncho Billy's Adventure " was one more film ' lost forever ' until late 2006 , when a staffer at Eastman House opened a film canister that had no label , having genuinely no notion of what was inside . It turned out to be 961 feet of movie film starring one of America's earliest cowboy stars . Miraculously , the film was discovered just on the brink of deterioration . Thank you , Eastman House ! Several different cowboy actors each claimed to be the ' first ' Western star . One of the more valid claims for that honour was made by Gilbert Anderson , who appears to have been the first cowboy actor consistently to portray the same recurring character in a series of films , thus building audience familiarity and appeal . His screen role was named Broncho Billy ( for some reason he spelt this with an ' h ' , as in ' bronchitis ' ) and the character was an instant hit with audiences . Anderson also had the bright idea of producing his own films and keeping the profits . He teamed with money-man George K Spoor to found the Essanay Film Company . ( Essanay = S & A = Spoor and Anderson , geddit ? ) Anderson lured Chaplin away from Mack Sennett's Keystone to make slightly more expensive films at Essanay . After Chaplin left Essanay for more money at Mutual , he remained good friends with Anderson ; this had not been the case at Keystone when Chaplin parted company with Sennett . In this instalment of his series , Broncho Billy rides into an unfamiliar town and stays at an hotel run by publican Arthur Mackley . His daughter ( Edna Fisher ) is the local beauty , and she has attracted quite an array of suitors : we see them - - tall , short , lanky , hefty - - queued up at the kitchen door . Eventually , Mackley gets into a fistfight with one swain ( Fred Church ) which enrages all the others , causing Mackley to become unpopular . Naturally , Broncho Billy saves the day before riding off into the sagebrush . Although Anderson is playing his usual role as Broncho Billy here , the outing is somewhat of a change of pace for him because this time Broncho Billy plays Cupid , arranging a rendezvous for fair Edna and her favoured swain while holding off all his rivals . We never expect Billy to get the girl in this one , and indeed he doesn't . However , Broncho Billy's regular fans , who expect to see him do some rootin'-tootin ' shootin ' and some fisticuffs , won't be disappointed either : Broncho Billy gets into quite a bit of action here , and saves a couple of lives . Beanpole-thin Victor Potel ( another Keystone alumnus ) is funny here as one of the unsuccessful Sagebrush Johnnies . Augustus Carney impressed me briefly in this movie , portraying a frontier sawbones . When this film was made , Carney was Essanay's biggest comedy star , appearing in a series of hugely successful ' Snakeville ' comedies as a character cried Alkali Ike . He was eventually lured away from Essanay by Universal's Carl Laemmle , who insisted on renaming Carney's screen character Universal Ike . At both studios , Carney's performances were generally broad and overacted , so I was intrigued to see him in " Broncho Billy's Adventure " playing a comparatively realistic character ( for once ) and proving himself to be an actor capable of some restraint and subtlety . I'm always delighted when any ' lost ' film returns from the dead , but Westerns are hardly my favourite film fare . I'll rate this oater just , giving Broncho Billy some credit for varying his formula slightly .
' Fifty-Fifty ' : rather nifty	' The Fifty-Fifty Girl ' is a pleasant comedy with some adventure content . It's hardly a great film , but it retains some interest for its depiction of feminism , 1928 vintage . At this point , women in America had been voting for eight years and were now seeking other ways to redefine their role in society . Like many other films from this period , ' Fifty-Fifty ' makes a few cheap jokes at the very tempting target of the feminist movement , but it avoids the easy path of ridiculing feminism altogether . Bebe Daniels ( even prettier than usual here ) plays Kathleen O'Hara , an independent young woman . For contrived reasons , she and Jim Donahue ( Jim Hall , not a good performance ) both seem to have valid claims on the franchise of a mine in a remote Western location . Kathleen and Jim ' meet cute ' ( I really dislike that term ) when they separately arrive at the assaying office , each expecting to claim sole ownership of the mine . In order to retain the franchise , the mine must continue to produce ore . Kathleen and Jim agree to work the mine together . But Kathleen doesn't take orders from men : she insists that she will be the leader of this expedition , and Jim must obey her orders . On the other hand , she doesn't want to be perceived as a weak damsel : she fully agrees that she and Jim must divide the labour equally , as well as sharing equally the proceeds of the mine . This equanimity prompts Jim to call her ' the 50-50 girl ' . Of course , nothing comes easy . William Austin gives a good performance as a local baddie who hopes to claim the mine for himself . He engages the services of some local banditos to scare away Kathleen and Jim . The leader of these goons is Buck , played by George Kotsonaros . . . an actor of such spectacular ugliness that he single-handedly brings this comedy into horror-movie territory . Kotsonaros seems intentionally to be playing his role as some sort of Beast-Man ( on a cultural exchange from the Island of Dr Moreau , perhaps ) rather than a human being . He's quite effective , but his performance really seems to be spliced in from a horror movie . SPOILERS COMING . At several points during this film , the script and the direction actually treat Kathleen's feminist fervour with genuine respect . So I was disappointed by the movie's ending . After Jim rescues Kathleen from various perils , she learns her lesson : a woman needs a big strong man , and she should have sense enough to be a good little wifey and let him make the decisions . In fairness , this mind-set was somewhat more reasonable in 1928 , when women lacked the options available today . Still , it's a letdown . Talking of letdowns , actor Harry T . Morey gives a terrible performance in what's meant to be a comedy-relief role , as a dude from Boston . One of the Westerners is played by an actor named John O'Hara , but he's not the ' New Yorker ' author of that name ( who did appear onscreen in ' The General Died at Dawn ' , a much better movie than this one ) . Some of the exterior photography in ' Girl ' is quite impressive . Bebe Daniels gives a sparkling performance here , despite poor material . I'm prejudiced in her favour ; I have a high opinion of Bebe Daniels and her husband Ben Lyon for choosing to remain in Britain during World War Two . The script of ' Girl ' was largely written by Lloyd Corrigan , who had a long career as a screenwriter , director and character actor . . . but was never especially notable in any of these callings . I've derided Corrigan rather brutally in a couple of other IMDb reviews , but now I want to amend this . Recently I saw the film ' Since You Went Away ' , in which Corrigan plays a supporting role . . . and I was astonished that he gave a performance of great subtlety and depth . I wish he'd done as good a job with the script of this movie . I'm tempted to wisecrack that ' Fifty-Fifty ' adds up to zero-zero , but that isn't fair . I'll rate this pleasant movie .
Hubert Humphrey meets a triceratops	' The Enormous Egg ' was originally a children's novel by Oliver Butterworth , who wrote a few books for young readers during breaks from his career in New England as a full-time professor of English and Latin . ' The Enormous Egg ' was his most popular book ; he wrote a sequel called ' The Narrow Passage ' ( note the contrasting titles ) which featured the same boy protagonist . . . but without the dinosaur who features so prominently in ' The Enormous Egg ' . This 1968 TV special is a simplified version of Butterworth's novel . Nate Twitchell is a 12-year-old boy who lives on his family's farm in Freedom , New Hampshire . The family raise chickens , but one hen is Nate's personal pet . One summer morning , Nate's hen lays an egg that is much larger than usual , and the wrong shape and colour . Conveniently , a professor of palaeontology just happens to be holidaying nearby . He examines the egg and , with great excitement , makes Nate promise to notify him as soon as it hatches . When the eggshell opens , out steps a baby triceratops ! Nate's hen has given birth to a throwback . ( Birds aren't descended from triceratops , but who's counting ? ) Nate names the triceratops Uncle Beazley ( how can he tell it's a male ? ) and in an amazingly short time the baby saurian grows to adult size . . . very large adult size . The most interesting thing in this TV adaptation is , of course , the triceratops . ' The Enormous Egg ' could be sub-titled ' The Microscopic Production Budget ' . I think they spent about 29 cents on the dinosaur . . . and yet all of the dinosaur sequences are very impressively done . The triceratops in this film is ' played ' by a huge dinosaur-shaped piece of moulded fibreglass which does NOT have articulated limbs , so the individual portions of the triceratops cannot move separately . The thing is like a child's toy plastic dinosaur ( all in one piece ) except that it's life-size . Intriguingly , the director ( a woman whose name I've never encountered elsewhere ) shoots these sequences from very close to the dinosaur's body , almost from the dinosaur's viewpoint . We see the dinosaur moving along , following young Nate . . . and it's not immediately obvious that the unarticulated lump is being towed along by stagehands out of camera range . Another aspect of this TV special's extremely low budget is the use of voice-over narration throughout , with all the on-screen actors filmed silent . Late in the film , Nate takes his pet triceratops to Washington and brings him onto the floor of the Senate so that all the Senators can meet the dinosaur . The narrator directs our attention to the Vice President ( the President of the Senate ) , and the camera cuts to a brief insert shot of somebody resembling Hubert Humphrey , who was Vice President at the time . UPDATE : I thank correspondent Don Smith for information about the impressive ( and expensive ) triceratops in this micro-budget telefilm . ' Uncle Beazley ' was originally one of nine life-size fibreglass dinosaurs ( of different species ) made for the Sinclair Oil company's pavilion at the 1964 New York City World's Fair . ( Sinclair Oil , fossil fuel , dinosaurs , geddit ? ) After the World's Fair , Sinclair kindly donated the dinos to various U . S . museums . As of 2007 , ' Uncle Beazley ' holds court near Lemur Island at Washington , D . C . ' s National Zoo . I'll rate ' The Enormous Egg ' . I should like to recommend this TV movie as children's viewing . . . but if your kids are jaded by the big-budget special-effects in movies like ' Jurassic Park ' , they'll just laugh at the low-tech dinosaur in ' The Enormous Egg ' .
There's no ' B ' in ' William Goodrich '	The comedy short ' Bridge Wives ' was made in the early 1930s , when American households ( especially the women ) were in the throes of a nationwide craze for contract bridge . The fad inspired several other comedy films during this same period , including Loretta Young's ' Grand Slam ' and Leon Errol's hilarious ' Honeymoon Bridge ' . Previous IMDb poster Bob Lipton has synopsised ' Bridge Wives ' accurately : Al's wife is a bridge addict , and poor Al has a case of the fantods while his wife bids six no trumps . However , I disagree with Mr Lipton's opinion of Al St John's comedic abilities . St John ( nephew of Roscoe Arbuckle ) was a nimble acrobat with a fine line in pratfalls and rubber-faced reactions , very nearly ( but not quite ) the equal of Buster Keaton and Lupino Lane in acrobatic proficiency , and also very nearly their equal in hilarity . Besides being funny , ' Bridge Wives ' is interesting for another reason . This film was directed by Roscoe Arbuckle during the period ( following his acquittal on manslaughter charges ) when Arbuckle was barred from appearing on screen . He directed ' Bridge Wives ' , and other films , under the name William Goodrich . A certain misconception about Arbuckle's pseudonym has been circulated many , many , MANY times . . . so let me please correct it here once for all . Supposedly , Arbuckle's friend Buster Keaton suggested that Arbuckle should become a director under the name ' Will B . Good ' . . . and ( also supposedly ) Arbuckle , realising that the pun was a bit too obvious , changed it to the less blatant ' William B Goodrich ' . That's a cute story ( which I've seen published in at least fifteen different sources ) but it's not true , except for one detail : Arbuckle and Keaton were both incorrigible punsters ( who didn't need to be incorriged ) . Here's the truth : Roscoe Arbuckle's father was named William Goodrich Arbuckle . After Arbuckle chose ' William Goodrich ' as his new alias , Keaton suggested he change it to ' William B Goodrich ' . . . but in fact Arbuckle never used that initial . This being a 1932 film , there's some unintentional sexism . Al's character is upset because the dirty dishes have piled up ( and he can't get a decent meal ) while his wife plays a marathon bridge competition . Hey , mister husband : ever thought of washing your own dishes , and learning to cook ? ' Bridge Wives ' is very funny : a showcase for Al St John's talents ( at a time when he was getting a bit too old for his former acrobatics ) and a bittersweet reminder that Roscoe Arbuckle was still able to make people laugh during the dark days after the scandal that broke his career . Booming-voiced Billy Bletcher is good here in a supporting role . I'll rate ' Bridge Wives ' .
Colleen as Eliza Doolittle ; not much Marquis value .	Once again we have a ' lost ' film which turns out merely to have been mislaid . No prints of " Her Wild Oat " were known to exist until an excellent print surfaced in 2001 , in the Czech National Archive in Prague . Usually , when a Hollywood silent turns up in a non-anglophone nation , the original intertitles have been removed , and new dialogue ( often radically different ) added in the foreign language . The print of " Her Wild Oat " which I viewed ( an acetate dupe , copied from the Prague print ) allegedly restores the original First National Pictures intertitles in American English , yet somehow they seem like translations from some other language . The word ' duchess ' ( crucial to this movie's plot ) is constantly rendered in the French spelling ' Duchesse ' . At one point in this film , one character tells another character to keep their secret " in your hat " when surely " UNDER your hat " would be more appropriate . I wonder if this was an attempt at raising a dirty laugh : in Jazz Age America , the phrase ' in your hat ' possessed a vulgar meaning . Here we have sweet Colleen Moore , winsome as ever , cast as a demure heroine with the oddly generic name Mary Brown . Mary is an orphan whose parents left her nothing but a lunch wagon and a dog . The very large actor Ivan Linow is excellent in a very small role ( which should have been larger ) as a bulky friend who helps tow Mary's wagon to its next destination . Linow deserved a better film career ; it's a shame that the talkie era and his thick foreign accent ended his chances . Mary manages to ' meet cute ' with a handsome young millionaire ( Larry Kent ) in a contrived situation which makes him appear to be a skint labourer in coveralls . For incredibly ridiculous reasons , Mary has to impersonate a duchess . . . or rather a Duchesse , as the intertitles keep rendering it . This being a silent movie , we needn't worry if Colleen Moore can muster a blue-blooded accent . Hallam Cooley , in a larger and better role than usual for him , is not very good as Mary's Pygmalion . I've always found Cooley slightly too effeminate : here , he's especially so in a sequence in which he tries to teach Mary how to walk like a duchess . Cooley ponces and sashays all across the frame , but he isn't very funny . Effectively , this is much the same story as Shaw's play - - working-class girl is taken in hand by officious male , and taught how to impersonate a peeress - - but without Shaw's commentary on the social classes . Most of the upper-crust sequences in " Her Wild Oat " were filmed at the Hotel Del Coronado in Coronado , California . This is the same posh hotel which ( more than three decades later ) provided locations for Billy Wilder's ' Some Like It Hot ' . During the long interval between those two films , the hotel's interior decor hardly changed at all . While watching ' Her Wild Oat ' , I had a strong sense of deja vu , not least because both movies take place during the Jazz Age . I kept expecting to see Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis scurrying past Colleen Moore in 1920s flapper costumes . Gwen Lee is excellent and attractive in a supporting role . Loretta Young's fans should be warned not to get their hopes up by her presence here . Young is glimpsed VERY briefly , on the right-hand side of a two-shot during a table-tennis sequence . She keeps her mouth resolutely closed , concealing her buck teeth that were fixed later . There are extensive sequences of Colleen Moore's lowly Mary Brown getting glammed up for her impersonation of the duchess . I was repelled by a couple of enormous close-ups of false eyelashes the size of tarantulas as they squirmed across Moore's eyelids . Also , this sequence reminded me of the famous double-exposure shot in Moore's film ' Ella Cinders ' in which her eyes move in opposite directions . ( Other people seem to laugh at that shot ; I find it extremely distressing . ) Moore , with her distinctive haircut ( similar to Louise Brooks's ) , was always much more beautiful and much more sexy as a simple working-class girl than she was on the rare occasions ( such as the duchess sequences here ) when she got tarted up as a glamour puss . ' Her Wild Oat ' simply isn't the best vehicle for Moore's distinctive talents . I would love to have seen her take Mary Pickford's role in ' My Best Girl ' , a better movie than this one . SLIGHT SPOILERS . I've seen quite a few sound comedies which were fairly realistic yet moved into fantasy territory for the fade-out with a closing gag involving a talking animal . ' Her Wild Oat ' ends very amusingly , as Mary's mutt and a more upscale dog have a protracted conversation ( shown in the title cards ) . Quite funny ! I'll rate this one , and Colleen Moore should have stayed with good-girl roles that didn't involve glamour treatments .
Danish blue cheese .	I saw ' Smuglerne ' ( ' Smugglers ' ) in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy , where it was screened as a print with an alternate title : ' In the Hands of the Sharkers ' . This movie was made by Denmark's Nordisk studio , which had previously made a lot of krona from movies purporting to expose the white-slaver trade . White slavers , as Grandpa can tell you , were criminals who supposedly drugged and kidnapped young white women , then smuggled them to some distant bourne where they were forced to work as prostitutes . Although some criminals certainly did work this lurk ( and still do , sad to say ) , I doubt that white slavery was ever as widespread as it was depicted to be in the sensationalist films and paperbacks of the early 20th century which purported to expose this ' traffic in flesh ' . Anyroad , the most notable thing about ' Smuglerne ' is that it's basically the white-slaver mixture as before , but with a sex switch . This time , it's a handsome young man who gets abducted , and his lady fair who rushes to the rescue . Clara Pontoppidan , billed under her married name Clara Wieth , plays Lilly Clausen , daughter of a wealthy ship-owner ( Cajus Bruun ) . She rejects the amorous advances of a randy businessman who rejoices in the name Bang ( I wonder about his sexual technique ) , and she rejects his wealth as well . . . but then she falls in love with handsome young ship's mate Willy ( Carlo Wieth , her real-life husband ) . So , Lilly loves Willy , and bang go Bang's bucks . Bang ( of course ) has a whole gang of criminals at his beck and call . . . and if you expect me to tell you what to call a gang of criminals who work for a man named Bang , you're on the wrong website . Bang rather ridiculously decides to get rid of Willy , as if that will help him get Lilly into bed . Bang follows Willy to a waterfront bar , a bucket-o'-blood joint , where Bang bribes the bartender to drug Willy . ( What's the Danish for ' Mickey Finn ' ? ) Then Bang attempts some shilly-shally to make Willy dilly-dally . Will he dilly ? Will he dally ? A word about that bartender . The intertitles identify this actor as Christian Schrøder , a name that sounds authentically Danish . However , the actor is a Negro . How many black men were living in Denmark in 1913 , much less working as movie actors ? There was at least one white actor cried Christian Schrøder in Danish films at this time : perhaps the black actor here has been misidentified . Whoever he is , he gives a powerful and virile performance in a fight scene near the film's climax . There is also a white actress here ( Agnete Blom ) whose character , named Mary in the intertitles , is identified as the bartender's daughter . Since nobody in this movie explains how a black man has a white daughter , I suspect that ' Smuglerne ' - - like many silent films - - was still being scripted during the title-writing stage , after all the actors ' footage was in the can . SPOILERS AHEAD . The drugged Willy is tricked into signing the seaman's articles for a ship ominously named the Octopus . Lilly disguises herself and joins forces with Mary and the kindly Chaplain Brown ( Peter Nielsen ) to rescue Willy willy-nilly . Despite the huge implausibilities of this movie's plot , it has the advantage of being shot in real locations . . . so I was delighted at this chance to visit Denmark in 1913 and see a real waterfront , an authentic quay and other exteriors . It's also a comparative novelty to see a film in which the heroine rescues the hero , rather than just the other way . . . even more so because there's just a whiff of sexuality in the abduction of Willy . ' Smuglerne ' is not believable , but it's enjoyable and fast-moving , and I'll rate it .
dis-Oriented	' Son of the Gods ' , starring Richard Barthelmess , is a good example of how an actor's current performance is inflected by his ( or her ) previous performances . With the possible exception of " Tol'able David " , Barthelmess's best ( and best-known ) role was his performance as the gentle Chinese immigrant in ' Broken Blossoms ' . Barthelmess played that role with all the usual gimmicks employed by a white actor depicting an Oriental : sellotaped eyelids , cringing posture , the lot . Despite some racist and unpleasant ' Chinky ' dialogue , Barthelmess brought genuine dignity and realism to his performance as a Chinese in ' Broken Blossoms ' . Memories of his performance in that role must have helped considerably for the audience who watched Barthelmess in ' Son of the Gods ' during its original release . SPOILERS COMING . Barthelmess here plays Sam Lee , the son of a wealthy Chinese merchant . In this role Barthelmess's eyelids are normal , which the audience might interpret as simply the director's decision to avoid a ridiculous make-up job . At any rate , Barthelmess doesn't in any way look Chinese . There's an awkward scene in which Sam and his father begin to converse in Chinese but then lapse into English , clearly for our benefit . Sam embarks on a world tour , in which he meets wealthy socialite Allana Wagner , played by Constance Bennett . She's supposed to be very beautiful , but I'm still waiting . Allana is attracted to Sam , not realising that he's Chinese . ( He certainly doesn't look it , and his accent isn't Asian . ) They fall in love . Eventually , though , she learns the truth . This provokes an extremely unpleasant scene in which Allana strikes Sam in the face with a riding crop , while calling him a yellow dog , a cur , a liar , a cheat . Meanwhile , other people stand about watching her do this , without interceding . Later , Allana falls ill ( maybe from Chinese flu ? ) . While she's on her sickbed , her father ( Anders Randolf ) tells Sam that Allana is calling for him in her delirium . Wagner prevails on Sam to visit his daughter . Sam does this , and she recovers , but Wagner shows no gratitude . His attitude seems to be that Sam is just a filthy Chinese , so no gratitude is necessary . SPOILER NOW . And here's where it gets really offensive . It turns out that Sam isn't Chinese after all . A retired lawman informs Sam that he's a white foundling , adopted in infancy . He never knew he's actually white ! But now that Sam is safely Caucasian , Allana is perfectly willing to marry him . Even more strangely , Sam is eager to marry Allana after all . Is he a masochist ? There is a nasty tradition of films and plays in which a white woman is attracted to a dark-skinned man but is simultaneously repelled because he is the ' wrong ' colour . . . only to learn that in fact he's a white man after all , whose complexion is down to many years of being tanned by the sun . Examples of this offensive scenario include ' The Sheik ' ( Arab turns out to be white foundling ) and ' Whoopee ! ' ( Amerindian turns out to be white foundling ) . ' Son of the Gods ' is one more example of this dark genre . What makes it vaguely plausible is the fact that Barthelmess is best known for playing a ( genuine ) Chinese in a previous film , so we accept him as Chinese in ' Son of the Gods ' . In this film's favour , there is a moving scene in which - after learning the truth about his ancestry - Sam decides that he considers himself Chinese after all , as he was raised by Chinese within the Chinese culture after his ' own ' people abandoned him . Also , this film contains some very beautiful exterior scenes and some elaborate interiors . There's also a Technicolor sequence filmed in San Francisco's Chinatown . . . regrettably , this sequence was seriously deteriorated in the print which I viewed . Constance Bennett ( who never appealed to me ) is neither physically attractive nor sympathetic in a role that's apparently meant to be both . Her role in this film is a racial bigot , yet we're not expected to perceive her that way . Apparently , we're meant to find it perfectly reasonable that she would be attracted to this white man , then repelled by him when she discovers he's not white , then attracted to him again when she learns he's white after all . If I were going to rate this film on its political correctness quotient , it might barely merit a rating of . Setting aside the fact that this movie's story is extremely racist and extremely implausible both at the same go , there are substantial merits in its photography , art direction , Frank Lloyd's supervision , and in the performances of Barthelmess and several supporting actors ( but not Bennett ) . Trying to judge this film by the standards of its time , I'll rate ' Son of the Gods ' .
Eight cents a word ? O . Henry was dreaming !	SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . ' I Will Repay ' is adapted from O . Henry's short story ' A Municipal Report ' , but this film version makes some changes in the story which I consider largely improvements . In O . Henry's original , the ( unnamed ) narrator is mostly a passive observer : here , named Roger Kendall , he plays an active role in the proceedings and ends up in a romantic relationship with Virginia Rodney : the beauteous Corinne Griffith , playing a character who didn't even exist in the original story . Kendall , on the staff of a New York City magazine , has been sent to Nashville by his editor to offer a contract to one Azalea Adair , an unknown authoress . She turns out to be Southern gentility , living in genteel poverty and secretly supported by Caesar , a Negro coachman ( played by a white actor in blackface ) who was previously her family's property . But Miss Adair is also victimised by Steve , her late husband's son by a previous marriage , who bullies her into giving him any money that comes her way . The story ends happily , with Kendall signing Miss Adair to a contract at eight cents per word : an absolutely huge sum for an author in 1917 , as O . Henry could have testified had he not died in poverty seven years earlier . I will give the film-makers some credit for depicting the Negro character Caesar rather more sympathetically here than O . Henry treated him . My rating for this barely plausible but enjoyable yarn : .
Oakie dopey , Olive oily .	I once had dinner with film actress Victoria Horne at the Players Club in Gramercy Park , years after the death of her husband Jack Oakie . Although she had a long and impressive career in her own right , Horne was much more interested in talking about her husband's life and career . She was deeply gratified that I had so much interest in his films . My cultural references are mostly British and Australian ; very few of Jack Oakie's movies have been widely shown in those countries - - ' The Great Dictator ' being an exception - - and he is largely unknown in the Commonwealth . In his film roles , Oakie tended to rely on a blowhard personality and dialogue rather than a physical performance . Here , in ' The Social Lion ' , his role is far more physical than usual , and he takes advantage of the opportunity . Oakie plays Marco Perkins , who aspires to be a pro athlete . The tubby Oakie is manifestly unfit for that career , but that's nothing unusual for this actor : Oakie generally played characters with unrealistic aspirations . In the boxing ring , Marco tells each opponent in turn that their bootlaces are untied . Amazingly , this trick always works . . . until Marco squares off against a pug wearing boots with zip fasteners . Eventually , Marco falls for Gloria Staunton , a posh society girl whom Marco meets at the polo club . ( I kept expecting a joke about Marco Polo . ) What is it about Jack Oakie and songwriting ? In several of his films - - ' Sitting Pretty ' , ' June Moon ' , ' Tin Pan Alley ' - - Oakie was cast as an aspiring songwriter , always with more confidence in his own talent than any actual talent . In ' The Social Lion ' , it turns out that Marco the would-be athlete is also a would-be songwriter . Telling Gloria that she inspires him to write a love song , he proceeds to sing it to her . Naturally , it's not very good , but Gloria seems to like it . Gloria is very well-played by the very sexy Olive Borden , who almost convinced me that she was genuinely attracted to Oakie's schlub character . The blonde Virginia Bruce is also very sexy in a brief appearance as one of Gloria's snobby friends . SPOILERS COMING . It turns out that Gloria was only pretending to like Marco so that she and her high-society friends could take the mickey out of him . But good-girl Cynthia Brown ( played by dull Mary Brian ) was in love with him all along . Skeets Gallagher , whom I usually find deeply annoying , is in his usual mode here as Oakie's brash manager . I'll rate ' The Social Lion ' , purely on the strength of Oakie's energetic performance and Olive Borden's sex appeal .
Belly-laughs and an elasticated face	I saw this crude but hilarious early comedy in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone ; the annual festival has made a welcome return to that beautiful town after eight years in nearby Sacile . . . a town no less beautiful , but in Sacile the festival's programme was split between two smaller cinemas at opposite ends of the Renaissance colonnades , thus forcing me ( and other attendees ) to hustle back and forth from one screening to another . This print of ' Cretinetti the Wrestler ' was loaned by the National Film and Sound Archive in Australia . André Deed is the earliest known ( and was almost certainly the first ) movie comedian who played a recurring and recognisable character in an ongoing series of comedies . Offering broad action and no intertitles ( therefore no language barrier ) , the short films featuring Deed's character Cretinetti were immensely popular in Europe , Britain and Australia . ( America was developing a home-grown crop of slapstick clowns . ) Deed endowed his screen role with personality traits good for plenty of comedy : Cretinetti is stupid but resourceful , cowardly but pugnacious , impatient yet persistent , lazy yet eager . Whereas Mack Sennett's comedies ( a few years later ) typically ended in a chase , Deed's comedies were more likely to climax in a free-for-all . There's not much plot here , nor in any of the Deed films . Cretinetti meets a performing strongman-wrestler , watches his stunts , and then decides to emulate him . Returning to town , Cretinetti practises his headlocks and throws on the unwilling populace . Mayhem ensues , but much of it is very funny . Before entering films , Deed had performed as a music-hall acrobat . His character Cretinetti is nimble , athletic , but falls very far short of the spectacular acrobatic prowess of some slapstick comedians who would appear in films a few years later : Buster Keaton , Lupino Lane , Al St John , Clyde Cook . Deed makes up for some of this with his elasticated face , which he twists into many comical expressions . I've seen at least a dozen Cretinettis : they're all very crude . Each one has a clever premise - - Cretinetti attempts some activity he didn't try in the previous instalments - - but they consistently fail to elaborate on that premise . Still , in the sheer energy and crudity of Deed's broad performance , there are some substantial belly-laughs in his films . Sadly , as film audiences developed more sophisticated tastes in comedy , Deed failed to develop Cretinetti accordingly ; his movies fell out of favour , and Deed died skint and forgotten . I'll rate this hokey comedy .
Lost and found comedy	" Life of the Party " was released shortly before the scandal that ruined Roscoe Arbuckle's career , which resulted in the Hays Office banning Arbuckle from the screen even though he was acquitted on all charges . Consequently , there were no plans to re-release this film , and no American or British prints of " Life of the Party " are known to exist . ( Even this film's title is ironic , in view of the Virginia Rappe incident . ) " Life of the Party " survives only because some prints were distributed in Europe , where the original intertitles were cut out and foreign translations were spliced in . I saw " Life of the Party " at the British Film Institute , from a nitrate print with Polish intertitles , with a curator reading English translations of the intertitles over the BFI's Tannoy system . As is often the case with foreign-language prints of Hollywood silent films , the titles are not accurate translations : in one scene of this Polish-language version , Roscoe Arbuckle speaks an outright obscenity which could never have appeared in a Hollywood film of this period . " Life of the Party " is based on a magazine story by Irvin S . Cobb , a popular author of the time . Cobb's brief career as a movie actor in the early sound era was thwarted by his thick Southern accent and his physical appearance : he was a heavyset man with a face like a bullfrog . Cobb's original story is about a man who attends a masquerade party dressed as a little boy . When he leaves the party in his heavy winter coat , his car won't start so he decides to walk home . A stick-up man steals his wallet and coat , leaving him wearing only his costume . The poor guy has to walk home in a snowstorm , dressed like Little Lord Fauntleroy . End of story . The film version has a well-written plot , more plausible than usual for this actor . For once , Roscoe Arbuckle plays a solid citizen . He's cast as a respected attorney who runs for office as a reform candidate against the local machine politicians . Some society women involve him in their charity drive to obtain milk for the local schoolchildren . They throw a charity ball in honour of the schoolchildren : all the adults invited to the party are told to arrive dressed as little children . ( No comment . ) Roscoe arrives , decked out as a four-year-old boy , and he's the life of the party . Then something goes wrong , and Roscoe ends up in a snowstorm while dressed as a toddler . Eventually he gets back into long trousers , but now he's got to deal with the election and those crooked politicians . . . Regrettably , at one point in this movie , a crooked judge employs a woman named French Kate ( ! ) to drag Arbuckle's character into a compromising situation so that he can be destroyed in the ensuing scandal . In light of the real-life tragedy that wrecked Arbuckle's career , I found this subplot painful to watch . Arbuckle's dazzling gift for acrobatic slapstick is neglected in this film , which ( despite the Polish titles ) is probably very much as it would have been released in America . It's interesting to see Arbuckle playing a " straight " role as a credible human being , in a comedy more subtle than usual for him . This film emphasises the very great talent that was lost when this funny man was unfairly banned from the screen . I'll give " Life of the Party " a .
Martha Sleeper is a keeper ; " flivver " flavour flits .	" Long Fliv the King " is fairly funny , and has a more coherent plot than usual for a Charley Chase movie , so it's unfortunate that this 1926 comedy has a title that so thoroughly dates it . The word " fliv " is short for " flivver " , which was 1920s American slang for a light automobile . The title " Long Fliv the King " is irrelevant until the film's climactic Chase scene ( no pun intended ) , when Charley and Martha Sleeper escape in a roadster . The plot is implausible : Sleeper is a Graustarkian princess who succeeds to her nation's throne if she marries a man , any man . . . so she marries American commoner Charley , who thereby becomes king . Since he's not of royal blood , surely he would be at most the prince consort . . . but don't mind me , scriptwriter . I was intrigued by Chase's first scene in this movie , in which he's shown only in three-quarter rear view , his face concealed from the camera . I was expecting some payoff for this - - perhaps his character would have some facial defect - - but apparently it was done solely to give Chase an opportunity to emote with his back to the camera . Martha Sleeper does some good acting here , too . Oliver Hardy shows up briefly , behind an elaborate moustache , as the main villain's chief henchman . Hardy's character is clever enough to use a burning-glass to harm Chase at a distance . Max Davidson , with his usual Jewish mannerisms , has a funny line here ( in a title card ) when he claims to be ' the Pope of Palestine ' . A duelling sequence is quite funny . I'm not really a fan of Charley Chase , but I enjoyed this as one of his less typical offerings , with much higher production values than usual for a Chase vehicle . My rating : .
Reverse angle drag . Cheeky !	Early movies often had descriptive titles , as they were so short that they usually consisted of a mere incident rather than an actual plot . " Ladies ' Skirts Nailed to a Fence " contains more plot than usual for this period . Two women in elaborate Victorian dress ( including skirts that reach the ground ) are gossiping against a fence . Two skivers in workmen's clothes , who apparently have nothing better to do , creep up against the opposite side of the fence . They pull the hems of the ladies ' skirts through to their own side , and nail the skirts to the fence palings . SPOILERS COMING . When the ladies discover they're caught , they pull down the fence . This knee-slapper is significant for two reasons . It contains the earliest known example of a reverse-angle shot , although the actual set-up is a cheat . We first view the action from the women's side of the fence , then a cut brings us round to the men's side . In modern film editing , such reverse angles are commonplace . What makes this a ' cheat ' is the fact that everything except the camera has been reversed : the actors and the scenery ( specifically the fence ) have turned round between shots , which surely must have been easier to manage than bringing the heavy camera rig to the other side of this set for a true reverse angle . This film is also notable because the two female characters are played by male actors , got up in skirts , bonnets and shawls . Very little attempt is made to disguise their male gender . Audiences in 1900 would likely have been distressed to see men grabbing women's skirts ( and restraining women's movements ) , so the action has been made more acceptable - and more obviously humorous - by casting men in the female roles . This film is arguably an early example of male stunt doubles for female characters , a practice that remained commonplace into the 1940s . ' Ladies ' Skirts Nailed to a Fence ' seems to be an early attempt at a moving-picture version of the seaside-postcard brand of humour which is so popular in Britain , yet which has never caught on elsewhere . The most famous ( and prolific ) practitioner of seaside-postcard art was the great Donald McGill . If you think that cheeky postcard cartoons are too lowbrow to merit serious attention , you should read George Orwell's splendid essay on Donald McGill . The print of this film which I viewed ( in the collection of the British Film Institute ) had its original title leader missing , and a new title substituted . This may have been an unscrupulous showman's attempt to pirate someone else's film and conceal the evidence of his theft . The film's new title is ' Women's Rights ' , which strongly indicates that the new title was inserted during the early reign of George V ( or the late reign of Edward VII ) , when Englishwomen were strongly agitating for the right to vote . A sizeable portion of Britain's male population were actively hostile to the suffragist movement at this time , and a phrase like ' women's rights ' would have elicited an automatic ( sarcastic ) laugh in some quarters . So , this film is significant in cinema history , and its title change is significant as social history . With either title , I'll rate this movie . It doesn't set out to achieve very much , but it fulfils its intentions .
First half funny , second half . . . ( shrug )	Silent-film comedian Snub Pollard gave hilarious performances in some Hal Roach short comedies , yet Pollard never managed to develop a character who could sustain a feature - length film . Even some of his short films contain a split-level structure , with the story abruptly changing direction midway through the movie . One of Pollard's best shorts , ' At the Ringside ' , is a good example of this : the first half of the movie is an imitation of Charlie Chaplin's ' Easy Street ' , then the second half deals with a boxing match . ' Before the Public ' , running roughly 2 , 000 feet , appears to be as close as Pollard ever got to starring in a feature film . . . and , as with ' At the Ringside ' , this is really two different stories in one film . Back when movies were silent , cinemas often employed singers to provide musical accompaniment to magic-lantern slides or to the silent films . Oliver Hardy , in fact , got his start in movies by singing behind the projection screen at a cinema in his native Georgia . ' Before the Public ' starts out with Pollard as a small-town rube who is similarly employed . He stands next to the screen in his local cinema , singing to accompany the images on magic - lantern slides . We can't hear Snub's voice in this silent movie , but his facial acrobatics ( and the cinema audience's reactions ) make it clear that he's a terrible singer . The audiences routinely bring fruit and vegetables into the picture-show , to throw at Snub . An amusing gag reveals that there's a greengrocer's stall next-door over to the picture palace . . . and Snub keeps it well-stocked with the produce that the audiences throw at him ! Along comes one of those publicity gimmicks that were so widespread during silent-movie days : a popularity contest , with the winner receiving a trip to Hollywood and a screen test . Well , Snub is definitely the most UN-popular person in town , but all the townspeople are so eager to get rid of Snub that they rig the contest in his favour , so that he'll win the trip . Amazingly , Snub becomes a Hollywood star . ( Rather ironic , this , since Pollard was never more than a second-rank film comedian in real life . ) I was pleased that this movie's script avoids that cliché which I really dislike : the one about the dead-earnest idiot who wants to be a serious dramatic actor , but who is so inept with it that he becomes a comedy star by mistake . Apparently , Pollard's character has actually become a movie star by his own efforts . Now he comes back home in triumph , exhibiting his starring movie at the same small-town cinema where he was once a humble target for groceries . Unfortunately , this is the point where ' Before the Public ' becomes an entirely different movie , as we see the film within the film . It's a western . The good news is that Pollard's usual sidekicks Noah Young ( as the villain ) and Marie Mosquini ( as the heroine ) are on hand . The bad news is that Pollard's cowboy movie is just one more lame collection of cowboy clichés , all quite predictable and most of them unfunny . The great Jimmy Finlayson is in ' Before the Public ' , but is sadly given very little to do . Mostly out of fondness for Snub Pollard and respect for his career - - he made a graceful segue into small supporting roles , lasting well into the sound era - - I'll rate this effort .
Weill and Gershwin did it better .	Benvenuto Cellini was a goldsmith in 16th-century Florence , and apparently he was also something of a hell-raiser and a swordsman ( in the sexual sense as well as the literal one ) . However , it's my understanding that we have only Cellini's own memoirs ( never published in his lifetime ) as testimony of his sexual prowess . Fortunately , some of his artistic creations have survived , and they leave no doubt as to his skill as an artisan . This movie is based on a play by Edwin Justus Mayer , which also inspired ' The Firebrand of Florence ' , a musical ( with songs by Kurt Weill and Ira Gershwin ) that flopped on Broadway in 1945 . I wish I could have seen that musical instead of this movie . What's wrong with it ? Well , there's lots of sumptuous Hollywood spectacle on view here , which is part of the problem . This is supposed to be 16th-century Italy , but everything is spotlessly clean and everybody has good teeth . Late in the film , we get a glimpse of brawny Dewey Robinson in a Prince Valiant wig , galumphing about as a poncy steward . I was more impressed by Vince Barnett as Cellini's dogsbody assistant , wearing a wig that conceals Barnett's lug-ears . Some people enjoy Frank Morgan's performance . I don't , largely because he nearly always played a whinnying idiot . Here he's cast as the duke of Florence , who was apparently a whinnying idiot because that's how Morgan plays him . More impressive is Fay Wray , an actress of keen intelligence , who here very convincingly portrays a stupid peasant girl . The jumble of American accents are very annoying in this movie , constantly reminding us that this is 16th-century Florence by way of 20th Century-Fox . Constance Bennett gets top billing , but the real draw here is definitely Fredric March , who plays Cellini in full swashbuckler mode . March's stunt double makes an impressive entrance through the ceiling . The sets and costumes throughout this film are elaborate and impressive , as is the camera work . Still , this is one of those annoying movies in which the hero is the only ' real ' man , who invariably comes up trumps in every encounter . I'll rate this movie . It probably would have been a better movie if the duke had been played by Ralph Morgan , a much better ( and more versatile ) actor than his brother Frank
Ciannelli has one brilliant scene .	Nero Wolfe is supposedly one of the great sleuths of detective fiction , but his appeal eludes me . Wolfe is an extremely unsympathetic character : arrogant , lazy , self-indulgent , corpulent . He avoids detective work ( or any other work ) unless he absolutely needs the money , preferring to spend his time eating enormous gourmet meals and tending his expensive orchids in his swank penthouse . Even more off-putting is the fact that Wolfe refuses to set foot outside , insisting that all the clues be brought to him by his ' leg man ' Archie Goodwin . ( It would be interesting if Wolfe were an agoraphobe , trapped in his house due to psychological terror rather than laziness . ) Goodwin is a much more interesting character than Wolfe , and should have made a go of it as a detective without Wolfe's patronage . In 1936 , Columbia attempted to make a low-budget series of Nero Wolfe features . The casting for ' Meet Nero Wolfe ' was impressive . Edward Arnold captured Wolfe's personality perfectly . I savour one scene in which Arnold , as Wolfe , supped a beer and then immediately spat it out again . . . expertly depicting the basic vulgarity and self-indulgence of this character . Even more brilliantly , Lionel Stander was absolute perfection as Archie Goodwin , the role Stander was born to play . With this team , the series could have clicked . For some reason , Edward Arnold did not come back for seconds . The next ( and last ) instalment in Columbia's short-lived series was ' The League of Frightened Men ' . Stander returns as Goodwin , but Nero Wolfe is now played by Walter Connolly , an utterly unimpressive performer . Connolly's high-pitched voice and indecisive manner have ruined every role I've seen him play . There are quite a few good things in this movie ( including its title ) , and I should like to have seen Charlie Chan or Philo Vance handle this material , with these production values ( and with Lionel Stander along for the ride ) . But with Connolly in the central role , this film is a lot duller than it had to be . The frightened men are ten Harvard alumni , from the same graduating class . They all came from wealthy backgrounds , and formed a fraternity . While at Harvard , they hazed Paul Chapin , a scholarship student from a lower-class background . The hazing went wrong ( we never learn the details ) and Chapin was crippled for life . All of this was years ago , and the ten men are now middle-aged . But three of them have died under mysterious circumstances , and a fourth has vanished . The other six have received threatening letters . In terror , they come to Wolfe ( why not the police ? ) , seeking his help . The obvious suspect is Chapin . . . but in the interim he has become a successful author of murder mysteries , despite being crippled . Would he jeopardise his financial success for mere revenge ? And , if Chapin is guilty , why has he waited so long for vengeance ? Eduardo Ciannelli was a character actor whom I've always disliked yet whom I consistently admire . His cold manner , coarse features and accent keep him resolutely unlikeable on screen , but his talent as an actor is manifest . ( Unlike that of Walter Connolly . ) There's one very powerful scene in this film . The Harvard alumni - - a bunch of overstuffed fiftyish men - - stand trembling in Wolfe's study , pleading with him to protect them from Chapin . Suddenly the door opens and Eduardo Ciannelli totters into the room , supporting his twisted body on two walking sticks . With Lon Chaney-like effort , he crutches his way round the room , confronting the men who maimed him , snarling with rage while they quiver and shake . Then he lurches out of the room again . A great scene by a great actor ; too bad it isn't in a better film . A major flaw in ' The League of Frightened Men ' is that our sympathies are meant to be with Wolfe's six clients , and against Chapin . But I felt just the other way . These men pulled a stupid stunt that crippled a man for life , yet they don't seem the least bit disposed to compensating him . They haven't even the grace to apologise . ( A correspondent who has read Rex Stout's novel informs me that they did give Chapin some compensation in the book ; the subject isn't even mentioned in this film . ) Ciannelli typically played unsympathetic characters , but here for once I was in his corner . Also on hand here is character actress Rafaela Ottiano , whom I usually find quite sexy even while I'm repulsed by most of the characters she plays on screen . She and Lionel Stander are quite good here . Edward McNamara , the living embodiment of the Irish cop , plays here ( for once ) a cop who isn't Irish . One of the potential murder victims in this movie is played by Victor Kilian , ironically a murder victim in real life . ' The League of Frightened Men ' has a lot of those wonderful elements that make many low-budget second features of the 1930s so enjoyable . . . but the pieces never quite come together , and the hole at the centre of this movie is Walter Connolly's weak and boring performance . I don't believe that there has ever been a first-rate Nero Wolfe movie , but ' Meet Nero Wolfe ' with Edward Arnold is much more enjoyable than this limp sequel . Mostly for the performances of Stander , Ciannelli and Ottiano , I'll rate this movie .
Betty goes batty , but LeRoy would rather tap .	' Public Jitterbug # 1 ' is an excellent example of the sort of nonsense - - often highly entertaining nonsense - - which was ground out by Hollywood studios in the decades when a trip to the movies meant a double feature plus selected shorts . This ' Jitterbug ' is a mini-musical : too brief ( and too ephemeral ) to be a feature film , but longer and more substantial than a mere short subject . Another aspect of movies in the studio era is that they provided occasional showcases for vaudeville performers . Many vaudevillains spent literally years or even decades performing the same act , honing it to perfection . Vaudeville was killed when talking pictures came in , abetted by radio . . . because now a vaudeville turn could perform its act ONCE , on film , and the whole world could see it . Here in ' Public Jitterbug ' we get a character who's completely unrelated to the rest of the film : long-time vaudeville comedian Chaz Chase , who does a speciality act in which he strikes a match , lights a cigarette , takes a drag on the ciggie , eats the lit match , then eats the lit cigarette , then lights another match to ignite the matchbook , then swallows the burning matchbook , and so forth , eventually eating his own dickie . ( The one that's his shirtfront , I mean . ) Chase had performed this act on the Keith circuit in 1922 , and he was still performing it on a television special in the mid-1970s : he does it here in this short too , and it's the only thing he CAN do . There's some vague attempt at a story . A bunch of white guys in suits convene a meeting , which is apparently inside the Capitol building in Washington . ( Erm , Congress aren't using it ? ) America is facing a crisis : everyone is listening to swing music ( gasp ! ) and becoming jitterbugs ( gasp ! gasp ! ) . The white guys vow to find ' Public Jitterbug Number One ' and de-bug this dreaded jitterbug menace . SLIGHT SPOILERS . The number-one jitterbug turns out to be vivacious young Betty Hutton . It's fascinating to see her at this early stage of her career , but frankly she was much better ( and had better material ) a few years later . One of the Federal agents trying to capture her is tap-dancer Hal LeRoy . I've knocked LeRoy in several other IMDb reviews . I hugely enjoy old-style tap dancing as performed by almost anyone else , but Hal LeRoy leaves me cold . I find him extremely effeminate and somewhat unnatural : his body seems too thin , his arms too long , and he holds his arms stiffly at a strange angle whilst dancing . LeRoy's taps are clear and his steps are technically proficient , but there's no joy beneath the taps . At one point , Betty Hutton's character offers to make love to him , but LeRoy replies he'd rather dance . I can well believe it . At the end , the authorities show up to arrest Hutton . Now get this : LeRoy ( who was supposed to arrest her himself ) has fallen in love with Hutton . ( Wouldn't he rather dance ? ) He tells the Feds that Hutton will no longer be Public Jitterbug # 1 . . . because he plans to marry her , appointing himself Public Jitterbug # 1 and thereby relegating Wifey to the Public Jitterbug # 2 spot . I guess this was meant to be a harmless joke , but I found it offensive , since it strongly implies that a wife is always second fiddle to her husband . The couple escape in a hail of bullets , the bullet holes spelling out ' The End ' . Hoo boy ! Betty Hutton's career started promisingly , but self-destructed . I was saddened by how deeply forgotten she was at the time of her death . ' Public Jitterbug # 1 ' isn't the best showcase for her distinctive talents - - I would nominate ' Annie Get Your Gun ' - - but this short film is enjoyable , and it shows off the young Hutton very well . I'll rate this frothy concoction .
Great vaudeville team in weak comedy	Two of the very biggest names in the American theatre during the early 20th century were the comedy team of Weber & Fields . They were ' Dutch ' comics , portraying an exaggerated ethnic stereotype that was meant to be German ( ' Deutsch ' ) , not from Holland . In their most famous stage get-ups , they both wore goatees and shallow bowler hats . Although they spoke onstage in broad ' Dutch ' accents , in some ways the stage act of Weber & Fields prefigured Abbott & Costello . Lew Fields , the nominal straight man , was tall and dapper whilst Joe Weber was the podgy little fall-guy who submitted to the straight man's physical and verbal abuse . Onstage , Weber wore a false belly that made him look almost spherical . Typically , they made their entrance with Fields pushing Weber onto the stage while Weber uttered his plaintive catchphrase : " Don't poosh me , Meyer ! " Throughout their stage act , tall Fields would mercilessly slap and pummel fat little Weber . Also like Abbott & Costello , Weber & Fields relied heavily on lowbrow cross-talk humour . Allegedly , Weber & Fields were the creators of that moss-covered wheeze : " Who was that lady I saw you with last night ? " " That was no lady ; that was my wife . " Not only were Weber & Fields hugely successful performers ; they also had a major career as theatrical producers and entrepreneurs . At one point , they parted company for several years ( this was the period in which Fields gave Vernon Castle his early break , depicted in the film ' The Story of Vernon & Irene Castle ' ) . Weber & Fields re-united in time for some performances on 1930s radio and early sound films , but by this point their advanced age limited them to purely verbal humour . Weber was childless ; Lew Fields was the father of playwright Joe Fields , lyricist Dorothy Fields , and Herbert Fields ( who wrote the scripts for several Rodgers & Hart musicals ) . ' Friendly Enemies ' ostensibly stars Weber & Fields as a team , but Lew Fields has the lead role and Joe Weber is very much in support . Fields plays a German immigrant named Carl Pfeiffer : that's how the silent-film intertitles spell it , but surely his forename should be ' Karl ' , ja ? Although Carl has become hugely successful in America ( he owns a shoe factory ) , he still loves his German homeland and considers himself German even though the United States is about to enter the war against the Kaiser . ( This film's action begins in 1917 . ) Carl's banker is the American-born Henry Block ( played by Weber ) , an unpretentious back-slapper who enjoys baiting Carl . Henry often addresses Carl as ' Charlie ' , knowing that the immigrant prefers his German forename ' Carl ' . Carl's son William ( handsome Jack Mulhall ) is in love with Henry's pretty daughter June ( Virginia B . Faire ) , and the two fathers approve of the marriage even though it will make Carl and Henry relations . But now Jack has a commission in the Army , and he'll be shipping out to fight the Kaiser . SPOILERS COMING . This film has a realistic set-up but a hugely implausible plotline . Hoping to end the Great War ( so his son can stay home and get married ) , Carl gives $10 , 000 cash to a German agitator named Miller ( splendid villain Stuart Holmes ) who vows he can quickly konvince the Kaiser to kut the kommotion . Instead , Miller plants a bomb in the troopship containing William and thousands of AEF doughboys bound for France . A happy ending comes from an improbable source . Carl realises that his true loyalty is to America , and he ends the film by vowing : ' Call me Charlie ! ' Weber & Fields made very few films : their stardom peaked well before talking pictures , and their humour relied largely on verbal punchlines spoken in funny accents . Despite this , in 1925 most cinema audiences would have been familiar with their act . The plot of this movie is interrupted by two comedy set-pieces in which Carl and Henry , lunching in a German restaurant , discuss military strategy whilst using the tableware and plates as props for troops . ( Almost a precognitive parody of C . Aubrey Smith's tabletop manoeuvres in ' The Four Feathers ' . ) These two sequences are quite funny , with smashed crockery resulting . George Melford's directing is excellent . ( Why isn't he better known ? ) I'll rate ' Friendly Enemies ' , despite its ridiculous script .
Jackboots galore	' Der Große König ' ( ' The Great King ' ) was a Nazi propaganda film which won the 1942 Coppa Mussolini prize as the best foreign film released in Italy that year . One assumes that Mussolini's film critics were not completely objective . And yet this movie has excellent production values and a gripping story which ( despite its too-long running time ) still make it an appealing film for those of us who aren't Nazis . This film recounts the travails of Prussian king Friedrich the Second during the battle of Kunersdorf , when his army were decimated by the Austrian forces . Just when defeat seemed certain , Russia's czar Peter the Great sent reinforcements . When this movie was made , the early victories of Hitler's army were long past . . . and it was now starting to look as if Germany might lose the war after all . ' The Great King ' was clearly made to inspire German audiences to continue the struggle against overwhelming odds . Despite its odious Nazi agenda , this film is still eminently watchable . The battle scenes are impressive , and Otto Gebühr gives a fine performance in the lead role as Friedrich . There's also a splendid turn by Paul Wegener as the leader of the Russian forces . Wegener was a stiff and very mannered actor , but he manages to turn those traits to his advantage here . Gustav Fröhlich , who is best known for playing the idealistic youth in ' Metropolis ' , gives a fine earnest performance here as Sergeant Treskow , who violates orders to give a crucial command to his men . . . with disastrous results . The propaganda message here is that good Germans shouldn't take the initiative and think for themselves : instead , they should follow the orders of their wise leaders who know what's best for them . Even though this movie is Nazi agitprop , the Third Reich imagery isn't crammed down our throats here the way it is in ' Triumph of the Will ' . You can enjoy this movie without feeling any urge to goose-step . But the story could have been told more effectively in a shorter running time . I'll rate ' Der Grosse Konig ' .
Goodbye , Dolly ! Billy Wilder is welcome .	' Scampolo , a Child of the Street ' is a starring vehicle for Dolly Haas , an actress specialising in ' waif ' and ' gamin ' roles , whom I've slagged quite thoroughly in a couple of other IMDb reviews . I find Haas intensely annoying ; she does all sorts of little bits of physical business ( quivering lips , eyes brimming with tears that don't quite come ) that are supposed to just melt our hearts , but which make me want to give her a boot in the snoot . The German-born Haas reminds me of the Italian actress Giulietta Masina , and that's not a compliment to either : they played similar roles , and both had the same annoying bag of ' cute ' tricks . Also , both actresses are made even more annoying by the fact that they tend to give their twee performances in films with implausible plotlines . ' Scampolo , ein Kind der Straße ' is less mawkish than usual for Haas , for two reasons . Firstly , for possibly the only time in her career , she actually gives a restrained performance . I'll credit this to director Hans Steinhoff : this film was his only collaboration with Haas . ( Steinhoff , a member of the Nazi party , would soon devote his considerable talents to films in the service of the Third Reich . He died in a ' plane crash on Hitler's last birthday , in the final weeks of WW2 . ) The other factor that makes this film superior to Haas's usual efforts is that ( more so than usual ) the story is plausible , and it actually depicts conditions as they prevailed in Germany shortly before the beginning of the Reich . There's a whiff of Mills & Boon about several of Dolly Haas's films , but this one shows the poverty , inflation and homelessness that were rampant in Germany just before Hitler's chancellorship ( and which helped bring him to power ) . Haas plays a waif , as usual , this time named Scampolo . . . which sounds more like a name for an Italian boy than a German fraulein . Like a lot of other residents of Berlin at this time , Scampolo has nowhere to live , and must sleep rough . ( I found these scenes far more realistic than I expected . ) She does have a very low-paying job , doing menial tasks for a laundress ( Hedwig Bliebtreu ) . Eventually , Dolly meets handsome Karl Diehl . In most Haas films , the leading man is either openly a millionaire or somebody who turns out to be secretly a millionaire . Here , Diehl plays an Englishman : a respectable bank manager who is nonetheless skint because he lost his job and all his money when his bank failed . ( Very plausible , this : many European banks were ruined by the 1929 Wall Street crash . ) However , so many of Haas's films are so far into fairytale fantasy that I couldn't quite believe this . I assumed that Diehl's banker would turn out to be a wealthy man who was pretending to be impoverished , so as to see if Dolly's love is sincere . SPOILERS NOW . Nope ; turns out Diehl was broke after all . . . but this is a Dolly Haas movie , so the last reel sees his fortunes restored and he and Dolly fly off to London to get married . ( This being 1932 , they don't seem to realise they're also getting out of Germany just in time . ) I am certainly no fan of Dolly Haas , but I found this film much more tolerable than usual for her . There is a welcome amount of cynicism in the dialogue and the onscreen situations . As Billy Wilder gets a script credit , I can guess where that cynicism came from . I'll rate ' Scampolo ' .
Odour of the Garter .	' Queen High ' is ever so slightly a musical , based on a 1914 Broadway play that became a 1926 stage musical : the film jettisons most of the Broadway score and adds two new songs . Top billing goes to Stanley Smith ( who ? ) and Ginger Rogers as the young lovers , but they warble their songs in operetta voices , and Ginger stands aside while the only dance number is performed by others ! Smith's singing voice is badly dubbed by some guy who rolls his R's and broadens his A's , bearing no semblance to Smith's speaking voice . Ginger speaks all her dialogue in Gracie Allen's voice , and sings ditto . The actual lead roles are performed by Charles Ruggles ( reprising his part from the 1926 musical ) and Frank Morgan as equal partners in a firm that makes only one product : ladies ' garters . ( What we Brits would call " suspenders " . ) This premise offers huge potential for musical numbers ( I kept expecting " Garter sing , garter dance ! " ) but is ultimately wasted . Ruggles went through most of his film career with an annoying little moustache ; midway through ' Queen High ' , he trades it for some annoying sideburns . For once , Ruggles isn't typecast as a meek husband ; here , he earnestly courts Betty Garde and shows some backbone . He's also pursued by Nina Olivette , who's quite pretty but she's lumbered with a hideous hairstyle and even worse dialogue . . . which is written in some horribly phony bad grammar that's vaguely prole American and vaguely prole British but really from Movie Cliché-Land . In one scene Ruggles cries her ' Australian ' , but she's definitely no Ozzie sheila , too right . ( Another IMDb reviewer is mistaken ; it's Olivette , not Garde , who plays the ' harassed maid ' . ) The two best songs here were written for the movie , both with lyrics by Yip Harburg : " Brother , Just Laugh It Off " ( tune by Ralph Rainger ) and " I Love the Girls in My Own Peculiar Way " ( Henry Souvaine ) . The latter is a bizarre ditty in which Ruggles claims to be a serial killer of women . He's not much of a singer ; he gets one of Yip Harburg's trademark wordplays - - " When you get pneumonia , I'll ' phone ya " - - but Ruggles clearly enunciates " phone YOU " , queering the rhyme . He also mistreats a black laundress . In the opening shot , William Steiner's camera trundles forward lugubriously , twiddles its casters awhile , then trundles back again . The rest of the camera-work is merely adequate , except for one impressive set-up with Ruggles in a doorway . There's an attempt to give Stanley Smith an " entrance " by staging his first scene with his head hidden , gradually revealing his face . William Saulter's set designs throughout are excellent , especially a very convincing sequence on a New York subway platform and aboard the rush-hour train . Frank Morgan's tycoon character and his wife have a huge mansion , with twin beds about twelve feet apart . Modern viewers get the usual old-movie reminders that money's not what it used to be : in ' Queen High ' , Mrs Rockwell has an annual income of $6 , 000 yet serves her guests caviare . Most of the dialogue ( from the original play ) is quite witty , though we get a few clunkers . An orchestra musician plays " second bass " , so we know this is the set-up for a baseball joke . Still , any movie that ends with a lawyer getting chucked into a pond can't be all bad . There's an acetate print of " Queen High " in the Library of Congress , duped from a bad nitrate print ; the soundtrack pops , and many scenes are dark . In one dialogue sequence , Smith calls himself " red-headed " , yet throughout the movie ( this LoC print , at least ) his hair looks jet-black . " Queen High " really isn't good enough to rank high on the list of films wanting restoration . This movie was released while Lon Chaney was on his deathbed , but I'll bet he wasn't dying to see it . The original 1914 play was titled ' A Pair of Sixes ' : I'll add one more six and rate this movie .
If it wasn't for those pesky kids . . .	Cecil B . DeMille had a long and mutually profitable relationship with Paramount , interrupted by a brief falling-out with Adolph Zukor , during which DeMille made a few films at MGM in the early sound era . . . including his weirdest and most atypical film , ' Madam Satan ' . ' This Day and Age ' was made shortly after DeMille's return to Paramount ; it's only slightly less weird ( and slightly less atypical of DeMille ) than ' Madam Satan ' . In the early 1930s , a few Hollywood films took the bizarre view that , since organised crime had reached such high proportions in the USA , the only sensible solution was for civil liberties to be suspended so that criminals could be punished without the minor inconvenience of the Bill of Rights . ' Gabriel Over the White House ' is probably the best-known ( and most excessive ) example of that brief genre . ' This Day and Age ' , made the same year , takes a similar tone : this is arguably DeMille's most Fascist film . SPOILERS FOLLOW . The action takes place in a typical California city , where the high-school boys like to spend their time getting their trousers pressed in the local shop of their friend Herman , a Jewish tailor who feeds them hummus while they sit in his shop in their underpants . ( Herman is played by Harry Green , who often played extremely offensive Jewish stereotypes , but who is more sympathetic than usual here . ) Local gangster Garrett ( Charles Bickford , very good ) has been leaning on Herman to pay protection money . When Herman refuses , Garrett blows up Herman's shop ( with Herman inside ) while a roller-skating act at Garrett's speakeasy provides his alibi . Three of the local boys decide to break into Garrett's hideout to find evidence linking him to Herman's murder . There's a clever scene transition : as the three lads break into the building , we cut to a floor show at Garrett's club , where chorus girls are singing ' Three Blind Mice ' . Garrett's goons catch the boys , and one boy gets shot dead . Instead of going to the cops , the surviving boys decide to catch Garrett and his thugs by themselves . From this point , the film becomes wildly implausible yet increasingly fascinating . Refreshingly , one of the boys in the high-school class is black : even more refreshingly , he's well-spoken and studious . Regrettably , this teenager must do a ' yassuh ' routine as a shoeshine boy in order to help trap Garrett . ( I consider this painful sequence a fair reflection of social roles at the time , not a flaw of this film . ) The most implausible part of the plot occurs when Don , the leader of the boys , recruits his good-girl teenage sister ( with the unfortunate forename Gay ) to come the slut and seduce one of Garrett's henchmen . Shortly before he goes for the jail-bait , this gangster helps himself to an olive while remarking ' I like my olives green , ' ( Oh , such subtle symbolism . ) Just as he's about to do the deed with Gay , he suddenly learns that she's a virgin . . . leading him to a change of heart and the remark : ' I like my olives green . . . but I don't pick ' em myself . ' Let me see if I have it straight : this guy has no compunction about seducing underage girls , but only providing they're not virgins . I found this unlikely , yet I'm impressed that one of the villains turned out to have a streak of decency . The screenwriter could have taken the easy way out by making all the villains one-dimensional characters . John Carradine appears briefly in the opening scene of this film , but he has very little to do , and Carradine cultists will be disappointed . A few other veteran character actors are likewise on hand here , yet likewise neglected . I was intrigued to see someone named ' Frank Tinney , Junior ' in the cast list . I assume that he was the son of Frank Tinney , a major vaudeville comedian / monologist who did almost no film work . Tinney ( senior ) had an unsavoury reputation in New York theatre circles , because of his penchant for visiting bordellos where he ( shall we say ) ' damaged the goods ' . That sort of sleazy behaviour is very similar to some of what's depicted onscreen in ' This Day and Age ' . I'll rate this well-made monstrosity .
Alpine for you , my darling	German filmmaker Arnold Fanck single-handedly invented an entire movie genre : the mountain film . This refers not to mountain-climbing movies in general , but to a specific type of movie in an Alpine setting . A ' mountain film ' depicts the experiences of an athletic young Aryan man , high in the mountains , where he communes with nature and meets a beautiful blonde woman who somehow embodies both the Aryan physical ideal and the German countryside itself . Their relationship is erotic , yet has semi-mystical aspects bordering on a religious epiphany . The man learns much about himself . Sometimes ( as happens here in ' Der Heilige Berg ' ) a mountain film has two male protagonists , both athletic , who develop a rivalry over the blonde fraulein . Although Fanck invented and embodied the mountain-film genre , in the same way that Alfred Hitchcock defined the suspense film and Busby Berkeley defined the Depression-era musical , Fanck was by no means the only ' mountain-film ' director . Movies in this genre have been made by directors as disparate as Hitchcock ( ' The Mountain Eagle ' ) and Fred Zinnemann ( ' Five Days One Summer ' ) . ' Der Heilige Berg ' ( ' The Holy Mountain ' ) features Louis Trenker as Karl , a downhill skier who loves a beautiful dancer named Diotina . ( Played by Leni Riefenstahl , who is so sexy here that I can well believe that Hitler had the hots for her . ) Alles ist wunderbar for Karl and his little schnitzel , until along comes the slightly younger and handsomer Vigo , played by Ernst Petersen . A triangle develops between these three . Karl decides to eliminate his rival , so with German cunning he invites Vigo to join him in a climb up the nearest Alp . At the top of the Alp , Karl pushes Vigo over a precipice . . . then he suddenly remembers that he and Vigo are roped together . Oops ! This scene reminded me of the climax of Erich von Stroheim's ' Greed ' , in which one man kills another man in the middle of Death Valley , then discovers that he's handcuffed to the corpse . The difference is that in ' Greed ' the two men became shackled together at the last moment , whereas ( in this piece of krautwurst ) Karl and Vigo were roped together before Karl gave Vigo the heave-ho , so his actions are extremely ludicrous . Anyway , in order to save himself , Karl must rescue the dangling Vigo , and the dangling plotline . . . and in the process he makes a few self-discoveries . As is typical of an Arnold Fanck film , there are some exciting skiing sequences , and some splendid footage of a skiing competition . Leni Riefenstahl is photographed to excellent advantage , with some fine backlighting in her blonde hair while she flexes her gorgeous physique , but she overacts very badly here . I'll rate this movie .
Pleasant , but could have been better . . .	The 1931 Broadway musical ' Of Thee I Sing ' was a landmark in the American theatre . The songs ( by the Gershwin brothers ) were fully integrated into the script by George S . Kaufman and Morrie Ryskind , advancing the plot rather than interrupting it . Whereas most other musicals of the 1930s offered frothy escapism , ' Of Thee I Sing ' drew bitter satire from the Depression and America's political situation at the time : this was only one of several reasons why ' Of Thee I Sing ' was the first musical ever to win the Pulitzer Prize . The original Broadway production featured some vicious humour at the expense of the American political system , such as a chorus line of Supreme Court justices singing " We're the A . K . s who give the O . K . s " ( ' A . K . ' being a Yiddish epithet ) . It can be argued that ' Of Thee I Sing ' is anti-American in its spirit ; in fact , author Kaufman refused to sanction a revival of this musical during World War Two , believing that the U . S . government should not be satirised in wartime . Remarkably , the same team that created ' Of Thee I Sing ' created a sequel , " Let ' Em Eat Cake " , which is even more vicious in its satire . . . a musical ' comedy ' in which the United States is overthrown by a fascist dictatorship . Bizarrely , much of the plot in ' Of Thee I Sing ' anticipates the shenanigans of the Clinton administration . The President of the United States has a sexual tryst with a Southern woman , who then sues him . Meanwhile , the White House bedrooms are full of people who have made financial contributions to the party in power . There is debate as to whether the First Lady should be politically active , or whether she should stay home and bake muffins . . . For various arcane reasons , Hollywood never produced a film version of the original Broadway production of ' Of Thee I Sing ' . This 1972 special , aired on CBS television , is therefore extremely important as the nearest thing ( by distant default ) to a filmed record of the original production . Carroll O'Connor stars as John P . Wintergreen , a Presidential candidate who campaigns with the slogan ' Wintergreen : The Flavour Lasts ' . After the election , he and his wife Mary settle into the White House . O'Connor's singing voice is well-suited to the material , and he clearly relishes this opportunity to demonstrate that his acting range doesn't stop with Archie Bunker . Jack Gilford is perfectly cast as Alexander Throttlebottom , the Vice President who is such a non-entity that he can only get into the White House by joining a guided tour . This tv special heavily abridges the original Broadway libretto , cutting out most of the pointed satire about 1930s politics , and retaining only the most generic gags about politicians . A few new jokes have been inserted , but they add no wit or hilarity to the proceedings . For example , when Gilford takes a roll call of the Senate , the senator from Alaska hugs himself as if he is freezing . ( If he's this cold in Washington DC , how will he feel back in his home state ? ) The biggest flaw in this tv special was some network executive's stupid decision to load the cast with cameo appearances by several actors who were in the casts of programmes running on CBS-TV at this time . Their presence adds absolutely nothing to this special , and they distract from the subject matter . In some alternate universe , a video company is selling copies of the 1933 movie version of ' Of Thee I Sing ' , starring William Gaxton and Victor Moore in their Broadway roles . Unfortunately , in our universe , that movie was never made . This 1972 tv version is small comfort indeed , but it's all we've got . I'll rate this so-so special , mostly for the historical significance of its source material .
There are two versions of this movie .	Here's a perfect example of the pitfalls of writing about films : especially films from the earliest days of the cinema . The other IMDb'ers who have posted reviews of Carmencita's performance for Thomas Edison's Kinetograph camera are apparently reviewing footage from Edison Motion Picture # 28 , which has been reissued on DVD as part of " Edison : The Invention of the Movies " . Well , I am likewise reviewing Carmencita's performance for Edison's Kinetograph . However , the performance I saw ( and which I'm reviewing ) was a different performance by the same dancer , filmed on the same occasion - - the second week of March 1894 - - but photographed on a different negative and not included in the DVD . I saw this film ( the one I'm reviewing , mind ) in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . The print screened at Sacile was retrieved from the National Fairground Archive in Sheffield , England . ( WKL Dickson , who shot many films for Edison , was an Englishman ; he shipped prints of many of his Edison films to Britain . ) When the Sheffield print was found , it was at first assumed to be one more copy of the existing Carmencita footage ( the one on the DVD ) . However , after restoration , it was discovered that this was a ' lost ' movie which no living person knew had ever existed in the first place : a completely different take of Carmencita's performance , differing significantly from the ' known ' version . Since Edison's catalogue lists only one version , this ' lost ' film has been provisionally titled " Carmencita # 2 " and catalogued as EMP 28 . 1 . This is certainly not a ' belly dance ' , despite a previous IMDb'er's comment . Carmencita's performance here is virtually identical to the one in the DVD version , with one interesting difference : in the version found at Sheffield and screened at Sacile ( the one I saw ) , the señorita concludes her performance by curtseying to the camera ( or to its operator ? ) and offering a moue . Frame-by-frame comparisons make it clear that these are two separate ' takes ' : two completely different pieces of footage of the same dancer giving similar but not identical performances . I'd be keen to learn which one was shot first . Carmencita's acknowledgment in the Sheffield version might imply that this was the conclusion of her performance , therefore the final take . Or perhaps this was her first take , and Dickson may have felt that Carmencita's gesture - - appropriate enough for a live audience watching a stage performance - - was inappropriate for a movie , and he required her to do a retake . Barring authorisation for a trip yesterwards to March 1894 ( grease up the time-portal ! ) , it's unlikely that anyone will ever know which version was shot first . On its own merits as an historic artefact , I'll rate " Carmencita # 2 " . . . plus one point extra ( 7 total ) because this film and its twin sister - - placed side by side - - serve as a caution to those who would review old-time movies , or who would criticise other reviewers ' film scholarship : sometimes the version which you saw , and the version which I saw , really are NOT the same movie !
Groucho plays it straight , gets honest laughs	The 1960 American TV version of ' The Mikado ' ( which I saw in England ) was so popular that its highlights were released on an LP phonograph record : I have an original pressing of this . The best part in ' The Mikado ' is the comic lead role of Ko-Ko , the Lord High Executioner , but some of the other roles are good too . However , this TV version was cut down to less than 60 minutes in order to fit into the 29 April 1960 episode of ' The Bell Telephone Hour ' ( with commercials ) , so much of the supporting material was jettisoned in order to make Ko-Ko the whole show . Which is fine with me , because in this production Ko-Ko was played by the one , the only Groucho Marx . I was concerned that Groucho might have ' improved ' this production with some of his irreverent Marxian shenanigans , but I was mistaken . Of all the Marx Brothers , Groucho was the only one who coveted highbrow respectability ( even while he mocked it in others ) and in this production he shows great respect for Gilbert & Sullivan's material . Which is not to say he doesn't have fun with it . Tricked out in a Japanese costume , Groucho leaves his cigar offstage but retains his hornrim eyeglasses , and he manages to waggle his ( real , not greasepaint ) eyebrows a few times . This TV version was produced by Martyn Green , who had sung ' Ko-Ko ' and many other G & S roles with the D'Oyly Carte company in London : he has clear reverence for this material , and he manages to inspire the whole cast to play it as Gilbert & Sullivan wrote it . Groucho is quite funny in a manner that doesn't betray the material , and he does some amusing physical business with Ko-Ko's axe . Groucho's voice is too weak for light opera , though . A serious flaw in the cast is his daughter Melinda as Peep-Bo . ( All the Marx brothers gave their daughters names beginning with ' M ' in honour of their mother Minnie . ) During the trio ' Three Little Maids from School Are We ' , the actresses playing Yum-Yum and Pitti-Sing have operatically trained voices , while poor Melinda Marx limps alongside them with her pitifully weak voice . Her dancing's not much , either : she did better when she sang and danced with Candice Bergen in an Irving Berlin duet on ' You Bet Your Life ' . Helen Traubel ( whom I've disliked elsewhere ) is excellent as Katisha . She plays this role as an operatic version of Margaret Dumont , so when Groucho insincerely pitches woo to her with ' Tit-Willow ' , their interplay feels comfortably familiar : it really does feel like all those hilarious movie scenes in which Groucho proposed to Dumont just to get her money . As Pooh-Bah , the great Stanley Holloway has almost nothing to do in this drastically shortened version , and he doesn't even get to sing much . The sets and costumes are extremely impressive . Surprisingly , this shortened production manages to find room for ' Mia Sama ' , the straightforward processional march of the Japanese courtiers . ( Sullivan adapted this from an actual Oriental song , retaining the original words and changing only the last four measures . ) Groucho , Robert Rounseville and Barbara Meister do a fine job on the comic trio ' Here's a Howdy-Do ! ' , my favourite Gilbert & Sullivan song . Apart from this , Rounseville is not much good as Nanki-Poo . He was a very cold performer , and he fails to generate the sympathy that this role requires . But who cares ? The whole point of this production is Groucho , and he acquits himself well in his role . If only his singing voice had been better . I'll rate this version of ' The Mikado ' .
You VILL obey orders , ja ?	' The Captain of Köpenick ' is a true story that could only have happened in Germany , where the authority of a uniform was ( and still is ? ) obeyed without question . In 1906 , an obscure Tilsiter cobbler named Wilhelm Voigt ( 1849-1922 ) purchased the second-hand uniform of a Prussian infantry captain . Wearing this , he travelled to the borough of Köpenick and ordered a troop of guardsmen to place themselves under his command . He then declared the town hall to be under military law , ordering the arrest of the mayor and treasurer and confiscating all the funds in the exchequer . ( In this version it's 4 , 000 deutschemarks , a tidy sum . ) None of Voigt's orders were questioned , and he got away with the dosh . When he was eventually caught , the German people regarded Voigt's imposture as a jolly hoax that pricked the pomposity of petty bureaucrats . Although Voigt was clearly motivated by unlawful financial gain , he emerged from the affair as a folk hero . This film is based on a stage adaptation of the original incident ; I can't vouch for its accuracy . Some of the incidents here seem a bit far-fetched , but I accept that the original incident happened similarly to what we see here ( although surely there weren't so many women involved ) . The movie is a comedy , and succeeds on that level . I was especially impressed with the performance of Fritz Odemar as the apoplectic treasurer . Still , in one sense this subject is no laughing matter . Let's recall what was the ultimate result of the Germans ' penchant for mindless obedience to authority figures . This story was funny in 1931 , but a few years later nobody in Germany would be laughing . More as an artefact of its time than for its merits as a comedy , I'll rate this movie .
Mickey Rooney ( herself ) as Mary Pickford !	The Mickey McGuire series of comedy shorts were a spin-off from ' The Toonerville Trolley ' , an extremely popular daily comic panel written and drawn by Fontaine Fox . ( There was also ' Toonerville Folks ' , a Sunday strip version . ) Basically , small-town Toonerville was its own little universe , and the gentle humour of the feature dealt with the antics of the various denizens . . . such as the Powerful Katrinka and the Skipper ( the long-bearded driver of the trolley ) . One of the most prominent characters was a bowler-hatted Irish-American urchin who bullied the other children , and who - - because of his sense of self-importance - - was always known as Mickey ( Himself ) McGuire . Fontaine Fox had a bizarre tendency to draw his ' Toonerville ' panel from a three-quarter view in midair . The humour of the Toonerville Trolley ( which I never liked ) was a bit too rarefied to make a transition to films : Fontaine Fox made a few animated cartoons and live shorts , but they never matched the success of his syndicated drawings . What did succeed was the decision to make Mickey ( Himself ) McGuire the star of a series of low-budget live-action shorts , getting into adventures with other back-alley kids . A vaudeville comedian named Joe Yule brought his young son Joe Jnr to audition for the role : Joe Jnr got the part , and was promptly renamed Mickey McGuire . Later , when the boy actor and the role parted company , Fontaine Fox would not allow the juvenile to continue performing under that name . . . so Joe Yule Jnr changed his name again , to Mickey Rooney ! The Mickey McGuire shorts have a very similar feel to the Hal Roach studio's Our Gang shorts ( made during the same time period ) , and have many of the same flaws . . . including racist gags at the expense of the black member of the gang ( in Mickey's case , an African-American boy who rejoiced in the name Hambone Johnson ) . Another of Mickey's sidekicks was boy midget Billy Barty , whose physique ( at this early age ) is already visible stunted . In the sound era , the Mickey McGuire shorts began to vary somewhat from the Our Gangs by placing increasing reliance on ' impossible ' gags requiring trick photography . . . probably not a good decision , since even the original Toonerville comic panels featured semi-realistic situations . The McGuire shorts benefit from the strong presence and talent of the young Mickey Rooney . " Mickey's Movies " is one of the late silent McGuire shorts . As usual , Mickey makes all the decisions , and the other kids merely go along for the fun . This time round , Mickey has decided that the kids should start their own movie studio . . . and he naturally considers himself the most qualified person to take charge of production , because of his contacts in the film industry : namely , his father once met somebody who shook hands with Charlie Chaplin . And not content with being the producer , Mickey naturally believes he should play all the lead roles too . There's one very bizarre sequence here , when Mickey tries to impress the other kids with his thespian abilities . He rushes offstage , then instantly returns dressed as a little girl , in a short frock and a blonde wig of long sausage curls ! Mickey ( or Michaela ? ) simpers back and forth for a few seconds , challenging the other kids to guess who he is now . The answer Mickey expects ( as we find out in a later intertitle ) is ' Mary Pickford ' . . . but before we get there , another boy leaps up and replies ' LON CHANEY ! ' What makes this gag so bizarre is that Mickey Rooney ( 8 years old at the time ) looks EXACTLY like a girl in this Goldilocks get-up . Also , I can't help wondering how a tough little mug like Mickey McGuire just happens to have a complete set of girls ' clothes ( and a wig ) handy . Maybe Mickey ( Himself ) McGuire should change his nickname to ' Herself ' . I'll rate this short .
Victor Sjostrom's subtle performance	' The Emperor of Portugallien ' was originally a novel by Selma Lagerlof , an early recipient of the Nobel Prize for Literature . Her novels remain popular in Scandinavia ; elsewhere , she is now remembered ( if at all ) only for her very long children's novel ' The Adventures of Nils ' . I suspect that the plot of ' The Emperor of Portugallien ' was at least partly inspired by the astonishing true story of ' Emperor ' Joshua Norton , a 19th-century Englishman who went insane in San Francisco and became convinced that he was the emperor of the United States . The locals supported him in his delusion for the rest of his life , and then gave him a state funeral . . . which is not what happens to the delusional ' emperor ' in this story . Swedish actor-director Victor Sjostrom had a brief career as a Hollywood director in the silent era , when his difficulty with English was less of a handicap than it would have been during the talkies era . Among the films he directed at MGM was ' The Tower of Lies ' , the first film version of ' The Emperor of Portugallien ' . ' The Tower of Lies ' is an interesting failure . It contains some annoying affectations , such as a meaningless series of establishing shots in which major characters are introduced via close-ups of their feet . More fatally , ' The Tower of Lies ' has a very confusing mise-en-scene . Some portions of that movie appear to take place in 19th-century Sweden ( as in the original novel ) . Other scenes apparently take place in a Swedish-American community somewhere in the 20th-century United States ( probably Minnesota ) . Most annoyingly , some sequences of ' The Tower of Lies ' unspool in a backlot limbo that can't seem to decide whether it's 19th-century Sweden or 20th-century America . ' The Tower of Lies ' is a film of sufficient merit that it deserves to be better known , but it is far short of a masterpiece . The 1944 film version of ' The Emperor of Portugallien ' ( made in Sweden during WW2 ) features Victor Sjostrom ( director of ' The Tower of Lies ' ) in the lead role , but this time he does not direct . This film is in several ways an improvement over his previous version . Among its other assets , this remake is much more faithful to Lagerlof's novel . Sjostrom portrays Jan , an impoverished tenant farmer . Although Jan has a wife ( Katrin ) , the only joy in his life is his young daughter Klara . The girl and her father play a game in which they are the Empress and Emperor of a fairytale land called Portugallien , where dreams come true . ( These scenes are staged with a touching innocence , with a child actress of some subtlety portraying the child Klara . In his charade as the Emperor , Jan swanks about in a ridiculous robe and crown . ) After various misfortunes , Jan's farm fails and Klara ( now an adult ) goes off to Stockholm seeking employment . Soon , she sends money to her father - large amounts , at regular intervals - but she does not come home . Time passes . Missing his beloved daughter , Jan becomes depressed . SPOILERS COMING . A rumour springs up in the farm community : a whispering campaign asserts that Klara is living as a politician's mistress . The rumour plausibly explains why Klara is able to send home so much money . When Jan hears this rumour , his mind snaps . Plunging into insanity , he deludes himself that he is genuinely the Emperor of Portugallien . Jan dresses up in his old playtime costume , and parades through the community as the ' emperor ' . . . receiving scorn and contempt from his neighbours , whom he now believes are his ' subjects ' . The film ends tragically . Sjostrom ( who later starred in Ingmar Bergman's ' Wild Strawberries ' ) gives a virtuoso performance here . For most of the film , he is restrained and dignified . When his character goes insane and becomes the delusional emperor , Sjostrom pulls the stops out and abandons restraint . . . but this is entirely appropriate to his characterisation . Holger Lowenadler is impressive as the villain , although his performance is slightly too hissable : he plays a landlord who seduces the adult Klara , but his characterisation is somewhat too obvious in its caddishness , so I had difficulty believing that Klara couldn't perceive his real intentions . Karl-Arne Holmsten is insipid as the local yokel who sincerely loves Klara . I'll rate ' The Emperor of Portugallien ' . The production values here are far inferior to MGM's efforts in ' The Tower of Lies ' . . . but this Swedish remake takes place in a plausible milieu , which simply isn't true of the silent version .
Louise Beavers as Whistler's Mother .	' Girls About Town ' is a fascinating example of the winking immorality that prevailed in Hollywood in the early 1930s , causing the public uproar that led to the Production Code . Lilyan Tashman and Kay Francis play a couple of . . . well , it's not quite clear how these ladies earn a living , as they sleep until 5 . 30pm ( Lilyan sleeps in her makeup ) and then they spend all night at parties with wealthy businessmen . They live in a penthouse and wear $4 , 000 fur stoles in 1931 . ( Depression ? What Depression ? ) Kay Francis's character is named Wanda , but Lilyan keeps calling her ' Matilda ' and ' Annabelle ' and other such names . Now get this . Wanda is a good-time girl who doesn't WANT to be a good-time girl . She'd trade it all for a white picket fence and a husband . Actually , she's already got a husband ( played by Anderson Lawler ) , but she'd rather have a husband who looks like Joel McCrea . That decision is the only thing in this movie that's remotely believable . When I saw Louise Beavers's name in the cast list , I expected her to be lumbered with her usual typecast role as the chucklin ' black maid . Well , she DOES play the maid . . . but this time Beavers gets to do an amusing visual gag , impersonating Whistler's Mother . And she has a clever line : ' There comes a time in every woman's life when a man needs five dollars . ' This film is directed by George Cukor , not usually thought of as a Paramount director . The opening credit sequence is very impressive , and there are some good montages . I wish they'd left out the tight close-up of Eugene Palllette's puckered lips . At the climax , there are some very effective jump cuts to several pieces of jewellery worn by Lucile Gleason . . . in fact , this is the only time I've ever seen an impressive performance from James Gleason's wife . Lilyan Tashman does a bad job of singing ' Ben Bolt ' while slinging wisecracks . I dislike her outright . My feelings towards Kay Francis are more ambiguous . In real life , Kay Francis was well-liked in the film industry and active in charity work . So , I respect her as a person but I dislike her as an actress . She studied diction under Elmer Fudd . She apparently orders her mascara by the tankload ( because that's how she wears it ) , and she keeps doing this weird gesture where she pronates her right hand while she places it way up high on her hip . I liked this movie , but I would have liked it better with two other actresses . One of my favourite character actors , Alan Dinehart , is wasted here . It's not precisely clear what his character does for a living , but he seems to be the ( erm , ah , well ) ' agent ' for the party girls . Much of the action takes place aboard a yacht , presumably anchored outside the three-mile limit where Prohibition had no jurisdiction . I was impressed by a travelling shot of McCrea swimming , with the camera just above water level , yet with no water splashing on the lens to remind us of the camera's presence . Much of the dialogue is by Raymond Griffith , a silent-film comedian who later became a successful producer at Fox . With all the clothes and jewellery and booze on display here , I'm sure a lot of movie-goers in 1931 watched this film with their tongues hanging out . I'll rate this movie .
Master comedian , good comedy	Raymond Griffith was a very popular comedian of the late silent era , who is now forgotten because very few of his films have survived . He also embodies the cliché of the silent-film star whose voice is inappropriate for talkies : due to a bronchial ailment , Griffith could not speak above a whisper . After a couple of brief sound-film appearances , Griffith went on to a successful career as a producer at 20th Century-Fox . Griffith usually played a top-hatted , opera-cloaked sharpster who is always one jump ahead of everybody else in the movie . In " You'd Be Surprised " his character is a bit more flappable than usual : a jug falls on his head , a door hits him in the face , and a bullet narrowly misses him . " You'd Be Surprised " is a neat comedy which may have inspired the board game Clue ( or Cluedo , as we call it in Britain ) . " You'd Be Surprised " features a murder at a posh party , and ( just like in Cluedo ) most of the suspects are named for colours : White , Brown , Grey , Green . The entire film takes place aboard a houseboat , during a party in which the host is murdered and the famous Sultana diamond necklace is stolen . All the evidence points to Dorothy Sebastian as the murderer . But she can't possibly be guilty , because she's a beautiful young woman . . . and the rules of film comedy dictate that beautiful young women are never guilty of murder . Griffith plays the coroner who wants to solve the murder in a hurry , because he's got tickets to the opera . This film is quite funny , and it benefits from Griffith's typically surreal lapses of logic . At one point , he steps out of the room and returns a moment later with six people ( chosen at random ) who will serve as the coroner's jury . How he managed to find these people aboard a houseboat is never explained . One of the jurors is an Italian hot-dog vendor who looks and acts remarkably like Chico Marx . . . and he keeps Griffith supplied with hot dogs ( with mustard and sauerkraut ) all during the murder inquest . An ironic footnote : the silent-film actor Granville Redmond , who plays a phony deaf-mute in this movie , actually was a deaf-mute . Like Griffith's stardom , Redmond's career was ruined by the arrival of talkies . One of the most ironic moments in silent-film history occurs late in " You'd Be Surprised " , as Redmond and Griffith hold a normal conversation on screen : since this is a silent film , we don't realise that ( in real life ) Griffith didn't have a voice and Redmond wasn't able to hear him anyway ! Richard Arlen ( who would star in " Wings " less than a year later ) makes a brief uncredited appearance in " You'd Be Surprised " as a crime photographer , and he demonstrates real star presence in his small role . The title cards were co-written by Robert Benchley , whose low-key comedy style was similar to Griffith's . SPOILER : " You'd Be Surprised " claims to be a comedy whodunnit , but the solution to the " mystery " is arbitrary and disappointing . Griffith grabs a party guest seemingly at random , and denounces him as the murderer . . . but we never see Griffith's process of deduction . Still , this is a comedy , and it's pretty funny , so I'll rate " You'll Be Surprised " and recommend it to all lovers of silent-film comedy .
Goose-stepping screwballs	' So , You Don't Know Korff Yet ? ' is a low-budget comedy , made in Germany during the Third Reich but largely free of Nazi agitprop . It's an amusing film , with an interesting depiction of Hollywood-style gangsters as imagined by Germans . Vermeylen is a wealthy Dutch art collector , who lives in Amsterdam with his pretty daughter Dortje . Three crooks conspire to steal one of his paintings . The crooks are played by German actors but are apparently meant to be American gangsters ( Morton and Kelly ) with a French toff ( DuFour ) as their leader . Kelly is played by the great German actor Fritz Rasp , who must have felt he was slumming in this movie . These ' gangsters ' are utterly unrealistic , but no more so than some of the gangster characters in Hollywood films of this era . Into this umlaut-fest arrives Niels Korff , one of those implausible fictional characters who could never exist in real life . Korff is a hugely successful author of detective novels who amuses himself as a flautist , but who acquires material for his novels by working ( in real life ) as an amateur detective ! That blurry object whizzing past you is this movie's plausibility , vanishing into the distance . Korff takes it upon himself to save the Vermeylens and their painting . He is aided in this endeavour by two bumbling private detectives : van Gaalen and Schimmelpennick ( the latter's name is funnier than her performance ) . I have a low opinion of German attempts at humour , so I was pleasantly surprised that this movie is actually fairly successful in blending intentional comedy with some genuine suspense during the heist sequences . The interplay of eyeballs between Korff and Dortje makes it obvious how this movie will end . . . but we have some fun getting there . I found this plot line utterly unbelievable , yet that didn't stop me from enjoying it . I'm vaguely astonished that such a light-hearted trifle could have been confected during the Third Reich , yet this movie is very much in the spirit of the screwball comedies that Hollywood was making at this time . . . not as good as those films , mind you , but in that same spirit all the same . The music in a nightclub sequence is good , too . I'll rate this movie . I wish the Third Reich had devoted more resources to turning out pleasant froth like this , instead of their more regrettable enterprises .
Lucy & Desi and Rodgers & Hart	' Too Many Girls ' is froth , but it's well-made froth : a fun movie musical that's just slightly below top-notch , based on a 1939 Broadway musical comedy of the same name , starring Eddie Bracken and Desi Arnaz ( who repeat their stage roles here ) . The songs are by Rodgers and Hart , but only one song here has become a standard : ' I Didn't Know What Time It Was ' . One song from the Broadway version that doesn't show up here is ' I Like to Recognise the Tune ' , a snappy quartet . When I interviewed Eddie Bracken in 1993 , he told me that this had been his favourite song in the original Broadway production , and he was disappointed that he didn't get a chance to perform it in the film version . One problem with ' Too Many Girls ' is that it's got almost exactly the same plot as the Gershwins ' musical ' Girl Crazy ' , but with the sexes reversed . In ' Girl Crazy ' , a wealthy young playboy from New York is sent by his father to a tiny ranch in the Southwest to keep him away from his multiple girlfriends . In ' Too Many Girls ' , a wealthy young playgirl from New York ( Lucille Ball ) is sent by her father to a tiny college in the Southwest to keep her away from her boyfriend . . . a guy with the improbable name Beverly Waverly . ' Too Many Girls ' doesn't stand up to comparison with the other show : ' Girl Crazy ' came first , and it features George and Ira Gershwin's best score ever . . . whereas Rodgers and Hart were not up to their usual standard when they wrote the songs for ' Too Many Girls ' . I was never a fan of Lucille Ball , because I dislike the ridiculous character she played in all her tv series and most of her movies . In ' Too Many Girls ' , amazingly , she gives one of her very few realistic performances as a plausible human being , and she's actually quite good here . I wish she'd played roles like this more often . It was during production of ' Too Many Girls ' that Lucille Ball met Desi Arnaz , leading to their marriage and a tv series that I always considered vastly overrated . But Arnaz is quite good in ' Too Many Girls ' , playing a Cuban conga player ( what a stretch ! ) who isn't at all like Ricky Ricardo . Desi and Lucy are not teamed in this movie : each of their screen characters is attracted to somebody else . Arnaz , Bracken , Richard Carlson and Hal LeRoy play four football heroes . Arnaz and Carlson are believable as gridiron stars , and Bracken might just possibly be a place kicker . . . but the slender and limp-wristed Hal LeRoy is just not plausible as a football player . LeRoy does absolutely nothing to justify his presence in this movie except for a big production number halfway through the film , in which he does a spirited tap dance on top of a tom-tom . For some reason , this dance is cut out of most television prints of this movie . There's an amusing running gag concerning college girls who wear beanies to let the male students know whether or not the girls are sexually available . You might spot Van Johnson very briefly in two of the dance numbers . At the end of the show , Desi Arnaz whips out his conga drum , and does a very energetic rendition of ' Babalu ' while all the college students form a conga line across the campus . This leads to a bizarre joke which physically disgusted me , when a biology professor peers down a microscope and he sees a bunch of microbes forming a conga line . The crude animation for this brief gag makes the microbes look nauseating : also , this joke is a rip-off of an animation gag in the 1930 movie ' Good News ' , in which some chalk drawings suddenly start dancing during the ' Pass that Peace Pipe ' number . ' Too Many Girls ' is a lot of fun . I don't like Lucille Ball's tv shows , but she gives a fine performance here , and I'll rate this movie .
It's not her ' Asphalt ' .	' Asphalt ' was directed by Joe May , a fairly talented director / producer who helped start the career of Fritz Lang , one of the greatest film directors of all time . Joe May had the misfortune to be Jewish in Hitler's Germany . Fortunately , he escaped to Hollywood . Unfortunately , none of Joe May's Hollywood films are especially important , although I enjoy his horror film ' The Invisible Man Returns ' . ' Asphalt ' is a turgid drama that could almost be conceived for Emil Jannings , as it fits his formula : highly respected uniformed authority figure is corrupted and humiliated by a scarlet harlot . What keeps this from becoming a Jannings vehicle is the fact that the male protagonist is a handsome virile young man , not the fleshly Jannings . Gustav Fröhlich ( the young hero of ' Metropolis ' ) stars as Albert Holk , a traffic cop in Berlin . Despite his lowly rank , Holk has expectations of a splendid career : he is utterly honest , and his father is a highly respected police sergeant . But along comes a woman . Elsa ( Betty Amann ) is a beautiful young jewel thief . Escaping from her latest heist , she runs afoul of Officer Holk , but manages to ditch the evidence so that she seems to be innocent . A romance develops between the two young people . Of course , he doesn't know she's a crook . She is sincerely attracted to him , but not quite enough to give up her criminal career . SPOILERS COMING . Hans Schlettow gives a solid performance as the villain of the piece . His character is already embroiled in a sexual relationship with Elsa . But just now he's in Paris , pretending to be a staffer at the German consulate while he plans a bank heist . Eventually he robs the bank and comes back to Berlin with the swag . . . just in time to catch Elsa in the arms of the policeman . Albert kills Hans , then confesses everything to his father . The ending is plausible , although it would have been rather less plausible if this same story took place in America or Britain . There is some excellent photography here , and some good performances from the leads . The street scenes in Berlin , pre-Hitler , are impressive . I'll rate this movie 7 in 10 .
In some ways , better than Spencer Tracy's movie	' Edouard mon fils ' is an adaptation for French television of the English drama ' Edward , My Son ' . My French is not of the best , but I was able to follow the action of this talky drama largely due to my familiarity with the original playscript and its film version . I wish I had seen the play , co-written by Robert Morley as a starring vehicle for himself . For most of his career , Morley coasted in roles that paid the most money for the least demand on his energy and talent . . . but in his early days , Morley was an extremely ambitious and talented man of the theatre . In ' Edward , My Son ' , intriguingly , he tackled the ambitious and difficult task of creating a protagonist who does not engage the audience's sympathies in any way . The well-known film version of ' Edward , My Son ' ( appropriately filmed in England ) was deeply flawed due to Spencer Tracy's presence in the leading role . I greatly respect Tracy's craft as an actor , but he was often miscast . In ' Edward , My Son ' , he betrayed the character ( and the story ) by playing to the audience's sympathy . Also , as the main role was an Englishman , some awkward dialogue was inserted about Tracy's character being Canadian so as to spare him from attempting an English accent . In all of its versions , ' Edward , My Son ' is one of those dramas in which the title character is never seen : Edward is absent throughout , but constantly spoken about at great length by everyone else . In the MGM film , that was a weakness : the film opened up the stage material , forcing the audience to wonder why Edward ( so central to the activities and thoughts of both his parents ) was never present . This 1974 French television version reverts to the original staging , with only slight changes , and this makes it in many ways ( despite the low budget and static camerawork ) an improvement over MGM's movie . As we're clearly going to stay inside Arnold's factory , there's no expectation that the dilettante Edward will show up . In this French version , the story and the characters ' nationality are located to France , so there are some name changes and some dialogue revisions beyond the language change . Arnold is a ruthless industrialist . Speaking directly to the audience , he seeks to persuade us that everything he has done is a noble sacrifice to make life easier for his precious son Edward . Arnold's wife Evelyne is also expected to sacrifice for Edward . SPOILERS COMING . As the action progresses - with Arnold committing business crimes , and driving inconvenient people to suicide , all for the supposed benefit of Edward - we see that Arnold's motives are more selfish than he will admit , even to himself . Eventually , Edward dies ( still offstage , in a ' plane crash ) , forcing his parents to examine the wisdom of their supposed sacrifices , and provoking Evelyne to renounce her selfish husband . The gimmick of the central character remaining offstage and unseen has some benefits , but also causes difficulties . Michel de Ré performs the lead role of Arnold in a manner that prevents us from fully believing he sincerely loves his son Edward . Perhaps he doesn't ; perhaps Arnold's professed devotion to his son is one more ego trip , enabling Arnold to congratulate himself on what a devoted father he is ( and giving him another motive for rationalising his crimes ) . Because we never see Arnold and his son together , we can never determine if Arnold actually loves his son , or if Edward loves his father . The unseen Edward seems to be utterly selfish , in a dilettantish manner that's more obvious than the self-centredness of his father . There is a great air of futility to this production , but much of that is due to the source material . The stiff-upper-lip British flavour of the original seems to have given over to a generally blasé tone of Gallic shrugs in this translation . Or am I imposing cultural stereotypes upon my perceptions ? Michel Beaune is excellent as Arnold's only friend : Dr Parker , the neutral observer who witnesses the selfish behaviour of Edward and both his parents , yet who discreetly offers only as much advice as they're willing to hear . As Arnold and Evelyne are both deluded , Dr Parker serves as the drama's anchor in reality , enabling the audience to know whom to believe onstage , and where to place their sympathy . In a supporting role , Fulbert Janin is extremely poignant as Arnold's business associate whom he goads into a suicidal leap from his factory's roof . I viewed a videotape of this production . Unfortunately , the audio recording was quite bad ; combined with my imperfect grasp of French , this gave me some difficulty following the dialogue . With that caveat , I'll rate this production .
' Argyle ' earns its stripes .	According to its opening credits , ' The Argyle Case ' is based on a stage play . . . but then , immediately after the main credits , a title card appears bearing a message with the signature of William J Burns , the deputy attorney-general who founded the FBI . According to this title card , ' The Argyle Case ' is based on an actual murder case in the FBI's files . I'm inclined to believe the stage-play version , not the FBI version . This story is very stagey , and I couldn't believe it was based on a real murder case , FBI or otherwise . . . especially as the FBI didn't exist yet when the play was originally written . Still , it's difficult to believe that the filmmakers would appropriate FBI boss Burns's name without his permission . So I believe that the Burns testimonial is authentic , which is not to say that it's accurate . From this point , the movie starts promisingly . In the opening sequence , wealthy John Argyle ( briefly played by Lew Harvey ) is murdered . The murder sequence is imaginatively staged : we see and hear the crime occurring , yet the identity of the murderer is withheld from us in a plausible manner , using a subjective camera set-up that was later echoed ( copied ? ) in the British film ' Green for Danger ' . After this intriguing start , the movie gets weirder and less plausible . Thomas Meighan gives a stolid performance as homicide investigator Alex Kayton . His assistants are fat Joe and plodding Sam . Whenever he gives them an order , they reply ' O . K . , A . K . ' This is the funniest gag in the movie , and a bit cheeky with it . The letters ' A . K . ' are Kayton's initials , but they're also the abbreviation for a Yiddish epithet , ' alter kocker ' . George S Kaufman ripped off this gag for his musical ' Of Thee I Sing ' , with the Supreme Court judges intoning ' We're the A . K . s who give the O . K . s ' . John Argyle's will and testament leave all his money to young Mary Morgan , played by the beautiful Lila Lee . This doesn't sit well with Argyle's son Bruce , played ineptly by John Darrow . Bert Roach is unpleasant , as usual . Also on hand is ZaSu Pitts as one of the suspects . This actress usually gets very wearisome very quickly , with her annoying fluttery gestures and quivery speech . Here , ZaSu manages to out-zasoo herself by talking a blue streak ( or maybe an argyle streak ) with that annoying voice of hers . Gladys Brockwell , an attractive woman who usually played harridans , is seen to good advantage here . Sadly , Brockwell died ( from injuries in a road accident ) at about the time this film was released . She could have had a very successful career in early talkies ; her voice records well here , and she shows a firm technique for talking pictures . SPOILER COMING . Of course , Alex Kayton solves the murder : if you're familiar with these actors from roles in other films , the cast list gives you a good idea of whodunnit . Mary Morgan inherits John Argyle's millions . . . and then Kayton announces that he plans to marry her , despite her wealth . Hoo boy . If this movie could keep up the moody atmosphere of that opening scene , it would be a classic . As it stands , I'll rate it .
Entertaining ? Yes . Accurate ? No .	This film ' Oh , Mr Faulkner , Do You Write ? ' takes its title from an incident during William Faulkner's stint as a Hollywood screenwriter . The director Victor Fleming separately invited Faulkner and Clark Gable ( who had never met before ) to join him on a duck hunt . ( Some versions of this story claim that the director on the duck hunt was Howard Hawks ; I think it was Fleming . ) On the trip , their discussion turned to literature . Gable asked Faulkner to name , in his opinion , the greatest living authors . Faulkner offered a brief list , ending with his own name . ' Or , Mr Faulkner , do you write ? ' asked the started Gable . ' Yes , I do , Mr Gable , ' said Faulkner . ' What do YOU do ? ' At the time , Clark Gable was America's most popular male film star , so Faulkner's response has been regarded as a witty put-down to Gable's lack of literary savvy . However , the screenwriter and science-fiction author Leigh Brackett ( who worked with Faulkner on the script of ' The Big Sleep ' ) told me that Faulkner was so deeply oblivious of popular culture ( except for literature ) that he was probably genuinely unaware of Clark Gable's box-office stardom . . . and his reply to Gable - - ' What do YOU do ? ' - - was a legitimate question ! Which brings me to my review of this film . Actor / writer John Maxwell ( who somewhat resembles Faulkner here , at least in make-up ) has staged a one-man show about Faulkner's life and work : this film records the stage performance . Maxwell's script , co-written by Tom Dupree , includes the Gable anecdote , but presents it in a manner which flatters Faulkner , implying that he knew exactly who Gable was , and that his reply was meant as a witty put-down . ( Full disclosure : Mr Dupree and I are both members of the same professional authors ' association , although - - as of this review - - we've never met . ) This entire show , while entertaining , is careful to give only a selective view of Faulkner's life , rather than an honest overview . . . picking and choosing its incidents in a manner which flatters Faulkner as much as possible , and which also flatters his hometown of choice : Oxford , Mississippi . . . not Faulkner's birthplace but the town in which he chose to live and work for most of his life . This performance was filmed before a live audience in Oxford . ( The one in Mississippi . ) The audience make no secret of their enjoyment , but much of their laughter and applause is self-congratulatory . We are given here , as true history , a well-known anecdote about Faulkner which is now believed to be apocryphal . Supposedly , while Faulkner was living in Hollywood and working on a screenplay for Howard Hawks at Warner Brothers , Faulkner complained that he had difficulty working in the Warner studio and asked Hawks for permission to write ' at home ' instead . Hawks obliged . A few days later , checking on Faulkner's progress , Hawks rang up Faulkner at the apartment he'd rented in Los Angeles . . . and learnt that Faulkner had moved out , to write at HOME in Oxford , Mississippi ! It's an amusing story - - and I can well believe that Faulkner would dislike writing in the prison-like building on the Warners lot where Jack L Warner required his scriptwriters to toil - - but it's simply not true . However , Maxwell relates the incident here as if it had happened . . . to the great glee of his Oxonian audience . The play is staged to depict Faulkner in his Oxford studio in 1950 , on the eve of his acceptance of the Nobel Prize for Literature , looking back on the life that has brought him to this point . The moment was not randomly selected . The peak of Faulkner's prestige occurred here : NOT when he actually accepted the Nobel Prize , but in the preparatory period when he'd been told he was to receive the award , and was writing his acceptance speech . What Maxwell's play neglects to tell us ( intentionally , I'm sure ) is that the actual Nobel ceremony was no high point of dignity either for Faulkner himself or for the Nobel committee : Faulkner was drunk when he gave his acceptance speech , disgracing himself and embarrassing everyone else . This is documented fact ; if you don't believe me , look it up . Indeed , Maxwell's play tiptoes round the subject of Faulkner's alcoholism : a dishonest decision , since it affected so much of his life and his writing . We are told one point in Faulkner's favour : he apparently never drank while writing , and also never claimed that alcohol improved his writing . However , we are never told here about any of the many , many occasions when Faulkner's indulgence had detrimental effects on his health or his writing . By setting this play in 1950 , Maxwell is able to omit the drunken equestrian incident in 1962 which led to Faulkner's death from pneumonia . Instead , we get a few winking comments about how Faulkner liked his bourbon . This one-man show achieved what it set out to do : depict William Faulkner's life and career ( and his relationship with his hometown ) in a manner that would flatter him and the citizens of Oxford , Mississippi , rather than offer an honest overview . This film largely succeeds at what it set out to do - - rather than what I wish it had done - - and on that account I'll give it a high rating of .
Historic interest only	The reign of France's king Louis Philippe ( 1830-1848 ) was a turbulent era . Louis initiated all sorts of social reforms which were allegedly ' progressive ' , but which achieved little actual progress . For example , France's Child Labour Act of 1841 mandated that children aged 8 to 12 could not be used in manual labour for more than 8 hours a day , whilst children up to age 16 could not be forced to work for more than 12 hours a day . In theory this was a reform ; in fact , it achieved precisely nothing because Louis Philippe's labour inspectors were all corrupt . Interestingly , Louis Philippe did relax France's previous laws against Jews . . . but this appears to be his only reform that actually accomplished something . ' Auberge de Adrets ' was a French stage play depicting the exploits of two French rogues during the July Monarchy of Louis Philippe . Robert Macaire ( his name rhymes in French ) and Bertrand begin the play as galley slaves ; they meet in prison and , after escaping together , decide to pool their criminal talents . Their relationship is remarkably similar to that of Blackadder and Baldrick ( from the British sitcom ) , with Macaire as the master and Bertrand as his incompetent assistant and henchman . ' Auberge de Adrets ' was originally a satire on French society in the time of Louis Philippe . In the late 19th century , this play was revived and revised by the French actor Frederick Lemaitre , who cast himself as Macaire in a new version which satirised the political excesses of ' modern ' France . Georges Melies's film ' Robert Macaire et Bernard ' is a screen version of Lemaitre's play . This is a very crude film , with no dialogue intertitles . Melies stages the action as a series of vignettes , each one mounted in front of a different painted backdrop in a single camera set-up . We see Macaire and Bertrand meeting aboard a prison-galley : a ' ship ' that is clearly a stage setting in an indoor theatre . We witness their escape ( overboard ) and their decision to join forces as confidence tricksters . The subsequent tableaux depict Macaire ( assisted by Bertrand ) turning his hand to a series of trades . In each case , Macaire chooses a respected profession as a front for his criminal endeavours : for instance , at one point he sets himself up as a consulting physician . . . but he sells only potions which are medically worthless . These scenes are like a series of linked sausages ; one follows the next , but they don't build to a climax . SPOILERS COMING . After the two crooks have been exposed as frauds in every honest profession of France , they hightail it for the border and arrive in Belgium . In Lemaitre's play , the dialogue describes Belgium as a worthless wilderness unfit for anyone except fools and lunatics . . . a place , in other words , where two crooks can get a fresh start towards prosperity . Unfortunately , Melies's crude film assumes that the audience have some prior knowledge of Lemaitre's play , and can therefore follow the actions of Melies's players without requiring dialogue or captions . Modern audiences , who lack that knowledge , will find this movie quite baffling . . . and will find the final scene most baffling of all , when Macaire and Bertrand tramp across an open field ( one more crude backdrop , obviously filmed indoors ) and find themselves in Belgium . I'll rate this movie , more for its historic value than for any entertainment or narrative qualities . Georges Melies did his best work in his famous ' stunt ' films that relied on trick photography . Here , attempting to tell a straightforward story , he's much less effective .
A don't-ask-why chromosome	The 1924 silent movie ' The Last Man on Earth ' is one of those ideas that just won't go away : suppose there was only one fertile male on Earth , and all the women fought over his services ? This same gimmick showed up again in the 1933 semi-musical film " It's Great to Be Alive " and yet again in Pat Frank's 1946 novel ' Mr Adam ' , which was briefly a best-seller . ' The Last Man on Earth ' is better than the former but definitely inferior to the latter . This movie takes place in the far-future year of 1960 , when women wear strange Jetsons-like outfits . A mysterious plague , called male-itis , has ravaged the Earth , killing all males over the age of 14 . ( This arbitrary age in the silent-film intertitles is obviously a circumlocution for puberty . ) A female scientist named Dr Prodwell develops a serum which will immunise prepubescent boys , but it also ensures that they'll remain sterile . Womankind takes over the Earth , and of course it gives this movie ( made only 5 years after women got the vote ) an opportunity for some witless jokes about women's ability to govern themselves . The United States is governed by a " Presidentess " who is also the First Lady . With no men handy , she lets the White House lawn grow unkempt and weedy ( apparently lawn-mowing is men's work ) while the White House is over-run by cats . ( Anticipating ' Logan's Run ' , in which the Senate is over-run by cats . ) An aviatrix ( Grace Cunard ) , flying over a remote area in the Ozarks , spots a smoking chimney . Landing to investigate , she discovers Elmer Smith , a bearded hillbilly in his thirties . . . apparently fertile and immune to male-itis . But Elmer would rather stay in the sticks with his sweet-patootie Hattie , so some tough women knock him out and sling him into the , erm , cockpit of a waiting aeroplane . There's a very kinky sequence in which Elmer is taken to a hospital with an all-female staff , where he is forcibly shaved , stripped and subjected to a medical examination under the stern gaze of Dr Prodwell . This is followed by a semi-kinky gymnasium sequence in which a couple of fetching damsels put on boxing gloves and beat the bejeezus out of Elmer while Dr Prodwell watches approvingly . Next thing we know , the " Senatoress " from Massachusetts and the " Senatoress " from California are posing in bathing cozzies , urging Elmer to choose one of them as his consort . Elmer just wants to go home to Hattie . This is a weird movie . I laughed through most of it , but I don't think I was laughing for the reasons which the makers of this movie originally intended . I'll rate ' The Last Man on Earth ' , but you're much better off reading Pat Frank's novel ' Mr Adam ' .
Felix almost anticipates Hitchcock .	The title of this Felix toon is ' Woos Whoopee ' , which makes sense if you view a print with the original credits . Since Felix received star billing - - his name above the title - - the credits manage to read ' Felix the Cat Woos Whoopee ' . At this time , Felix the Cat was indeed a hugely popular box-office draw , fully deserving of star billing . Too bad he couldn't keep up with a certain mouse from a competing studio . As another reviewer has already noted , there's a Mrs Felix in this cartoon : a white cat . I find it a bit confusing when a cartoon character in a long-running series will acquire a wife or children ( or both ) to serve the plot of one particular toon , only for these relations to vanish without a trace afterward . This American cartoon was produced and released during Prohibition , so domestic audiences undoubtedly were highly amused by the sequences of Felix boozing it up with his cronies in some speakeasy . ( Can a silent film have a speakeasy ? ) Also , there's some clever animation in the depictions of the monsters Felix sees in the throes of his drunken trip home . One unfortunate trait of American comedy films ( toon and live-action ) during the Prohibition era was that they got very easy laughs just by mentioning or showing booze , and often the scriptwriters got lazy by relying too heavily on this device . ( Like all those 1970s comedies that got cheap laughs from jokes about marijuana . ) One sequence in ' Woos Whoopee ' intrigued me very much . . . then disappointed me . At one point , Felix moves so close to the camera that the black part of his head fills the entire frame . I expected this to become an ' invisible cut ' , the cinematic device later used by Hitchcock in ' Rope ' : the camera would pull back from Felix's black head to reveal that it had actually cut to an entirely different dark object . I was disappointed when this didn't happen , and the black object continued to be Felix . Oh , well . . . There are quite a few imaginative visual compositions in this short toon , very cleverly animated on a low budget . I didn't laugh at all during ' Woos Whoopee ' , but I did enjoy it . My rating : .
Uncle Fester meets the Kid from Borneo .	Following his performance in Chaplin's ' The Kid ' , Jackie Coogan became an astonishingly popular silent-film star while still a very young child . Sadly , the many millions of dollars earned by young Jackie were squandered by his parents and his stepfather . Because of Coogan's misfortune , the guardians of modern child actors are now required to keep their children's earnings in trust for their adulthood . ' Little Robinson Crusoe ' is one of Jackie's star vehicles . Young Mickey Hogan is the orphan cabin boy on a ship commanded by cruel Captain Dynes . Mickey's only friend is the ship's cat , named Man Friday . ( The cat is black : clearly a racial reference . ) A storm at sea ( featuring some very bad miniatures , and unconvincing lightning ) finds Mickey and Man Friday clinging to the wreckage . But a convenient island heaves into view . The prospect of a small boy alone on a remote island could be frightening , but this movie plays for comedy . So we get some antics with monkeys hoying coconuts . There are also some African-looking natives , played in full racial stereotype and identified in the inter-titles as ' cannibals ' . The island next-door over is run by a white man : overseer Adolph Schmidt , accompanied by his pretty daughter Greta . The latter looks to be about 15 years old , about midway between Jackie's age and adulthood . When the native labourers decide to kill Schmidt , it's Jackie to the rescue . There's a good performance by character actor Clarence Wilson , and a few clever sequences with animals . Most of the ' island ' footage looks like it was filmed in Griffith Park . Jackie Coogan's starring films were geared for both adult and child audiences , so the boy hero here is never in any real danger . The racial stereotyping in this movie is very distasteful , but not any more so than in many other films from this period . . . and quite a few films from this time are much worse with it . Child actor Coogan shows real comedic talent , and I'll rate this movie . Pass the coconuts !
Japanese Comanches .	I saw ' The Last of the Line ' in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . They screened a print on loan from the Museum of Modern Art in New York City . The original credits list an actor with the Victorian-style billing of ' Mr Bingham ' - - no forename , just Mister Bingham - - in the role of the cavalry colonel . By modern standards , it would be easy to dismiss ' The Last of the Line ' as creaky , and to accuse this film of perpetrating racial stereotypes about Amerindians . In fact , I felt that this frontier drama made an honest and intelligent attempt to address a subject which the United States and its people have never truly confronted : the difficult balancing act of fully including the Amerindians into the nation's mainstream without the loss of their native culture . Chief Grey Otter is an Amerindian tribal leader living near a white settlement . He has the foresight to recognise that the white settlers are an increasing presence in this region , and that amicable co-existence is the best option available to his own people . Accordingly , he has sent his son Tiah ( Sessue Hayakawa ) away to be educated at a ' government school ' , so that Tiah will become acclimated to the ways of the white people and will be able ( as Grey Otter's heir and successor ) to lead the next generation of his own people with the benefit of knowledge of the white people's ways . However , while Tiah was at the school , he was taunted as a ' bad Indian ' . He is embittered towards the white people , and believes that the two cultures cannot co-exist . Tiah gathers a group of like-minded renegades , and they attack a stagecoach en route to the white settlement . The stagecoach has an escort of cavalry riders ; some of the cavalrymen shoot it out with the renegades while the rest head towards the cavalry fort . SPOILERS NOW . Grey Otter arrives at the attack just as Tiah is about to shoot the cavalry commander . Without any hesitation , Grey Otter shoots his own son dead . The other renegades ride off . Aware that the rest of the cavalry will arrive soon , Grey Otter arranges his son's corpse so that it looks as if he died defending the coach . When the cavalrymen arrive , they recognise Tiah as Grey Otter's son who was about to return from the government school . Grey Otter's ruse succeeds ; the cavalrymen respect Tiah as an heroic defender of the white settlers , and he is buried with military honours . Oh , dear . I'm sure that a lot of cynical people will dismiss this film as chock-full of clichés . The cavalry to the rescue ! Cheee-yarrrge ! However , it's possible that in 1914 some of those tropes weren't ossified into clichés yet . I'm not a major fan of Westerns , but I give this film credit for an attempt to depict the Amerindians honestly , with less patronisation than usual . It's notable that Grey Otter is able to deceive the white people , and the film is staged and directed to give Grey Otter the audience's sympathy . Most of the actors playing Amerindians in this movie do indeed seem to be racially authentic , and their distinctive facial structures and cheekbones photograph well . The casting of the Issei Japanese actor Hayakawa as a Plains Amerindian actually works well , and Hayakawa's considerable acting talent overrides any ethnic conflicts . Although the role of Tiah is nominally a villainous one , Hayakawa brings sympathy to the role : he wouldn't have become a ' bad Indian ' if the whites hadn't taunted him . Another Issei actor , Tsuru Aoki , is good as one of the renegades . I'll rate this film .
Not a knockout , but it goes the distance .	Max Schmeling remains a controversial figure . As the boxing champion of Germany ( and then world champion ) during Hitler's reign , there was naturally some tendency on the part of the Third Reich to use Schmeling as a symbol of the Aryan ubermensch . In 1936 , Schmeling fought the undefeated Joe Louis . By Nazi standards , Louis was inferior twice over , as an American who was also a Negro . When Schmeling beat Louis by a knockout , there was great glee among Nazis ( and Americans who sympathised with the Nazis ) . In 1938 , Joe Louis turned the tables by beating Schmeling with a TKO in a rematch lasting two minutes . Precisely where were Schmeling's sympathies ? He certainly took advantage of his privileged position in Hitler's regime , yet apparently he resented being made the poster boy for Nazism , and reportedly he and Joe Louis respected each other personally . Schmeling enjoyed a long marriage to Austro-Hungarian actress Anny Ondra , who had a successful career in British silent films until the talkies revealed her accent . ' Knockout : A Young Girl , a Young Man ' teams Schmeling and Ondra on screen . Interestingly , Schmeling's role is significantly larger and more prominent than Ondra's even though she's a professional actor and he isn't . Max Schmeling plays Max Breuer , a backstage electrician in a Berlin theatre . Ondra plays Marianne Pluemke , an aspiring actress who auditions at the theatre . When a surly burly masher gets fresh with the fraulein , Max intercedes . . . leading to fisticuffs , until Max knocks the guy out . It turns out that the masher ( Paul Samson-Körner ) is Huetgen , a prizefighter . Max gets the sack for his troubles , but a fellow with the peculiar name Smidtchen ( good performance by Otto Wernicke ) offers to train Max at a boxing school in Hamburg . SPOILERS COMING . Max comes back to Berlin and fights the British heavyweight champion , Hawkins ( played by the very un-British Hans Schönrath ) . Does Max win the match ? Does Max win the fraulein ? Jawohl , mein liebchen ! This is Max's show all the way , and fans of Anny Ondra ( are there any ? ) will be disappointed at how little she gets to do . Schmeling displays little talent for dramatics , but fortunately this film is scripted to play to his strong suit . Max throws plenty of punches in this movie , and receives quite a few as well . The climactic boxing match is exciting and well-edited . The scenes at the Hamburg boxing academy have the look of authenticity to me , though I admit I know very little about Hamburg boxing academies . Devotees of boxing , and of German culture in the 1930s ( notwithstanding who was in charge ) will find this film fascinating . But there's very little here to appeal to other tastes . Purely on the basis of what it set out to accomplish , I'll rate this movie .
The clockwork man gets ticked off .	One of the most delightful silent films I've ever seen is Ernst Lubitsch's 1919 ' Die Puppe ' ( ' The Doll ' ) , based on a tale by E . T . A . Hoffmann , starring Ossi Oswalda as a young woman who impersonates a life-size mechanical doll in order to woo a young man . This early German sound film ' Der Hampelmann ' ( ' The Puppet ' ) is largely the same story with the genders reversed . ' Der Hampelmann ' lacks the magic of Lubitsch and Hoffmann , and isn't nearly as good , but it's enjoyable in its own right . Herr Eickmeyer is a wealthy parfumier : well past middle age , and stout with it . His blonde wife Lissy is much younger , pretty and vivacious . Since Eickmeyer can't keep up with his young wife , he commissions a companion for her in the form of a life-sized talking clockwork man , purchased for 5 , 000 deutschemarks . . . to be shipped to his home immediately it's assembled . Speaking of money , Max von Storch is a handsome young baron , noble of title but short of pfennigs . He has a case of the hots for Lissy . When Baron von Storch learns of Eickmeyer's purchase , he disguises himself as the clockwork man and has himself shipped to Lissy . Naturally , the lissome Lissy is delighted with her handsome new plaything . Of course , there are complications . The ' puppet ' sneezes at inappropriate moments . He also gets hungry and thirsty , and must figure out how to snatch food and scoff it without being seen . ( We're not told what he does about his toilet needs . ) Eventually , of course , the real clockwork man arrives ; now the baron abandons his disguise but is unable to leave . Various bedroom-farce complications ensue . . . ' Der Hampelmann ' is deeply contrived in its situations . So was ' Die Puppe ' , but that film was set in a fairytale mise-en-scene that blatantly contradicted reality . ' Der Hampelmann ' takes place in a somewhat more realistic milieu than Lubitsch's film , so the contrivances are more awkward here . It's worth noting that ' Die Puppe ' was a silent film , whilst ' Der Hampelmann ' is a talking picture . . . and an early one at that , suffering from the unwieldy camera techniques of the time . Silent films had a basic air of unreality that worked very much to the benefit of ' Die Puppe ' , whereas the guttural voices of the actors in ' Der Hampelmann ' keep us grounded in reality . Ossi Oswalda's clockwork doll didn't speak ; in ' Der Hampelmann ' , the mechanical men - - the real one , and the fake - - both speak mechanically , and the effect is not charming . In the leading role of the counterfeit clockwork man , Max Hansen gives a lively and extremely physical performance , but fails to ingratiate . The story might have worked better if Baron von Storch had money , so that we would accept that his interest in Lissy - - apparently equal parts lust and romance - - has no mercenary subtext . The best performance in this film is given by Szöke Sakall , better-known to fans of 1940s Warner Bros films as character actor S . Z . Sakall . As the wealthy Eickmeyer , ' Cuddles ' Sakall is in fine form here , doing all of his beloved physical crotchets . At one point , he even clasps his fists to his cheeks , as he did so memorably in several Hollywood films . I was also pleased by a too-brief performance by Peter Lorre's wife Celia Lovsky . Less pleasant is this film's musical score , which sounds more mechanical than may have been appropriate for a story about a mechanical man . ' Der Hampelmann ' is a very enjoyable film , which I'll rate .
Alice Faye is even sexier than usual .	It's interesting how different roles played by the same actor can form a continuum . The master showman played by Warner Baxter here in ' King of Burlesque ' could arguably be the same master showman played by Baxter in ' Stand Up and Cheer ' and ( so memorably ) in ' 42nd Street ' , if only they all had the same name . If the three films depict the same character at three stages in his life , then ' King of Burlesque ' would have to be chronologically first . . . because here we see Baxter's showman in his early scuffling days as a burlesque impresario , working his way up to Broadway with laughable ease in an impressive montage . I wish that the money which 20th Century-Fox had spent on that montage had been spent on some better scriptwriters . The story here is deepest cliché . Alice Faye is secretly in love with Baxter , but he's only got eyes for the posh society dame played by ice-cold Mona Barrie . Will Baxter come to his senses before the projectionist starts the second feature ? Fortunately , ' King of Burlesque ' doesn't have to rely on its plot to be enjoyable . There are some goodish musical performances here , notably the great Fats Waller warbling my favourite of his standards : " I've Got My Fingers Crossed " . Waller also has a good comedy scene with Baxter , playing the black servant who forgets to ' yassuh ' de massah . Less impressive is Dixie Dunbar , a pint-sized tap dancer whose style seems to be midway between Ruby Keeler and Eleanor Powell , but without Powell's virtuoso skill and sex appeal . I've always found Alice Faye very sexy , and she's sexier than usual here in two extremely kinky costumes : playing a ( not very convincing ) underage girl in a burlesque blackout , and then later performing a novelty number in full riding habit . . . but with tights instead of jodhpurs ! Faye is joined for this number by Herbert Mundin , who could have become one of the great Hollywood character actors if not for his untimely accidental death . Elsewhere , Gregory Ratoff brings genuine poignancy to a comedy role as a cod millionaire . There's also some weird adagio dancing from Nick Long Jnr ( who ? ) , jumping over some chorus girls , and some rapid buck-and-winging from boy dancer Gareth Joplin ( again , who ? ) . Joplin's dance number here is an excellent showcase for him , and I'm sure that he thought this film would be his big break . . . but , from here his next stop was oblivion . I was surprised to learn that this film was Oscar-nominated for its dance direction . Frankly , none of the musical numbers ( except Waller's ) are staged especially well . Early on , while the characters played by Baxter and Faye are still in burlesque , I was impressed by one dance number which is staged badly on purpose : Faye and the Paxton Sisters attempt a dance in unison , but they're only vaguely dancing the same steps . . . a very appropriate staging for a number that takes place in a working-class burlesque theatre . ' King of Burlesque ' doesn't stand up to analysis . Even its title is sucker bait , as very little of this film takes place in burlesque . For all its faults , this is an excellent example of the sort of B-budget musical that was routinely ground out during Hollywood's golden era ; I wish that modern Hollywood could routinely grind out musicals as " bad " as this one ( meaning , as GOOD as this one ) nowadays . My rating : , mostly for Waller's number and Faye's incredibly sexy performance . Skip the plot , and fast-forward to the musical numbers .
A nice change from the usual Mix	Tom Mix and his equine companion Tony the Wonder Horse had a solid career in Westerns , but just occasionally Mix ( or his producers ) made a commendable effort to vary the formula . . . notably with ' Dick Turpin ' , in which Mix played the long-riding highwayman and male horse Tony played Turpin's mare Black Bess . ' The Circus Ace ' is a more reliable variant on Mix's usual formula , basically the Mix as before . . . but with elements of circus life brought in to vary the action and visuals . SLIGHT SPOILERS COMING . Tom Terry ( Mix ) is out on the range with Tony when a woman falls out of the sky , dressed in a spangled leotard . She's Millie Raleigh ( Natalie Joyce ) , doing a parachute act for a travelling circus . ( How can the audience appreciate the parachute act , if she lands miles away from the tent site ? ) Tom helps her get back to the circus , and he promptly gets ' with it ' by joining the show , doing his trick riding and roping acts . When the circus reaches its next town , Millie rides an elephant in the circus parade up the high street . Tom's gunfire startles the elephant , who stampedes with Millie in tow . Tom gallops ahead on Tony , his lasso at the ready . I thought Mix was going to lasso the elephant , but he did something slightly more plausible . One of the men with the circus is named Kirk Mallory . With a monicker like that , you just know he's a villain . Sure enough , Mallory gets Tom framed on a false charge , and soon the sheriff has nicked Tom and hauled him off to the calaboose while the circus is about to leave without him . There's a funny but implausible scene here . The sheriff has conveniently allowed Tom to keep his jack-knife with him in his gaol cell . ( Very hospitable ! ) The cell contains one of those prison-cliché beds that hang from chains on the wall , and a wooden chair . Tom nervously whittles the chair down to a pile of shavings . When he's given a broom and ordered to sweep up the shavings , he carries on shaving the broom handle . Of course , faithful Tony helps Tom bust out of prison . ( Why didn't the sheriff arrest Tony too ? ) There are a couple of amusing sight gags with a kangaroo during the circus sequences . Natalie Joyce , tall and brunette , is not conventionally pretty but looks quite attractive in her circus tights , and she gives a splendid performance . I'll rate this movie . Tom Mix's middle name was Collins . ( Boom , boom ! )
Peter Ibbetson meets " Goodnight Sweetheart " .	In adapting his own stage play ' Berkeley Square ' for the screen , playwright John L Balderston made numerous changes . One change is significant in hindsight : during Act One of the stage play , the dialogue makes several references to a war hero named Bill Clinton ! ( A hero on the side fighting AGAINST the United States . ) In the film , this British officer is merely identified as Major Clinton , and there are no mentions of his heroics . Leslie Howard , everyone's definitive Englishman , was actually English only by a fluke : his parents were Hungarian Jews who moved to London shortly before his birth . In the film version of ' Berkeley Square ' , Howard portrays two Americans - - one from the 18th century , one from the present - - but his accent and demeanour in both roles are quintessentially English . Howard had previously starred on Broadway in this story , but in the stage play he portrayed only the modern-day Peter Standish who journeys into the past ; his namesake ancestor ( swapping places with him in the present ) remained offstage . Here we have the fantasy about a modern American who contrives to switch places in time with his 18th-century ancestor : both men are named Peter Standish , and are physically identical . ( This is unlikely : the medical , dental and nutritional standards in 1784 would have kept that century's Standish looking very different from his descendant . ) Apart from failing to convince me he's American , Howard gives an excellent performance in both roles . Soon enough , Peter Standish acquires a touch of Peter Ibbetson as he falls in love with a woman who will die in 1787 , more than a century before his own birth . The ever-reliable Samuel S . Hinds ( wearing a bizarre moustache here ) plays straight man to Howard in one fascinating scene , in which Standish explains the difference between linear time and non-linear time : in the latter , all the events in the universe are occurring simultaneously . Also quite excellent is Betty Lawford in an unsympathetic role . She wears some very chic gloves but also sports a bizarre fur collar that seems to be intended for a female impersonator . A transvestite linebacker could hide his shoulders inside there ! As the doomed young lady of 18th-century England , Heather Angel has one memorable scene opposite the 18th-century Standish's body possessed by his modern descendant . Staring into Standish's eyes , she glimpses an amazing stock-footage montage of the chaos and mayhem of modern times . Her reaction is memorable . A story like this will have intentional anachronisms , but I looked for unintentional errors . Here's one : a string ensemble in 1784 perform Gossec's ' Gavotte ' two years before he wrote it . Have another : in the opening scene , set in September 1784 , Lionel Belmore reports that a French aeronaut has just flown from Dover to Calais ( Belmore mispronounces this name ) in a balloon . Actually , that didn't happen until January 1785 : the flight was in the opposite direction , and there were two men ( one of them Anglo-American ) in the balloon . In a later scene , some English gentlemen give the word ' bathed ' the wrong pronunciation ( yes , I'm quite certain ) . The art direction is generally excellent , except for a dodgy thunderstorm . And it's weird to encounter the term ' crux ansata ' applied to what modern viewers know better as the Egyptian ankh . The single worst thing about ' Berkeley Square ' is the overscored soundtrack : practically every scene assaults the ears with loud background music , when so much of this gentle fantasy would have worked better with no music at all . I was delighted that the character actress Beryl Mercer is much less annoying than usual here , probably because ( for once ) she's been given no maudlin material . My rating for this gentle , stately fantasy is . For a much more romantic treatment of this premise with a different set of time-travel paradoxes , I recommend a better movie : ' Somewhere in Time ' .
Sullivan's Beatles tribute with no Beatles .	Ed Sullivan and the Beatles had enjoyed a mutually profitable relationship ever since the Fab Four made their Stateside debut on Sullivan's TV show . Gradually , the Beatles tapered off their participation in Sullivan's shows , diminishing from live appearances to taped appearances to mere archive footage . This IMDb review is specifically for episode # 23 . 22 of Ed Sullivan's show , which represents his attempt at one more bite of the cherry ( or Apple ) , and one more attempt to squeeze some magic out of the Beatles name . This was a special " Beatles tribute " episode of Sullivan's show , but in fact the Beatles had no direct participation at all , and are seen merely in some archive concert footage . The acts that do appear in person here are pretty much Ed's usual bunch of cronies and favourites , doing Beatle-themed material . Peter Gennaro and a couple of dancers do a comedy dance routine to " Sergeant Pepper " , wearing band uniforms and fooling about with props such as a detonator . A more classical dance is provided by Edward Villella , doing a solo ballet routine to an instrumental version of " Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds " . If you watched this with the volume turned down , you'd never guess it was Beatles material : Villella's in excellent form , but he's doing just the usual classical ballet manoeuvres , with lots of athletically high leaps and entrechats . He makes no attempt to offer tribute to rock music here . The Muppets do a routine that's allegedly underwater , with one Muppet ( voiced by Jim Henson ) attempting to sing " In an Octopus's Garden " while a Muppet marionette ( voiced by Frank Oz ) keeps swimming past ( on strings ) to interrupt him with underwater puns such as " Are you a friend or anemone ? " . Finally , the Henson Muppet loses all patience and asks his tormentor : " Why are you doing this ? " , prompting the Oz Muppet to reply : " Oh , just for the halibut . " Boom-boom ! I was amazed that a pun on the word " hell " would make it onto Ed Sullivan's strait-laced show . Weirdest of all is Peggy Lee's turn . She stands stock-still onstage , speak-singing " Maxwell's Silver Hammer " . Onto the stage in sidelong gait come a pair of Peter Gennaro's dancers , covered in weird metallic canisters . When Miss Piggy . . . I mean , Miss Peggy Lee gets to the chorus , these two dancers whack themselves in their respective heads with little ball-pean hammers to get the " clang , clang ! " effect . Truly weird . Along come Steve and Eydie to do a medley of the very softest and most mainstream Beatles songs , with a couple of Vegas gags thrown in . While they're warbling " Michelle , Ma Belle " , Steve gets all Gallic on the French lyric , then he goes fortissimo on the line " I love you , I love you " so that Eydie can change the third " I love you " into " I HEARD you ! " and get a laugh from the studio audience . The problem is that , as performed here , this sounds like just one more Steve and Eydie easy listenin ' duet that would go over just fine in Vegas . In fact , all the performers here seem to be basically following their own blisses , rather than trying to bend their own talents to the unique sound of the Beatles . Which proves , I suppose , the universal appeal of the Fab Four . Or something . I wanna hold , you're bland . . . yeah yeah yeah .
Second-hand Cohan	' George Washington , Jnr ' was originally a 1906 Broadway musical written by George M Cohan as a starring vehicle for himself , his parents and his wife Ethel Levey . ( George's sister Josie had dropped out of the family act by then . ) The 1906 musical featured one rousing song ( an early version of " You're a Grand Old Flag " , which Cohan later reworked ) and a bunch of songs that are deservedly forgotten . This 1924 comedy is ostensibly the ( silent ) film version of Cohan's musical , but nearly all of the original stage show has been jettisoned except for a few embarrassing jokes . . . such as the presence of a supporting character named Eaton Ham ( ouch ! ) . The film version of ' George Washington , Jnr ' features a teenaged protagonist ( well-played by Wesley Barry ) , and the entire focus of the story seems to have been reworked for a younger audience . The romance from the stage version is kept intact here but relegated to supporting characters , so as to keep the ' mushy stuff ' to a minimum . Barry portrays the son of a 1920s politician ( William Courtright , in a blustery performance ) . In order to justify the movie's title , there's a sequence in which Courtright swanks about in a tricorn and 18th-century clothes , as if he were George Washington . The portly Courtright doesn't remotely resemble Washington , but at least this explains why his son is George Washington Junior . Anyhow , Courtright gets cheated by some crooks . His son , who has a touch of Tintin in his personality , trails the villains to their hideout in a coal mine . There's an exciting climactic sequence in which Barry , clutching the incriminating papers , hotfoots it up a mineshaft with the villains right behind him . When he isn't fleeing crooks , Barry finds time to orchestrate the courtship and wedding of romantic leads Edward Phillips and Gertrude Olmstead . I've never particularly fancied Olmstead . Here , she looks about as pretty as she ever did , and in one sequence she sports a charming cloche hat . . . but in the same sequence she wears a necktie that makes her look downright tomboyish , and it cloches with the clash ( I mean it clashes with the cloche ) . I'll rate ' George Washington , Jnr ' . It's an enjoyable , well-made film . . . but it only distantly resembles George M Cohan's original stage version , and for that reason this movie will be of only limited interest to Cohan's fans .
Lina Basquette , R . I . P .	" The Godless Girl " was one of Cecil B . DeMille's cynical attempts to combine sexual sensationalism with puritanical moralising . . . thus catering for movie audiences ' voyeurism while stroking their prejudices and allowing them to feel moral and pious . Many of DeMille's films offered this combination of sexual exploitation and fetishism in a moralistic framework . . . which explains why DeMille's movies almost invariably were huge hits at the box office . Lina Basquette ( dark-haired and very beautiful ) portrays Judy Craig , the leader of the Atheist Society , a radical students ' group . She is opposed by George Hathaway ( Tom Keene , too old for his role ) , the handsome leader of a club for church-going Christian students . The two factions clash on campus , and a girl is accidentally killed . ( There are two impressive elevator shots here , similar to a shot in Rene Clair's film ' Sous les Toits de Paris ' . ) The bitter rivals Judy and George , plus hapless scapegoat Samuel ' Bozo ' Johnson ( comic relief Eddie Quillan , who seems to be in an entirely different movie ) , are charged with manslaughter . Because they're minors , they're sentenced to the reformatory rather than prison . SLIGHT SPOILERS COMING . DeMille takes great delight in showing us Judy's degradation . We see long loving close-ups as Lina Basquette's beautiful long hair is clipped short for her entry into the Borstal . It's clear that DeMille is aroused by Judy's degradation , and that he expects us to feel the same way . Eventually , Judy and George ( former enemies ) manage to break out of the reformatory together and escape to a pastoral wilderness where they can start over as Eve and Adam in a new Eden . This was another recurring motif in DeMille's films . . . as in ' Four Frightened People ' , in which Claudette Colbert and Herbert Marshall portray two repressed people who lose their inhibitions ( and their clothing ) in a tropical paradise . Basquette's eyeliner remains intact throughout her adventures . " The Godless Girl " was the peak of Basquette's career . Allegedly , her performance in this film was so convincing that movie audiences supposedly assumed that Basquette herself must be as immoral as the atheist she portrays here . . . and so she was never again cast in a starring role . I suspect that Basquette was actually a casualty of talking pictures . " The Godless Girl " was filmed as a silent movie with brief sound-film sequences in the final reel . The audible sequences reveal that Basquette was unsuited for a career in talking pictures . Her voice isn't as bad as Marceline Day's ( another leading lady of the late silent era whose peculiar diction scuttled her talking-picture career ) , but Basquette's voice isn't very good and it records badly . Ironically , one of Basquette's husbands was Sam Warner of Warner Brothers : the one man in Hollywood who , more than anyone else , pushed for the talking-film revolution . ( Sam's brother Jack L Warner opposed the idea , but was quick to take credit after Sam's death . ) After Basquette's last divorce , she retired to a remote farm in Pennsylvania where she bred Great Danes , also working as an unpaid judge at dog shows . In 1943 , an AWOL serviceman trespassed on Basquette's farm and raped her . The assault made national headlines ; prior to Connie Francis , Lina Basquette was probably the most famous show-biz personality to be publicly identified as a rape victim . Her assailant was convicted , and he did heavy prison time . Sadly , in the 1940s and ' 50s , Basquette was better known for being raped than for her careers as an actress and dog breeder . " The Godless Girl " is heavy-handed , but still a very powerful film which I strongly recommend . It's an excellent example of the awkward period of Hollywood's transition from silent films to talkies . I'll rate this movie .
How much of this is true ?	I briefly worked for the Reuters news agency ( in a very minor capacity ) during the Cold War , so I was curious to see the film ' This Man Reuter ' , which purports to be a biopic of Paul Julius Reuter . I knew almost nothing about the agency's founder before I saw this film . . . and now that I've seen it , I still know almost nothing about him . How much of this movie is true ? I get the impression that very little of it is . The good news first : this is an extremely well-made Warner Brothers ' prestige ' picture , expertly directed by the great William Dieterle and splendidly photographed by the legendary James Wong Howe . There are some fine montage sequences ( by Don Siegel ? ) , easily up to this studio's standard . ( Warners always had the best montages . ) There's a good supporting cast , and Edward G Robinson gives conviction and humanity to the leading role . I was even pleased to see a brief appearance by former silent-film comedian George Ovey . The bad news : in spite of all of the above , I still find myself wondering how much of this actually happened . We see Reuter ( Robinson ) in the mid-19th century , as a man obsessed with acquiring information and disseminating it as rapidly as possible . He begins by using a telegraph and carrier pigeons to collect the stock-market quotations , selling the information to a cartel of brokers . ( Ovey appears during this pigeon sequence . ) There's an amusing scene with Gene Lockhart as a broker who schemes to get one jump ahead of his rivals , and is promptly outsmarted by Robinson . Lockhart was one of those character actors whom audiences liked to see humiliated and outsmarted . ( Another such was Walter Catlett . ) Lockhart is in good form here , but I suspect that he's portraying a fictional character . Another fictional character here , surely , is the hero's buddy Max , portrayed by Eddie Albert . I've always liked Albert and regretted that he never really clicked in films : he was typecast as the hero's earnest pal , and hardly got a chance to transcend that niche : he certainly doesn't transcend it here . I suspect that Jack Warner inserted the handsome Albert into this film as an attraction for female movie-goers who mightn't want to look at Edward G Robinson . SPOILERS COMING NOW . Inevitably , Reuter's empire prospers . . . and here comes a climax which I well and truly suspect is Hollywood fiction . It's now April 1865 , and there's still no transatlantic telegraph cable to replace the one that broke in 1858 . With the Civil War raging in the U . S . A . , Reuter has a rival in London who's receiving transatlantic despatches faster than Reuter can get them . Reuter comes up with a Heath Robinson system to shave a few minutes off his rival's time , by dropping messages overboard as ships reach the Irish coast , trusting them to wash ashore and be retrieved , then cabling the gen to London . Will Reuter's method work ? Astoundingly , the very FIRST message that Reuter receives by this method is the assassination of Lincoln . ( Which we see in one of the montages . ) Is this true ? Was the news of Lincoln's assassination indeed Reuter's first transatlantic despatch . . . or merely his first major scoop ? ( Another big scoop - - the end of America's Civil War - - occurred only a few days before Lincoln's assassination , yet we get no mention of that here . ) ' This Man Reuter ' is a very enjoyable film , of the sort they don't make any more , but it has a strong aroma of Hollywood hokum rather than fact . I wish I knew how much of this movie was accurate . Purely for its entertainment value , I'll rate it .
First use of the cutaway shot ?	For the first two seconds of this brief movie , I thought I was watching a split-screen shot : two different images occupying the frame simultaneously , side by side . In this short film , a white ( or pale grey ) vertical line bisects the screen ; there are two different rooms either side of the line , with different action in each room . If my first impression had been correct , then this film would constitute the earliest known example of split-screen photography : a technical feat which I would have sworn was not yet developed at so early a date . As it turned out , I was seeing something much simpler but still impressive : a cutaway shot , and this movie is the very earliest film I've ever seen which employs that device . The vertical line is actually a wall , seen edge-on from our viewpoint , and we're watching simultaneous activities in two separate ( but connecting ) rooms . After establishing that innovation , this movie turns out to be one more minor variation on the early French comedy film ' Watering the Gardener ' . A naughty boy plays a practical joke , with slapstick results . Mildly funny for modern viewers , undoubtedly side-splittingly hilarious for audiences at the time . I was more interested in trying to figure out the social role of the young woman who appears in this film . Her outfit isn't a conventional maid's uniform , yet it doesn't quite seem proper garb for the lady of the household . But when she goes into the room on the right , which is apparently a lady's bedroom , she helps herself to some slap : unlikely behaviour if she's merely the housemaid . This movie has some historic significance : if for no other reason , due to its innovative use of a cutaway set . On that score , I'll rate it .
Kobayashi Tomijiro in a wooden box , and so is this movie .	I saw this 7-minute Japanese silent film in October 2005 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Sacile , Italy : the festival screened a 35mm print . Since the film has no intertitles , there was no language barrier . I've seen references to this film as a documentary , but that's incorrect . It would be more accurate to cry this movie as a newsreel , since it merely records a recent event rather than describing and explaining that event as a documentary would have done . Tomijiro Kobayashi ( 1852-1910 ) was a hugely wealthy Japanese industrialist who founded the company Kobayashi Shoten , which ultimately became known as the Lion Corporation as it expanded and prospered . The firm originally sold dentrifices , toothpaste and other products which we would now call ' health and beauty aids ' : it eventually offered a much wider range of merchandise , and Kobayashi's holdings provided employment to thousands of Japanese workers . For modern viewers , the most interesting aspects of this film are its views of Japanese streets and traditional funeral pageantry . As someone who has helped track down some so-called ' lost ' films , I'm very intrigued that sometimes the story of a film's fate is more interesting ( to me , at least ) than the movie itself . This is one such movie . The film was produced by Yoshizawa Shoten , one of Japan's first cinema companies . Following the movie's release to Japanese cinemas in 1910 , the original nitrate negative and one release print were carefully preserved in a purpose-built wooden box , and ceremonially presented to the Japanese government's nearest equivalent to the U . S . A . ' s Library of Congress ( although a very distant equivalent ; if the Japanese archives were as retentive as the Library of Congress , far more Japanese films would have survived ! ) . In the 1950s , the Japanese government ( with some nudging from U . S . occupation forces ) radically tightened fire-safety laws , effecting almost a total ban on films printed on highly combustible nitrate stock . As a result , nearly all of Japan's early films were either deliberately destroyed or allowed to self-destruct . This film , in its elaborate presentation box , survived . The print which I viewed at Sacile is an acetate dupe , struck by the National Film Centre in Tokyo . More for its historic significance than for any aesthetic content , I'll rate this newsreel . Arigato !
Wistful semi-fantasy	' The Enchanted Cottage ' is a delicate little drama that flirts at the edges of fantasy . Cleverly , this film evokes the aura of the supernatural without ever making clear whether it's actually here or not . The film actor Richard Barthelmess engages me intellectually but not emotionally . I've never yet seen a Barthelmess performance that convinced me he actually was the character he was playing . Yet he always impresses me with the effort he clearly takes in his characterisations . This is especially clear in his best-known role , as the meek Chinese emigrant in ' Broken Blossoms ' . Not for one instant did I accept Barthelmess as a Chinese , yet he works hard and impresses me favourably . In ' The Enchanted Cottage ' , alas , Bathelmess seems to be doing a bad imitation of Lon Chaney . Barthelmess plays Oliver Bashforth ( ! ) , a shell-shocked veteran of the Great War . He was wounded in combat , but the inter-titles are very imprecise about the nature of his injury . As Bashforth , Bathelmess stoops over and wears raccoonish eye makeup . Very distressingly , he keeps making V-signs with both his hands , like some demented Winston Churchill . This is meant to indicate some sort of physical handicap , though I'm not aware of any injury that causes its victim to make V-signs . Harvey Smith syndrome , perhaps ? In one scene , Barthelmess crouches in front of a full-length mirror and bitterly confronts his own deformed reflection : he seems to be imitating the scene in ' A Blind Bargain ' when Chaney as the Ape-man discovers his own reflection . The leading lady in this movie is May McAvoy . May McAvoy was one of the most beautiful actresses in silent films . Here , she portrays a plain-faced spinster named Laura Pennington . The makeup artist has given McAvoy an extremely convincing overbite and a putty job to make her face less attractive . I usually dislike it when a beautiful actress is uglified so that she can play a role that could have gone to a less attractive actress . Here , for once , the device is valid . Bashforth , allegedly deformed by his injuries and wallowing in self-pity , flees to a secluded cottage so he'll have no visitors . His sister Ethel persists in visiting so she can tend him . Bashforth enters into a sham marriage with unattractive Laura , solely as a ploy so that his sister will go away . Bashforth and Laura discover that the cottage has a long history as a honeymoon cottage ; lovers have trysted there for more than two centuries . Gradually , Bashforth and Laura fall in love . As this happens , they subjectively become more attractive . He loses his deformities , whilst Laura becomes more beautiful and starts looking like May McAvoy . The film subtly persuades us that this is a subjective transformation rather than an actual change . Bashforth's and Laura's only neighbour is a retired major ( very well played by Holmes Herbert ) who's blind , so he ' sees ' the couple in terms of their personalities , not their physical appearance . SPOILERS COMING . All is well until sister Ethel returns with her fiancé Rupert and Rupert's mother . By now , Bashforth and Laura are so good-looking , they could be a couple of matinée idols . When they come down the stairs into the parlour , there is a beautiful dissolve shot as their physical appearance melts back into what it was at the beginning of the film . He is again deformed , she is again plain and buck-toothed . This is a beautiful and subtle film , made more so because we never quite know how much of this is genuine fantasy , and how much of it merely the fancies of the on-screen characters . But the effect is sadly undercut by some extremely maudlin inter-titles . This was an ongoing hazard of silent films , as the titles were often written by someone completely unrelated to the production of the film in which the titles appeared , and often the tone of the latter contrasted with the former . I'll rate ' The Enchanted Cottage ' .
The Tutankhamun of silent films	Once again , a film " lost forever " has merely been mislaid . ' Beyond the Rocks ' is now the King Tutankhamun of silent films , and I say this not merely because the movie climaxes in an ancient Egyptian tomb . Tutankhamun was actually one of the more obscure kings of Egypt , who is now famous precisely because of his obscurity . After Tutankhamun's burial ( in a small and unimposing tomb ) , a greater king had his own much larger and grander tomb built on top of Tutankhamun's tomb , unintentionally rendering Tutankhamun's tomb almost inaccessible to grave robbers . Consequently , the greater king's far more opulent tomb has long since been plundered , while Tutankhamun's riches survived nearly intact until his tomb was rediscovered to great fanfare in 1922 ( the same year ' Beyond the Rocks ' was released ) , thereby rendering the obscure king Tutankhamun far more celebrated and immortal in modern times than any of the more important kings of ancient Egypt who are now forgotten . By the same caprice , ' Beyond the Rocks ' attracted very little interest in its own day ; it was permitted to lapse into obscurity , and is now reaping vast attention only due to its rediscovery . Had ' Beyond the Rocks ' been available during the intervening decades from 1922 to now , today it would be deemed just one more routine silent film , a bit more opulent than most . ' Beyond the Rocks ' is the only teaming of Swanson and Valentino , two stars who never much appealed to me . I'm hoping that the return of this film will prompt a reappraisal of the career of its director , Sam Wood . He directs this film expertly , most notably bringing taut suspense to an Alpine rescue sequence . Elsewhere , there's a good sequence in which Gloria Swanson's character nearly drowns . ( I give her credit for doing this scene ; in real life , Swanson couldn't swim ! ) I was also greatly impressed with how Swanson's heroine is symbolised by the odour of narcissus blossoms ; this is one of the very few movies I've seen in which the erotic aspects of scent are used intelligently . This film is a clothes-horse bonanza , with Swanson and Valentino tricked out in elaborate costumes from several different centuries . At one point , they show up in Kate Greenaway cozzies for a pageant on Whitmonday . ( With their wits untied on Whitsuntide . ) In the first sequence , Swanson makes her entrance as a teenager , wearing a little girl's sailor dress that clashes with her cupid's-bow lipstick ! The art direction is variable . This film was shot in Hollywood but takes place in several nations . I was deeply impressed with the opening sequence , which is set in Dorset and actually looks like Thomas Hardy country . A glass matte shot of the Tyrolean Alps is impressively elaborate but unconvincing . A sequence in Versailles features a ludicrously bad rear-projection backdrop of the Jardin des Tuileries . An alleged Egyptian tomb is laughably unconvincing , although I was impressed that somebody put authentic hieroglyphics on a piece of papyrus ( though they should have been hieratic or demotic ) . Valentino plays an unmarried English earl ( ! ) , so his widowed mother is identified as the Countess : surely she ought to be the dowager Countess . SPOILERS COMING . In view of this film's stars , and the fact that the movie is based on a novel by Elinor Glyn ( author of sexually steamy potboilers ) , I expected lots of flaring nostrils and arched eyebrows to be exchanged between Valentino and Swanson in their roles as star-crossed lovers , while she's trapped in a loveless marriage . Astonishingly , the two remain absolutely chaste until her husband dies . . . generously blessing their union as he carks it . The two stars give good performances in weak material . Sam Wood's direction is excellent . For some reason , it's fashionable among cineastes to knock Wood . I was once surprised and disappointed to hear film historian William K Everson ( usually generous with his praise ) going out of his way to make nasty comments about Sam Wood . Granted , in his personal life Wood had some very unpleasant traits . ( Groucho Marx claimed that Wood was a racist , but Groucho often told malicious lies about people he disliked . ) What matters is that Wood directed many excellent films that remain very popular , yet few people attribute any of the success of these films to Wood's contributions . While not quite as under-rated as directors Allan Dwan and James Cruze , Sam Wood is indeed under-appreciated . Here's hoping ' Beyond the Rocks ' prompts new interest in his career . I'll rate this movie , mostly for Wood's direction . Welcome back !
Double trouble , ooh la la !	Back in silent-film days , Hollywood studios were able to release their movies all over the world , simply by translating the title cards into other languages . After the talkie revolution , all the rules changed . Eventually , soundtrack dubbing techniques were developed . . . but for the first few years of the talkies , Hollywood studios would often shoot multiple versions of the same movie , with the actors recording the dialogue in other languages . Some very interesting films resulted from this expedient . George Melford's Spanish-language version of ' Dracula ' is considered superior to Tod Browning's English-language version : Melford filmed at night , with a Spanish-speaking cast , using the same sets and costumes that Browning and Bela Lugosi used in the daytime . The German-language version of ' Anna Christie ' , starring Greta Garbo , is much sexier and more realistic than the English-language version starring the same actress . After Laurel and Hardy filmed their first starring feature , ' Pardon Us ' , they performed in Spanish and French versions of this same story ( speaking their lines phonetically ) . . . and both of these foreign versions have merits which are absent from the original version . Straight away after Maurice Chevalier starred in ' Folies-Bergere of Paris ' for 20th Century-Fox , he made a French-language version ( titled simply ' Folies-Bergere ' ) filmed on the same sets , with the same costumes and much of the same crew , but with a French supporting cast . His main role here is Eugene , a roguish song-and-dance man in the Folies-Bergere . ( What a stretch for Chevalier . ) By chance , Eugene is an exact lookalike of the powerful banker Baron Cassini ( also played by Chevalier ) . Eugene even does an imitation of Cassini in his variety-hall turn . But then , when Cassini is called away for a secret business dealing which nobody knows about , it becomes urgent that he appear in public in order to quell a financial panic . His underlings get the bright idea to conscript Eugene to impersonate Cassini . Dull actress Nathalie Paley plays the Baron's glamorous wife . She and her husband are bored with each other . She happens to meet Eugene while he's impersonating her husband , and - - not realising that he really isn't the Baron - - she can't understand why her ' husband ' is suddenly so attractive to her . Meanwhile , Eugene's chorus-girl paramour Mimi sees Eugene swanking it with the Baroness in his Cassini disguise , and she jumps to conclusions . Except for Ferdinand Gottschalk , as one of Cassini's flunkies , the only good performance in this movie is given by Chevalier himself . . . and I say ' performance ' , singular , because Chevalier isn't a good enough actor to make Eugene and the Baron seem like two different people . ( Don Ameche and Danny Kaye did better , in later versions of this same property . ) Some of the plot twists are painfully obvious : when Mimi scratches Eugene's hand in a moment of anger , and the editor shows us a whacking huge close-up of the minor scratch , we can tell from a mile away that Mimi will use the scratch on his hand as a means of telling apart the two Chevaliers . Chevalier does one nice song here , called ' The Rhythm of the Rain ' . He performs this onstage at the Folies Bergere , and the stage effect has it raining on one side of the stage whilst the other side is dry . An interesting visual image . Although Nathalie Paley gives a dull performance as the Baroness , she is much prettier ( and more believable ) here than Merle Oberon was in the English-language version of this movie . I have NEVER understood the appeal of unattractive untalented Merle Oberon . I'll rate this French-language version .
Plumb ornery varmints !	' Range Busters ' is an absolutely typical example of the low-budget quickie grind'em-out Western . It will therefore be hugely enjoyable to those who like such things , but not to many other people . Crash and Dusty are typical white-hat cowboy heroes . Their friend Alibi , the comedy relief , is a ventriloquist cowpoke who spends a lot of time conversing with his dummy . ( As a ' vent ' , Max Terhune is technically more proficient than Edgar Bergen , but not nearly as funny . ) Somebody keeps shooting the ranch hands at Carol Thorp's spread . Annoyingly , everyone keeps referring to the unknown killer as a ' phantom ' even though he hasn't claimed any paranormal powers . We get one of those cliché murder scenes from the viewpoint of the killer , as his victim backs away from the camera and begs for mercy . Naturally , our heroes decide to sign on at Carol's ranch . There's some very crude expository dialogue , and some overripe wisecracks . ' What good is a job that may lead to a passport to eternity ? ' is one example . As the squinty villain sees the heroes riding into town , he tells his henchman : ' See that they don't hang up their hats in this town . ' Carol's helpful comment is : ' The Phantom always does what is least expected . ' So it should be easy to catch him , then : just figure out what's least expected , and be one jump ahead of him . SPOILERS COMING : Carol's uncle Rolf is ostensibly blind : he wears dark glasses and uses a stick to feel his way . However , the movie plants several blatantly obvious clues that he isn't really blind . Despite this imposture , Rolf isn't the Phantom . He's just a red herring . . . or maybe a smoked herring , because he's wearing smoked glasses . It's no spoiler to say that the white hats beat the black hats . One of my least favourite clichés is the one about the two buddies and the girl : when one buddy develops an interest in a woman , the other buddy decides he has to ' save ' his friend from that hideous fate . We get that ending here , except that it's two against one . . . with Crash and Alibi uniting to keep Dusty away from Carol . Still , ' Range Busters ' was clearly made for a juvenile audience , so I understand the decision to cut out the ' mushy stuff ' . ' Range Busters ' is no ' Citizen Kane ' or ' Battleship Potemkin ' , but I strongly feel that all films should be judged by their genre and their intentions . By that standard , ' Range Busters ' succeeds in most of what it meant to do , and I'll rate this movie . Saddle up , pardners !
Arf a moment , squire . . .	When I play movie trivia with other movie fans , I often stump them with this question : What famous movie personality served in the German army during World War One , but became one of Hollywood's biggest stars in the 1920s ? The answer is Rin Tin Tin . This Alsatian dog ( his original name unknown ) was found in an abandoned German army trench , where he apparently had served as a guard dog . He was brought to the States by an officer in the American Expeditionary Force , and soon proved to be extraordinarily intelligent . ' Find Your Man ' is not the only film with a title in the second person , but it's probably the only one for which the ' You ' in the title is a dog . Rinty stars as Buddy , a dog in a remote timber camp . The backbone of the organisation ( the lumber vertebrae ? ) is Dains , the evil foreman . Four-legged Buddy is the only witness when Dains kills a man and then frames Paul Andrews for the deed . The sheriff hustles Andrews off to prison . When Dains notices that Buddy won't stop staring at him ( hounding him ? ) , he orders a lumberjack named Mills ( lumber Mills ? ) to kill the dog . One good bullet would end this movie right here , but instead of killing Buddy , Mills proceeds to tie him up and muzzle him , planning to sell him . Anybody who's into canine bondage scenes will rewind this sequence several times . Of course Buddy escapes , and of course there's a climactic race against time as Buddy rushes to the courthouse to clear Andrews . If you have to ask if justice triumphs , you've got no business reading this site . I'm genuinely impressed by Rin Tin Tin's acting ; he quite convinced me that he was listening to the actors ' dialogue in this silent film . Less impressive is June Marlowe , who seems to be in this movie merely for the sake of a pretty female lead . The blonde Marlowe is indeed pretty , but far too pallid and frail-looking to be hanging about a timber camp . As the ( human ) male lead , Eric St Clair is dull : fortunately , his role is more a plot device than an actual character . The photography throughout this film is excellent , especially in the exterior sequences , and the editing is brisk despite Mal St Clair's lacklustre pacing . I'll rate ' Find Your Man ' .
Tom's a-cold ; or , dead dad Donovan didn't duly die .	' Carry Me Back ' was a big hit in its native New Zealand , and is a hardy perennial on British television . The U . S . rights were bought by Lorimar , and it's a shame that Stateside distribution has been handled poorly . If Lorimar had put a bit of effort into marketing this movie , they could have had a hit of ' Crocodile Dundee ' proportions . ' Carry Me Back ' is a comedy - - funny , but not hilarious - - with an unusual road-trip story that also offers a splendid visual travelogue of New Zealand , as the main characters ( two living , one dead ) attempt to get home while travelling the length of Kiwi Land . The Donovan brothers - - elder responsible Arthur , younger gormless Jimmy - - work for their widowed father Tom on his remote farm on New Zealand's South Island . It's a sort of ' Steptoe and Sons ' arrangement , with the lads exploited as unpaid labourers by their father while they dream of better things . Their only comfort is the knowledge that they'll inherit the farm when their hard-living elderly father carks it , which ought to be any minute now . SPOILERS COMING . The lads ' favourite rugger team are playing an away on the North Island , and the lads are looking forward to a weekend away from their father and the farm so they can see the match . But their father - - who hasn't set foot off the farm , literally in years - - suddenly decides to tag along . The match goes well ( their team win ) , and the brothers get to chat up a couple of dolly-birds . As they return to their hotel room , their elderly dad goes to bed smiling . He's still smiling the next morning when they find him , stone dead . Now comes the plot contrivance . Tom Donovan's will leaves his farm to his sons , but only providing he's buried on his farm . If this condition is not met , the farm goes to the local council . But , under New Zealand law ( this is a genuine law ; I checked ) , Tom Donovan can only be buried on his land if he died on his land . If he dies elsewhere , he must be interred in a cemetery , or cremated . So , now the lads conspire to make it look as if their dad died at home . But in order to pull it off , they must smuggle their dead dad all the way across New Zealand ( including a trip aboard the public ferry which links the two main islands ) without anyone twigging that he's dead . They nail him in a crate and disguise him as cargo . From here , the movie gets increasingly contrived . The lads enlist the aid of their Auntie Bird : their dead mother's sister , who always despised Tom . It makes little sense for her to help them , but she does . Even more implausibly , Auntie Bird is dating an escaped criminal , who is attempting to get past a police checkpoint by ( wait for it ) shipping himself cross-country disguised in a crate . So , that's two different bodies ( one living , one dead ) hidden in moving crates . Guess what happens . The great merits of ' Carry Me Back ' are the breathtaking views of New Zealand's scenery , and some fine vignettes of the working-class people . The scenes on the Donovan farm are well-photographed . The end of the film is quite suspenseful , as Jimmy tries to sidetrack some unexpected visitors on their father's farm while Arthur makes a last desperate effort to get Tom's corpse home . Most of this movie is only moderately funny , but the climactic gag - - the fake death that Arthur contrives for his father's corpse - - is well and truly hilarious . I'll rate this movie , and it deserves to be better known in America .
Edwardian striptease	Filmmakers realised very early on that sex appeal would bring in the customers . The movie camera enabled audiences to view a shapely actress in close-up , or at least much more closely than she could be seen from across the footlights of a stage . ' Pull Down the Curtain , Susie ' is a brief film offering sexual titillation . . . though of course by modern standards it's all quite innocent . There's only one camera set-up : an ostensible street scene , which is obviously a painted set of the sort often used by Georges Melies at this time . The biggest innovation here is that the actors - - one man and one woman - - are on two different levels : the man at street level , the woman on the first storey abovestairs . A man enters stage left , walking along the street . Behind him , we see two upstairs windows : both windows have shades , but the shades are up and we can clearly see a young lady undressing . The man sees her too : he pauses to watch as she peels off one layer after another of her nineteenth-century garments . Just when things are approaching the bare minimum , she suddenly realises she's being observed , and she coyly pulls down the shade . End of movie . This movie probably gave Grandpa palpitations . Despite the extremely phony appearance of the hand-painted ' street ' set , the clothes worn by the man and the woman ( including her undergarments ) are realistic and typical attire of their time . In addition to being mildly amusing for modern audiences , ' Pull Down the Curtain , Susie ' has some historic value for showing modern viewers what sort of undergarments were worn by women in Edwardian times , and how they were removed . I'll rate this movie .
Laser beams and drag queens	I found this musical special hugely enjoyable , even though I'd previously had some bad experiences with Shirley MacLaine when I worked on the production crew of her ill-fated sitcom ' Shirley's World ' . Ms MacLaine is a dynamically talented performer who has paid her dues over and over ; I just wish that she didn't have a penchant for making ludicrous public statements about religion , reincarnation and politics . ' Gypsy in My Soul ' is this special's title , and in this case ' Gypsy ' refers not to Romanies but to the Broadway ' gypsies ' , the chorus dancers who go from one musical to the next , seldom attaining stardom yet usually displaying far more dancing talent than the stars whom they support . ( Shirley MacLaine , who began as a chorus dancer , is also the only Broadway star who has been privileged to wear the ' gypsy robe ' , traditionally given to the most experienced chorus dancer in a Broadway musical . ) The opening number here is the title song , which Shirley performs with panache , energy and some dazzling high kicks . . . which become literally dazzling when she's joined by Laservision . This gimmick doesn't quite work here ; basically , a row of parallel lines - - each one a different colour - - are laser-beamed into midair alongside Shirley , and the lines interact as if they're dancing with her . Unfortunately , the bright red line - - the one with the most conspicuous colour - - is slightly out of focus , so it looks fuzzier than the others . I did like the finale of the number , in which Shirley pretends to kick each laser beam out of her way . Later in this special , Shirley dances with Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo , a bunch of drag queens who are also talented ballet dancers , their gimmick being that they dance ( mostly ) female roles en-pointe . ( For the pas de deux , one of them will temporarily don male costume . ) I can enjoy drag humour , but I just don't get the point of the ' Trocks ' . I don't find them funny , and indeed ( to their credit ) they don't seem to be trying to PARODY ballet . They seem to be performing it fairly earnestly , using male bodies to inhabit roles traditionally played by female dancers . Still , I don't see the point . I'd lot rather see some graceful ballerinas doing these roles , rather than some transvestites . The male body's centre of gravity being much higher than the female's , there's simply no way that these men can handle pointe roles with female proficiency . The Trocks aren't quite good enough to be a straightforward ballet turn , and their material isn't kinky enough to appeal to anyone expecting to see a conventional drag act . At the end of the special , along comes Lucille Ball , wearing a riding habit that she seems to have borrowed from the fox hunt in ' Mame ' . Lucy offers some memories of her days as a struggling actress in New York , including her method of cadging free coffee and free meals at theatre restaurants . I'm no fan of Lucille Ball , and I don't see much point to her presence here . It's true that Ball , like MacLaine , started at the bottom and eventually reached stardom through hard work , but Ball's struggling years as a Broadway wanna-be - - unlike MacLaine's - - led absolutely nowhere , and Ball became a star only after quitting New York for Hollywood , playing dozens of bit roles in obscure films ( and dancing in Sam Goldwyn's chorus line ) while she gradually learnt her craft . Refreshingly , Lucille Ball is quite self-deprecating here . . . or at least she pretends to be . When she makes her entrance , she pretends to stumble . Later , she confides to MacLaine that she HAD to become a star , because she couldn't sing , couldn't dance and couldn't act . ( I'll agree with her on that part . ) This entire special is well-staged and enjoyable , the Trockaderos supplying the only longueurs . I'll rate this show .
Alpine for you , mein liebchen	Before his brilliant Hollywood career as a director of sparkling sex comedies , Ernst Lubitsch starred ( and directed himself ) in a long series of silent comedies ( most of them four reels long ) in Germany . He typically played a pushy Jewish character , and many of his early comedies featured up-to-the-minute slang and Yiddishisms in the dialogue titles . Although the name of Lubitsch's onscreen character varied from one film to the next , his characterisation was a fairly consistent one . ' Meyer from Berlin ' is a standard entry in the series , and it's pretty good . In the opening scene , a Berlin doctor gets a letter from Meyer , asking him to visit Meyer's house to diagnose Meyer for an ( imaginary ) illness and to prescribe a long holiday , so that Meyer can get away from his wife . From this set-up , we expect Meyer's wife to be an ugly shrew . The next scene shows Meyer at home in bed , pretending to be ill . But Frau Paula Meyer turns out to be an attractive young woman in a fetching nightie , who genuinely cares about her husband . I can't see why he's so eager to get away from her . . . unless it's that whacking huge bottle labelled ' Castor Oil ' that she keeps brandishing . Soon enough , Meyer is off to the Tyrol , dressed in lederhosen and brandishing an alpenstock . He straight away introduces himself to an attractive young lady named Kitty . Several other men are also pressing their attentions upon Kitty , but Meyer uses some clever stratagems to get her all for himself . Kitty's husband Harry is elsewhere , but she decides to feign interest in Meyer ( the least threatening man in the hotel ) so as to discourage all the other men . Complications ensue . Eventually Harry and Paula ( travelling together , as if they were a married couple ) catch up with Meyer and Kitty ( ditto ) in an Alpine lodge , where each cross-couple spends the night without realising the other couple is there too . There are some very funny gags in this film , even though Lubitsch is required to remind us constantly that his onscreen character is a scheming Jew . At one point , to impress Kitty , Meyer agrees to climb a 2800-metre mountain . The night before the ascent , he has a trick-photography nightmare in which a mountain labelled ' 2800 ' materialises next to his bed . Meyer casually removes the two noughts , and the mountain ( now only 28 metres high ) obligingly dwindles . But this sight gag is spoilt by an unfunny Jewish-stereotype joke . . . speaking directly to the camera , Lubitsch adds : ' I knew I could haggle with that mountain . ' In other words , a Jew will always haggle . Ha ha , how unfunny . There are some very delightful exterior sequences of Weimar Germany , and these have a charming air of cinema-verite ; while Lubitsch is doing something in the foreground , the real people in the background ( not actors ) are doing something completely unrelated to his actions . The interiors are less successful than the exteriors : Meyer and his wife Paula have an absolutely gigantic bedroom with a very high ceiling : this room is so huge , it's clearly a film set rather than a room where real people sleep . There's a funny ( and kinky ) sequence in the Alpine lodge , when Meyer kneels in front of Kitty to undo the long , long , LONG bootlaces on her elegant knee-high boots , while he tells her ' I used to work in a shoe store . ' This may be an in-joke reference to ' Shoepalace Pincus ' , a previous film starring Lubitsch that had been a big box-office hit . ' Meyer from Berlin ' is a fascinating look at an early phase of Lubitsch's career , with his directorial skills already firmly in place . I'll rate this movie .
Oy , vay ! Such a schmendrick !	Before he became a movie star , Edward G Robinson was a New York stage actor who had difficulty getting roles , so he teamed up with newspaperman Jo Swerling to write a play as a stage vehicle for himself . ' The Kibitzer ' , starring Robinson , was a modest Broadway hit . When Paramount bought the film rights , they didn't consider Edward G Robinson sufficiently well-known to star in the movie version of his own play . . . so they cast Harry Green in the lead role . For modern audiences , Harry Green is an embarrassment . In exactly the same way that Stepin Fetchit and Wllie Best played stereotypical Negro roles , Harry Green played a stereotypical Jewish character : a pushy , money-grubbing busybody . Just occasionally , Green's on-screen characters were sympathetic , as in ' This Day and Age ' , but they always embodied the worst stereotypes of Jewish behaviour and speech patterns . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . ' The Kibitzer ' stars Harry Green as Ike Lazarus , the owner of a Manhattan cigar store which is also the local hangout for people with nothing better to do . Ike considers himself an expert on the stock market , card playing , horse racing , the lot . He seldom risks any money on these things , because his expertise is all hot air . Ike's daughter Josie is romantically involved with Bert Livingston , son of wealthy stockbroker James Livingston . When Ike learns that his daughter and Bert are planning to elope , he decides to warn Livingston . Ike strolls into Livingston's brokerage house without an appointment , and promptly walks into an armed robbery . Bert ( who isn't actually Livingston's son , but no matter ) has embezzled funds , and is now holding Livingston at gunpoint . More by dumb luck than anything else , Ike knocks the gun out of Bert's hand . As a reward for saving his life , Livingston offers to let Ike in on a hot new stock issue , American Steel . . . sure to make a big profit . Ike is too much of a blowhard to admit that he hasn't the money to go halves with Livingston . Instead , he sells pieces of his half of the deal to all the working stiffs in his neighbourhood , promising them big profits . Ike rapidly becomes the local hero . . . until American Steel opens its trading , and the shares start dropping rapidly . The ending is unexpected but believable , and quite funny . All ends happily as Josie marries that nice goyisher Eddie Brown . There are some good laughs in ' The Kibitzer ' , but many of them are compromised by the extremely annoying personality of Harry Green . Edward G Robinson eventually proved his ability with comedy , and it would have been nice to see him in the role that he tailored for himself . I'll rate ' The Kibitzer ' .
Look at those Fokkers go !	I'm fascinated by the First World War , so I rushed to a press screening of ' Flyboys ' . As soon as I saw the portentous words ' Based on the True Story ' , I knew we were in for a load of fiction . Sure enough : ' Flyboys ' tells a deeply entertaining but largely implausible UNtrue story about the Lafayette Escadrille . Here's the truth : in 1914 , when Germany declared war on France , the U . S . government chose to stay out of the conflict ( for the moment ) . . . but thirty-eight intrepid young American men , each for his own reasons , went to France and enlisted as fighter pilots . Those 38 men , and ONLY those 38 men , were the Lafayette Escadrille . The Americans who followed them later ( one of whom was ' Wild Bill ' Wellman , director of the classic ' Wings ' ) became members of the Lafayette Flying Corps , not the Escadrille . Yet , in ' Flyboys ' , we're told that these young men are joining an elite unit that has already been formed . What really hurts is that ' Flyboys ' very obviously caters for the tastes of moviegoers in 2006 , at the expense of telling a plausible story . So , for instance , one of the fighter pilots is an African-American , given lots of screen time . Although there were many black infantrymen ( of several nations ) who fought bravely in the trenches in World War One , there were only a handful of black pilots in that war , and most of them got very little combat time . I'll give ' Flyboys ' a break and assume that the black pilot here is based on Eugene Bullard , a real-life African-American ace of WW1 who was nicknamed the Black Swallow of Death . In ' Flyboys ' , two of the black pilot's white squadmates are a fat rich guy from New York City and a dirt-poor Texas rancher . Guess which one is the racist : yup , the fat rich guy . Everything I've studied about early 20th-century America indicates that a dirt-poor Southerner would far more likely be racist than a wealthy New Yorker . . . but that would violate the prejudices of early 21st-century filmgoers . So , what does this movie get right ? Well , someone went to a lot of trouble to get most ( not all ) of the details and specs right about WW1-era aeroplanes , especially Nieuports and Fokkers . The scenes of the trainee pilots practising in Heath Robinson contraptions look funny , but are actually quite accurate . Also , the dogfight scenes are gloriously exciting , with seamless use of CGI technology . It helps that all the Yanks are flying ( French ) biplanes while the Germans are flying triplanes , which makes it easier for the audience to keep track of who's in which cockpit . In the real WW1 , Fokker triplanes were quite rare , and were only used briefly . Much of the production design is impressive . . . but not all of it . The subtitles and supers are in Helvetica , a modern typeface which sabotages this movie's period feel . In one scene , a French map is printed in Albertus , a British typeface that was barely available even in Britain until later . The Texan has a very elaborate logo for his ranch's brand : I'll bet a lot of his cattle never survived being branded with THAT mark ! Some of the plot points are implausible - - an aviator loses his hand , but stays in the Escadrille and carries on flying with a hook - - and some points are just left hanging . A German-American pilot is suspected of being a spy because he knows the specs of the new Fokker triplane : he's later acquitted , but we never learn how he knew those specs . A romance between the Texan and a French ma'mselle starts out in terrible ' meet cute ' mode , in a contrived situation leading him to assume she's a prostitute . ( Nice shots here of some French girls in corsets and cami-knickers , ooh la la ! ) But I was impressed with the VERY realistic way that their romance was resolved . I was also impressed that a couple of authentic WW1 songs were heard in the background , and I wish they'd been featured more prominently . I disliked an early scene in a Texas cinema ( showing silent movies , of course ) , which implied that it's OK to have loud conversations during a silent movie because you can't drown out the dialogue ! More favourably , I was impressed with some brief clips of authentic cinema footage from the WW1 trenches . But would a French army captain wear his medals on duty in a non-ceremonial situation ? I doubt it , although in this case I can't say for certain . And , as usual , all the major characters have amazingly good orthodontia . Another error : during World War One , if a zeppelin caught on fire , the gas cells would not explode ( as they do in this movie ) because they were inflated with non-combustible helium . ( The ' Hindenburg ' airship , which famously exploded in the 1930s , was inflated with hydrogen because the Nazis couldn't get helium . ) And we get one of those dialogue scenes with the annoying cliché in which the superior has good news for the underling but pretends it's bad news just to make him stew . Final verdict : as long as you recognise that this movie is fiction and that all the characters are fictional - - a very small disclaimer in the end credits acknowledges this - - you will find ' Flyboys ' enjoyable as entertainment . I'm still waiting for someone to make an accurate movie about the real Lafayette Escadrille . As well-told FICTION , I'll rate ' Flyboys ' .
a Plot-o-Matic romance	' Man Crazy ' has a doubly misleading title , which implies that this is a wild comedy about a nymphomaniac . In fact , it's a sedate comedy of manners , in which the female lead is a dignified ingenue . The movie is well-made and entertaining , but nothing special . . . up until a fairly exciting action climax . The stately and dignified Dorothy Mackaill plays Clarissa Janeway , a New England heiress who is bored with high society . She decides to amuse herself by opening a lunch room ( called the Red Hen ) in the post road . We're meant to consider her a sympathetic character , as she's bored with the snobbish rituals of high society , but I disliked her straight off : if she's so bored , then why doesn't she use some of her family's wealth to operate a soup kitchen for paupers who can't afford a meal at all , rather than slinging hash for working-class people who can buy a meal elsewhere ? Anyway , she sells ham and eggs at the Red Hen . She soon has a steady customer , in the manly shape of handsome lorry-driver Jeffrey Pell ( Jack Mulhall ) , whose van is called the White Streak . Now , open the window to let some air in here before I reveal the plot twist . SPOILERS COMING . Jeff Pell is the male equivalent of Clarissa : he's the bachelor scion of a high-society family , who is bored with his family's wealth and has decided to earn a living for himself as the driver of an express truck . ( Again : if this rich guy is so bored , why isn't he doing charity work ? ) Through some contrived set-ups , we learn about Jeff's wealth and position but Clarissa does not . From here on , it's strictly Plot-o-Matic : Clarissa and Jeff fall in love , each thinking the other one a mere prole , and neither one eager to dilute the family bloodlines by marrying beneath their proper station . Clarissa's father ( Phillips Smalley , quite good ) and her grandmother ( Edythe Chapman , overacting pathetically ) make it clear that she ain't marryin ' no truck-driver . Jeff Pell , reluctant to bring a hash-house waitress into his family tree , tries to persuade Clarissa to take a job as a schoolteacher . This leads to some weak slapstick . The single biggest problem with ' Man Crazy ' is that there's no real conflict : we know that the lovers will eventually learn the truth , and all will end happily . But there are other problems too . One of them is that there's nothing new here : this could just as easily have been the story about the prince and the princess who are disguised as a stable-boy and a shepherdess , falling in love whilst failing to recognise each other's true status . And I've intentionally chosen European examples ( from nobility ) as my example , because this points out another problem : the conflict in ' Man Crazy ' is really more of a European plot line ; not an American one , and especially not from the Jazz Age , when everything seemed possible . It really doesn't seem very plausible for mere social differences ( or even financial ones ) to stand in the way of two young Americans in 1927 who are genuinely in love . I did enjoy an extended sequence in which Dorothy Mackaill wears riding clothes . . . looking far sexier than I would have expected . SPOILERS COMING . Eventually some bootleggers try to hijack Jeff's truck while he's at the wheel . . . but Clarissa ( very implausibly ) stops them . Except for Edythe Chapman's histrionics , everything in ' Man Crazy ' is done quite proficiently . . . but the story is not especially original nor compelling , and it would have worked better as a Graustarkian romance in 19th-century Europe , with the bootleggers changed into bandits . Dorothy Mackaill's good looks belong in a much better film . I'll rate ' Man Crazy ' just .
Not even Hitler could stop this cartoon	" Mickey's Gala Premiere " is an above-average Mickey Mouse cartoon from Disney's best period . The premise is simple : Mickey Mouse produces a movie , and all the biggest stars in Hollywood ( 1933 vintage ) show up for the premiere . Unfortunately , most modern viewers will be unable to identify some or all of the big stars who appear ( in cartoon form ) in this cartoon . The caricatures are quite cruel : Wallace Beery and Marie Dressler are drawn to look like a couple of gross hippopotami . Greta Garbo is drawn with exaggerated feet . ( During Garbo's stardom , she was frequently the butt of jokes about her allegedly large feet . . . actually , her feet were quite normal , but she had an ungainly gait that made them seem larger . ) Even viewers who recognise all the film stars in this cartoon might still be baffled by some of the references . Why are Buster Keaton and Jimmy Durante shown handcuffed together ? Answer : this is a reference to one scene in ' What ! No Beer ? ' . . . a film that was released just as " Mickey's Gala Premiere " went into production . From a British standpoint , the most notable aspect of " Mickey's Gala Premiere " is its unique role in the history of television . Before World War Two , television reception in Britain was only available in London and the Home Provinces , from a transmitter at Alexandra Palace . On the first day of September 1939 , executives at ' Ally Pally ' decided to shut down tv transmission for the duration of the war , so that the transmitters could not be used as signal beacons by German bombers . At the precise instant when the plug was pulled , London audiences were watching " Mickey's Gala Premiere " on television . . . and the screens went blank about halfway through the cartoon . After the war , when the time came to resume tv transmission , a BBC executive jokingly suggested that transmission should begin with the same Mickey Mouse cartoon . . . starting in mid-film , at the precise spot where it left off six years earlier . Cooler heads prevailed , and on 7 June 1946 , the Earl of Listowel threw the switch to resume British tv transmission . . . starting with " Mickey's Gala Premiere " shown from its beginning . The cartoon was followed with performances from ballerina Margot Fonteyn , harpist John Cockerill and the New Zealand-born cartoonist David Low whose political cartoons had done so much to maintain wartime morale . I'll rate " Mickey's Gala Premiere " , but at least one point is for this cartoon's unique role in the history of British television .
Cheap skates , but plenty of ball bearings .	Here's a pleasant Vitaphone short which has the sense to dispense with any sort of plot , just giving us musical numbers . Vocalist Sylvia Froos is a minor talent : pretty to look at and pleasant of voice , though clearly no star . She warbles a samba called " Tony's Wife " , then sings " Lullaby of the Leaves " , a weird ballad with its hook in a minor key . Between her numbers , the musicians ( Eddie Duchin's orchestra ? ) perform instrumental versions of a couple of tunes that Warner Brothers already owned : ' The Shadow Waltz ' and ' The Gold-Diggers ' Song ' . I was much more impressed by a novelty turn in this short , introduced by Duchin as ' Earl , Jack and Betty ' . They're roller skaters . . . and they're VERY good . Earl and Jack ( don't ask me which is which ) perform in white tie and tailcoats , while Betty wears a skimpy sequined outfit which shows off her delightfully athletic physique . I expected their turn to be the usual stuff - - the man whirls the woman in circles , and so forth - - but they pleasantly surprised me with some variations on that theme . Unfortunately , to justify the presence of roller-skaters in this sophisticated nightclub , we get some nonsense about how ALL the employees in this nightclub wear skates : the waiters , the chef , the lot . ( The wheels on the busboy , round and round . ) Are those tort lawyers in the alley outside wearing skates too ? We even see an insert shot alleging to show Duchin's feet , wearing skates as he works the pedals of his piano . In addition to dozens of roller skates , we get an overhead shot of Duchin's orchestra performing on a revolving platform . ( I wish I'd had the ball-bearing franchise for this movie . ) At least Sylvia Froos has the sense not to wear skates . We could have done without that gimmick in this otherwise entertaining short . The guy who directed this movie previously played Abraham Lincolin in ' Birth of a Nation ' . My rating ( for this movie , not for ' Birth of a Nation ' ) : .
Very enjoyable in its own right ; just don't expect Loony Toons .	I saw this American TV special on British television , on a rainy afternoon in Bristol . In several other IMDb reviews , I've stated my displeasure for the work of animator Chuck Jones . Here , Jones actually subordinates his own ego for once , and I was pleasantly surprised that he produced a one-off show that gives kids ( and other viewers ) a taste of classical music . I'm not sure if it was a good idea to bung Bugs and Daffy into this . Clearly , they were shanghaied into the project because their presence would bring in some viewers . Unfortunately , those viewers probably expected some Loony Toons comedy - - Bugs Bunny cutting loose in the ' Barber of Seville ' - - and that's just not on offer here . This special isn't very funny , and in fact doesn't really try to be funny . . . but the presence of those two Merrie Melodies madmen will mislead viewers into expecting Termite Terrace mayhem . We begin in typical Warners cartoon fashion , with a shot of a symphonic hall . From within come the voices of Bugs and Daffy , arguing over the proper pronunciation for the name of Camille Saint-Saëns , composer of the music we're about to hear . As usual , it's Bugs who's right and Daffy who's wrong . Memo to Chuck Jones : c'mon , fella , would it have hurt just this once to let Daffy be the one who's right ? Also , if Saint-Saëns's name is actually in the credits , I must have missed it . Since he died in 1921 , I guess Chuck Jones didn't expect him to sue . The music here is conducted by Michael Tilson Thomas , a comparatively youth-oriented conductor who seems to have spent his career ( with varying degrees of success ) in projects that gave him credit for hipness while also giving him credentials as a highbrow interpreter of classical music . The orchestrations impressed me more than Thomas's conducting . I enjoyed the musical pun in ' Fossils ' , with the xylophone evoking the image of a series of ribs on a spinal column . I realise that any animation project will feature some re-use of animation cels , but Jones is more obvious here than he needs to be . We see the same animation cycle , of Daffy Duck hunched over a piano keyboard with a grim look on his face , several times . The real attraction here , of course - - for anyone but the most die-hard Loony Toons addict - - is the suite of symphonic melodies in ' The Carnival of the Animals ' . Each of these is performed as a sort of self-contained music video , each in a different style of animation . . . and all of them radically different from Chuck Jones's usually foolery . For instance , ' The Lion ' resembles a young child's drawings ; very charming in its simplicity . At first , I was deeply impressed that Jones was willing and able to break free so fully from his usual animation style . Then I double-checked the credits of this special ; it turns out that the animations for the symphonic sequences are by someone named Herb Klynn , who spent most of his animation career at UPA . His work here is excellent . The bottom line here is : if you're willing to give the classical music pieces ( and their accompanying visuals ) a chance in their own right , and don't expect any Loony Toons shenanigans , you might enjoy this special very much , as I did . If you're planning to sit through this thing humming Wagnerian versions of " Kill the wabbit ! " and wondering when Bugs and Daffy are going to cut loose with some real slapstick , you'll be disappointed . My rating : seven out of 10 .
Nice to look at , but morally obtuse .	Why is this movie titled ' The Love Mart ' ? Would ' The Love MARKET ' have been too shocking ? The opening credits say this movie is based on a novel , but the novel ( which I've not read ) had a different title , so the peculiar title on this movie can't be blamed on the original author . All of the following refers solely to the film version . The story takes place in 19th-century New Orleans before the Civil War . Gilbert Roland is Victor , a wandering swashbuckler who is accustomed to settling all his arguments according to the code duello : he really seems to belong in an 18th-century story rather than the 19th . After getting into a minor argument he is challenged to a duel , which of course he wins handily . ( Victor by name and victor by nature . ) Having won the duel , it turns out that he has also won the challenger's property : a barbershop ! I've never heard of property changing hands as the result of a duel , but I suppose it has happened . The wandering Victor decides to settle down as a barber , at least till a better chance comes along . Now he meets Antoinette , a southern belle played by delicately beautiful Billie Dove . Victor develops a case of the toot-sweets for Antoinette , but she thinks he's a mere barber . ( Maybe she just doesn't fancy a man with a striped pole . ) She turns up her nose and sashays away before you can play ' Shave and a haircut . ' Along comes Captain Remy , played by snarling Noah Beery . Remy offers himself to Antoinette , but she ain't having any . So the captain forges evidence to indicate that blue-blood Antoinette is secretly a quadroon . . . meaning that she's one part Negro . ( Which part ? ) By the laws of the time , Antoinette is legally black . . . and so she can be sold at slave auction to the highest bidder . Next thing she knows , Antoinette is chained , docketed as merchandise , and paraded before the lewdly-grinning slave-buyers , a slavering bunch of slavers . Yesterday she was a proud aristocrat ; now she's a piece of flesh for sale . SPOILERS COMING . It's no surprise at all that Victor rescues Antoinette , nor is it any surprise that he forces Remy to reveal the forgery . . . thus safely restoring Antoinette to the privileged status of full ( white ) citizenship . What deeply offended me about this movie was its selective indignation towards slavery . As Billie Dove languishes in chains before the auction block , the mise-en-scene of the climactic sequences strongly emphasises the injustice of Antoinette's plight . . . but it's only depicted as injustice because she's a white woman who has been framed as a quadroon . Nobody involved in this movie ( on either side of the camera ) seems especially upset about the institution of slavery . . . providing it's only those pesky BLACK people who get bought and sold . Beery is note-perfect in a crudely-written role , and there are good performances by Armand Kaliz , a surprisingly handsome Boris Karloff ( as a dandified villain in a beaver hat ) and a rotund George Bunny . The production design of this costume drama is excellent , and George Fitzmaurice's direction is brisk and efficient . I really wanted to enjoy ' The Love Mart ' , but its selectively outraged attitude towards slavery is deeply upsetting from a modern viewpoint . I'll rate this movie .
Mexican melodrama	' We the Poor ' is a somewhat overwrought drama by Ismael Rodríguez , a Mexican director whose films often deal with social injustice and economic hardship . The hero of this story is José , nicknamed ' Pepe the Bull ' , although he looks more like Keenan Wynn than any sort of livestock . Pepe is a Mexican working stiff : the sole support of his family , including his young daughter Chachita and his paralysed mother , who can't speak or move but who can roll her eyes . Ay caramba , can this woman roll her eyes ! Pepe works hard , but the family are just barely getting by . ( They live in what appears to be a slum neighbourhood , although it's extremely clean . ) One day the caretaker walks in and helps himself to the rent money , which Pepe has stashed in a hole in the wall behind a photograph . The only witness to the theft is Pepe's mother . Being paralytic , she can't cry out during the robbery , and afterwards she can't tell Pepe who stole the money . But she sure can roll her eyes , while the camera zooms in for a close-up . ( It utterly beggars belief that Pepe and Chachita haven't worked out some means of communication with his mother , such as teaching her to blink in Morse code . Even the Bowery Boys were able to figure out that one . ) Now Pepe can't pay the rent , and pretty soon along comes a Mexican rent-collector ( Sancho the Bailiff ? ) to evict his family . There's a truly ludicrous scene in which the removal men take away every ornament and stick of furniture from Pepe's house . Then they come back and dump his mother on the floor , so they can take her wheelchair . They put the wheelchair in the lorry , then they come back again and take Chachita's doll . Buenos hombres ! Meanwhile , Pepe is in el juzgado ( ' the hoosegow ' ) because he's been framed for someone else's crime . Despite the soap-opera plot line and some very obtrusive background music , there's much in this film that impressed me . There's an excellent montage sequence , in which the caretaker is plagued by guilt for his theft . ( But not enough to give back the money . ) He keeps seeing pairs of circular objects ( two brass hoops in a bedframe , two saucepans on the wall ) and imagining them as Pepe's mother's eyes , staring at him remorselessly . One montage shot in this sequence seems to have been inspired by a similar shot in Fritz Lang's ' Metropolis ' . ( Always steal from the best . ) Some of the frame compositions in the prison sequences are extremely impressive . I started to laugh at the striped uniforms on the prison inmates , which reminded me of pyjamas , or the striped clothes worn by convicts in old Three Stooges movies . But apparently prison inmates in Mexico in the 1940s did indeed wear such uniforms . I had some trouble following the dialogue : many of the characters in this movie use slang expressions that were very up-to-date for urban Mexicans in 1948 , but which are inaccessible to Spanish speakers from non-Mexican cultures . A Mexicana friend who watched this film with me ( and who was born well after it was made ) told me that she couldn't understand most of the slang . There are some truly ludicrous soap-opera plot contrivances in this movie . Eventually we learn that Pepe's relationship with his daughter Chachita is not what it seems . Some of the twists in this movie are quite implausible . But it's extremely well-made , and the visuals are impressive throughout the film . I doubt that ' Nosotros los Pobres ' is an accurate depiction of life in Mexico in 1948 , but plenty of Hollywood movies are equally inaccurate in their depiction of life north of the border . This movie is highly entertaining , and I'll rate it .
Bitter Betty , the biter bit .	An archivist at the New-York Historical Society ( they hyphenate " New-York " ) once explained to me that the legend about Dutch settlers purchasing Manhattan from the natives - - and supposedly cheating them out of valuable real estate at a meagre price - - has a twist : the Amerindians who accepted the Dutchmen's barter weren't natives of Manhattan but were merely visiting , so the land they " sold " to the Dutch wasn't even their tribal property . Thus the supposed victims of a swindle ( the swindlees ? ) made a clear profit . However , this movie ' Bluff ' has a prologue that endorses the " official " version of the story : namely , that the Dutchmen cheated the natives through sheer " bluff " ( the word used here in the intertitles ) , and Manhattan has been running on " bluff " ( it says here ) ever since . Fade in to this movie's main plot , which offers one such bluff gone wrong . Betty Hallowell ( Agnes Ayres ) and her brother Jack ( played by Roscoe Karns , very good ) are poor but honest working-class strivers . Jack is struck and crippled by the car of a powerful ward-heeler ( Fred Butler ) , who offers him $1 , 000 compensation ( easily a year's wage for both siblings in 1924 ) . Betty and Jack scornfully reject this money , but can't afford to engage a lawyer to sue Boss Mitchell for more . ( That wouldn't happen nowadays ; lawyers would take the case on a contingency basis . ) Bitty is embettered , I mean Betty is embittered by the fact that crooks ( or bluffers ) prosper while the honest people starve . She sees a newspaper item about a wealthy woman : a fashion designer who has mysteriously disappeared from her European salon . A news photo of this lady shows a resemblance to Betty . So , Betty decides to " bluff " that she is this wealthy designer , offering her designs for sale to the highest bidder in New York City . The screenplay is careful to rationalise Betty's actions twice over , attempting to let her retain the audience's sympathy . Firstly , she's only doing this because she and Jack are the victims of circumstance ( the car accident , which isn't otherwise relevant to the plot ) . Secondly , the script takes pains to establish that Betty decides only to " let on " ( as Tom Sawyer put it ) that she is the designer , rather than lying outright . Greedy businessmen , eager to profit from the ( fake ) designer Betty's seemingly generous offers ( to sell what Betty doesn't own ) come running . Soon she's living in a posh hotel , on tick , with credit accounts . SPOILERS COMING . And then the cops show up . It turns out that the fashion designer vanished because she had embezzled her backers ' funds ; now Betty is arrested for that crime . When she tries to drop the bluff by admitting her right name , of course the police believe she's really the embezzler trying a new bluff . ( Had enough bluff stuff ? ) Just when it looks as if Betty's bluff will earn her a prison sentence for another woman's crime , along comes a lawyer to help her . The lawyer is played by handsome Antonio Moreno , so there are no prizes for guessing how the film ends . The under-rated director Sam Wood is not quite at his top form here , but " Bluff " shows some glimpses of his later skills , most especially in the taut pacing of the sequences depicting Betty's legal problems . The leads and most of the supporting cast ( including some bit players ) give excellent performances . Pauline Paquette is splendid as a French maid , although the intertitles lumber her with a " wee , wee , ma'mselle " accent . The art direction and camera - work are impressive . I'm not bluffing when I rate this above-average drama .
Two giants of English comedy	' Around the Town ' was a one-off comedy special which the BBC transmitted on the first of October 1955 . Up until that week , the BBC had held a monopoly over all TV broadcasting in Britain , but this week transmissions began for the ITV channel . To keep ahead of their new competition , Auntie Beeb led off with this programme which featured the two biggest names in English comedy at the moment : Max Miller and Terry-Thomas . Max Miller was the number-one headliner in the glory days of the English music hall . He was certainly Britain's leading comedian during the Second World War , and very possibly he was the # 1 entertainer in Britain , in any genre . He wore a garish outfit spangled in weird floral patterns , and occasionally strummed a ukelele ( not a banjolele , like his competitor George Formby ) whilst singing naughty little tunes like ' Mary from the Dairy ' . His onstage outfits were so flamboyant that they inevitably provoked rumours that Miller was gay , even though he was in no other way flamboyant nor effeminate . ( Miller encouraged such rumours , working them into his material . ) Max Miller had a reputation for doing ' blue ' material , but most of his jokes were suggestive rather than obscene . A typical Miller routine : he would walk onstage and stride directly towards the most attractive woman in the front row of the stalls , while peeling a banana and counting the peelings aloud : ' One skin , two skin , three skin . . . here , lady , want a bite ? ' Much like Jack Benny ( from Waukegan ) and Lou Costello ( from Paterson , NJ ) , Miller made frequent references in his comedy routines to his hometown : in his case , Brighton . . . although the character he played onstage really seemed more like a Cockney . Miller would perform onstage with two books : one in a white cover , the other in a blue cover . Ostensibly the white book contained all the clean jokes ever written , whilst the blue book contained all the ' other ' jokes . Asking the audience to choose from one book or the other , Max would invariably receive their shouted reply : ' The BLUE book ! ' If anyone felt that Max's jokes were just a bit too suggestive , he had a ready catchphrase handy : ' It's the way I tell ' em , lady . ' With the possible exception of Red Buttons , NO other performer has ever controlled an audience so perfectly as Max Miller did consistently . In ' Around the Town ' , Miller and Terry-Thomas performed some of their most popular material from the time . Miller did two of his Blue Book routines ( including the one with the notorious throwaway line ' No , no ; he'd got gout ! ' ) , and performed some musical material . Terry-Thomas did a monologue and also performed his skit ' Technical Difficulties ' : in this sketch , he played a radio disc jockey who is just about to go on the air when he accidentally smashes his entire stack of records . With no time to substitute other material , the DJ is forced to go on the air , announcing each record and doing rapid-fire vocal imitations of all the artistes on the records . This routine shows Terry-Thomas's astonishing ability as an impressionist . . . a talent which he surprisingly neglected later . Although his disc-jockey routine in this 1955 kinescope recording was quite hilarious when it originally transmitted , it is no longer very funny because modern viewers will not recognise most of the people whom Terry-Thomas was imitating . Still , Terry-Thomas's virtuoso imitation of all the Ink Spots is hilarious ! I have a great fondness for old-style comedy , and I'm tempted to rate this programme . But I recognise that much of this material has dated badly , so I'll rate it 7 in 10 .
Amazing science-fiction epic	I truly enjoyed ' The Mysterious Island ' , even though this film is a mess . It's also the most definitive example ( by which I mean the WORST example ) of that mongrel genre which haunted Hollywood in the last three years of the 1920s : the part-talkie . Long stretches of ' Mysterious Island ' are completely silent : other sections combine sound effects with the actors ' dialogue on title cards , while a few sequences are all-sound and all-noisy . The fact that three different directors worked on this movie is another reason why it's a pile of hash . . . but it's very enjoyable hash . It's also a splendid example of the science-fiction subgenre known as ' steampunk ' . SLIGHT SPOILERS COMING . Supposedly this ' Mysterious Island ' is a film version of Jules Verne's novel , but the only story elements surviving the transition are an island , a submarine , and an embittered patrician who's also a scientific genius . Count Dakkar ( Lionel Barrymore , more restrained than usual ) is building his super-secret subs on an island off the coast of some Graustarkian nation . Meanwhile , he knows there's a race of weird aquatic creatures living on the ocean floor nearby . He knows this because at regular intervals another bone washes up on his island . . . and Barrymore is putting these bones together , one at a time , to form a skeleton . I found this extremely contrived : how convenient that all the bones are in proportion ( rather than some being adult specimens and others from children ) and none of them are redundant ( he doesn't find two right femurs , for instance ) . Each new piece of jetsam conveniently and neatly fits the specimen-in-progress . Still , it's eerie to see a weird inhuman anatomy slowly taking shape as Barrymore adds one more bone to the jigsaw skeleton . Count Dakkar's rival is Baron Falon , who is probably annoyed at Dakkar because counts outrank barons . The pair of them ( plus the romantic leads and some miscellaneous henchlings ) end up in two super-subs on the ocean floor , which is inhabited by these weird little duckbilled aqua-men who look like upright platypuses . There's some splendid photography by Percy Hilburn , simulating the ocean floor . Far away , we see one tiny creature walking towards the camera . When he gets closer , he looks like dwarf actor Angelo Rossitto in a Donald Duck costume . . . but the image on screen is still oddly compelling . Later , the aqua-men turn up in droves : some walking , others swimming . It turns out they like to drink human blood . . . but how often do they get any ? When Baron Falon's diving-helmet shatters , all the little platypuses start licking his blood . An astonishing scene . There's some rather bad scene continuity . Jacqueline Gadsden ( very pretty , but no actress ) spends all her early scenes wearing an elaborate crinoline hoop-skirt . She even wears this thing when she gets aboard Barrymore's submarine . ( How did she get it through the hatch ? ) Then , all at once , she's inside a deep-sea diving-suit . Did she cram the entire hoop-skirt and all those petticoats into the diving rig ? We find out later that she'd changed into a boiler suit , which she's wearing inside the diving outfit . . . but this should have been established in a transition shot . The directors of part-talkies were usually careful to select WHICH scenes would use recorded dialogue . In ' Mysterious Island ' , the talkie sequences are quite arbitrary . Gadsden , as Countess Sonia , speaks all her dialogue in the form of silent-film intertitles . Late in the film , she's captured by Baron Falon , who conspires to mislead handsome idiot Nikolai ( Lloyd Hughes ) by enlisting a henchwoman to imitate Sonia's voice over a crude audio system . The camera shows Hughes reacting while a woman's voice ( supposedly Countess Sonia's ) emerges from a nearby loudspeaker . As we've never actually heard the real Sonia's voice in any previous scenes , we've no way of judging if the henchwoman's vocal impersonation is accurate . In spite of its many faults ( including a patchwork script ) , this movie is extremely enjoyable . I'll rate ' Mysterious Island ' . Those duck-men are amazing !
Duel suspension of disbelief .	I saw the short Danish film ' Rivalinder ' ( ' Rivals ' ) in October 2006 - - a century after its original release - - at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . . . but the print which was screened was an acetate dupe restored in 1999 from a print in a German film archive , with German intertitles . Consequently , I can only address the film's action as described in this German version , not the Danish original . One of the hazards of viewing ( or reviewing ) silent films is that the print at hand may vary considerably from the original release , due to rewritten ( or translated ) screen titles and / or re-ordering of the footage . There are no credits in this print , which may be down to its being a foreign print ( a Danish film exhibited in German cinemas ) or because at this time ( 1906 ) credits were not an established custom . The film's director / scenarist is believed to be Viggo Larsen , but this is purely an assumption based on the fact that he was the most prolific Danish filmmaker at the time . The actors seen here have not been identified from roles in other films . SPOILERS AHEAD . Here's the plot , such as it is . A curtain-twitcher sees a married man trysting with his mistress ; the busybody rushes to the wife and grasses him . With the busybody as her second , the wife challenges the mistress to a duel ! The husband receives a letter from his wife - - footage inserted here of handwriting in German , replacing the Danish original - - informing him that the duel is about to take place . Pistols at ten paces ! The frantic husband arrives at the duelling ground , just too late : his mistress has just killed his wife . As he's now a widower , this leaves him free to marry his mistress , ja ? Nein ! He spurns her , so she shoots him dead and then kills herself . How many bullets are in that pistol ? This plot is well and truly implausible . I can just barely believe that two European women of this time might fight a duel over a man , but would they really do so with pistols ? The film's brevity leaves various points unclear ; the actors ' costumes don't look quite right for contemporary clothing , and it's possible that this story actually takes place in the mid-19th century . ( I wish that the print I'd viewed had contained the original Danish titles . ) Also , I got the impression that the wife - - the challenger in this duel - - is the one who chose pistols as the weapons to be used ; if so , this violates the code duello . It's quite possible that the filmmakers weren't striving for plausibility , and simply wanted to give their audiences a fast-moving story with action and violence . On that point , they certainly succeeded . Normally , I don't rate a movie if it's incomplete or if some factor prevents me from attaining full comprehension of the filmmakers ' intentions ; in this case , because the film is so short and I want it to become better known , I'll rate ' Rivalinder ' .
Well-made propaganda	The title of this German film translates as ' The Emperor of California ' , so - - when I first heard of this movie - - I thought it would be a dramatisation of the bizarre true story of Joshua Norton , an eccentric beggar in 19th-century San Francisco who declared himself Emperor of the United States . This movie turns out to be inspired by the life of a 19th-century historic figure , right enough , but it isn't Joshua Norton : it's John Sutter ( or Johann Suter ) , the immigrant on whose land was discovered ( in 1848 ) the gold ore that led to the California Gold Rush . I'm extremely impressed with this film . It was clearly made on a large budget , and several exterior sequences were actually filmed in California . Most of the cast give excellent , well-directed performances . I'm slightly familiar with the life story of the real John Sutter . This German movie varies somewhat from the facts ( as does Hollywood , constantly ) , but much of the rewriting here actually serves to make Sutter's life story more plausible , rather than less . It's not widely known that the real John Sutter's emigration to California was by an extremely circuitous path that took him through Hawaii and Alaska ! But that trivium is ultimately irrelevant to the part of his story that really matters ( the gold strike , and its aftermath ) , so Sutter's peregrinations are wisely left out here . ' The Kaiser of California ' won Italy's Mussolini Cup as best foreign ( non-Italian ) film of the year . This means both good news and bad news . In order to win the Mussolini Cup , a film had to be genuinely well-made , featuring excellent photography , intelligent scripting , superlative performances . This movie has those assets in abundance . The bad news is that - - as you might guess from its patron's name - - the Mussolini Cup was ideologically motivated . To be worthy of that award , a film had to advance Fascist agenda . Which this movie , indeed , does . At every point where I spotted a deviation from historical truth in this movie , the deviation was always to the benefit of totalitarian ( and anti-American ) politics . To begin with , the real John Sutter ( or Johann Suter ) was Swiss . When he founded a homestead in Spanish California , he cried it Nueva Helvetia : New Switzerland . In this movie , Johann Suter ( not John Sutter ) retains his German birthname throughout his life , and he identifies himself as German ( not Swiss ) to his dying day . In the time of the Anschluss , I can understand why Nazi filmmakers would want to blur the distinctions between Germans , Austrians and Swiss . The basic nugget of historic truth is retained : when gold is discovered on Suter's land , his homestead is ruined by prospectors . Others make fortunes in the goldfields while Suter ends his days in poverty . The last reel of this film shows Suter shrieking on the steps of a U . S . courthouse , cursing the American politicians who have cheated him . The truth is more complicated . In real life , the U . S . Congress voted to compensate John Sutter very generously for the loss of his land . . . but he died before the compensation could commence . Also , John Sutter's real-life son August amassed a fortune in the boom economy triggered by the Gold Rush . ( The son selfishly refused to share the wealth with his father . ) In this film , Johann Suter has a fictional son Rudolph who bears almost no resemblance to the real August Sutter . For that matter , the name of Suter's wife has been arbitrarily changed from Nanette ( a Swiss name ) to the more German-sounding Anna . The injustices heaped upon Suter throughout this movie are presented as semi-official actions of the United States government , rather than what they actually were : depredations caused by greedy individuals . This movie stands as solid evidence that , as far back as 1936 , the German film ministry were trying to stir up German-language audiences against the United States . ' The Kaiser of California ' is anti-U . S . pro-Nazi propaganda , but it manages to be fairly subtle in its intentions : there is , of course , no explicit mention of Nazism nor Hitler . Since this movie achieves its intentions very proficiently , I'll rate it , with a footnote warning viewers to proceed with caution . P . S . : In real life , but not in this movie , some of the prospectors in the California Gold Rush were from Australia . One of them noticed that the land near Sutter's Mill bore a strong resemblance to the land near his own homestead in Kalgoorlie , Australia : after panning out his claim in California , this man went back home to Kalgoorlie and struck gold . Few Americans know that there was a gold rush in Australia immediately after the one in California . I hope that somebody will eventually make a film about the Kalgoorlie Gold Rush ; it's a fascinating story .
Valerie Hobson , keep your hat on !	Robert Donat had movie-star looks and considerable acting talent , but he also had chronic asthma that shortened his life . Ironically , the asthma also helped his acting career . He took acting lessons in the first place in the hope of strengthening his voice , and the condition gave his voice a plaintive whisper that he used quite effectively on screen . In ' The Adventures of Tartu ' , Donat plays several scenes with Glynis Johns , whose voice was even more whispery ( whisperier ? ) than Donat's . They sound quite interesting together on screen . Donat spends most of this WW2 drama wearing a Nazi uniform and saying things like ' Heil Hitler ' . No worries ; he's a British agent undercover in occupied Czechoslovakia . To make his loyalties absolutely clear to the audience , the first reel of this film shows Donat on fire-watch duty during the Blitz , courageously disarming a doodlebug in the wreckage of a hospital , while a twee little boy asks annoying questions from his hospital bed . We see some brief stock footage of the actual Blitz , with London in flames ; unfortunately , this dose of reality contrasts sharply with the fictional sequences that follow . Donat is soon conscripted to go undercover in Czechoslovakia , using the identity of a dead man named Jan Tartu . Donat's mission is to make contact with the Czech resistance and blow up a Nazi chemical factory . From here onward , we get some very implausible cloak-and-daggery . Donat's password is the first line of a Wordsworth poem . . . and the countersign is the next line of the same poem ! This is utterly ridiculous : a countersign should never be intuited from a password . A much better ( and more plausible ) example was in the film ' Twilight's Last Gleaming ' , in which Burt Lancaster is challenged to identify three passwords . The first one is ' Romeo ' and the second one is ' And ' . . . so he knows the third password cannot possibly be ' Juliet ' ! Back to Donat : matters get more annoying very quickly . In order not to blow his own cover , Donat must stand by and murmur ' Heil Hitler ' as his contact man ( an elderly cobbler ) is hauled off by the Gestapo . Donat continues his Nazi act when another resistance agent ( a haggard middle-aged woman ) is arrested . But the third time the Nazis try to bounce a Czech , the resistance agent is an attractive young woman . . . so this time , for some reason , Donat endangers himself and his mission to save her . Valerie Hobson , whom I've always liked , is cast as a Czech woman who appears to support the Nazi cause but who is actively involved in the resistance . In one sequence , to vamp a German officer ( Walter Rilla , the perennial movie Nazi ) , Hobson gets dressed up in a chic black outfit with a cape . She looks dead sexy in this rig , and the sexiest part of the ensemble is a large black picture hat that frames Hobson's face and hairstyle very attractively . I was annoyed when Hobson tries to seduce Rilla by telling him that she might take off her hat . This line is meant to seem very kinky , but Hobson is so sexy with the hat on that I found this line annoying . There are some impressively tense situations in which Donat can't tell whom he can trust . The scenes in the chemical factory are excellent , with some splendid camera work in sequences featuring a glass-doored lift that rises through several levels of the factory , with the camera alongside it in the lift shaft . There's also a very impressive matte shot ( credit to Henry Harris ) in which four tiny figures are seen moving in a large empty area . The budget is much higher than usual for a British feature of this period . The excellent and well-paced direction is by the unjustly obscure Harold S Bucquet , who may be the father-in-law of Hyacinth Bucket ( he pronounced it ' bouquet ' ) . I'll rate this spy thriller . I would have liked it more if there had been more footage of Valerie Hobson in that picture hat .
This movie gave Grandpa the hotchahs !	' The Water Nymph ' was Mack Sennett's very first Keystone film , although he had been involved with the film industry earlier at Biograph , working under DW Griffith . . . whom Sennett enthusiastically praised decades later : ' He was my day school , my night school , my university . ' In the 1990s , film historian Leslie Halliwell reprinted this quote but made the bizarre decision to update the phrase ' night school ' to ' adult education centre ' . Although the Keystone films are best known for slapstick and pratfalls , ' The Water Nymph ' is an excellent reminder that Sennett offered his audiences other pleasures too . . . specifically , female pulchritude . Here we see the inspiration for all the Mack Sennett Bathing Beauties yet to come . SPOILERS COMING . More as an economic measure than anything else , Mack Sennett casts himself here as the male lead . Young swain Mack ( no relation to Mack Swain ) calls on fair young damsel Mabel Normand , wooing her in her parents ' garden . Mack's henpecked father is played by Ford Sterling , in his excitable Dutch-comic characterisation . When they show up separately at the same beach , Mack mischievously encourages Mabel to vamp his father , hoping to get Papa to like her . ( Right , but he'll like her for the wrong reason . ) Young Mabel Normand is a visual delight in her old-fashioned swimming costume , displaying some lithe agility . There are also some quaint shots of the old-fashioned changing booths that were commonplace on public beaches in 1912 , the year of the Titanic . We also see some authentic quayside footage , with an unnamed pier which an American friend of mine has identified for me as Santa Monica . Besides Mabel , there are several other eyefuls of pretty girls in bathing cozzies , all of them quite pleasant to see . Papa Ford Sterling tries to impress them all at the pier's cafe , waving a wad of banknotes . This is Mack's cue to arrive with Mama , introducing Mabel as his sweetheart to both of his parents . . . including Papa , who's been trying to pick her up ! Smiles all round . ' The Water Nymph ' was in its own time far less funny than later Keystones would be , and whatever humour it possessed has now passed its sell-by date . Even by the standards of 1912 , ' The Water Nymph ' is dead crude . If I summarised this movie in one word , it would be ' quaint ' . But ' The Water Nymph ' has a great deal of historic interest , not merely as the first Keystone but also for its honest depiction of working-class Californians at play in 1912 ( not the main characters ; the background ones ) . Much of this film's considerable charm can be credited to Mabel Normand , quite athletic here and apparently doing her own dives and stunts . Grandpa got the hotchahs for this movie , and you'll like it too . I'll rate ' The Water Nymph ' .
The true story was better .	' The She-Wolf ' would be totally implausible if it were not inspired by a real person . Hetty Green ( 1834-1916 ) was a miser financier who inherited $7 . 5 million from her Quaker father . Investing this in Civil War bonds and then in railway shares , she was worth at least $100 million when she dropped dead while haggling over the price of a bottle of milk . All of her wealth was built through her own business acumen , rather than passive investment . Her miserliness surpassed anything in Dickens . This millionairess once spent an entire night searching for a lost 2-cent stamp . She lived in the cheapest possible rooming-house , never used heat nor hot water , never washed , ate the cheapest possible food . She owned precisely one dress ( black , of course ) and only one set of undergarments , wearing these clothes until they wore out before she purchased others . When her son injured his leg , Hetty Green took him out of hospital ( she was too mean to pay the medical bill ) and tried to find a free clinic that would admit him as a charity case ; eventually , the boy's leg became gangrenous and had to be amputated . Even then , Green haggled over the price of a prosthetic limb ! When her peg-legged son reached adulthood , Green sent him hundreds of miles to deliver some valuable bearer bonds for her ; when he reached his destination , the bond certificates turned out to be fake . ( Green was testing her son's honesty . ) In ' She-Wolf ' , actress May Robson gives a standout performance as Hattie Breen , a character clearly based on Hetty Green . Hattie is the millionaire widow of a financier who spent his life competing with rival magnate William Remington . Although not quite a miser in Hetty Green's league , Hattie Breen is a right piece of work . For 15 years , she has been ' investing ' the wages of her housemaid Maria ; now , when Maria demands an accounting , Hattie claims to know nothing about it . She sacks her stenographer David Talbot , after exploiting him . Hattie's son Tom works for her , but she exploits him ruthlessly and she is hostile to Tom's pregnant wife Peggy . Hattie's daughter ( annoyingly named ' Faire ' ) is also exploited and harassed . Eventually , Remington offers Tom millions of dollars to come work for Remington's interests . . . but this will require Tom to betray the business secrets of his mother , who has done everything conceivable to ruin his life , his health and his marriage . ( Sounds like a no-brainer to me . ) This movie is Robson's all the way . An extremely talented actress who spent most of her career in obscurity , but who was fortunate enough to reach near-stardom in lead roles at an advanced age , Robson displays a wide range of emotions here in a role that could easily have toppled into melodramatics . The script gives Robson several long speeches : the movie stalls at these points , but Robson's characterisation is excellent . SPOILERS COMING . After going to such lengths to establish Hattie Breen as an utterly ruthless businesswoman who cares about nothing but profits ( and controlling other people ) , the movie then does a volte-face and reveals that , deep down , Hattie has really got ( all together now ) a heart of gold . Astonishingly , her son and her former secretary both decide to remain loyal to Hattie : this is barely plausible for the son , but not remotely plausible for the secretary . Hattie comes through for the cheated housemaid Maria . The last scene is extremely annoying , as it requires Hattie to set up a highly contrived situation merely to pull a pointless ' joke ' on her son . Hattie tells Tom that his wife Peggy is intimately entertaining the president of the Mohawk Central Railroad . It turns out that Peggy is nursing her infant son . . . whom Hattie has just appointed to the presidency of a railway she owns ! ( Must be an interesting stockholders ' meeting . ) ' The She-Wolf ' is a bizarre film . Significantly , the least plausible portions of this film are the fictional inventions and contrivances , while the most plausible portions are the scenes in which Hattie Breen's behaviour emulates that of the actual Hetty Green . I'm astonished that nobody has yet made a film about the real Hetty Green , whose true story is far more fascinating than anything in ' The She-Wolf ' . I'll rate this Hollywood concoction .
A pair of Jacks are busted	Jack Oakie was a very funny comedian within his narrow range . He usually played a blowhard of slightly below-average intelligence , with a high opinion of his own prowess but who lacked the ability to deliver the goods . ( It's a shame that Oakie never got a crack at the role he was born to play : Aubrey Piper in George Kelly's ' The Show-Off ' . ) For some reason , Oakie was cast several times as a songwriter : in ' June Moon ' , ' Tin Pan Alley ' and here in ' Sitting Pretty ' , a semi-musical . Jack Oakie ( music ) and Jack Haley ( lyrics ) play a would-be songwriting team ; Haley has no illusions about his own talent , but he thinks Oakie's a genius . . . and Oakie agrees . Why is it that movies about songwriters always make a bigger deal of the composer than the lyricist ? Anyway , the magnum opus of this pair of Jacks is a pity of a ditty called ' I Wanna Meander with Miranda ' , which gives you some idea of their career aspirations . These guys live in New York City , which in 1933 was probably the best place for songwriters to live . They stupidly decide they'd have a better chance of selling their songs if they moved to Hollywood . Lacking the dough to buy tickets on the Super Chief , they decide to hitch-hike all the way to La-La Land . Alleged hilarity ensues . Along the way , they pick up vivacious young Ginger Rogers , who can sing and dance a treat . See where this is heading ? SPOILERS COMING . Part of the problem with ' Sitting Pretty ' is that the songs written by the two Jacks - meaning , of course , the songs written by Paramount's music department , and attributed to these fictional characters - are intentionally bad , but never quite reach the level of camp humour . Then , when the two Jacks write a genuinely impressive song - ' Did You Ever See a Dream Walking ? ' - we have difficulty believing that these no-hopers could ever achieve such a masterpiece . Ginger Rogers is a knockout in a sequined outfit , while Arthur Jarrett ( who ? ) warbles in falsetto . Jack Haley is in the best singing voice of his career here , although he has some trouble with lyrics . . . made worse because he's playing the man who allegedly wrote them . He sings one song quite well but can't seem to remember whether it's about Lazy Lowdown Liza or Lowdown Lazy Liza . Oakie does a very convincing job of faking his piano-playing . There's some humour along the way to the ( obvious ) payoff , but most of it is predictable or contrived or both . Lew Cody is very good as a drunken Hollywood director , and Thelma Todd is briefly impressive as a conniving actress . The final gag ( in which Ginger explains why she can't marry Haley ) is weak . I'll rate this movie just .
' You and Me ' did it better .	I enjoyed ' Pick-Up ' , but there were quite a few obstacles along the way . Sylvia Sidney plays a woman who's just being released from prison after a two-year sentence , but in the opening scene ( in the prison governor's office ) she's wearing elaborate makeup and her eyebrows are tweezed . In a supporting role , Lilian Bond's cut-glass British accent is distracting ; an American actress should have been cast . Speaking of accents : Sylvia Sidney's honking Bronx accent is even more unpleasant than usual in this movie . Louise Beavers is stuck in her usual chucklin ' maid role ( cried Magnolia , this time ) , and the minstrel-show dialogue she's given here is even worse than usual . Learning that Sidney has been using a false identity , Beavers asks George Raft : ' Is you knowed she ain't she ? She ain't HER ? ' Yassum ! The biggest flaw in ' Pick-Up ' is that the relationship between Sidney's and Raft's characters here anticipates their very similar relationship in a vastly better , later film : Fritz Lang's ' You and Me ' . In both films , Sidney plays an ex-convict who is in love with Raft , but who lies to him about her past and her marital status . The soundtrack keeps playing overly-orchestrated background music at inappropriate moments . And there's a really weird scene at a ' kid party ' thrown by Lilian Bond's playgirl character , which the guests - - all of them white , of course - - attend while dressed as very young children or babies . ( They're waited upon by black women dressed as nursemaids . ) I found it damned strange to watch several shapely young women cavorting in skimpy baby-girl outfits , escorted by men in nappies and bibs . . . and I also wondered how all these idle rich people just happened to possess baby costumes that fit them . ( I also wondered how badly the black women needed the money , that they'd be willing to humiliate themselves by nannying a bunch of spoilt adults . ) Elsewhere , Charles Middleton makes a brief appearance . . . though Middleton's fans may be disappointed that he plays a pleasant guy who's actually helpful for once . SPOILERS COMING . Raft , in patent-leather hair , plays a studly cab driver : several women in this movie make admiring comments about his manliness . He and Sidney ' meet cute ' in circumstances which convince him she's a streetwalker . They develop a plausible but unusual relationship , eventually becoming flatmates and apparently lovers , though this pre-Code film is careful to establish that they sleep in separate beds . Raft offers to marry Sidney , but she tells him she's already got a husband . She doesn't let on that he's William Harrigan , doing time for aggravated manslaughter . Then Harrigan shows up , claiming he's out on parole but brandishing a handgun . The handgun is a revolver , but it's also an automatic . . . an automatic parole violation . Except that Harrigan is on DIY parole : he broke out on the lam . Intriguingly and atypically , Raft here plays a man with no ambition at all , who gradually betters himself only because Sidney - - the woman behind the man - - keeps pushing him to take chances . When Sidney gets arrested and put on trial for murder , Raft - - even though he no longer loves her - - unhesitatingly gives up all his possessions ( which he accumulated only through Sidney's guidance ) to buy her the best legal defence . The film ends with Sidney acquitted , and with Raft worse off than when Sidney first met him : he started out broke ; now he's skint and in debt . But the last scene is deeply touching , with some of Raft's best acting ever , and I'll rate this movie .
Bumbershoot bamboozles	I viewed the Library of Congress print of this George Méliès ' trick ' film . As was often the case , Méliès himself plays the conjuror who presides over the magical proceedings . We see a backdrop with a French inscription which translates as ' Galatea Theatre ' . Apparently Méliès expected audiences in 1903 to be literate enough to recognise this as a reference to the Greek myth of Pygmalion . Wielding an umbrella as his magic wand , Méliès uses his bumbershoot to materialise ten different ma'mselles , each of whom is dressed to symbolise a different nationality . The ladies then strike a tableau , the scenery and their costumes transforming to suggest ancient Greece . Méliès magically morphs their clothing into garb appropriate for modern ladies of 1903 vintage : he bows , and exits . In 1903 , and for some years thereafter , it was still popular for stage performers to offer ' tableaux ' or ' living statues ' , in which the actors would freeze in position to illustrate some dramatic situation , while the audience applauded . We get an example of that here . I find Méliès's films more significant for what they reveal about his own time ( which is genuine but unintentional ) than for their magical or supernatural events ( which are intended as the point of his films , but which are of course fake ) . The ma'mselles are quite pretty in their cozzies , and any student of the history of theatrical costumes would do well to watch this film . My rating : .
Oh , bee-hive yourself !	I saw ' Marvellous Beehive ' in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone ; the annual festival has made a welcome return to that town after eight years in nearby Sacile . . . a town no less beautiful , but in Sacile the festival's programme was split between two smaller cinemas at opposite ends of the town , thus forcing me ( and other attendees ) to hustle back and forth from one screening to another . The festival screened a beautiful stencil-coloured print of this French film , on loan from the National Film and Sound Archive in Australia . The delicate colours definitely added to the viewing pleasure of the festival's audience . An establishing shot of a beehive , with a few bees on patrol , magically dissolves into a corps de ballet of dancing girls in bee costumes , with the prima danseuse as their queen bee . They perform before a painted backdrop resembling a grotto . When the queen bee falls asleep , she is attacked by an enormous spider . But her loyal soldier bees rescue her , and all ends with more dancing . This movie would have been far less effective in monochrome , as the delicate colours heighten the tone of artifice and fantasy . This gentle fairytale is short enough not to wear out its welcome , and ' Marvellous Beehive ' would make a great ' extra ' for a DVD version of Jerry Seinfeld's ' Bee Movie ' . ( Were you expecting ' The Sting ' ? ) I hope my favourable review will create some buzz ( sorry ! ) for this film , which is a real honey . ( Ouch ! ) My rating : .
Not exactly a sinking ship , but . . .	I saw ' Atlantis ' at the opening weekend of the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy , in October 2006 . Several other IMDb reviewers have commented ( incorrectly ) that this 1913 film was inspired by the Titanic disaster of the previous year , and have also commented ( correctly ) about the physical ampleness and ineptitude of the exotic dancer portrayed by Ida Orlov . I shall address both of those points . ' Atlantis ' was originally a novel by German author Gerhart Hauptmann ( 1862-1946 ) , who received the 1912 Nobel Prize for Literature . One section of this novel describes the sinking of a huge ocean liner in the middle of the Atlantic , with great loss of lives . Hauptmann's novel was published ( in serial form ) a few weeks BEFORE the real-life Titanic disaster , which isn't such an amazing coincidence : steamships were still the primary form of transoceanic travel ; compromises on safety - - such as an insufficiency of lifeboats , and a lack of lifeboat drills - - were commonplace , and many people felt that an eventual disaster was inevitable . When the film version of ' Atlantis ' went into production , shortly AFTER the Titanic's sinking , this film's producers were aware of the similarity between fiction and fact . . . but they were also aware ( unlike modern viewers ) that Hauptmann's novel was still in the bookstalls at the time , still being read ( in 1913 , Hauptmann was considered Germany's greatest living novelist ) and they were confident that most film-goers in 1913 would know that this movie was based on material written BEFORE the Titanic's fatal voyage . ' Atlantis ' was the Nordisk film studio's most expensive and ambitious production , billed as an ' Autorenfilm ' : an ' author-film ' adapted from a recognised work of literature . Hauptmann's novel was partly autobiographical , and his contract with Nordisk stipulated that two roles in the film must be cast with the actual people who had inspired those characters in his novel . Hauptmann had enjoyed an erotic relationship with Ida Orlov in , when she had been a teenage cabaret dancer . ( Hauptmann was 28 years her senior . ) In ' Atlantis ' , Orlov plays an erotic dancer but fails to convey whatever bewitched Hauptmann seven years earlier on ; still , Nordisk were forced to cast her in order for this movie to be made . The other inspirational figure here is more interesting . Carl ( Charles ) Unthan ( 1848-1929 ) was born without arms , and from early childhood he used his bare feet as hands . From the 1870s onward he toured Europe as a concert artiste , not only playing a violin with his unshod feet ( wearing open-toed socks ) but reportedly even replacing and tuning the violin's strings onstage . After the Great War , this armless man visited Germany's military hospitals to assure the soldiers that loss of a limb need not be insurmountable . ( In Chaplin's film ' Limelight ' , set in roughly this same period , Chaplin's character Calvero makes an oblique reference to Unthan . ) In ' Atlantis ' , Unthan demonstrates his armless dexterity but is assisted by a younger attendant ( Frantz Skondrup ) . According to Unthan's memoir - - wittily titled ' Das Pediskript ' - - when he was younger and more supple , he refused to let anyone be his ' hands ' . Unthan was in his sixties when he filmed ' Atlantis ' : he's still handsome and poised here , and his performance is fascinating . It's a shame that Unthan - - sort of a reverse Johnny Eck - - was well past middle age when movies arrived ; he could have had a career as a film actor ! It would be fascinating to see Unthan perform in a film similar to Tod Browning's ' The Unknown ' . SYNOPSIS AND SPOILERS : The protagonist of ' Atlantis ' is Friedrich von Kammacher , a surgeon . His wife ( Lily Frederiksen ) becomes insane and bed-ridden when his life's work ( a dissertation ) is rejected . He flees to Berlin , where he is seduced by Ingigerd , an erotic dancer . Strangely compelled by her , von Kammacher abandons his past life and he accompanies Ingigerd to America aboard the ocean liner ' Atlantis ' . ( Why would anyone name a ship for a land mass that SANK ? ) When the ship is wrecked in mid-Atlantic , von Kammacher and Ingigerd are among the few survivors brought to New York . An armless man ( guess who ) assists Ingigerd in her showbiz career , but von Kammacher is now estranged from her . Depressed by all that's happened ( and I don't much blame him ) , von Kammacher flees to a remote mountain cabin . But the beautiful sculptress Eva Burns admires him ( though I can't imagine why ) . She follows von Kammacher into the hinterlands ; they fall in love . . . but von Kammacher has conveniently discovered a medicine which will cure his wife . He rushes back to Denmark . The end . An alternate ending was shown in Russian cinemas , with von Kammacher dying . For once , I agree with the Russians . ' Atlantis ' is an ambitious film , fatally compromised by the casting of Ida Orlov . Although she is playing a character allegedly inspired by her own younger self , she quite fails here to demonstrate the erotic qualities which had originally intoxicated the author of this tosh . A further flaw is the casting of Olaf Fønss as von Kammacher : Fønss is handsome and brooding , but he fails to convey the range of emotions which von Kammacher experiences . Worse , von Kammacher is simply not a very sympathetic protagonist : he shows no qualms about abandoning any woman who is no longer useful to him , yet he seems to feel that women should accept him ( and love him ) as he is . I was intrigued to see future film director Michael Curtiz in this film's supporting cast . I'll rate ' Atlantis ' .
The Browning aversion .	This film's title ( a contrived reference to the criminal instinct ) is so arbitrary , I suspect that someone in Universal's front office ordered Tod Browning to make a movie called ' White Tiger ' but didn't care about its actual content . SPOILERS COMING . We get several of the usual Tod Browning elements here : a grotesque scam , urban criminals who hide out in the woods , stolen jewels concealed in an unprepossessing object , and the convenient regeneration of a lifelong criminal . The story opens in a London slum , resembling the one in ' The Blackbird ' , but with a prologue structurally similar to the one in ' West of Zanzibar ' . Roy and Sylvia Donovan are the young children of a criminal who has just been shopped to Scotland Yard by his henchman Hawkes ( Wallace Beery ) . As the peelers burst in , Hawkes flees with little Sylvia , leaving boy Roy to his own devices as the children's father is killed . Fade in fifteen years later at ' a famous wax musee ( sic ) in London ' ( I wonder which one ) . The grown-up Roy ( played by Raymond Griffith ) is now working inside a mechanical chess-playing device , clearly inspired by the ( equally fraudulent ) automaton which Johann Nepomuk Maelzel exhibited in Europe and America in the 1830s , and which was rumbled in an 1836 essay by Edgar Allan Poe ( whom Raymond Griffith resembled facially ) . Working a scam in the same layout is Sylvia ( Priscilla Dean ) , whom Hawkes has raised as a pickpocket . ( In the film's main story following the prologue , Beery is made 15 years older with an impressive makeup job , but his character has not gained any weight . ) Annoyingly and contrivedly , the Donovan siblings have each believed the other to be killed in the police raid . Now they meet - - the audience are aware of their relationship - - yet fail to recognise each other , although Roy feels a ' brotherly ' affection for this woman . The whole gang - - Griffith , Dean , Beery , the mechanical chess-player , Uncle Tom Cobley and all - - hightail it to a very unconvincing New York City . Roy seems to recognise Hawkes as the man who shopped his father , but bides his time . After they pull their big heist , they scarper for a convenient cabin in the woods like the crooks in ' The Unholy Three ' . The three lead characters in this movie - - all played by American actors - - are lower-class Londoners who pass themselves off in New York as Italian nobility . It's fortunate that this is a silent movie , so that we're spared what surely would have been ludicrous attempts at double-decker accents . ( And anyway , Raymond Griffith had a throat ailment which would end his acting career in talking pictures . ) It's deeply annoying that the characters played by Dean and Griffith spend so much time together , in such close quarters , before realising they're brother and sister . SPOILERS NOW . As this is a Tod Browning film , it's no surprise that a man and woman who are lifelong criminals - - Griffith and Dean , this time round - - experience a total and sincere reformation , and ( very contrivedly , but also as usual for Browning ) they receive a full pardon from the forces of the law . As in ' The Blackbird ' , this film strongly implies that a well-bred patrician ( in this case , Matt Moore's top-hatted stranger ) is innately superior to people of plebeian birth . I watched this Tod Browning film with a strong sense of deja vu , as so many of its elements strongly echo so many other Browning films . One point in this film's favour is that it has a bit more comedy relief than usual for Browning , including a couple of wisecracking inter-titles . I'll rate ' White Tiger ' , but I wouldn't recommend it as anyone's first introduction to Tod Browning's bizarre world .
Did Ernie Kovacs see this movie ?	Roscoe Arbuckle wrote , directed and starred in ' His Wife's Mistake ' at a crucial point in his career , when he was weaning himself off crude slapstick and gradually developing a subtle sense of characterisation . I enjoyed this entire two-reeler , except for one genuinely disgusting sequence after Roscoe's boob character gets shaving cream mixed up with vanilla ice cream . Unbilled actor Frank Hayes plays a barber's customer who gets lathered with the ice cream : when Hayes discovers the mistake , there's a truly sick-making scene when he and Arbuckle both start licking Hayes's face . ( Hayes , a stage-trained Victorian actor , uses his lanky frame to good effect here . ) Meanwhile , we see pretty Betty Gray sipping a shaving-cream soda . . . then spitting it out again . The plot is standard farce confusion . Roscoe is the porter and all-purpose dogsbody in an office building . Big-shot executive William Jefferson is expecting a client named Stout , and orders his wife ( Minta Durfee ) to detain Stout until a crucial moment . When blimp-bodied Roscoe blunders into the reception room , Minta asks him ' Are you Stout ? ' . From here , the movie writes itself . I was slightly surprised by the arrival of a ' nance ' character named Percy Dovewing , played by Arthur Earle . Actually , ' nance ' characters ( effeminate males ) were stock comedy characters long before 1916 , but this character still astonished me . For one thing , his name is nearly identical to that of Percy Dovetonsils , the effeminate poet played so memorably on television by Ernie Kovacs four decades on . Arbuckle and Kovacs were both comedy geniuses , yet Kovacs's humour shows no obvious influence from Arbuckle . ' His Wife's Mistake ' makes me wonder if Kovacs perhaps studied Arbuckle's films . Earle's performance as Dovewing is a fairly standard ' nance ' act , except for one startling moment immediately after his entrance , when he crosses paths with a Negro . At this point I groaned , expecting to see two stereotypes at the same go : stereotypical gay man meets stereotypical black man . I was surprised by what happened instead . The black man ( unbilled , and apparently not a professional actor ) stares at Dovewing , then laughs and does a brief ' camp ' imitation of him ! It's refreshing to see a 1916 movie in which a black man acts like a normal human being instead of a goggle-eyed lawn ornament . I viewed a print of ' His Wife's Mistake ' which appears to have a truncated ending . Several of the Triangle-Keystones were conceived as three-reelers but released more economically as two-reelers ; I suspect that footage was excised from this film before its release , in which case the missing footage likely no longer exists . Basically , Roscoe has screwed up the business deal but can just barely put it right in the last few seconds before a stock option expires . . . except that the characters here are so unsympathetic , there's no reason for us to want Roscoe to save them . I guess we'll never know how this movie was meant to end . But it's mostly funny on the way there . Despite that really disgusting ice-cream scene , I'll rate this comedy .
The Pharaoh's ancient records	" King Tut's Tomb " is a Heckle & Jeckle cartoon , but it avoids the usual anarchic violence of those magpies . Instead , the two friends go on an exotic adventure which features more imaginative visuals than usual for a Paul Terry cartoon , and the climax features an interesting musical number . This cartoon ( intentionally ) has fewer laughs than usual for Heckle & Jeckle , but it's bright and well-paced , and makes for enjoyable family viewing . Heckle and Jeckle , wearing pith helmets , are riding their flying carpet over Egypt . They come in for a landing near a likely pyramid , and decide to investigate . When they open the tomb , various Egyptian artefacts fly out into the desert . The last item to emerge is a levitating mummy case , which opens to reveal a cartoon version of Harpo Marx . The comedy of Heckle & Jeckle was always strongly influenced by the Marx Brothers , so it's nice to see an honest acknowledgment of this . In appropriate cartoon fashion , the inside of the tomb is larger than the outside . Inside the tomb , Heckle and Jeckle discover an ancient Egyptian jukebox . ( It looks to me like it's Twentieth Dynasty , second Ramesside period . ) The jukebox and its records have been sitting in this dusty tomb for thousands of years , but when Heckle starts it up ( of course ) it works just fine . The two magpies do a spirited dance to the catchy tune on the jukebox . The character animation in this short is better than usual for the Terry studio , whose characters sometimes had a distressing tendency to wobble . I enjoyed ' King Tut's Tomb ' without actually laughing out loud , and I recommend it with a rating of .
Unga bunga boonga !	Lola Lane was the oldest and least talented of the three Lane sisters ; she was also the one with the campiest forename . ( The others were Priscilla and Rosemary . ) ' Zanzibar ' is a B-movie campfest , and Lola Lane was a good choice for the ludicrous lead role . In some ways , this pull-the-stops-out movie reminds me of Tod Browning's ' West of Zanzibar ' . . . partly because of the title , partly because of both films ' equally dodgy backlot versions of darkest Africa , and partly because the heroine of this movie is named Browning . Jan Browning ( Lola Lane ) is a woman big-game hunter ; I suppose that such a character was vaguely plausible to movie audiences at this time , as they would have seen Osa Johnson starring in some popular documentaries featuring genuine footage of Africa . This is 1940 , and World War Two is going blazes in Europe and the Pacific , but you'd expect Jan to be safe in Oonga-Boonga Land . ( The dialogue says this place is Zanzibar , but it looks more like Oonga-Boonga Land . ) Well , maybe not . It seems that those pesky Nazis are planning to colonise Zanzibar and use the natives for slave labour . Those Nazis just don't know when they're not wanted . The British consul ( who has an American accent ) orders Jungle Jan to get svelte in the veldt and come back with the sacred skull of an African tribal chief . ( He's already dead , so it's not as if he actually needs his skull anymore . ) It seems that the superstitious natives worship this Nigerian noggin , so whichever white nation gets hold of it will be regarded as Bwana by the natives . On her quest to find the McGuffin cranium and bring it back alive ( or dead ) , Jan gets tied to a stake ( nice bondage scene ) and she also has to contend with some stock footage of an erupting volcano , plus stock footage of a shipwreck and some lethargic lions . Watch out ! Stock footage ! This movie has the feel of an old-time adventure serial , with perils plaguing the heroine , one at a time , in rapid series . The cast is a notch above what one normally expects from a serial . Eduardo Ciannelli plays a Nazi villain with a Polish name . The Anglo-German character actor Henry Victor gives one of his quirky performances ; Victor was tall , good-looking and a talented actor who might have touched stardom if he could have controlled his erratic accent . The black American actor Clarence Muse , who ( in real life ) spoke in a cultured voice befitting his education and his high intelligence , is lumbered here with another of the pidgin-English roles that plagued him throughout his long career's struggle against racist typecasting . ' Zanzibar ' is campy fun , spoilt by a few racist assumptions . We can't let those nasty Nazis exploit the African natives , but apparently it's OK for the British to play Bwana if they wanna . Ah , well . It would be unfair to compare this movie to ' Citizen Kane ' or ' The Battleship Potemkin ' , but - within the standards of its own genre - I'll rate ' Zanzibar ' . Unga-bunga-boonga !
' Bambi ' goes Down Under	' Orphan of the Wilderness ' , filmed in Australia and making excellent use of Australian locations , is an early sound-era film ( 1936 ) that was largely filmed silent , with overdubs . This film reminded me that Australia was one of the leading film-making nations during the silent-movie era ; in fact , the very first feature-length ( silent ) film was Australian . It's a shame that Australia has not kept up with America and Britain in film production . The scenes of animals in this film - Australian fauna in their natural habitat - are breathtaking ; the unobtrusive camera work convinces us that no humans at all are present . Regrettably , the scenes depicting interaction between humans and animals are clumsier than the sequences with animals only . It would have been interesting to see this film's resources employed to make a film with no human characters onscreen at all . We see a mob of kangaroos grazing peacefully until hunters arrive . A jill ( adult female ' roo ) is killed , leaving her joey ( child ' roo ) orphaned . The joey is saved by rancher Tom Henton ( Brian Abbott ) , Mrs Henton ( Ethel Saker ) and their daughter Margot . They adopt the joey and they cry him Chut , short for Chutney . As the ' roo grows stronger , Tom teaches him to box . These scenes are comical but seem slightly forced , as if the kangaroo has been forced to do tricks . Eventually Tom gives Chut to travelling circus man McMeeker , who promises to take good care of the critter . SPOILERS COMING . Actor Joe Valli plays McMeeker in villainous mode , so it's not surprising that the showman mistreats Chut . Eventually the kangaroo hops away from the circus . McMeeker , who apparently has nothing else to do but pursue a roo , abandons his zoo ( I mean his circus ) and goes after Chut , swearing to bring him back alive or else kill him . Eventually good rancher Henton shows up and saves Chut . Everyone lives happily ever after except McMeeker , who is left to his own devices , muttering in the billabong . All of the humans in this movie are broadly drawn characterisations , either the salt of the earth or the scum of the planet . There's some inept comedy relief from Harry Abdy . This movie seems meant for young audiences , and is indeed appropriate for them . Adults who can sit through the bang-awful human performances will be rewarded by some breathtaking footage of animals and landscapes , some of which no longer exist as Australia's interior continues to be modernised . This movie brought back memories for me of my own early days in rural Australia , but not all the memories that it evoked were pleasant ones . I'll rate this flawed film .
Hayakawa kicks the Kaiser in the keester .	' The Secret Game ' is an espionage drama , and it's rather a good one despite a few ludicrous touches . Although the Japanese-born actor Sessue Hayakawa sometimes played other nationalities , here he's very much a Son of the Emperor . During the Great War ( in which this film takes place ) , Japan were on the same side as the United States , opposing Germany . Hayakawa's character undertakes a mission to help the American forces , with the very honour of Japan at stake . Refreshingly , Hayakawa ( who didn't write his own scripts ) plays a realistic Japanese here , rather than a caricature . Oddly , though , his character is lumbered with the ridiculous name Nara-Nara , which isn't Japanese . Couldn't Hayakawa have supplied a dinkum Japanese name for the scriptwriter to use ? Nara-Nara's assistant , also Japanese , speaks his dialogue ( via the title cards ) in Charlie Chan syntax , with references to the Japanese having slanted eyes . There's a brief scene between Hayakawa and a servile Negro porter . Elsewhere , we briefly see a black woman looking distinctly uncomfortable in a maid's uniform while she attends several white ladies . ( But at least the children's gang who play at soldiers outside Jack Holt's window are racially integrated . ) The intertitles make it very clear where the spies are . The leader is Smith , really named Schmidt . Charles Ogle is excellent in this role : Ogle was physically better suited to playing villains rather than sympathetic characters . Smith's henchman is played by Raymond Hatton , whose character is identified as ' Mrs Harris ' because he likes to disguise himself as Smith's female housekeeper . In a dodgy wig , with no cheekbones and no breasts in his female disguise , Raymond Hatton looks about as feminine as Rondo Hatton . Couldn't the Germans find a genuine female spy ? Hatton spends much of his screen time in this film wearing male garb , yet his character ( presumably a German ) seems to have no name other than ' Mrs Harris ' . When talking pictures feature a male character in female disguise , the cross-dresser almost invariably has a line of dialogue ( while uncrossing his dressing ) about how it ' sure feels good ' to get back into male clothes . . . so we won't get the wrong idea about him . In this silent film , we get a visual equivalent : as ' Mrs Harris ' , Raymond Hatton pulls off his wig and women's shoes , and hitches up his skirts to reveal trousers underneath . He puts on his much larger male shoes , and THEN he conspicuously sighs in contentment . But Hatton isn't going anywhere : if those female shoes are so uncomfortable , then surely it makes more sense for Hatton to relax with NO shoes on , rather than donning male shoes . Apparently the Germans have got a female spy after all : Florence Vidor , looking prettier as usual , as a German spy with the cover name Kitty Litter , I mean Kitty Little . A title card tells us that she's a German ' with a deeply concealed hyphen in her name ' . She easily infiltrates the staff of U . S . Army officer Northfield ( Jack Holt ) , who oddly leases office space in a civilian building . This film's strong points occur in the procedural sequences of the Germans spying on Northfield , and Hayakawa counterspying on the Germans . At its best moments , ' The Secret Game ' reminded me of Fritz Lang's vastly superior film ' Spies ' . Sadly , those best moments are far between . Holt's character is supposedly a regular golfer . . . but when Jack Holt hoists an iron in one shot , his swing is so inept I could tell he was a stranger to the links . SPOILERS COMING . Although Florence Vidor's costume in one sequence is lumbered with an enormous belt buckle , I was surprised by how pretty she looked in this movie . So it was no surprise for me when she changed sides and joined the American cause . She and Holt fall in love . Hatton ( in male clothes ) kills Hayakawa , but not before the latter accomplishes his mission and saves the American convoy . A bit earlier , at the film's climax , Hayakawa manhandles Vidor with a startling amount of viciousness . Even though he's meant to be a goodie and she's meant to be a baddie ( she hasn't reformed yet ) , this sequence astonished me . Perhaps audiences in 1917 accepted it because Nara-Nara ( Hayakawa's role ) was an Oriental and therefore supposedly less civilised than a white man ; I wonder if these film-makers would have depicted a white protagonist manhandling a woman so thoroughly . Since this isn't a supernatural story , I was intrigued by the presence of two ' ghost ' shots . As Holt addresses his ball on the golf course , a double-exposure of Vidor materialises beside him . . . informing the audience that he's falling in love with her . After Nara-Nara is killed , a transparent version of Hayakawa appears as his spirit . Throughout the film , Hayakawa has worn western clothes ( with Japanese and American flag pins in his lapel ) , but now his spirit wears Japanese ceremonial garb and clutches a samurai sword . Hayakawa's final sequence ( as a spirit ) is touching , and very much sympathetic to Japanese culture . I was annoyed that this poignant sequence was spoilt by an anticlimactic romantic fade-out for Holt and Vidor . Cecil B DeMille ( capital D , one-word surname ) and William C de Mille ( lower-case D , two-word surname ) were brothers who didn't get along , so they seldom collaborated . ' The Secret Game ' is a rare instance of both brothers appearing in the credits of the same film ( although in different title cards ) , allowing audiences to see that they punctuated their names differently . Despite its many oddities and flaws , there are several excellent scenes in ' The Secret Game ' , and I'll rate this one .
The thief wore diapers .	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy appeared in a substantial number of films together before they were officially teamed by producer Hal Roach . In fact , Roach ( a very shrewd businessman ) always kept Stan and Ollie under separate contracts to his studio , intentionally dating the contracts so that Hardy's would expire ( and be renewed ) six months after Laurel's . This clever gambit prevented Stan and Ollie from leaving Hal Roach Studios simultaneously and negotiating a better deal for themselves as a team elsewhere . This also explains why Roach produced ' Zenobia ' as a solo vehicle for Hardy : because Laurel's contract had expired and he had not yet renewed . During the period before their official team-up , the Roach shorts that co-starred Laurel and Hardy tended to give them separate footage ( as in ' Flying Elephants ' ) , or to feature them as rivals rather than allies . Still , the strong chemistry between Stan and Ollie shines through , often quite hilariously , even when they're foiling each other rather than working together . ' Sailors Beware ' is one of the " pre-team " Laurel & Hardy team-ups . Not only is this a very funny movie ; it's also a very interesting example of how Stan and Ollie play against each other as antagonists . As they're not yet a team , they're still using ' funny ' character names instead of their own monickers . Stan is Chester Chaste ( ouch ! ) , a cab driver who picks up a fare : a stylish brunette ( Anita Garvin ) with her baby in tow . Mother and infant are in a hurry to get to the quayside , to board the Miramar , a luxury liner . Stan's passengers board safely , but then Stan's cab gets caught in a cargo hoist - - with Stan inside , of course - - and gets yanked aboard the ship . By the time Stan gets out of his cab , the ship is underway . . . with Stan shanghaied . Oliver Hardy , in a role definitely subordinate to Laurel's , plays the ship's pompous purser . As far as he's concerned , Stan is a stowaway . He puts Stan to work , to pay his passage . Meanwhile , it turns out that the brunette is Madame Ritz , the notorious jewel thief . And the ' baby ' is in fact her husband and accomplice Roger . . . a midget ! Roger is played by midget actor Harry Earles . In several silent films , including this one , Earles played a midget who impersonates a baby . . . and his disguise is astonishingly convincing . Just occasionally , the adult Earles actually did play a genuine baby on screen , sometimes as a stunt double . Regrettably , the arrival of talkies ruined Earles's acting career : he had a thick German accent , was getting a bit too old for nappies , and the talkies revealed that he had no real acting ability . He ended his screen career as one of the Munchkins : the one with the dark blue shirt in the Lollipop Guild trio . Madame Ritz and her faux infant have boarded the ship with the specific intention of robbing the wealthy passengers . If a baby gets caught in the act of snatching a pretty bauble and stuffing it into his pram . . . well , surely it's an innocent mistake , yes ? There are several hilarious set-pieces in ' Sailors , Beware ' . . . and the implausible comedy is made funnier by the fact that Earles's baby impersonation is indeed so realistic . In one scene , the ' baby ' suckers Stan into a crap game and proceeds to swindle him . I laughed at this , but I found it too contrived : Stan's character in this movie doesn't seem quite dumb enough to fail to suspect that a baby who can shoot craps isn't really a baby . But this is the sort of humour that can't stand up to analysis . ' Sailors Beware ' is very funny , and an interesting example of Laurel and Hardy - - as opposed to Laurel & Hardy - - playing against each other . It doesn't hurt that Anita Garvin is quite sexy here , as usual . I'll rate this comedy .
Rigoletto , the Libretto ; or , Hugo First .	I saw this film in October 1998 at the Cinema Muto festival in Pordenone , Italy . They screened a print from the Museum of Modern Art in New York City . The print ran 16 minutes at 16fps ( I timed it ) , but was missing its original intertitles , so the original running time would have been at least two minutes longer . This is of course the Victor Hugo story that provided the basis for Verdi's opera " Rigoletto " . IMDb's synopsis for ' A Fool's Revenge ' seems to be based on the Verdi opera , not on this short film itself . Necessarily , this brief silent movie omits all the music and most of the plot from Verdi's opera , but there are other differences less mandatory , which director D . W . Griffith ( or his producer ) seems to have chosen out of concern for the sensitivities of his American audience . I'll cite just a handful of the differences here : In Hugo's original play and Verdi's opera , the Duke sends his henchmen to abduct the Countess so that he can seduce her , but they accidentally abduct Gilda ( the jester's daughter ) instead . The Duke therefore seduces Gilda . In Griffith's film , the Duke intentionally tasks his men to abduct Gilda so that ( get this , please ) she can cure his melancholy ! When she arrives , he merely gazes upon her beauty ( so that's all he wanted , then ) and then he releases her . There are other divergences , but that should give you the general idea . Somebody at Mutoscope ( Griffith himself ? ) clearly intended to bowdlerise this story , quite apart from condensing it into such a short running time . Grand opera was popular in American cities in the 1900s , so I can't help wondering why Griffith gave this film a generic title rather than calling it ' Rigoletto ' : the film isn't even " A Court Jester's Revenge " , mind you , but " A Fool's Revenge " , which sounds as if this is going to be a modern-day slapstick comedy about an idiot , instead of a mediaeval European melodrama . Opera has always been less popular in the rural U . S . than in metropolitan areas , and perhaps Griffith was more concerned with the sensibilities of his fellow rural Southerners than with more sophisticated " Yankees " . I was intrigued to spot the comically moon-faced Fred Mace among Griffith's troupe here , as one of the courtiers . My rating for this movie is .
Not as good as ' Sunrise ' , but . . .	By general consensus , the greatest film of the silent-movie era is ' Sunrise : A Song of Two Humans ' ( 1927 ) , made in Hollywood by German director F . W . Murnau . I personally prefer ' Metropolis ' , but there's no doubt that ' Sunrise ' is one of the most lyrical and visually beautiful films ever made . So I was astonished to learn that another German director , Veit Harlan , remade the same story only 12 years later under its original title , as ' The Excursion to Tilsit ' . One would assume that ' Sunrise ' , being a silent film and therefore universal to all languages , didn't need to be remade so soon . However , there's a basic air of unreality to silent films , and Murnau's drama emphasises that aspect : Harlan's remake is far more earthy , darker and more realistic . Also , it's notable that this remake was produced during the Third Reich , and that Veit Harlan was fanatically loyal to Nazism . He may have felt that Murnau's version of this story was ' tainted ' by having been made in Hollywood with American actors . The story here is almost identical to ' Sunrise ' . Endrik Settegast ( Fritz van Dongen ) is a poor fisherman in a village across the bay from the city of Tilsit . Elske ( Kristina Söderbaum ) is his simple wife , plain-looking but not unattractive . Endrik runs afoul of Madlyn , a rather obviously ' bad ' woman who sets out to seduce him . It's never clear , in either film version of this story , why the temptress puts so much effort into seducing the pauper husband , as he has nothing to offer her apart from his good looks and brawny physique . Madlyn persuades Endrik that the two of them should run away to the big city together . . . but first Endrik must kill his wife . Endrik lures the unsuspecting Elske into his tiny sailboat , on the pretext of taking her to Tilsit . Halfway across the bay , he makes known his intentions to kill her . And then . . . if you've seen ' Sunrise ' , you already know the rest . If not , I don't want to spoil that pleasure for you by revealing it here . I mentioned an air of unreality in ' Sunrise ' . Murnau's film features a bizarre scene in which the husband and wife board a tram that stops in the middle of the woods . After a brief ride , they arrive in a city of hugely exaggerated skyscrapers , resembling ' Metropolis ' or ' Just Imagine ' more than any realistic place . On some level , this exaggeration makes sense : we're seeing this city through the wondering eyes of a couple of hicks . In Veit Harlan's remake , everything is more realistic . Elske and her husband board a Strassenbahn ( streetcar ) that looks very prosaic and plausible , and it conveys them to a realistic city . ( The exterior sequences in this film have a documentary feel . ) Harlan's version of this story is in every way more realistic than Murnau's silent masterpiece . . . but for precisely that reason , this remake lacks most of the lyrical beauty of that splendid film . In ' Sunrise ' , the main characters are identified as ' the Man ' and ' the Woman ' , and they visit a generic Big City . This heightens the universality of the story , and also its unreality . In Harlan's remake , a realistic peasant couple visit a clearly identified real place . It's possible that German audiences in 1939 preferred a story that was explicitly about Germans in a German setting . ( We see no Jews or other ' foreign ' characters in this movie . ) The photography in ' The Excursion to Tilsit ' is beautiful throughout . The scene in the Tilsit cafe , when Endrik desperately pleads with Elske to forgive him ( after he's just attempted to murder her ) is compelling and deeply believable : this was for me the least plausible scene in ' Sunrise ' , and it's the one scene in which Harlan's film surpasses the original . Kristina Söderbaum gives a fine performance as the peasant wife : we completely understand that she lives in a world in which women with no money have few options , and that she's arguably better off with a husband who might just possibly kill her than with no husband at all . Fritz van Dongen is believable as her husband . The child actor who plays their small son Jons actually gives a good performance that avoids becoming maudlin . The scenes in the fishing village are fascinating , and utterly realistic . I'm aware that this movie was made by a bunch of Nazis , but it's a good movie anyway . . . very nearly a great film . I'll rate ' The Excursion to Tilsit ' , but the silent verson ' Sunrise ' is a .
Macadamia pistachio cashew	' The Nut ' is entertaining enough , yet the elements never cohere . First , the good news : we get quite a bit of Douglas Fairbanks's trademark acrobatics . During the climactic sequence , he and Marguerite De La Motte ( the latter partly stunt-doubled ) clamber about inside a furnace boiler and its heating ducts - - good job this movie seems to take place in summer ! - - and there's some clever double-exposure photography to give us a cutaway view of the two of them inside the ducts . Unfortunately , ' The Nut ' can't quite figure out what sort of film it wants to be . In the opening , Fairbanks is a crackpot inventor . We see him rousted out of bed by his own inventions : a series of Heath Robinson contraptions that end with Fairbanks bathed , showered and fully dressed . I was impressed by a strategic title card at the crucial moment when Fairbanks would have been seen naked . But what's all this cleverness in aid of ? Parts of ' The Nut ' are quite realistic ; other parts are unrealistic but have some good screwball humour . . . whilst other sections are neither realistic nor funny . De La Motte plays a socialite who has some weird theory about letting slum children spend a few minutes each day in posh houses . . . so that they'll be better citizens when they're whisked back to the slums afterwards , apparently . As the chief villain , William Lowery gives a good performance in a badly-written role . This is one of those movies in which the villain is willing to break a whole bunch of laws in order to seduce one particular woman ( even though he has access to other women ) for no discernible reason except to provide a conflict for the hero . There's also a supernatural running gag here , with villain Lowery phoning the heroine via a switchboard operated by the Devil in Hell , whilst Fairbanks phones the same lady via a switchboard staffed by Cupid . The heroine favours a white candlestick telephone which she keeps in its own weird little table kiosk : were ladies in 1921 unwilling to display their telephones ? The notorious Barbara La Marr is on screen briefly , but is given little to do . In a title card , she describes De La Motte as having ' yellow hair ' , but De La Motte photographs as brunette here . Mary Pickford turns up as a dress extra during the charity party sequence , yet her presence is so strong that I spotted her instantly . In the same sequence , aye , that's the real Charlie Chaplin briefly seen as a Chaplin impersonator . In addition to his acrobatics , Fairbanks has a funny bit after he's stripped to his underwear in the street . Using a knife that he apparently keeps in his BVDs , Doug slices the two - dimensional pasteboard clothing off a conveniently life-sized male figure on a nearby billboard , then he ' wears ' this back to his Greenwich Village home . ( Not that this movie's street sets remotely resemble Greenwich Village of the 1920s , mind you . ) I laughed heartily at a gag sequence in which Fairbanks pretends to be a corpse on a gurney . My rating : .
Rare D . H . Lawrence drama	D . H . Lawrence is of course best known for his novels , but he also wrote several plays , of which ' The Widowing of Mrs Holroyd ' is probably the best constructed . I dislike Lawrence's novels while recognising his skill in writing them , and I felt somewhat similar about this play : I disliked it , yet recognised it as a mature work by a talented author . The play is set in a dreary mining town , and the action is centred on the deteriorating marriage between a loutish miner ( Rex Robbins ) and his more refined wife ( Joyce Ebert ) . Holroyd is a drunkard who abuses his wife physically and emotionally , even bringing home younger women to flaunt his infidelities in front of his long-suffering spouse . In spite of everything , Mrs Holroyd still loves her husband . Among Holroyd's workmates is Blackmore , a more sensitive man . In love with Mrs Holroyd himself , he offers to take her and her two young children away with him to Spain . Frank Converse is fitfully excellent in this role . His performance reaches an emotional peak during Blackmore's frustrated liaison with Mrs Holroyd , telling her : " Why should he have you and I've never had anything ? " The best performance here is given by Rex Robbins . He has consistently impressed me in other roles . but this was the first time I've seen him portray an unsympathetic character . As played by Robbins , Holroyd is singularly repellent . Robbins reminds me of Arthur Kennedy : both were dynamic actors with wide ranges , yet both somehow lacked that certain spark that is necessary for stardom . The drama's title is a built-in spoiler : we suspect ( correctly ) that Holroyd will be dead before the final fade-out . During the climactic fight between the two men , Blackmore knocks the drunken Holroyd unconscious and then - - ever the gentleman - - wipes the blood off Holroyd's face . One of the most moving scenes occurs when Mrs Holroyd and her mother-in - law wash Holroyd's corpse . I found this drama repellent yet powerful , and this production is skilfully done . My rating : .
Kindly leave the stage !	' The Green Eye of the Yellow God ' was originally a poem by Victorian balladeer J Milton Hayes . This poem was so extremely popular in its day that it became a standard recitation on the bills of 19th-century English music halls , much as ' Casey at the Bat ' and ' Gunga Din ' later became staples in American vaudeville theatres . Hayes's poem was so familiar to British theatre-goers that comedian Billy Bennett gleefully parodied it as ' The Green Tie of the Little Yellow Dog ' . ( Bennett was the first comedian who tagged his jokes with the exclamation ' Boom , boom ! ' , leading the way to Basil Brush and to Johnny Carson's ' Ba-dump-ump ' . ) This low-budget American silent film is a dramatisation of Hayes's poem , which has never been as well-known Stateside as it was in Britain . Modern viewers will probably find this movie quite laughable . Most of the action is set outdoors , but the action has clearly been filmed on an indoor set , using elaborate painted backdrops to represent scenes in the Asian mountains . I'm extremely impressed with how well-done the backdrops are , but the flat lighting makes clear that they're painted backdrops , not mattes . The ' ground ' beneath the actors is clearly the level floor of a stage , even though mountainous terrain is directly behind them . All we need are some footlights in the foothills . The intertitles reprise the verses of the famous poem . SPOILERS COMING . Charles Ogle plays Carew , an army sergeant stationed ' north of Khatmandu ' ( as the intertitles put it ) . The local natives worship a cyclopean idol with an emerald for its eye . Carew is in love with the colonel's daughter , who is implausibly billeted with the regiment . The daughter is played by bland actress Mabel Trunnelle . The titles identify her as approaching her 21st birthday ; Trunnelle is attractive but she looks a bit past her twenties . Ogle is such a physically unappealing man , even viewers who don't know the original poem will sense that his suit will not succeed . When Carew asks the unnamed daughter what she wants for her birthday prezzy , she tells him - half in jest - that she wants the green eye of the yellow god . So , of course he steals it for her ( prising it from the idol's eye socket with a bowie knife ) and he brings it back safely , after hideous Oriental ordeals . But the acolytes of the pagan god catch up with Carew , and he dies hideously . In addition to the painted backdrops , this film ( like many of its time ) suffers from extremely stagey ' tableau ' direction . The camera stands motionless in long shot while the actors emote in front of one of those backdrops . There's no camera movement at all , and the camera remains at the same distance from the action in every set-up . The most dramatic moments are the cuts from one tableau to the next . Matters are made more risible by the Asian acolytes , who are played by white actors in body paint and Gunga Din suits . At this point in the history of silent films , movie actors usually painted their faces bright yellow , because this colour photographed as a realistic ( caucasian ) flesh tone onscreen . I shudder to think what colour the actors painted themselves in this movie to look like the stereotypical yellow-skinned Asians that appear here . And , of course , there are the usual acting techniques of early silent films : not very subtle . I am extremely sympathetic to movies from the early years of the art form , so I'll rate ' The Green Eye of the Yellow God ' . But I fear that most modern viewers would fall about laughing at this Victorian farrago .
Simultaneous magpies .	' Hitch Hikers ' is an above-average Heckle and Jeckle cartoon . The two magpies are thumbing a ride ( magpies have thumbs ? ) without success . Eventually , they force their way into a passing car . However , the car's canine occupants are a couple of bank robbers , heading for their hideout . Magpie mayhem ensues . Fortunately , most of it is quite funny . The opening sequence of this cartoon is visually rather odd . Heckle and Jeckle were usually drawn as lookalikes but they typically moved separately . In the first scene of ' Hitch Hikers ' , oddly , they stand side by side in the same position , and they perform the same movements identically and simultaneously . . . as if they were Thompson and Thomson out of ' Tintin ' . If this cartoon had been made a few years later , I would have assumed that the cel images in this animation sequence had been photocopied . Since this cartoon was made in 1947 , the animators must have used some other technique . At all events , it was a strange decision to make . . . the simultaneous movements of the magpies are off-putting rather than funny , and I doubt that the animators saved any money or labour with this process . My rating for this one : just .
It doesn't insult our intelligence !	I saw ' The Love War ' more than 30 years ago on Australian television , while I was working double shifts in a Sydneyside slaughter-yard . I found this low-budget TV-movie deeply enjoyable , for two reasons : firstly , it was science fiction at a time when I was starved for even half-decent SF . Secondly , I've always maintained that science fiction is about ideas , not hardware and special effects . ' The Love War ' has no ray guns , no spaceships : if you watched this movie with the sound off , you'd barely realise it's science fiction . The film begins in an airport jetty . We see Lloyd Bridges come hirpling along , with an extreme limp . We never do learn the precise explanation for how he got the limp . . . but we learn very shortly that he's an extraterrestrial , or at least that he claims to be one . This raises a lot of questions that never do get answered : if the aliens are able to equip themselves with human bodies , then why has Bridges got a body with a gimpy left ankle ? Anyroad , it soon turns out that there are two different alien species on Earth . Two planets are at war with each other , and their best soldiers have decided to duke it out on Earth rather than on their homeworlds . Sucks to any humans who get hurt . Apparently , the two rival sets of aliens are able to disguise themselves so perfectly as humans that the only way they can rumble each other is through sunglasses with special lenses . ( Why don't they get contact lenses ? ) Bridges is on the run from the aliens , although it's not immediately clear whether he's on the run from the aliens on the other planet - - his enemies - - or whether he's on the run from his own people , because he wants to defect to Earth and live as a human . This raises still more questions that never do get answered : if Bridges successfully goes to earth on Earth and lives out his days as a human , what will happen to this body he's wearing - - presumably not a genuine human body - - when he eventually dies ? Will he just self-combust , like the dead aliens in ' The Invaders ' ? Well , Bridges crosses paths with gorgeous blonde Earthwoman Angie Dickinson , who falls in love with him surprisingly quickly . There is a ' surprise ' ending which I saw coming from about twelve parsecs away , but I enjoyed the trip it took to get there . The actors give such earnest performances that I accepted them as extraterrestrials , despite very little evidence . At the very end of the movie , we get a glimpse of two of the aliens through a pair of sunglasses . Still , this movie might have been more interesting if the actors and director had played it for more ambiguity , making Bridges's haggard protagonist more like the enigmatic character played by Kevin Spacey in ' K-PAX ' : is he a genuine alien , or is he a deluded human who has convinced himself he's an alien , as a defence mechanism against insanity ? Part of the problem with ' The Love War ' ( besides its irrelevant and generic title ) is that this story didn't really have to be science fiction : it would have worked much more credibly if the two rival sets of aliens had been human all along : two rival mafia clans , for instance , or modern incarnations of the Hatfields and McCoys . Or the Jets and the Sharks . Worse luck , this TV movie bears a strong resemblance to a science-fiction story by Kris Neville that was published about twenty years earlier : anyone who's read that story will have no trouble guessing the end of this movie . I enjoyed ' The Love War ' , but would like to have seen the same premise without the science-fiction garnishes . I'll rate this TV movie . It doesn't insult the viewer's intelligence , and that's a rare achievement indeed .
Serves him right for reading the New York " World " .	I viewed a Library of Congress print of this film ; it was very well-preserved . Quite a few silent-film comedies made fun of social trends of the early twentieth century , such as the women's suffrage movement , the temperance movement and Prohibition . ' Trial Marriages ' is notable because it takes its inspiration from an extremely specific source . On 19 November 1906 , the New York ' World ' ( a William Randolph Hearst paper , given to sensationalism ) published an article about a book privately published by Elsie Clews Parsons which sought to redefine marriage . Among the suggestions in the book by Mrs Parsons was the concept of trial marriage . ( She herself was married : to a Congressman , no less . ) Hearst chose to play up this one very minor aspect of Mrs Parsons's book for its sensationalist value , not least because Mrs Parsons herself was photogenic . In ' Trial Marriages ' we see the male protagonist reading that very newspaper article : there's even a quick close-up of the article , as he comments that a trial marriage would suit him very nicely . In a series of amusing vignettes , he then proceeds to fantasise himself married ( in series ) to various types of wives , each portrayed by a different actress . SPOILERS COMING . Each marriage ends in disaster , for a different reason . First he marries a sentimental woman , who won't stop crying . He marries a jealous type , who falsely accuses him of flirting with the maid . ( This wife looks a bit like Harry Houdini in drag , but the maid looks only slightly prettier . ) He marries a languid girl who is downright comatose , leaving him to do all of the housework . Lastly , he marries a widow who comes with a half-dozen children already . I was intrigued that this wife - - older than the others , and presumably with the least money to spare , due to raising her children - - was by far the prettiest and most stylish of the lot . Her children are stylishly dressed , too . But the brats easily overpower their stepfather , and their mother joins in too . The film ends with the multi-husband in hospital , recovering from his injuries and vowing never to get married at all . When ' Trial Marriages ' was made ( 1907 ) , many films featured crudely obvious sets and costumes . For most of ' Trial Marriages ' , I was deeply intrigued by the intense realism of the production design . When the jealous wife throws the breakfast at her husband , we can see that she's throwing real food ( or at least coffee grounds ) , and it splatters realistically against a genuine plaster-lath wall instead of striking a canvas-scrim stage set . However , during the sequence with the languid wife , when the husband goes down to the cellar to attend to the furnace , we are clearly on a painted stage set with a blind staircase : this ' basement ' ( amazingly clean and well-lighted ) varies rather garishly from the realistic scenes before and after it . When the husband pulls out an extremely realistic ashcan - - filled with genuine ashes - - and proceeds to spill it across the blatantly phony set , the contrast is distressing rather than funny . Some modern viewers might wonder why any man would fantasise ( as the husband does here ) about marrying a woman who is so lazy that she's downright comatose . In Victorian and Edwardian times , there was a tendency to romanticise the Ophelia or Annabel Lee type of female : a child-woman so ethereal and weak that she seemed to be halfway in heaven already . Times have certainly changed . Interestingly , although the husband in this movie experiments with various ' types ' of wives , none of the women shown here appears to be a feminist or suffragist : a type very much in evidence during the years when American women were still agitating for the right to vote . This 1907 movie seems to echo a famous joke that ' Punch ' magazine made way back in the 1830s : " Advice to those about to marry : Don't ! " . Proving , I suppose , that some humour is timeless . I'll rate this clever comedy .
Fatty's tragic pants	' The Gangsters ' is a very early Keystone comedy , but already the Keystone Cops are in their full uniforms ( which wasn't the case in ' The Bangville Police ' ) , and there's some hilarious slapstick action which refreshingly deviates from Keystone's usual ' chase ' structure . Nick Cogley is the leader of a gang of ruffians . It's a shame that Cogley isn't better known ; he was a Keystone stalwart who played well to the strengths of better-known comedians . Here , Cogley has one side-splitting close-up as he stalks menacingly into the camera , rolling his eyeballs in ever-increasing circles . Roscoe Arbuckle is the constable assigned to round up Cogley's gang . Just the appearance of Roscoe ' Fatty ' Arbuckle in a policeman's tunic is hilarious , without Roscoe even doing anything . Of course , his character is an incompetent moron and cowardly with it . The crooks easily beat up Roscoe and steal his trousers , sending him back to the cop-shop without his police pants . A more athletic cop ( unbilled actor Al St John , Arbuckle's real-life nephew ) goes after the crooks next , and he too is sent back to the police station minus his trousers . Is Cogley planning to open a pants shop ? Unbilled actor George Jeske , in heavy makeup as another cop , gets a couple of amusing facial reactions . There's an uproariously funny climax aboard a barge , and on the way there we see Cogley , Hank Mann and several other plug-uglies daintily tippy-toeing across a plank so as not to fall into the river . Hilarious ! I'll rate this crude but effective slapstick classic . ' The Gangsters ' is directed by Henry Lehrman , an important figure in film comedy who also deserves some sort of award for his slimy opportunism . Lehrman was nicknamed ' Pathé ' by DW Griffith because he claimed to have worked for that film company in Europe : Griffith knew he was lying , and the name stuck . Lehrman was the first person to direct Chaplin on film , and was also one of Arbuckle's early directors . Sadly , in 1921 , when Virginia Rappe died after crashing Arbuckle's party , Lehrman milked the tragedy for his personal benefit , displaying a wedding ring which he had allegedly intended to give to Rappe as his intended bride , and making false statements against Arbuckle's personal character . I cringed when I saw Lehrman's name in the credits of this film , because I knew about the harm he would inflict on Arbuckle later . Still , on its own merits , ' The Gangsters ' is classic Keystone , and very funny indeed .
Early McGuffin , sexy maid .	In some of Larry Semon's comedies , he seemed to be positioning himself as a somewhat Chaplinesque little man , to the extent of making his character the subordinate of a large bully resembling Eric Campbell , the burly and memorable foil in Chaplin's short comedies for Mutual . In these Eric Campbell roles , Larry Semon cast Oliver Hardy with a bushy pair of eyebrows and a moustache resembling the ones Campbell wore in ' The Adventurer ' . Hardy sprouts that face-fungus here , as he does in a few other Semon films , including ' The Bakery ' . Does everybody here know what a McGuffin is ? In the movies , a McGuffin ( term popularised but not invented by Alfred Hitchcock ) is some prop or device which we don't give a damn about , but which is so important to the characters that they're willing to spend the whole movie trying to obtain it from one another . The concept existed in films long before Hitchcock put a name to it : in fact , silent-serial queen Pearl White used the term ' the weenie ' to describe whatever physical object or piece of information triggered the cloak-and-dagger work in her own serials . Well , here in ' The Bell Hop ' , we have an early appearance of the McGuffin in all but name . A foreign dignitary has checked into the hotel where Semon is bell-hop and Oliver Hardy is desk clerk . The dignitary has some extremely important papers - - the McGuffin - - which are duly locked in the hotel's safe . But enemy spies bribe Hardy to give them access to the papers . Some very jaded intertitles make blasé comments about ' the usual spies ' and ' the usual papers ' , thus establishing that McGuffins were already well-established ( although not by name ) as early as 1921 . For me , the most pleasant aspect of ' The Bell Hop ' was a sprightly performance by Norma Nichols as a hotel maid , extremely sexy in a maid's uniform which should have had a shorter skirt . She very quickly reveals herself to Semon and the audience ( no spoilers here ) as an undercover detective , and she offers to split with Semon the reward for capturing the spies . But surely a professional law-enforcement officer ( as Nichols is playing here ) can't claim a reward . PARTIAL SPOILERS . An unbilled child actor gives an interesting performance as a golden-haired little girl , although I think that the child performer is actually a boy in a girl's role ( and clothes ) . There's an unfunny gag with a pram and a tram . Semon and Nichols put the girl into her pram , and wheel her outside where the pram's wheels get caught on the rails for the tram line . And here comes the tram ! So far , so potentially effective . . . except that we can see the tram line's angled tracks at the bottom of the frame . . . so we know that the tram will make a sharp turn at the last possible moment and veer hard a-port . Sure enough . Semon's character is introduced with an unfunny and disgusting gag in which a live newt runs across his face while Semon has his mouth open . Ugh ! Semon - - a comedian who almost never did female impersonation - - is much more impressive here in a later sequence in which he disguises himself as a charlady to get into the spies ' room . Shall I do you now , sir ? The production design of this film is extremely impressive , featuring a luxury hotel with a lobby so large and populous that a traffic cop has to direct the flow of people . I was also very impressed with another sequence featuring an unusual cinematic effect . When Semon spills water on a sleeping man , we see the inset image of a thought balloon over the man's head , showing him having a dream in which he's bathing in the ocean , while the actor playing the sleeping man makes swimming movements . Very effective AND funny ! I'll rate ' The Bell Hop ' , which is surely as high as any Larry Semon comedy can aspire to rise .
Stumped ! or , Mack Sennett as Lon Chaney .	I saw this short film in October 1998 at the Cinema Muto festival in Italy . They screened a print on loan from the Metropolitan Museum of Art in NYC . According to the festival's programme , this print had " missing titles " . . . however , apart from an opening title and credits , I doubt that this movie ever had titles in the first place : the story is quite simple and doesn't need explanatory text . IMDb's synopsis is accurate . I wonder if this movie inspired Charley Chase's classic " His Wooden Wedding " , in which newlywed Chase is tricked into believing that his wife has a wooden leg . I'm giving a great deal of slack to the time period in which this movie was made , for a premise that is nowadays quite offensive : namely , that an amputee is unsuitable for marriage . I once had a mutually fulfilling relationship with a one-legged ( RAK ) lady who had no lack of male suitors . As I was watching the young and beautiful Florence Lawrence in this brief film , I couldn't help being reminded of her tragic suicide ( by a very painful method ) . More happily , I got a brief laugh from seeing burly slack-jawed Mack Sennett in Lon Chaney territory , as a man with only one leg . I'll rate this movie .
Lon Chaney pays his dues	I saw " Poor Jake's Demise " ( another allegedly ' lost ' film ) this week at the 2006 Giornate del Cinema Muto in Sacile , Italy . A print of this movie turned up in England in May 2006 ; its opening titles were gone , and someone had spliced on the opening title of a Charley Bowers one-reeler . ( Bowers was a comedian whose heyday - - such as it was - - came circa 1927 . ) At Cinema Muto , " Poor Jake's Demise " was screened with no opening title , but with its original intertitles . Several reference sources have cited " Poor Jake's Demise " as Lon Chaney's screen debut . Actually , it is the earliest known film for which Chaney received billing in trade publications : very likely , he had already performed perceptible roles in at least a dozen previous films , apart from movies in which he was one more extra in crowd scenes . When I first heard of this film , I assumed that it was related to the popular " Poor Jake " series of comic strips written and drawn by George Herriman circa this period , about an overworked farmhand . The name turns out to be coincidence . This movie is a crude slapstick comedy , produced by IMP - - Independent Motion Pictures - - one of the poverty-row concerns that eventually coalesced into Universal Studios . Chaney doesn't play the title role here : that dubious honour goes to Max Asher , a ' Dutch ' vaudeville comic with a Prussian moustache . Chaney plays a spiffy character who is apparently meant to be a lady-killer , but he endows this role with lots of the effeminate fussy movements which audiences of this period would have associated with the stock vaudeville character known as a ' nance ' . This movie is a clear rip-off of the Keystone formula , already established at this early date . We see a fairly normal-looking desk officer , but the three cops on the beat ( a big fat guy , a shrimp and a beanpole ) look like rejects from the Keystone Cops Academy . There are plenty of pratfalls here . I was surprised to see two separate gags involving the rude gesture of thumb to nose , which was considered extremely vulgar in 1913 America : at least as vulgar as the ' badfinger ' gesture today . Before entering films , Chaney had been a dancer and choreographer on the western theatre circuit , and he puts that training to good use here . His performance is extremely physical . He dives out a window , does a forward roll and comes up in a somersault . He executes a straight-back pratfall that would do credit to David Jason's " Del Boy " Trotter . When Chaney sashays his way up the porch stairs , he almost seems to break into a dance . At one point , he takes a siphon of soda-water in the face . Also seen to advantage here is Louise Fazenda , looking about the same as she would look at Keystone a bit later . Fazenda later married producer Hal Wallis and took a well-earned retirement . More for its historic value than for any actual merits , I'll rate " Poor Jake's Demise " . Good luck with that career , Lon !
Hand me that putting niblick , m'dear . . .	Greetings to all my fans in the silent-films newsgroup who eagerly read my IMDb film reviews ! I screened a foreign-language print of " His Lordship's Dilemma " , located in Belgium with the original English-language intertitles cut out and French intertitles spliced in . Also , two insert shots of text ( a close-up of a handwritten letter , and a close-up of a newspaper article ) were cut out and replaced with new footage of the same text translated into French . " His Lordship's Dilemma " was apparently filmed at the Gaumont studio in Flushing , Queens , NYC . . . although the park sequences appear to have been filmed in Nassau County , NY . W . C . Fields plays the black-sheep younger son of a titled English family : his family have packed him off to America , and they send him a cheque every month as a bribe to make him remain in the States where he can't disgrace them . But now the latest envelope arrives . Instead of a cheque , it contains only a letter from Fields's older brother informing him that no more money is forthcoming . With no money coming in , Fields dismisses his runty little manservant . Then Fields goes out and gets a job as a sandwich-board man . He immediately has a run-in with a sandwich-board man coming the other way : his former servant . Their sandwich-boards collide and briefly interlock ; finally both men pull off their signboards and head into the nearest saloon for a drink . ( Sounds good to me . ) The bartender is played by Walter Dukinfield , W . C . Fields's real-life brother who had toured with him in vaudeville as a roadie and stooge . ( Walter is taller and thinner than his famous brother , but the facial resemblance is notable . ) Fields lays a dollar on the bar , then he distracts the bartender while his henchman ( the former valet ) grabs half the food from the free-lunch counter and crams it into his pockets . At the bar , Fields manages to get three drinks for the price of one , then he filches his own dollar back while he and his henchman make a getaway . The two cronies begin eating their stolen lunch in the park . Fields steals a newspaper and reads an article about Lord Swann , an expert golfer engaged to a Manhattan heiress . Full of lunch ( or beer , or both ) , Fields falls asleep and dreams that he is Lord Swann . ( The dream sequence is triggered by an abrupt cut and a title card , not a fade-out . ) SPOILERS COMING . On the imaginary golf links , His Lordship ( Fields ) impresses a stylishly-dressed lass and her bearded father by demonstrating his golf prowess . Fields gets in some amusing tricks here , juggling some golf balls , as well as balancing a golf club on his toe and then on his chin . He performs a few trick shots ( secretly assisted by his valet ) . When some swarthy anarchists fling a bowling-ball bomb onto the golf course , Fields nonchalantly swings his driver and sends the bomb into the distance . Having saved the girl's life , he embraces her . . . and then the dream sequence ends , with Fields waking up to find himself embracing his runty companion . Enraged , Fields boots the man into the lake . This is pretty thin stuff , slapstick comedy of a sort that the crudest silent-film comedians could have done as well as Fields . Very little of Fields's later brilliance is on offer here . Still , this film is a vital historical artefact of an early stage in the gestation of W . C . Field's comic persona . I'll rate " His Lordship's Dilemma " . Hello again to all my silent-film fans !
Hardy's best pratfall	" Why Girls Say No " is one of Max Davidson's funnier comedies , even though the aggressively Jewish stereotypes are more obvious here than in most of his other films . Still , there are some very disturbing plot elements here . This is one of those movies which subscribes to the view that , if a man pursues a woman aggressively enough , she will eventually welcome his advances . In " Why Girls Say No " , Creighton Hale pursues Marjorie Daw in a manner which we would nowadays describe as stalking : when he starts out , she clearly has no interest in him at all , but he persists with high-pressure tactics ( such as lurking outside her upstairs bedroom window late at night ) and a couple of days later the two of them are engaged to be married ! Papa Whisselberg ( Davidson ) has an attractive young daughter Becky ( Daw ) who is beginning to attract gentlemen callers . . . but Papa insists that all of her suitors must be Jewish . When the doorbell announces the arrival of yet another young swain , Papa grows angry . . . until he gets a look at the visitor's huge nose , which satisfies Papa that the man is indeed " kosher " . ( The visitor is played by Jesse De Vorska , a gawky actor of extremely Semitic appearance . ) Becky attracts the attention of a young man ( Creighton Hale ) who doesn't appear to be Jewish at all . He pursues Becky very aggressively . She rejects him at first ( rather sensibly , I thought ) but is eventually won over . Only one problem : in order to call for Becky at her father's house , Creighton will have to pass for Jewish . Amazingly , he accomplishes this by wearing a hat several sizes too small . In the Whisselberg home , the men and boys wear hats at the table . . . which seems plausible , except that none of the men are wearing yarmulkes . Ginsberg ( De Vorska ) wears a jaunty straw boater . The funniest performer in this movie is Oliver Hardy ( not yet teamed with Laurel ) , playing a brawny cop who is very different from his famous " Ollie " character . ( Improbably , Officer Hardy is on patrol duty in the day time AND at night , but this movie doesn't stand up to analysis . ) In hindsight , Hardy's presence makes some of the gags very obvious . At one point , Hardy the cop tries to walk across a mud puddle : anyone who has ever seen a Laurel & Hardy movie will know what happens next . Elsewhere in the film , Hardy does an amazing pratfall . I also laughed at a gag sequence in which Creighton Hale , a fully-grown man , uses an amazingly simple ploy to disguise himself as a little girl . Give Stan Laurel credit for the script for this very funny film . I'll rate this movie . I really dislike the " stalk a woman till she falls in love with you " plotline here , but that mentality is so widespread in movies and tv shows that it would be unfair of me to single out this movie for disapproval .
Chapeaux on the magpies .	I never thought I'd spot an example of Walt Disney following Paul Terry's lead , but here we have a Terrytoon that anticipates a Disney toon . ' Rival Romeos ' features Heckle and Jeckle in almost exactly the same premise that would show up a year later in the 1951 Disney epic ' Two Chips and a Miss ' featuring Chip ' n ' Dale competing for the favours of a female chipmunk . Here we have the two magpies vying for the affections of a female bird : one of the very rare examples of a genuine female character ( rather than a female impersonation ) in a Heckle and Jeckle toon . Although this she-toon is clearly a bird , she's also some avian species radically different from the two magpies ( is she a chicken ? I can't tell ) , so what they're seeking here is some interspecies lovin ' . Also , the female bird is drawn with a teeny-tiny little beak that's just barely visible . Of all the U . S . - based animation studios , Terrytoons routinely had the worst in-betweeners : the characters in Paul Terry's cartoons have a tendency to shimmy distressingly from one frame to the next . In ' Rival Romeos ' , this doesn't happen . . . but the female bird is so crudely animated that she seems to move like a male character rather than a female . This may be down to what I previously observed : the rarity of female characters in Heckle and Jeckle cartoons . Director Eddie Donnelly should have studied the Red Hot Riding Hood cartoons directed by Tex Avery , in order to learn how to animate a female character convincingly without rotoscoping . ( Not likely Paul Terry would spend the money to buy a rotoscope ! ) As the IMDb reviewer Robert Reynolds has already commented , this cartoon clearly establishes that Heckle is the magpie with the prole New York accent , whilst Jeckle is the one with the cod English accent . But I knew that already . What I found more surprising about ' Rival Romeos ' is that in this toon the two magpies live in separate but adjacent quarters ; several other cartoons in their series establish them as room-mates . By the way , I hope someone can tell me the name for the distinctly American style of hat which Heckle wears in this cartoon . It's the same hat style worn by Mister Magoo's nephew Waldo ; I've only ever seen it in photos ( and movies ) of American men from circa 1920 to 1950 : usually college students , for some reason . It certainly never caught on in Britain nor Australia . ( It resembles a porkpie hat , but it's very different from Buster Keaton's familiar porkpie . ) Meanwhile , Jeckle sports a monocle here : I suppose this is meant to ' prove ' that he really is from England . ' Romeo Rivals ' ends with a gag that's rather obvious but still amusing , featuring a parody of the iris-out device . My rating for this one : , and one of those points is for this toon's historic value in establishing which magpie is which . This cartoon is definitely funnier ( with a better ending ) than ' Two Chips and a Miss ' .
Better than I'd expected .	The German title ' Liebesleute ' would translate imprecisely as ' Love-Folk ' or ' The Ones Who Love ' . Here we have a story which , at first glance , would seem to be one of the oldest and most trite of moss-covered Mills & Boon chestnuts : the one about the peasant girl who marries the handsome young nobleman , and they live happily ever after on their love and his wealth . Fortunately , upon second glance , it turns out that this movie's story is a bit more original : the handsome young nobleman is skint , and their love isn't enough to live on without a pfew pfennigs . To the extent that ' Liebesleute ' IS a hoary old story , at least it comes with an impressive pedigree : the opening credits of this German film claim that it's inspired by ' Hermann und Dorothea ' , the epic poem by Johann von Goethe . Actually , this movie resembles that poem only to about the extent that ' West Side Story ' resembles ' Romeo and Juliet ' . Dorothea Rainer ( Renate Müller ) is an attractive young German : orphaned in childhood , she was sent to Canada with a colony of German farmers . ( I wonder if they're any relation to the group headed by Anton Walbrook in ' 49th Parallel ' . ) But the agricultural colony failed due to drought , and now Dorothea is home in Germany . . . although ' home ' is meaningless , since she has no family and no property . By chance , she passes near the ancestral lands of Baron von Goren ( Heinrich Schroth ) . The baron has a handsome young son , Hermann ( Gustav Fröhlich ) . Herman and Dorothea ' meet cute ' , and it's love at first umlaut . Happy ending ? Nicht ! Nein ! Nix ! The baron , as it happens , also has a mountain of debts . A local businessman ( Harry Liedtke ) holds the note on the baronial estate , but he will cancel the debt if his daughter Helga ( Gina Falckenberg ) marries Hermann , thus bringing a title into the family . The baron is in favour of this . But Hermann and Dorothea , having tasted true love , have their own ideas . They go off to the city , penniless but determined to make their own way . Eventually and bitterly , they discover that they can't live on love alone . They need a few groschen to buy groscheries . . . My all-time favourite film is ' Metropolis ' , in which Gustav Fröhlich gave a strong performance as the juvenile lead . . . but I doubt that Fröhlich's performance is the reason why anybody sees that great film . In the early sound era , Fröhlich made an impressive transition to the disciplines of emoting for talkies . In his later years , he was a sort of grey eminence for young actors in Austria and Switzerland . Here , he gives a solid performance in a role that could have been very bland . Quite a few German movies from this period ( the early days of the Third Reich ) are sheer candyfloss , offering escapist entertainment rather than realistic drama . ' Liebesleute ' starts out that way , boding to be one more Cinderella story . But I was deeply impressed by the stark realism of the later scenes , as the two young lovers try to make a go of it on their own terms , only to discover that it won't be easy . The ending is somewhat contrived but still plausible , and all ends happily . I'll rate this interesting drama .
Furbelowed farthingales	' The Amateur Gentleman ' is a swashbuckler , set in Georgian England . This movie perpetrates most of Hollywood's usual errors for costume dramas : everything is too clean , and all the people are too healthy and have perfect teeth . Still , the art direction , lighting and photography are much better here than I've come to expect for this sort of thing . Barnabas Barty is the ambitious son of publican John Barty , a former prizefighter who bought a tavern with his winnings . When Barnabas comes into unexpected money , he aspires to become a gentleman . In the most plausible scene in the movie , John Barty reminds his son that the two of them are common stock , and that Barnabas must not aspire to something he can't attain . ( Given the class system in Britain at the time , I find this very realistic . ) According to his father , the best Barnabas can hope to become is an ' amateur gentleman ' . There's an inept comedy sequence in which Barnabas tries to learn posh manners from books . Eventually he defends the honour of fair Lady Cleone against dastardly Sir Mortimer Carnaby . ( Yes , it's Barnabas versus Carnaby : winner take all . ) Barnabas easily trounces Carnaby , who slinks off into the underbrush vowing revenge . After buckling a few swashes , Barnabas crosses paths with Ronald Barrymaine , a poacher who ( conveniently ) was once a valet to a milord . ( Still keeping score ? That's one Carnaby , one Barnabas , one Barrymaine , one Lady Cleone and Uncle Tom Cobley and all . ) Barrymaine attaches himself to Barnabas , cheerfully waiting upon him hand and foot while teaching him a gentleman's ways . Eventually , Barnabas proves his worth in a cross-country horse race . I found this film quite enjoyable , but not for one moment did I believe that these people were actually in Regency England . Gino Corrado's brief impersonation of the future George IV is laughably bad , and isn't even a good likeness of the ' fat friend ' . The climax of the film is quite thrilling even though it's obvious who will win the race . Dorothy Dunbar is painfully inept and unattractive in the role of Lady Cleone : she has no sense of period , acting like a bee-stung flapper who's been forcibly dressed in a farthingale and an elaborate coiffure . Brandon Hurst and John Miljan are excellent in supporting roles . I'll rate this movie for entertainment , but zero out of 10 for its unconvincing depiction of England in the days of George the Third .
Mostly of historical interest .	I viewed a print of this film which had the original intertitles cut out and German-language titles spliced in . The opening credits were missing altogether : a definite loss , as they might have revealed the name of the astonishingly tall and gaunt actor who plays Jim Slim . His neighbour Jack Fat is played by the rotund John Bunny , here quite early in his very popular Vitagraph career . Jack ( nearly spherical ) and Jim ( beanpole-thin and tall with it ) are next-door neighbours in the same block of flats . One day both men are sitting on their adjacent fire escapes , reading the papers , when Jack suggests to Jim that they sneak out without their wives and visit Luna Park . They climb down the fire escapes , furtively glancing back to make certain their wives aren't following . After a stock shot of an above-ground subway train transporting our heroes , we now see some fascinating footage of Luna Park , the celebrated amusement park in Brooklyn's Coney Island . ( We also see one shot of the Brighton Beach pier ; interestingly , three years earlier , the 1907 Vitagraph film ' Liquid Electricity ' also included a scene at almost this exact same spot . ) Jim Slim goes for a ride aboard a live dromedary ; it's truly bizarre to see this immensely tall thin man lurching along atop the camel's hump . Most of the attractions at Luna Park involved flinging the patrons across whirling discs or revolving walls ; in our modern litigious era , such attractions are unimaginable . One comparatively modest attraction which we see here is the Cake Walk : basically a moving staircase , with two halves moving independently . We see an attractive young girl negotiating this easily . I couldn't help noticing that all the patrons of Luna Park seen in this movie are white : sad to say , the owners of the property did not admit black customers . SPOILERS COMING . Of course , the two men's wives track them down and comic retribution ensues . This movie isn't very funny , but it's fascinating for its views of a fun fair that no longer exists . I'll rate this Vitagraph short . I sure wish I knew who ' Jim Slim ' was .
Those communists share EVERYTHING . . . including their wives , apparently .	I was surprised that a previous IMDb reviewer has compared this movie to ' Some Like It Hot ' . ( I assume he means the Billy Wilder comedy , not the Bob Hope musical . ) If ' Tretya meschanskaya ' resembles any Billy Wilder movie , it would have to be ' The Apartment ' . Volodia is a young man from the Russian provinces who has come to Moscow seeking work , since he's unable to find any employment back home . He discovers to his regret that jobs are pretty thin on the ground in Moscow , and so are apartments . Purely as a temporary measure ( ha , ha ) , he knocks up his former army squadmate Kolia , who lives in a Muscovite walk-up flat with his pretty wife Liuda . Kolia reluctantly agrees to let Volodia kip on the sofa until something better turns up . Kolia and his wife will maintain their privacy in the small bedroom . SPOILERS COMING . While Kolia is away on business , Liuda and Volodia become attracted to each other . ( I guess those army buddies share everything . ) Kolia comes home unexpectedly and discovers what's been going on . Now Kolia wants to move out and abandon his wife to Volodia , but he discovers that the same housing shortage which brought Volodia to his doorstep is still in place : Kolia has nowhere else to go . The uneasy menage continues , only now it's Volodia who's in the bedroom with Liuda , and it's Kolia who's on the couch in his own apartment . How long can this go on , comrade ? I was faintly surprised that the Soviets would make ' Tretya meschanskaya ' at all , much less approve it for exhibition . Central to this film's premise are several factors that reflect unfavourably on the Soviet regime : rampant unemployment in the provinces , urban unemployment , severe housing shortages , and the fact that the government can mandate apartment tenants to take in a roomer . In communist Russia , most apartment rentals were subsidised by the government , therefore the government could force tenants to share their small residential units with a total stranger . The fact that Moscow rents were significantly cheaper than rents in London , Paris or New York is allegedly proof of the benefits of collectivism . . . until one realises that workers in Moscow made far less money than their blue-collar equivalents in those other cities . I was also surprised for one other reason . This movie stresses that privacy is important to everyone , and is a basic human right . I never expected to encounter such sentiments in a communist film . While this film resists easy comparisons to any American film , if I had to compare it to a specific Hollywood movie my choice would be neither ' The Apartment ' nor ' Some Like It Hot ' but rather another movie that also starred Jack Lemmon : ' The Odd Couple ' . Despite the rivalry between the flatmates Kolia and Volodia , we sense their underlying friendship . . . not unlike the relationship between Felix and Oscar . I agree with the IMDb reviewer who compared this movie to ' Jules et Jim ' . Refreshingly , much of the humour in ' Tretya meschanskaya ' is universal , and has more to do with the menage-a-trois situation than with the politics . I laughed several times while watching this comedy , and I'll rate it .
Oh , heaven ! She was beautiful !	I saw ' Innocence of Lizette ' at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy , in 2006 ; their Desmet print was restored from a beautifully tinted and toned source print in the Nederlands Filmmuseum with Dutch translations replacing the original American credits and intertitles . As is often the case in foreign prints of silent films , there has been some rewriting as well : the heroine's name is now Liesje , and the film's new ( Dutch ) title translates as " Liesje's Un-Guilt " . The supporting cast includes two performers named Eugene Forde and Eugenie Forde . I'd previously seen their names ( separately ) in other films , and I'd assumed they were related . Viewing them here in the same film , I see no resemblance between them . . . and apparently this is the only time they ever worked together , at least in a movie . ( They separately had long stage careers . ) Eugene Forde , elsewhere a movie director but here an actor , is spelt in the cast list as ' Ford ' , possibly to emphasise that he's no relation to Eugenie Forde . In the Nederlands print , all the characters ' names have been ' Dutched ' . . . not only does Lizette become Liesje , but Dan Nye becomes Daniel Clarck , Granny Page becomes Mother Nelton , and so forth . The real gobsmacker on this cast list is the wealthy industrialist played by Harvey Clark . In the original American prints of this film , he was named Henry Fauer . For some reason - - maybe anti-German sentiment ? - - the Dutch exhibitors have changed his name to Henry Ford ! Viewers of this retitled Dutch print might make the understandable error of assuming that the wealthy industrialist named Henry Ford in this film is THE Henry Ford , the real-life automobile magnate . Since there are already two Fordes in this movie , confusion is rampant . One plot detail may elude modern viewers : in 1916 , when abortions were illegal and extremely dangerous , an unmarried girl who got ' in trouble ' was often sent away from home for several months , so that the neighbours wouldn't notice her developing pregnancy . This Dutch print is - - and I hope that my Internet detractors are reading this - - a perfect example of the hazards ( for me , or anyone ) of attempting to synopsise any silent film accurately , since re-edited prints are commonplace , and errors creep into translations . " Liesje's Un-Guilt " clearly deviates at several points from the original ' Innocence of Lizette ' . I can only describe the Dutch version which I saw , knowing that some Internetter will accuse me of errors ( or worse ) because they've seen a different print of this American film which doesn't match my synopsis . Right , then : Here goes . Liesje - - looking about 12 years old , but played by teenage Mary Miles Minter - - is an orphan girl who is totally innocent of all sexual matters , including where babies come from . ( That death rattle you hear is this film's plausibility . I spent part of my pre-adolescence in an Australian orphan institution in the 1950s , and we all got far more sexual indoctrination than we needed . I doubt that it was much different in American orphanages in 1916 . ) Liesje is adopted by wealthy Henry Ford . She is uncomfortable and awkward in her new posh surroundings . Partly because of this , Liesje is sent away for several months . . . during which she matures ( physically but not otherwise ) enough to make it clear that her body is more mature than her childish demeanour . Apparently word has got out that Henry Ford ( the one in this movie ) is a sucker for adopting orphans ; when Liesje returns to the mansion of Daddy Warbucks - - I mean Henry Ford - - she finds a foundling on his doorstep . In her utter innocence and naivete , Liesje appropriates this baby as her own ' doll ' , and she tells everyone that the child belongs to her ! Since Liesje was away for several months , the neighbourhood gossips now leap to what is ( for 1916 ) the most obvious conclusion . But all ends semi-happily . Mary Miles Minter was the best possible casting for this role , as it exploits both her child-like behaviour and her nascent sex appeal . We accept her as a pre-adolescent who is utterly innocent ( in every sense ) , yet we are also aware of her developing sexuality . The nearly bald character actor Harvey Clark gives a stand-out performance as Liesje's foster father . I fondly recall Harvey Clark squaring off against Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy in ' Putting Pants on Philip ' and giving as good as they gave him . Any actor who can hold his own against Stan and Ollie deserves to be better known . Why is Harvey Clark unfairly forgotten ? Mary Miles Minter is one of those tragic figures ( others being Roscoe Arbuckle , Wallace Reid , William Desmond Taylor and - - arguably - - Louise Brooks ) whose career can never be merely regarded in its own right , as it's so thoroughly overshadowed by a scandal . Minter was the protegee and lover of Taylor at the time of his murder and the ensuing scandal ; she was also a leading suspect in the crime , which remains unsolved . I believe that the explanation in the excellent book ' A Cast of Killers ' is the nearest we'll ever get to the truth in the Taylor case . Following Taylor's murder , Minter's promising career ended quickly : she was washed-up in silents even before the arrival of talkies , and she spent the last decades of her life as a child-like recluse , a grotesque combination of Norma Desmond and Shirley Temple . Many of the great screen actresses owe their discovery and stardom to one particular director , but they usually managed to become independent of that early relationship . . . so that , for instance , Dietrich without von Sternberg , or Garbo without Stiller is still a superb actress . William Desmond Taylor was Minter's mentor , but ' Innocence of Lizette ' - - directed by James Kirkwood - - proves that Minter's talents weren't dependent on Taylor . Oh , heaven ! She was beautiful ! I'll rate this film , and I hope that this review doesn't get me in ( ahem ) Dutch with my Internet detractors .
Kiddy kiddy bang bang .	I saw this short drama at the 1998 Cinema Muto festival in Pordenone ; they screened a print from the Library of Congress with the original intertitles missing . The title " Those Boys ! " and the short running time ( 133 feet ) led me to expect that this would be a comedy . When the mother of the large family puts her husband's pistol into a desk drawer , I still thought this would be a comedy - - an edgy one - - involving firearms . The family's two boys , who have been out playing at archery , find the pistol and load it ( ! ) . Meanwhile , their three sisters are playing in the attic . Believing themselves alone , the boys hang their archery target on the attic door for some pistol practice , unaware that their sisters are directly behind the thin door . SPOILERS COMING . Fortunately the resourceful family maid discovers that the pistol is missing , and . . . I take gun safety very seriously . The media occasionally report real cases of disaster after a child finds the family firearm ; invariably , this turns out to be in households where nobody has bothered to learn the NRA safety procedures . I was intrigued to see that this topic was a concern back in 1909 . This movie also reminded me of the real-life case of James Thurber ; as a boy , he lost an eye when his older brother got stupid with an archery set . Concerning the fictional parents in this film , I'm tempted to say that anyone who's stupid enough to leave handguns and ammunition where children can get at them deserves whatever happens . . . but it's usually the children who get hurt , not the idiots who failed to learn gun safety . I was also intrigued to see Florence Lawrence - - the first movie star - - in this film , cast as the maid rather than the wife . Lawrence is technically the heroine here , yet her role is subordinate to Anita Hendrie's as the wife . Was Hendrie considered a more popular actress than Lawrence in 1909 ? I think not , but I might be mistaken . My rating for this one is . Lock and load !
Historically priceless , but poor adaptation	O . Henry's famous story ' The Cop and the Anthem ' was originally published in ' The Sunday World ' on 4 December , 1904 , and has been widely reprinted ever since . This is the story of a Manhattan derelict named Soapy . . . an odd name for an unwashed tramp , until one realises that in 1904 a typical cake of soap was a brown greasy lump of tallow with an unpleasant smell . Winter is drawing nigh , and the streets are getting too cold for Soapy to continue sleeping rough . He decides it's time for his annual ritual of committing some small crime which will bring him a three-month jail sentence : just enough to enable him to spend the winter in a nice cosy prison cell , with room and board at the city's expense . The payoff of the story is one of O . Henry's classic twist endings , but it's funny ( and believable ) even if you already know the famous ending . The best-known ( and best ) version of this story is the sequence in " O . Henry's Full House " featuring Charles Laughton as the tramp , with a brief appearance by Marilyn Monroe as a Bowery streetwalker ! ' Trying to Get Arrested ' is the very first film adaptation of O . Henry's ' The Cop and the Anthem ' . . . and the only version produced during O . Henry's lifetime . This very short slapstick comedy , directed by D . W . Griffith very early in his cinematic career when he was still feeling his way with this new invention , is historically fascinating but not a very good piece of storytelling . Much of O . Henry's original story takes place entirely within the tramp's mental processes : his original intentions , and his later decision to reform himself , are explained in the narration . " O . Henry's Full House " solved this problem by giving the tramp a companion : an even lowlier derelict ( played by David Wayne ) to whom he explains his decisions for the audience's benefit . In this crude silent film , the tramp's motivations are explained by some unwieldy title cards . In O . Henry's story , Soapy the tramp invents several clever dodges for getting arrested , all of which fail hilariously . . . in this much cruder movie , he pretty much limits himself to starting street brawls in the hope of getting hauled off to the station house . Although this movie is funny , the humour comes from raw slapstick . . . unlike O . Henry's original ( and much funnier ) story , in which the humour derives from human nature and the perversity of fate . This film omits the streetwalker character from O . Henry's story ( possibly for censorship reasons ) , and substitutes a child-minder played by Florence Lawrence , who is often called ' the first movie star ' because she was the first American film performer ( of either gender ) to be billed onscreen by her right name . Also present in a small role is Jeanie Macpherson , who later had much greater success as Cecil B . DeMille's most important scriptwriter . This slapstick movie has the feel of an early Keystone film , which is no coincidence as Mack Sennett was D . W . Griffith's assistant at this time . . . and he appears in this film as a chucker-out who ejects Soapy from a restaurant when the tramp eats a sandwich he cannot pay for . Years later , Sennett generously praised Griffith as the greatest influence on his own film-making career , saying : " He was my day school , my night school , my university . " The photography by Griffith's favourite cameraman ' Billy ' Bitzer is excellent , and this film features a few candid shots of 1909 Manhattan in the vicinity of 14th Street , where the Biograph film studio was located at this time . Far from the best version of this film story , but a fascinating piece of cinema history : I'll rate this movie . O . Henry made a fortune from his popular stories , but gave most of it away to friends and complete strangers : when he died ( in the Polyclinic Hospital , E . 34th St , a few months after this movie was released ) , his entire estate totalled 23 cents . Biograph didn't pay O . Henry any money for the film rights to this story , but he would have squandered the money anyway .
Lloyd Hamilton at both ends !	Lloyd Hamilton was one of the most imaginative ( and among the funniest ) of all the silent-film comedians . Why is he utterly forgotten ? Unfortunately , the original negatives for a large percentage of his films were lost when the Fox warehouse burnt in the early 1930s . Hamilton was not handsome or graceful like Chaplin , Keaton and Lloyd ; nor was he dapper , like Raymond Griffith . And unlike Harry Langdon and ( again ) Chaplin , Hamilton did not try for audience sympathy . However , his films were hugely popular at the time of their original release , and they remain hilarious today . Oscar Levant once claimed that he asked Chaplin if there was any other comedian whom he'd ever envied , and Chaplin instantly named Lloyd Hamilton . The character most frequently portrayed by Hamilton on screen - - a flat-capped naff , with fastidious hand gestures and a duck-like walk - - was later adapted by vaudeville comedian Eddie Garr ( Teri Garr's father ) , and further adapted by Jackie Gleason as his 1950s TV character ' The Poor Soul ' . ' The Movies ' , directed pseudonymously by Roscoe Arbuckle , is one of Hamilton's most innovative shorts , and it's hilarious . We first see him as a country boy , bidding farewell to his family outside their homespun cottage , on his way to the big city . Then he steps away from the cottage , and we see that it's IN the big city , with traffic booming all round him ! Eventually , our hero ends up at a restaurant ( uncredited , but it's the Montmartre Cafe in downtown L . A . ) where all the movie actors eat between takes . There's an amusing gag when Hamilton's bumpkin character meets three actors in costume and makeup as Presidents Washington , Lincoln and Roosevelt : this gag would have been funnier if the impostors looked more like the originals . Finally , our lad seats himself at a table , hoping to meet a celebrity . Sure enough , entering the restaurant and sitting at the very next table is a big movie star . . . none other than Lloyd Hamilton ! There's a very well-made double-exposure shot - - the join is nearly invisible - - when Lloyd Hamilton as himself greets Lloyd Hamilton as the country boy . Sadly , Hamilton's peak period of creativity was very brief . He began his film career in crude slapstick films as one half of a double act ( Ham and Bud , opposite Bud Duncan ) , and had a brief and blazing period of stardom in shorts during the late silent period . Sound movies were not kind to Hamilton , and he was quickly shoved down the cast list in some crude early talkies . Then he died young . Fortunately , ' The Movies ' is quite funny , and a splendid introduction to this unique comedians ' style . I'll rate it .
She may be dead , but she's still under contract .	' Saratoga ' was one of Hollywood's biggest box-office hits of 1937 , but an explanation is in order . The film was scheduled to star MGM's popular team of Clark Gable and Jean Harlow , but Harlow died suddenly ( of uraemia , aged only 26 ) while ' Saratoga ' was in production . Her fans demanded that MGM honour Harlow's memory by completing the movie ; when it was released , hordes went to see ' Saratoga ' and bid farewell to their platinum blonde . Ironically , this movie made far more money ( on the strength of Harlow's death ) than it would have been likely to earn had she lived to complete it . ' Saratoga ' is a comedy , yet a weird morbidity hovers over this film . Harlow's character's father is played by Jonathan Hale , who later committed suicide . Gable has a bizarre scene in a racehorses ' cemetery , appropriately spooky . ( Although the gravestones are too close together . ) The scenes left unfilmed at Harlow's death were completed with three different actresses doubling for her : a body double , a face double , and a voice double dubbing her dialogue . The doubling is laughably inept , even by 1937 standards . Several film critics have claimed that we'll never know how great ' Saratoga ' would have been had Harlow completed it . That's rubbish , that is . For the first two-thirds of the film - - with the possible exception of one shot in which she pushes her way through a crowd of punters , with her back to the camera - - it's clear that Harlow did all of her own scenes . By the two-thirds mark , ' Saratoga ' has failed to register as a classic on the level of ' Red Dust ' or ' Dinner at Eight ' . There's nothing in the film's first five reels to indicate that this movie would have attained greatness if only Harlow had completed it . This is just one more Gable / Harlow comedy : an enjoyable one , but nowhere near so good as ' Red Dust ' or even ' Bombshell ' . I find it intriguing that all of Harlow's doubled sequences are in the last one-third of the movie , as this indicates that ' Saratoga ' was shot roughly in sequence . Ironically , the last line that Harlow speaks on screen ( two-thirds into this movie ) is ' Good-bye ' . From here to the last reel , her character is strangely taciturn , always holding field glasses or some other object in front of her face so that we can't get a good squizz at the unconvincing double ( actress Mary Dees ) . Harlow's character appears to have been written out of some late scenes in which one might expect her to appear . But the very last shot of the movie reveals Harlow herself , with Gable and Una Merkel , reprising a song from earlier in the movie : ' The Horse with the Dreamy Eyes ' . I wonder if this shot was repositioned from earlier in the film , in order to ensure that the movie would end with a close-up of the real Jean Harlow . I always find Una Merkel deeply annoying , and here she's worse than usual . She does a bump-and-grind routine , thrusting her pelvis towards us while glancing angrily backwards over her shoulder , pretending that she's been shoved forward by someone standing behind her . Get some voice lessons , Merkel . Gable's character is identified as a ' bookie ' , which may surprise modern viewers in America . Gable is portraying what is known in Britain as a ' turf accountant ' . These are independent bookmakers who lawfully take bets at a racetrack , without participating in the pari-mutuel pool . Such people no longer exist Stateside but were carefully vetted by racing commissions in the 1930s . One of the rules for their profession was that a bookie could not own a racehorse . In ' Saratoga ' , deep-pockets Gable buys a thoroughbred but is actually purchasing it as a gift for Lionel Barrymore , playing Harlow's grandfather . If a bookie had tried this in real life , there would have been legitimate protests of a conflict of interest . Gable is his usual sly rogue here , with an amusing running gag in which he keeps telling various men and women : ' I love ya . ' The payoff is clever . These shots were edited into a very funny montage in ' That's Entertainment , Part Two ' . ' Saratoga ' benefits from MGM's usual high production standards , and an excellent supporting cast . . . including Charley Foy , Margaret Hamilton , Hattie McDaniel , Frank Morgan ( less annoying than usual ) and MGM's stalwart character actor Cliff Edwards . I enjoyed ' Saratoga ' and I'll rate it . . . but it's hardly a classic , and I'm confident that it would not have been one even if Harlow had completed it .
Harem-scarem , with some genuine surprises .	I saw ' Maharadjahens yndlingshustru ' ( no capital ' I ' at the end ) in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy ; they screened an archive print from the Danish Film Institute . The film's title translates as ' The Maharaja's Favourite Wife ' . According to the on-screen credits of the DFI print , Robert Dinesen was this film's sole director , whilst Sven Gade was scenarist . The excellent photography is by Sophus Wangøe . The credited actors and their roles are as follows , and spelt accordingly : Gunnar Tolnæs ( Maharajah ) ; Lilly Jacobsson ( Elly von Langen ) ; Carlo Wieth ( Lieutenant Kuno Falkenberg ) ; Thorleif Lund ( Colonel von Langen ) ; Jonna Akner Kreutz ( Mrs von Langen ) ; Edith Barré ( Senta von Langen ) . I've no idea who Kai Heimann is meant to be . IMDb have got this film listed with a roman numeral ' I ' at the end , because this movie was followed ( two years later ) by the release of ' Maharadjahens yndlingshustru II ' . In fact , that 1919 film is not a sequel to this one , since it features a different set of characters ( some of them played by actors who appeared in the first film ) . I would classify that second movie as a companion piece to this prior one , in the sense that Fritz Lang's ' Scarlet Street ' is a companion piece to his ' The Woman in the Window ' ( with the same cast ) rather than a true sequel . Kuno Falkenberg , a handsome young naval lieutenant , is in love with his cousin Elly , who also happens to be the daughter of the colonel . ( Apparently the fact that they're cousins is no obstacle to a marriage in Denmark . . . and Denmark must be the only nation with colonels in the navy . ) However , Elly has met a swarthy and wealthy maharajah , who proposes marriage to her in a rowboat . She eagerly accepts ( despite the size of his dinghy ) . When Kuno finds the empty rowboat , he assumes that Elly has drowned . . . little suspecting that she has eloped to the Orient , or wherever wealthy maharajahs live . After scarpering to the rajah's realm and marrying him , Elly is gobsmacked to discover that she is now merely one of the rajah's many wives in his harem . She tries to leave , apparently planning to walk home to Denmark , but she is told that the marriage is legal . . . and sent back to her oda , to stand in the corner . An imbroglio in the seraglio . Kuno has conveniently been transferred to India ; I'd no idea that the Danish navy had a fleet there . Elly conveniently discovers that Kuno is in the neighbourhood - - this is the man whom she'd spurned before , remember - - and she manages to get a message to him . SPOILERS COMING . From this point onward , the movie actually manages to defy expectations . . . or at least it defied mine . The most obvious ( not the most sensible ) gambit is for Kuno to sneak into the harem and rescue Elly , with the rajah's minions in hot pursuit . Instead of this , Kuno ponces right in through the front door , as bold as brass , and he explains to the rajah that European women cannot accept only a fraction of a husband's love . The rajah smiles wisely , then whips out his scimitar and slices Kuno's head off . No , not really . But I wish . . . The rajah , rather surprisingly , tells Elly that she is free to leave or to stay , as she chooses . But she and Kuno don't know that the rajah gives his minions ( those minions I'd mentioned ) another order : although Elly is indeed free to leave , the minions are commanded to kill anyone who leaves with her . Soon enough , Elly walks out of the harem . . . and a robed male figure follows her . Could it be Kuno ? The guards pounce , and disrobe him . Surprise ! He's none other than the maharajah himself . Upon learning that Elly was dissatisfied , he decided that he wanted to die . . . so he contrived to follow her in disguise , in hopes that his loyal guards would kill him ! But wait , there's more ! Now that he's been unmasked , the maharajah is still determined to die . He grabs a knife , intending to top himself . . . but Elly stops him . When Kuno protests , Elly tells Kuno that she sincerely loves the rajah after all . ( Have I mentioned that the rajah is wealthy , and Kuno is a naval lieutenant ? Naval lieutenants are not noted for vast salaries . ) The film ends with Elly willingly returning to the seraglio with her maharajah . Hmmm . I give this movie credit for several genuine surprises : it sets up a very obviously formulaic plot , and then contradicts the formula several times . Quite a few movies from this period ( both European and American ) depicted exotic foreigners as swarthy villains , keen on defiling white women . I was intrigued that the maharajah in this movie seems to be all set to fit neatly into that stereotype , but then turns out to be a virtuous character ( by his own culture's rules ) who's meant to receive the audience's sympathy . The photography and art direction are superb , and the editing is impressive . My rating for this movie : .
Korda and Corda in moody intrigue .	I actively seek out movies from as many different nations ( and languages ) and time periods as possible : one reason being so that I can experience at least a few details of many different cultures ( and eras , at least since the days of early cinema ) . Also , if the films aren't in English , I endeavour to learn some of the native language ( or improve my existing ability ) by gleaning as much information as I can get from the actors ' spoken dialogue or the printed subtitles or ( as in the case of this silent film ) title cards in that language . ' A 111-es ' ( meaning ' In 111 ' , referring to a room number in an hotel in this movie ) is an Hungarian silent film . I viewed a print with the original intertitles in Magyar . My grasp of that language is very limited , so I was keen to improve my knowledge here . For that purpose , ' A 111-es ' proved to be a bad choice , since it's a melodrama with some degree of mystery about it , and much of the action is intentionally baffling even if you speak the lingo . However , I was also attracted to this film by the fact that it was directed by ( the future Sir ) Alexander Korda , who later had an impressive film career in Britain . Among my friends is an Hungarian expatriate who kindly sits through some ( often very boring ) Hungarian movies with me , selectively translating at my request and explaining obscure references . She wasn't available for this screening , so I had to muddle through on my tod with my very limited knowledge of Magyar . If I make a few errors here , I hope someone more familiar with this movie will contact me with corrections . An evil baron with a jawbreaker name ( well-played by Jenö Törzs ) carried on a torrid affair with innocent young Olga , but spitefully cast her off . She dies soon afterward , having lost the will to live . She does , however , possess a lookalike sister Vera . From upstage left enters Sidney , an English conjuror who enlists Vera in his magic act as a ploy to get revenge on the baron for killing her sister . Sidney uses various stage illusions and some unconvincing hypnotism to nobble the baron , and of course it's bang obvious that Vera will impersonate Olga . But things take an unexpected turn when Vera - - impersonating her sister - - spoils the plan by becoming attracted to the baron , just as her sister was . Or is something else happening ? I had difficulty following much of the action , partly down to my poor grasp of the language but also largely down to this movie's intentionally baffling narrative and spooky atmosphere , which is well sustained . In the dual roles of the lookalike sisters , María Corda ( any relation to Korda ? ) is quite pretty and a talented actress who actually makes her two roles seem genuinely like two different people : a feat made even more impressive since one of them spends much of this movie impersonating the other . Despite this movie's intentional confusions , there's never any doubt ( for the audience , not for the other characters ) as to which sister is which , since they never both appear in the same sequence - - much less in the same camera set-up - - and so there's no need for trick photography . I did find the lead actress's name distracting , though . In Britain , there's a famous murder case in which a simple young rural woman from East Anglia named Maria Marten was led astray and then murdered by a man named William Corder who had promised to marry her . In ' A 111-es ' , María Corda plays a simple young rural woman who's led astray by a man on the make , with fatal results . The two tragedies ( one real , one fictional ) aren't neat parallels , but they're just similar enough that I kept thinking of the name María Corda as " Maria Corder " ( the Maria from East Anglia had hoped to marry Corder ) , and this distracted me at several key points while watching this film . I was intrigued to learn that Jenö Törzs , who gives an excellent performance here as the nefarious baron , later starred in a sound remake of this film as the English magician . I wonder if he preferred that role , which ( in the silent version , at least ) is certainly more sympathetic . In this silent version , Gyula Bartos's performances of the conjuror's tricks are not very impressive , and the hypnotism sequences here are as ludicrous as the ones in ' Mark of the Vampire ' . I admit that I didn't understand ' A 111-es ' very well , but Alexander Korda shows skill and imagination at this early point in his directing career , and much of this movie impressed me . I'll rate it .
Mickey gets away with plenty .	' The Chain Gang ' is a delightful Mickey Mouse short from his early sound period . I was surprised that this one features Mickey in prison ( on a chain gang , no less ) , and we're never told how he came to be there in the first place . The cartoon manages to imply that he's guilty of something , rather than stitched up . I'll just address a couple of points that modern viewers might miss . IMDb viewer Ron Oliver says that Mickey performs something called ' the classic " Prisoner's Song " ' ( I must have missed that one ) in this cartoon . That's not correct . Mickey and the other inmates perform a maudlin waltz-time ballad that was very well-known in 1930 , when this cartoon was made : so well-known that Disney didn't even bother to have his voice artists sing the words , apparently figuring that cinema audiences would recognise the song from its melody alone . The song which Mickey and the others are performing has a lyric which begins like this : " If I had the wings of an angel , / Over these prison walls I would fly . . . " . Since I recognised the melody , I thought it quite funny that these cartoon inmates were performing this particular song . Many of the early Disney toons were quite vulgar , with gags featuring racial stereotypes or crudities such as Mickey playing a melody on a female dog's nipples . The nearest we get to such things in ' The Chain Gang ' is one visual gag quite early in the toon . When the warder ( played by Big Pete ) threatens Mickey , the mouse raises one hand in a placating gesture with fingers splayed . Then he turns his head into profile to look at his own hand . At this point , Mickey grins mysteriously and then drops his hand . If you look closely , for one brief instant Mickey's head and hand are in just the proper position so that he's thumbing his nose . In the 1930s ( and earlier ) the gesture of thumb to nose was considered extremely vulgar in the United States ; if Disney had tried this gag a few years later , with the Hays Office in place , he likely wouldn't have got away with it . I shan't spoil the end of the cartoon for you . It was a big surprise for me , since Mickey ended up someplace unexpected . I'll rate ' The Chain Gang ' . Now that nobody recognises ( nor stigmatises ) the nose-thumbing gesture anymore , parents can put this cartoon on their family viewing list .
The dessert takes fifteen years .	' The Long Yule Midday Meal ' would be the literal translation of the title for this Swedish-language production of ' The Long Christmas Dinner ' , one of Thornton Wilder's more obscure plays . All of Wilder's plays feature some distortion of reality - - even his very conventional work ' The Matchmaker ' depicts characters speaking directly to the audience - - but ' The Long Christmas Dinner ' is surreal even by Wilder's standards . The play depicts 90 years in the span of a typical American family ( the Bayards ) by the clever device of their annual ritual : the family's Christmas dinner , which is basically unchanging every year , with only the ages of the individual participants in flux . The play lasts roughly as long as an actual holiday dinner , yet we are aware of the decades passing . Family members grow old as the dinner progresses , children becoming adults , and elderly participants leaving the table ( in death ) while new members ( becoming born ) arrive at the table to replace them . Several characters in this drama have catchphrases or mannerisms which they repeat over and over . This is partly a device to enable the audience to keep track of them , but it's also Wilder's way of showing us that these people don't change : they merely get older . As in Wilder's best-known play ' Our Town ' , those who have departed the Bayard family's table ( through death ) are still among the living in memories . This crude low-budget TV production is shot in one continuous take by a camera retaining a single viewpoint . Normally , this ' nailed-down camera ' technique is unpleasant , and implies a low budget or a lack of imagination on the part of the director . In this production , for once , the device works very well . By keeping the camera at a constant viewpoint while the actors ' age ' by gradually changing their movements and speech patterns , we are more aware of Wilder's compression of time than we might have been otherwise . I had some difficulty following the Swedish actors ' dialogue - - partly my fault , partly down to the poor sound recording - - but I'll rate this teledrama .
Two different movies : same year and title .	I saw a 1958 acetate print of ' Den Hvide slavinde ' ( ' The White-Slave Trade ' ) at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy , in October 2006 . This film has an interesting history . First , some background : During the early 20th century , a popular theme in sensationalist literature was the crime of ' white slavery ' . White slavers were organised rings of criminals who abducted young women and forced them into prostitution , sometimes in a foreign nation where they had no contacts and couldn't speak the local language . Undoubtedly , this crime genuinely existed - - and still does , in the early 21st century - - but I have difficulty believing that it was ever as glamorous or exotic as it was purported to be in novels and films of the period . Now , this film's history : IMDb's web page for ' Den Hvide slavinde ' lists two different production companies - - Fotorama and Nordisk - - implying that this movie is a co-production . That's incorrect . In the spring of 1910 , the Fotorama studio ( based in Aarhus , Denmark ) made a three-reel film titled ' Den Hvide slavinde ' , the longest film produced in Denmark to that date . It was a huge money-maker . The rival Nordisk studio , based in Copenhagen , decided to cut themselves a slice of the Danish by producing a scene-for-scene copy with the same title : to minimise the chances of lawsuits , Nordisk released their film primarily in other Scandinavian markets outside of Denmark . Ironically , the Nordisk film - - a blatant rip-off - - has survived , whilst the original Fotorama version appears to be lost except for a few tantalising fragments . ( No , you clevers in the back there ; I don't have a print handy . ) To complicate matters , the actors listed on IMDb's webpage are the ( correct ) cast of the missing Fotorama production , not the surviving Nordisk version . This IMDb review addresses the Nordisk movie , and I've listed the actors who appear in that version . Surviving documents from the Aarhus studio indicate that Nordisk's production is a scene-for-scene copy of the Fotorama original , barring a few characters ' names changed . Anna ( Ellen Diedrich ) , a beautiful girl from a poor background , is offered a well-paid position as a lady's companion in London . Handsome Georg ( Lauritz Olsen ) has been Anna's friend since childhood , and they are now informally betrothed . The sceptical Georg suspects that the job offer is too good to be true , but Anna dismisses his scepticism and she reports to the London address . The stately home in England turns out to be a whorehouse , run by madame Ella la Cour , corseted to a fare-thee-well : apparently there are no good-looking women in London , so they have to import them from Denmark . Anna manages to overpower her first client ( Svend Bille ) but is unable to escape . Here , the film cleverly manages to have it both ways : establishing Anna as fighting to protect her virginity whilst , at the same go , keeping her a prisoner in a brothel . Thus , the audience can delude themselves that Anna remains a virgin while she's captive in a whorehouse . SPOILERS COMING . Remarkably and implausibly , the brothel's chambermaid ( Doris Langkilde ) is sympathetic to Anna's plight , and she smuggles out a message to Anna's parents ( Otto Lagoni and Julie Henriksen ) . Georg travels to England and hires a detective ( Victor Fabian ) . There's now an exciting sequence of escape and chase , as Anna climbs down from the brothel's upper storey into a waiting motorcar , and the villains then pursue the liberators . The baddies abduct Anna again ( she must be one of their best girls , since they go to so much trouble to keep her ! ) , and they take her to the quayside , intending to escape to yet another nation . But that pesky chambermaid has alerted Scotland Yard . There's a thrilling climactic shipboard struggle , and all ends happily . Nordisk's ' Den Hvide slavinde ' is so impressive ( by 1910 standards ) that it's a shame to realise that this entire production is a crib from the original version . A real highlight here is a triptych sequence : a three-way split-screen , featuring a ' phone conversation between two villains ( at opposite sides of the screen ) while the centre of the image depicts a bustling street . However , press reviews of the earlier Fotorama production make clear that this effect originated in that film : the same sequence in this Nordisk version , while breath-taking , is merely a copy . I was so impressed by this film that I'm tempted to give it a high rating , but solid evidence indicates that it's entirely a knock-off of the earlier version . Split the difference , and I'll rate this Nordisk remake .
I shutter to think !	D . W . Griffith remains well-known for a handful of feature-length silent films he directed . It's less well-known that he churned out a large number of much shorter films as well , ranging in tone and quality from crude comedies to sophisticated mini-dramas . I found ' The House with Closed Shutters ' hugely interesting for the performances of the actors . This film may well be the best surviving record of 19th-century stage-acting techniques . Griffith's background was in the theatre ; when this movie was made , many Victorian actors were still performing . In this film , the actors largely seem to be using theatrical stage techniques , rather than a more natural film technique or the elaborately overwrought histrionics which modern audiences now regard as ' silent-film acting ' . SPOILERS AHEAD . This is one more Civil War drama which depicts the South as the good guys , or at least shows them sentimentally . ( The only black character in evidence - - a servant - - is played by a white actor in burnt-cork makeup . ) The Civil War has been declared : handsome young Charles joins up and puts on a Confederate lieutenant's uniform while his sister proudly displays the Confederate flag she's made . Then he eagerly marches off with his friends and fellow lieutenants , Wheeler and Carter , as they report to General Lee's campground . Although I can forgive these film-makers for failing to find an actor who resembles the actual Robert E Lee , the actor whom they do use here as Lee ( Edwin August ) is tricked out in a crepe beard that only just barely resembles the actual Lee's face foliage . Surely they could have got the beard right . Lee asks for a volunteer to take a sealed despatch to the front . Charles volunteers and is given the message . At this point , his nerve fails . He goes home to his brandy flask and his mother ; the latter immediately unseals the message ( thanks , mum ) , reads it , and realises it's got to get to the front . She sends her cowardly drunken son to bed , while Charles's sister puts on his uniform , tucks her beautiful long hair down the back of his lieutenant's tunic , and rides off to deliver the message . At this point , I noticed two oddities : the actress playing Charles's sister is significantly smaller and shorter than he is , yet his uniform fits her perfectly . . . and , when she mounts his horse and rides off , her technique indicates that she's had plenty of experience riding astride , rather than sidesaddle . When did this delicate Southern belle of 1861 ( when ladies rode sidesaddle , if they ever rode at all ) ever get the experience ? In the brief but well-staged battle scene , Charles's sister is killed in battle while wearing his uniform . . . and it's Charles who is reported dead . ( No autopsy , I guess . ) When this news reaches their mother , she decides that the family will be disgraced forever if Charles is ever seen alive , since his heroic death would then be known for a lie . When I'd got this far in reading the title cards , I figured there was only one possible solution : Charles would have to put on crinolines and hoop skirts , and spend the rest of his life impersonating his sister . ( Charley's Antebellum ? ) All joking aside : this melodrama takes place in the pre-tech era when a man could change his identity simply by taking a new name and relocating to someplace where nobody knew him before . It makes no sense for Charles to become a lifelong shut-in , rather than simply going away . Nor do Charles and his mother devise any plan to explain the permanent disappearance of Charles's sister . Worse luck , Charles's mother orders Old Black Joe to shutter the windows forever . Years pass . Charles and his mother acquire some ridiculous old-age makeup , and the white powder in the actress's hair seems to have spread to her clothes . Charles's friends Wheeler and Carter - - thinking him long dead and now themselves likewise in bad old-age makeup - - show up to put flowers on his grave . These two actors start emoting in unison , as if they were Thomson and Thompson in a live-action Tintin movie . My review of ' The House with Closed Shutters ' has been quite sarky , but I found much of this short movie fascinating : namely , when the actors were emoting as if they were Victorian stage performers , and when the bad makeup and other production effects weren't getting in their way . This movie's good points definitely outweigh its bad points , and I'll rate it .
The baron was barren ; the vicar is quicker .	Asta Nielsen was an ethereally beautiful silent-film actress who made only one sound film , then went into a long Garbo-like retirement . There are some strong parallels between Nielsen and Garbo , including some roles they both played ( notably ' Mata Hari ' ) . It's intriguing that Nielsen and Sarah Bernhardt both played the ( male ) title role in ' Hamlet ' . Bernhardt played the role as a man when she was too old to play Ophelia ; whilst Nielsen ( astonishingly beautiful in male costume ) played the role as a young woman who had been raised as a male . Most of Nielsen's career was in German films ; ' Mod Lyset ' ( a German co-production ) is one of only four films she made in her native Denmark . Nielsen is less beautiful and more matronly than usual here ; in some shots , she looks distressingly like Carol Channing . SPOILERS AHEAD . I viewed an excellent print of ' Mod Lyset ' ( ' Towards the Light ' ) from the Danish Film Museum . ( Not to be confused with the better-known Danish Film Institute . ) Interestingly , the print begins with Nielsen ( via dissolves ) in three different costumes , hairstyles and make-ups : as the haughty countess , as the same woman in more humble garments , and ( with plenty of backlighting ) as an angelic saint . In a later reel , this print oddly deletes the shot of Countess Ysabel flinging her wedding veil into her fireplace and the close-up of the veil burning ; I've seen these shots in another print . Nielsen plays the wealthy Countess Ysabel , who flaunts her atheism . ( I found this unlikely ; in 1919 , most upper-class Europeans - - especially the peerage - - were either sincerely religious or found it politic to affect to be so . ) She is , however , respectful of religion in others , so she attends a service held by the handsome priest Elias Renato . Afterward , Ysabel claims to have been genuinely moved . Father Renato wants to set up a religious colony on a small coastal island . Amazingly for Denmark in 1919 , the priest's religious mission is racially integrated : I spotted two Negroes and a Chinese man in this film . A ragman named Peter is played by Charles Willumsen , an actor who looks astonishingly like Sam Fuller . Ysabel and her mother ( the dowager countess ) have no time for religion : she is betrothed to Sandro Grec , a handsome baron . Here begins a sequence which proves my point about religiosity in 1919 : Ysabel observes all the traditional rituals of a wedding ( bridal gown , veil , coach to the wedding site ) yet we never see precisely how nor where the wedding takes place : surely it would be held in a church , with the marriage consecrated by a priest . . . yet this would contradict the countess's atheism . We do see the wedding feast afterward , with a vicar presiding . Anyroad , Ysabel and the baron are on their way back from wherever they got married when some top-hatted cops intervene and haul the baron away in handcuffs . He's an Italian impostor ! ( Does nobody check these things ? ) This is such a shock and scandal , it kills Ysabel's mother . Ysabel burns her trousseau and goes off to Father Renato's island , mostly to escape public ridicule but also to be with the handsome priest . On two separate occasions , characters in this film tell the countess : ' What a man sows , he shall also reap . ' The Danish intertitles clearly use male nouns and pronouns here , even though the words clearly refer to Ysabel . A subplot concerns a waif named Wenka , who is brutalised by her drunken father in a manner which reminded me of ' Broken Blossoms ' . . . except that the Danish intertitles are careful to tell us that he's merely her ' stiffader ' ( stepfather ) . This irrelevant detail feels suspiciously like something inserted to mollify the censors ; the abuse is somehow more acceptable if he isn't her biological parent . Interestingly , Wenka's plight is shown in flashback . Throughout the film , director Holger-Madsen uses dissolves and iris shots to strive for arty effects : some of these work better than others . During the sequence when the phony baron is courting Ysabel , we know he's no good because Holger-Madsen inserts a symbolic shot of a spider trapping a fly . Elsewhere , there's one beautiful exterior long shot , in a deep focus set-up that even Gregg Toland might envy . At the film's climax , the buildings of the priest's colony catch fire . This sequence is expertly photographed and excitingly edited , but we can clearly see that the burning buildings are actually miniatures . A subplot between two first cousins who are in love goes nowhere . ( Or is there a scene missing ? ) It's very obvious that Ysabel will find religion and marry the handsome priest , then join him in his mission . The film ends , unexpectedly , with a Nativity tableau . ' Towards the Light ' is a well-made and ambitious film on a subject which frankly didn't interest me , and I'll rate it .
This joint is jumping	" How've You Bean ? " is one of the six short Vitaphone comedies which comprise Roscoe Arbuckle's entire sound-film career . Arbuckle's sudden death occurred less than a week before this film was released . It's not the funniest of Arbuckle's talkies ( that's " Buzzin ' Around " ) , but it's not the worst of them either ( that would be " Tomalio " ) . Roscoe attends a fancy dinner party , where he accidentally spills some Mexican jumping beans into the food . ( Some amusing animation makes the beans appear to jump . ) Nobody notices the Mexican jumping beans when they eat the food , but soon all the hoity-toity rich folk are hopping up and down , and they don't know why . This is the closest Roscoe Arbuckle ever got to Three Stooges humour . ( And I'm a Stooges fan . ) Although Arbuckle is nominally the star of this short , he is teamed with a much shorter comedian ( Fritz Hubert ) who seems to be playing the Stan to Arbuckle's Ollie . " How've You Bean ? " is a silly comedy , completely implausible but still pretty funny . I'll give it . I shudder to think what Mel Brooks would do with this script . ( Let's see , now : Everybody at a party eats lots of beans , and then they all start to . . . no , never mind ! )
Hefty actress gives out-sized performance .	I viewed ' Lavinen ' ( a . k . a . ' Avalanche ' ) at the 2006 Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . This Danish silent is notable for two reasons . Firstly , it uses an elaborate flashback structure , which actually remains quite coherent despite the uninspired technique of this film's director ( Emanuel Gregers , more a workman than a craftsman ) . Secondly , in the lead role , this film features a stand-out performance by Bodil Ipsen , a leading actress of the Danish stage who performed in only four silent films . In the sound era , she had a successful career as a film director . As seen here , Ipsen was rather a hefty woman ; her large frame may have been an asset on the stage , but works against her in film . Despite this , her performance is excellent . The villain of the piece is named Asp , a monicker which provoked some laughter in the multi-national audience at the screening I attended . It's possible that this movie's Danish filmmakers were aware that ' asp ' in English is a type of venomous snake , but the name does not seem to be intended as humour . Even so , it was a poor choice . The film's narrative is not linear , so my synopsis is apt to be somewhat confusing . Ipsen plays Maria Lindorph , who lives happily enough with her husband Poul ( Jon Iversen ) and their son ( Arne Wheel ) in a provincial town . But Poul has just been appointed the state prosecutor , an honour which requires him to move to Copenhagen . . . and Maria is clearly dreading the change . Specifically , Maria is afraid that she'll cross paths with Asp ( Johannes Meyer ) , a newspaper editor who has entree to the highest levels of Danish society . We now learn ( in flashback ) Maria's sad history . After her mother's death , young Maria continued to live with her stern father ( Carl Lauritzen ) and his malicious housekeeper . On the sly , Maria was secretly trysting with handsome young student Poul Lindorph , an orphan with no prospects . When her father discovers the liaisons , he orders Maria out of his house . She and Poul make a go at housekeeping , but this proves difficult with no money . More for Poul's sake than for herself , Maria becomes Asp's mistress , solely to make enough money to enable Poul to continue his studies . When Poul graduates , Maria ends her relationship with Asp . Sure enough , at a luxury ball in Copenhagen , Maria once again meets Asp . Her beauty is still intact after all these years , and Asp is eager to pick up where they left off . . . even though he's now involved with a new mistress ( Astrid Holm ) who is younger and prettier . Maria spurns him , but this prompts Asp to threaten her with exposure ; he's quite capable of telling her husband about their shared history . Maria rushes home to her husband and son , determined to protect this family tableau . SPOILERS COMING . Soon , Asp is found murdered , and his young mistress is charged with the crime . As prosecutor , it's Poul's job to convict her . He does so , easily . But now Maria comes forward ; to save the falsely charged woman , Maria confesses that she murdered Asp to protect her husband and son . When Poul learns the truth , he forgives his wife . Happy endings all round . . . except that Poul's oath of office requires him either to charge Maria or recuse himself . For some reason , this is never mentioned . ' Lavinen ' is well made , with some lush production detail in the high-society sequences . The cast give good performances , with Ipsen especially notable . Still , this story has the feeling of soap opera , or perhaps just opera : a more trivial ' Traviata ' . Some of the problem may be due to the fact that this film depicts an older time , when people had priorities unlike ours , and a moral code quite different from today's standards . I wish that this same cast and material had been given the benefit of a more distinctive director . As it is , I'll rate ' Lavinen ' , mostly on the strength of Bodil Ipsen's performance .
Vood you like mebbe swallow a gless tea ?	Gertrude Berg starred in the extremely popular radio sitcom " The Goldbergs " , which made a successful transition to television and then to this one-off film . The appeal of " The Goldbergs " was similar to that of its contemporary " The Honeymooners " : both featured working-class character studies in 1950s New York City , although " The Goldbergs " was more broadly ethnic , and featured more plausible situations and gentler humour . " The Goldbergs " was very much beloved in its time , yet it has not lingered in the public consciousness in the same way that " The Honeymooners " has done . In 1973 , Kaye Ballard starred in a Broadway musical ( " Molly " ) based on " The Goldbergs " : it ran only two months . " The Goldbergs " was unique for its time , in that the lead actress was also the head scriptwriter and a producer of the series : a few male actors were also their own scriptwriters and producers , but Gertrude Berg was the first woman to work so effectively on both sides of a radio mike or tv camera . The film version of " The Goldbergs " plays out like a long tv episode . The Goldbergs are anticipating a visit from Alexander Abel . Years ago he was Jake's classmate , and he was engaged to Molly before she decided to marry Jake : in the interim , Alexander has become a wealthy businessman , while Jake is a partner in a garment-cutting business just barely making a profit . Jake is anxious to impress his former rival with his own success , even though it means putting up a false front . Alexander , meanwhile , has recently got himself engaged to Debby , a very pretty woman from the midwest ( Barbara Rush ) who is young enough to be his daughter . When Debby meets a handsome music teacher who is nearer her own age ( Peter Hansen ) , she feels a romantic conflict . Meanwhile , Jake has a chance to expand his business . . . but only by hocking everything he owns . Of course , it's up to Molly to set everything to rights . The director of this film , Walter Hart , is totally unknown to me , but he shows some real talent . One very poignant scene takes place entirely by matchlight . ( Actually there must have been back-up lights , but their presence is unobtrusive . ) When Rush and Hansen first kiss , the camera cuts away to show us Gertrude Berg's reaction , rather than the event itself . The humour throughout is gentle and subtle , with heavy reliance on Jewish speech patterns . . . but always plausibly and affectionately . There are a few malapropisms carried over from the broader humour of the radio version of this series , such as " I'm honoured and steamed to meet you " and " I have a grosgrain headache " . I was impressed by the brief appearance of a black maid , played by Shari Robinson : this character could easily have been depicted as a " yassuh " stereotype , but she's an entirely realistic and dignified character : a well-spoken servant , but not servile . Larry Robinson and Arlene McQuade are excellent as the Goldbergs ' two children : they don't look Jewish , but their working-class New York accents are exactly right for the characters they play here . The art direction ( by Paramount stalwarts Pereira and Bumstead ) is exactly right : the Goldberg home has furnishings precisely appropriate to the family's income level . David Opatoshu ( looking amazingly like the young Hans Conreid ) is extremely good here , as Jake Goldberg's chartered accountant who is also the Goldbergs ' neighbour across the dumbwaiter shaft . ( This film is full of 1950s artefacts such as dumbwaiters . ) Philip Loeb gives a standout performance as Jake Goldberg , especially in a tragicomic scene involving a soda-water bottle . Loeb was notoriously blacklisted after he got mentioned in ' Red Channels ' . . . Gertrude Berg straight away dropped him from ' The Goldbergs ' , and Loeb committed suicide . SLIGHT SPOILER HERE . I was extremely impressed with the ending of this film . After risking his last cent in a business deal with Abel , Jake Goldberg faces bankruptcy when Abel walks out of the deal . At the end of the film , an opportunity arises which might bring huge profits to Jake , but which more likely will merely return him to the precariously profitable situation where he started . I really dislike movies and tv shows in which a character takes some huge risk which then ( conveniently ) pays off big dividends by the end of a 30-minute episode . " The Goldbergs " was a very realistic series . I'll rate this movie version : I would make it 8 , if not for the extremely bad sound recording .
That clown leaves big shoes to fill .	I saw the 1926 film ' Klovnen ' ( ' The Clown ' ) in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . I'm always intrigued when a director decides to remake one of his ( or her ) own films : there are so many different stories to tell , why would anyone want to tell the same story twice ? If the story was no good the first time , why have another go at it ? Conversely , if it DID work the first time , why try to improve it ? The Sacile festival screened a Danish Film Institute print with Danish and English intertitles on the same title cards . Oddly , the two sets of titles consistently contradict each other ! The film's name in English is ' The Golden Clown ' : the Danish version has no adjective . A shot of roustabouts erecting the circus tent is captioned ' All hands to the poles ' in the English title , but the Danish title says ' All the world must work . ' In another title card , the English text says that Joe Higgins is performing at a benefit for an orphanage , whilst the Danish text says he's performing for an audience of 3 , 000 children ( and doesn't mention an orphanage ) . Most bizarrely , the clinic in the final reel of this movie has two different names and two different addresses : one for each language ! A few people out there on the Internet have challenged the accuracy of my film synopses : I hope they realise that movies like this one , with its self-contradicting titles , don't make it easy for me . ' The Clown ' , directed and co-written by A . W . Sandberg , is a remake of a 1917 film , also titled ' Klovnen ' , written and directed by Sandberg . I haven't seen the 1917 version ( yet ) , but it was a box-office success on its original release . Apparently , Sandberg's decision to remake a perfectly good film was down to his having acquired a much bigger production budget , and therefore being able to retell this story more elaborately . Evidently he succeeded : the 1926 ' Klovnen ' was Nordisk Studio's most lucrative release of the 1920s . The following synopsis refers only to the 1926 film , not the earlier version . Joe Higgins is the star clown in the troupe of Cirque Bunding , but this isn't saying much since the troupe is a very minor one ; they tour villages in northern France . In his clown act , Joe sings comic songs ( a strange story decision for a character in a silent film ) . Joe marries Daisy , Bunding's attractive equestrienne daughter . Soon afterward , Joe is engaged as the star turn in a Paris variety hall ; he and Daisy leave the circus for an improbably opulent domestic life in Paris . However , Joe is now spending nearly all of his time on his act , leaving Daisy neglected . Along comes Marcel : a slick lounge lizard and couturier , who swiftly seduces Daisy and persuades her to leave Joe for him . Years pass . With no money and no prospects , Daisy decides to humble herself by going back to Joe and pleading for his forgiveness . But instead of finding her husband , she finds her own father . Angry and humiliated that his daughter has dishonoured him , Bunding refuses to forgive her and he orders her out of his sight . SPOILERS NOW . Utterly desperate , Daisy drowns herself in the Seine . But she has a daughter tucked away in the last reel . Meanwhile , Joe is pining away for his beloved Daisy . The grieving clown is no longer funny ; he loses his job , and his act deteriorates until he's back to sawdust gigs with a provincial circus . By a convenient fluke , he discovers Daisy's daughter , who is also HIS daughter : Daisy was pregnant when she left him , and Marcel has ( surprisingly ) paid for the child's upkeep until recently . Father and daughter face the future together , with hope . In the lead role , Gösta Ekman gives a subtly nuanced performance as Joe , and he's especially impressive during his comedy sequences as a music-hall clown . . . despite one weird sequence in which his whiteface slap includes a ' beauty spot ' and one eyebrow , and he swanks across the stage in metallic jodhpurs ! ' Klovnen ' benefits from some location footage shot in Paris , deftly edited into exterior footage shot in Denmark . A neon sign advertising Joe's name is cleverly matted into authentic shots of the Paris skyline . A considerable degree of expertise went into the making of this film , on both sides of the camera : although I felt that Bunding was wrong-headed to disown his daughter , elderly character actor Maurice de Féraudy is sure-footed in his portrayal of this role . He even turns a cartwheel in one scene ! Elsewhere , there are plenty of cloche hats and elaborate 1920s fashions . Oddly , although Marcel is a suave dress designer with a handsome assistant ( who accompanies him to the theatre ) , he seems to be very much heterosexual , and nobody in this movie seems surprised by that . Times have changed . This film might have been more plausible with a LOWER production budget . When Joe becomes a music-hall star , he and Daisy and her parents move into an impossibly posh upper-storey suite with a butler , concierge , page and maid . We see several shots of an ornate lift cage beside a staircase . . . so I knew that two characters would narrowly miss each other at a crucial moment , with one on the stairs and one in the lift . Sure enough . I wish that all this talent , labour and expense had gone into making a more upbeat and less misogynist story . My rating of ' Klovnen ' : just .
Impressive but outdated .	Lee Blessing's two-hander ' A Walk in the Woods ' is fiction , but based on a true incident from the last years of the Cold War . During the 1982 Geneva peace negotiations , American delegate Paul Nitze would occasionally stroll through the nearby forest between negotiation sessions . During one of these walks , he encountered Yuli Kvitsinsky , a member of the Soviet delegation . ( I'm slightly surprised that these men were able to meet surreptitiously , without security agents from both sides tailing them . ) In an informal setting away from bureaucratic protocol , these two men of good will were able to discuss nuclear brinkmanship ( and possible solutions ) far more honestly than they were able to do at the negotiating table . Before viewing this television production , I first saw ' A Walk in the Woods ' onstage at the Booth Theatre in New York City . The theatre was filled with rich American liberals who were clearly hostile to their own nation's government , and receptive to the Soviet viewpoint . ( So why don't they move there , then ? ) Nearly every line spoken by Botvinnik ( the fictional Russian character ) received laughter or applause , while Honeyman ( the American character ) clearly had an uphill battle to engage the audience's sympathies . Why does this foolish American insist on protecting his nation's interests ? Doesn't he realise that , in order to attain international peace , America must drop its defences and trust the Soviets ? On the other hand , the wise old Soviet delegate is absolutely right to keep his guard up and protect his own nation's interests : that's his job , after all . I seethed in rage as the above double standard unfolded on the stage in front of me , to the smug approval of the audience all round me . My memories of the stage play were so painful that I almost didn't watch this television version . In the event , I'm glad that I did . Here is the same Broadway cast ( Prosky and Waterston , both excellent ) , but with a different director . . . and the television format enables me to watch the drama in solitude , without wallowing in the limousine-liberal pieties of a Broadway audience . It was almost an entirely new show ! As performed here , the two roles are more evenly balanced than in the stage version , with Sam Waterston's protagonist sharing our sympathy . The fictional John Honeyman , to his credit , is obsessed with obtaining international peace . His Soviet counterpart is more interested in details of American culture ( such as Willie Nelson ) and eyedrops for his own medical condition . Andrey Botvinnik isn't worried : he realises that his job as a Soviet bureaucrat is a lifetime sinecure , whereas Honeyman is in danger of losing his job with the next U . S . election . After comparing the stage and tele-productions , I now wonder if perhaps Lee Blessing did intentionally skew our sympathies towards the Russian character . In the real-life situation which inspired this play , Paul Nitze was significantly older than Yuli Kvitsinsky : wiser , more experienced in diplomacy . Blessing has intentionally reversed the characters ' ages , making the Russian the calmer and cooler diplomat , and the American impetuous and excitable . In real life , I'm pleased that the United States won the Cold War . ' A Walk in the Woods ' is enjoyable and well-staged , but it can only be regarded as a period piece . Events have overtaken this play : now , we have less cause to worry about the Soviet bloc , and far more cause to worry about Jihadists who lurk in the dark . May America prevail against that madness . I'll rate ' A Walk in the Woods ' .
Can you Adam and Eve it ?	' Fig Leaves ' is a clever marital comedy , starring the rugged George O'Brien and the very sensual Olive Borden . In the prologue , they play Adam and Eve , got up in caveman cozzies . They've been invited to a fight between Cain and Abel , but Eve demurs . ' How can I go , Adam ? ' she asks her husband . ' I've nothing to wear ! ' Fade in 6 , 000 years later . ( That's the film's chronology , not mine . ) O'Brien and Borden are now a modern prole couple , plumber Adam Smith ( shouldn't he be an economist ? ) and his wife Eve . Their home is not the Garden of Eden , but a walk-up flat . The neighbour across the hall is Alice Atkins , whom an intertitle identifies as the modern serpent in Adam's and Eve's paradise . To stir up trouble , Alice suggests to Eve that she should get her husband to buy her some new clothes . Eve wants a new hat , but Adam tells her he can't afford it . Through a series of contrived events , Eve lands up getting a job as a model for couturier André ( a very swishy performance by the hilarious André de Beranger ) . He gets her pinned up in an outfit which I found very impressive : it manages to be fussily elaborate ( providing a running sight gag ) while at the same go it's spare enough to reveal ample portions of Olive Borden's delightful physique . A title card admits the contradiction : ' With some women , clothes are next to godliness . And with others , next to nothing . ' SPOILERS COMING . Adam has had a change of heart . He decides to buy his wife a fur coat from the poshest boutique in town . He walks into André's emporium , and is scandalised when he discovers that the half-naked mannequin is his own wife . They quarrel , but of course they make up . Adam offers to take his wife to a show . This time , we know what her reply will be : ' I've got nothing to wear ! ' ' Fig Leaves ' is bright and cheeky , and Olive Borden is always a pleasure to look at . Heinie Conklin supplies splendid low comedy as O'Brien's assistant ( a plumber's helper ) . I'll rate this pleasant froth .
Oh boy , does she cover the waterfront !	I saw ' The Carmen of Saint Pauli ' in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone , Italy . The festival screened a print from the archive of the Cinémathèque Royale in Brussels with the original German intertitles . This silent film , made in late 1928 , had the bad luck to be released when it was clear that talkies were taking over : the film attracted little attention at its release , and languished in obscurity for decades . It's hardly a lost classic , but the movie has sufficient merit that it likely would have succeeded if it had been made and released as little as two years earlier . Saint Pauli is the waterfront district of Hamburg , and was ( at this time ) also its red-light district : remember this the next time you get a thirst for a St Pauli Girl ! The film's title is more misleading than it needs to be : Jenny Hummel is the ' Carmen ' in this movie , but her character only vaguely parallels the heroine of Bizet's opera . She comes nearer to Carmen Jones in the Oscar Hammerstein version . Klaus Brandt is an honest shipmaster , in command of the Alexandria . He is seduced by Jenny , the leader of a gang of thieves and smugglers . The crooks have picturesque nicknames such as ' The Doctor ' and ' Tne Nipper ' . Jenny has a nominally honest job in a local beer-hall as a front for her criminal activities . She entices Klaus to visit her at the beer-hall one night , causing him ( rather stupidly , I thought ) to leave his ship unguarded . ( Is there no supercargo ? ) While Klaus is with Jenny , her men loot the ship . As a result of this , Klaus's employer Rasmussen sacks him , and Klaus is now considered unemployable by any of the Hamburg shipping firms . He decides to ship out as a crewman on an Australian vessel , but he is so besotted with Jenny that he gets a job at her beer-hall instead . From this point , the film moves into Emil Jannings territory - - specifically , ' The Blue Angel ' - - with the virtuous Klaus gradually sinking into the much less virtuous milieu of St Pauli in general and Jenny's bar in particular . Eventually a murder is committed , and Klaus is framed for it . SPOILERS COMING . Just when Jenny has started to rub off on Klaus , the rubbing goes the other way : Klaus's deep moral virtue ( how did he ever become a shipmaster ? ) rubs off on Jenny . She finds the real murderer , clears Klaus and decides to reform herself so they can start a new life together . Oh , yes . The terrible economy in Germany at this time ( 1928 ) led a lot of Germans into criminal activity just to stay alive , so I found Jenny's reformation rather contrived and simplistic . Although the interior scenes in this movie were shot in Berlin ( at the Neubabelsberg studio ) , the exterior sequences were filmed on Hamburg's waterfront and in the real Saint Pauli : that stark gritty realism greatly enhances the early scenes of this movie , but this same realism makes Jenny's ultimate reformation seem that much more contrived and unlikely . Fritz Rasp is excellent as one of Jenny's henchmen . My rating for this movie is .
Wind chimes in the toilet	This short film's title would translate in English as ' The Ordeal of the Dragon ; or , The Tragedy of the Underboarders ' . Actually , there's no such word as ' Underboarders ' , but it's a valid concept . In the days when boarding-houses were commonplace , there was always a hierarchy among the boarders in a rooming house . Many such establishments had a ' star boarder ' who was favoured by the landlady : a boarder who received preferential treatment and superior accommodations . ( Usually , this boarder had more income than the other tenants , and paid his rent promptly . ) The less prestigious boarders were usually the transient ones , who had less income , who were not always timely with the rent , and who consequently received less hospitable treatment from the landlady . A good example of this is in the movie ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' . During the early scenes , when the Cohan family are still struggling in vaudeville , we see them in a theatrical rooming-house where they are behind on the rent . The landlady instructs the maid to keep the Cohans seated at the far end of the dining table , where they will only be served noodles and syrup while the other boarders get a better meal . ' The Ordeal of the Dragon ' is a short comedy , filmed in a slightly expressionist manner : not nearly so exaggerated as ' The Cabinet of Dr Caligari ' , but closer to the style of King Vidor's ' The Fountainhead ' or the original ' Invaders from Mars ' . The impressive camera set-ups intentionally give a slight overemphasis to individual elements in the frame , heightening the humour . CONTAINS SPOILERS : Felix Bressart plays a meek clerk who lives in an upstairs room of a boarding-house ruled by a termagant landlady . His room is furnished , but the furniture is kept under dustcovers which he is forbidden to remove . The entire house is equipped with wind chimes , so that the landlady downstairs can constantly monitor his movements . There are even wind chimes above the toilet ! Smoking is forbidden , so Felix the underboarder keeps a pipe and a tobacco pouch hidden ( like the booze in ' The Lost Weekend ' ) , and he smokes on the sly , carefully blowing the smoke out the window . The landlady finds him out anyway , and she charges him the price of having the curtains cleaned . Eventually , the boarder is goaded past the breaking point . He kills his landlady , and is arrested for her murder . The verdict is : Not guilty . ' We have all lived in that dragon's house , ' says the judge . It's not clear whether the judge's line is literal or figurative . Does he mean that everyone in this courtroom has boarded with that landlady , or does he mean that all of humanity have lived in extreme situations where homicide is justifiable ? The title's use of the plural ( ' underboarders ' ) seems to favour the latter explanation . Still , considering the situation in Germany at the time when this film was made , several symbolic interpretations are possible . Felix Bressart was one of the many European film figures ( most of them Jewish ) who fled Nazism and ended up in Hollywood . The dragon-tempered landlady in this brief and amusing film is played by Hedwig Wangel , a formidable actress of unattractive mien , who joined the Nazi party and continued to make films in Germany during the Reich . Fortunately , this particular dragon was slain . I'll rate ' Ordeal of the Dragon ' for its excellent direction and several amusing camera set-ups .
Can't a Menshevik be a mensch ?	I'm not as fluent in Russian as I'd like to be , so a Russian friend suggested that I hone my limited skills by watching this movie : the characters ' actions are simple and clear ( and the plot is quite funny ) even though I had difficulty following the Russian dialogue . I wasn't surprised to learn that ' Wedding in Malinovka ' is based on an operetta : the behaviour of the characters in this comedy is certainly operatic . I viewed a print with German subtitles ( ' Hochzeit In Malinowka ' ) , but I avoided reading them in order to see if I could decipher the Russian dialogue . The film takes place during Russia's civil war between the Reds ( Bolsheviks ) and the Whites ( Mensheviks ) . Andrejka and Yarinka are a young betrothed couple in the village of Malinovka , caught between the battle lines . Gritsian is the leader of a Menshevik band who are planning to attack the village . Yarinka ( played by Valentina Lysenko , quite pretty ) appeals to the local Bolshevik commander for his faction's help . The Bolsheviks quickly come up with a plan to save the village . . . but the plan requires Yarinka to enter into a pretend marriage with Gritsian . The action climaxes in a drunken wedding feast . There's a lot of singing and dancing here , most of it extraneous to the plot . I was quite surprised that this low-budget musical comedy reminded me of the very high-budget musical drama ' West Side Story ' . In the latter film , the rival gangs clash more or less as equals but the audience are encouraged to identify with the Jets as the ' good ' gang whilst perceiving the Sharks as foreign interlopers : the ' evil ' gang . ' Wedding in Malinovka ' was made by the Soviets , so naturally it depicts the Red army as courageous freedom fighters whilst showing the White army as drunken bandits and hooligans who use revolution as a mere pretence for looting and mayhem . From an objective viewpoint , the Bolsheviks and Mensheviks were pretty much moral equivalents . . . but the Bolsheviks just happened to win the struggle between factions . I was offended by this film's politics . . . but not surprised by them , under the circumstances . The film is well-made on its low budget ( though somewhat high by Soviet standards ) , and I laughed out loud several times . My rating for this one : .
Of mice and men ; Michael Landon gets on his bike .	This very weird yet very enjoyable ( and family-appropriate ) musical special is essentially an infomercial for the Disney empire in general and EPCOT Centre in particular . It pretends to be a retrospective of Walt Disney's life and achievements , yet there are constant references to the Disney corporation's latest biggest newest enterprises ( especially EPCOT ) , and the whole thing has the air of a sales pitch rather than pure entertainment . Fortunately , Walt Disney's very real sense of showmanship has been retained by his corporate successors , and this infomercial is still quite enjoyable on several different levels , so that kids and adults will have a good time watching it . Various celebrities ( some of whom worked with Disney , most of whom didn't ) take it in turns to narrate different phases of Disney's life , punctuated by some very pleasant original songs . Although Walt Disney was born in Chicago , he and his family spent his formative years in the small town of Marceline , Missouri . This musical special asserts that everything Walt Disney ever became had its seeds in his small-town boyhood . This is the cue for Michael Landon to ride a bicycle through a very unconvincing set , representing a small town , while he sings a very enjoyable song : " Marceline . . . all roads lead back to Marceline . . . " . I always enjoy watching Dick Van Dyke , especially when he's performing a song-and-dance turn . Here , he leads a bunch of dancers through a very energetic number called " We Can Do It " that isn't especially good , but he gives it some solid professionalism . We also see a couple of half-hearted dramatisations of incidents from Disney's childhood . Unfortunately , Carl Reiner has been lumbered with some incredibly bad material here . While the narrators are ticking off Disney's various productions , the camera keeps cutting back to a POV shot of Reiner sitting behind a desk , brandishing a cigar . Reiner is apparently portraying some sort of Hollywood banker-cum - " expert " , who keeps talking directly to the camera ( as if it were the unseen Walt Disney ) and gleefully predicting that Walt's latest endeavour can't possibly succeed . Walt wants to make a movie about MICE ? Reiner gleefully says it can't possibly make money . ( But it does ; cut back to Reiner looking dumbfounded . ) Next round : Walt wants to make a movie about DWARFS ? Reiner gleefully predicts it can't possibly make money . ( But it does ; cut back to Reiner looking dumbfounded . ) Eventually , they vary this formula slightly . When Walt Disney wants to make his experimental movie ' Fantasia ' , Reiner once again predicts that it will lose money . . . and this time he's right ; as this special freely admits , ' Fantasia ' was a box-office flop on its original release . Cue a close-up of Reiner smugly saying " Told ya ! " . But then Dick Van Dyke informs us that , upon re-release , " Fantasia " has made back its original costs many times over . ( He neglects to mention that this was after " Fantasia " became a cult-movie hit for pot-smoking hippies back in the 1960s . ) It would have been nice if this special had squarely addressed - - and denied - - some of the bizarre rumours about Walt Disney and his empire , such as the ( untrue ) urban legend that Disney's corpse is frozen someplace , to be thawed out eventually . This special also serves the useful purpose of proving that Michael Landon and Mac Davis aren't really the same person . My rating : , but this special is unlikely to teach you anything about Walt Disney that you didn't already know .
Depressing , shocking , yet uplifting and empowering .	I attended the press screening for ' Very Young Girls ' in New York City . . . where this documentary was filmed , although it addresses a problem hardly unique to that city : child prostitution . According to a statement at the start of this film , the AVERAGE age when children enter prostitution is 13 . . . which means that half of them are younger ! Two punks named Anthony and Chris Griffith ( bruthahs from " the hood " ) decided to get rich by forcing very young girls to streetwalk for them , and also shooting home-movie footage of the girls plying this trade . The Griffiths planned to increase their wealth and fame by creating a cable-TV programme based on this footage . While holding my nose , I must endorse one aspect of this scheme : I have no doubt that the cable-TV companies would eagerly beat a path to the Griffiths ' address . Fortunately , their current address is a prison . ( More about this later . ) Some of their video footage shows up in this documentary : grinning smugly , the Griffiths cheerfully admit that they consider the girls to be mere merchandise , the property of the Griffiths as pimps . The girls seen here are all New York City teens , some of them VERY young teens , and most of them African-American . Although they all fell into the Griffiths ' clutches , they also had the good luck to cross paths with Rachel Lloyd , founder of Girls ' Educational and Mentoring Services ( and also co-exec producer of this documentary ) . GEMS are an outreach group dedicated to rescuing young women from the sex industry , and stabilising their lives . We meet individual girls , telling their stories before , during and after prostitution . It's no surprise that some of them had absent or abusive fathers : often , the leering attention they received from the Griffiths was the nearest they'd ever experienced to male affection . The Griffiths bait their trap with sweet talk and presents , getting the girls hooked on drugs ( and therefore dependent ) , then terrorising them to make sure they obey . We see a brief clip of a ' john class ' . Men arrested for patronising prostitutes in New York City , if they have no previous record , have the opportunity to clean their records if they attend a lecture on the dangers of prostitution . The johns we see here are clearly merely going through the motions : one man arrogantly asks when they can take a break . Two of the men seen here wear Jewish regalia ( one Hasidic ) , and I'm sure there are a few church-going Christians in the pew , too . Pyew ! As these former prostitutes regain their humanity , they also discover their individuality . One GEMS alumna gets an office job , another becomes a GEMS counsellor . Another one gets married in a Pentecostal wedding . Sadly , at least one goes back to her old tricks . Another vanishes without a trace . I found most of this movie chillingly realistic . Only one sequence seemed staged : a mother has spent months trying to locate her teen daughter , without a single clue ; the documentary camera is conveniently present when she finally gets the crucial phone call . The image and sound editing are inconsistent : some curse words are bleeped , others left audible . Some people's faces are digitally blurred in odd ways ( noses and mouths obscured but eyes intact ) , and the people so favoured aren't always the ones you'd expect : why is a bailiff in a court case blurred out , since he's doing his honest job efficiently , and he has no reason to conceal his identity ? Due to poor audio recording ( especially in the Griffiths ' footage ) and the terrible diction of many participants , several sequences are given much-needed subtitles . . . but other sequences need this device yet don't receive it . Speaking of diction : Rachel Lloyd ( a British-born survivor of sexual abuse in her teen years ) is a charismatic advocate for her cause , but she has one of the most bizarre speech patterns I've ever encountered . . . a prole Noo Yawk accent interlaced with London working-class inflexions . Here , we see her graciously accepting an award on behalf of GEMS while denouncing the industry that gave an Academy Award to the song " It's Hard Out Here for a Pimp " . Elsewhere , Ms Young points out a cruel irony : these girls are legally below the age of consent and therefore cannot legally agree to have sexual intercourse , yet they are arrested for prostitution . The Griffiths were ultimately convicted , and their own amateur footage was used as evidence against them . Yet , oddly , they were only nicked on a variant of the Mann Act , transporting a prostitute across state lines . This is something I've never understood about U . S . law : why is a felony across state lines considered so much worse than a felony that stays put ? With this movie's title and subject matter , some people will want to see ' Very Young Girls ' for prurient reasons . As far as that goes , there are only a few brief shots on offer here of streetwalkers , faces obscured , in the early stages of negotiation with customers . I would describe ' Very Young Girls ' as honest , except for one strange omission : nowhere in this documentary is there any mention of Aids or other sexually-transmitted diseases . As a crudely-made but sincere documentary that addresses a real problem , I'll rate ' Very Young Girls ' .
Beware of German robots !	Wow ! I saw ' Rivals ' last month at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone , Italy ; they screened a print from the Bundesarchiv in Berlin . ' Rivals ' is the work of Harry Piel , a semi-handsome German who wrote and directed movies as star vehicles for himself , usually playing a dashing action hero . In ' Rivals ' , to make sure we remember the name of the actor cast in the lead role ( Harry Piel ) , the hero is named Harry Peel . So that's sorted , then . Since I write science-fiction stories myself , I'm very intrigued that many of Piel's films are early examples of science-fiction cinema , with a strong emphasis on gadgetry as well as thrills . ' Rivals ' has very much the feel of an American sci-fi movie serial . This is all by the numbers . Professor Ravello ( Adolf Klein ) is the brilliant but evil scientist who aspires to ( dare I say it ? ) rule the world . He also schemes to seduce and traduce the fair Evelyn ( Inge Helgard ) . Ravello is assisted by his robot , which looks like a German cousin of the Tin Woodman . ( The robot is identified as an ' automaton ' in the title cards . ) Even though this is a silent movie , I could hear the robot clanking . There's obviously an actor ( or a stuntman ) inside that galvanised robot costume , but please don't ask me who plays the robot : I didn't see a performer's name listed in the credits . Harry Peel ( Piel ) , of course , is our intrepid hero who risks his own life and limbs to foil Ravello and the robot and rescue Evelyn . Along the way , there are no end of ' Perils of Pauline ' adventures designed more for thrills than for logic . Piel ( or Peel ) seems to be auditioning for Houdini's job here ; he constantly escapes from Ravello's nefarious traps , including at one point an underwater cage made of glass ( ! ) . We get the usual lapses of logic . Ravello repeatedly captures Peel , but - - rather than simply killing him - - chucks him into some Heath Robinson contraption which is meant to kill Peel slowly and painfully , but merely gives actor Piel yet one more opportunity to stage an elaborate escape . Some of the stunts here are very obviously faked , but others are impressively real . At one point , a car drives off a bridge into a river . . . and doesn't come up again . This sequence is clearly genuine , and is better for the obvious lack of trickery . I've never been a huge fan of cliffhanger serials , since I tend to get hung up over the gaps in their logic rather than mindlessly enjoying the stunts . ' Rivals ' has the same problem as those serials : it's a thrilling adventure if you're willing to forget common sense and plausibility , but not otherwise . My rating for this one : .
Terrific Tom Tully , but Sylvia stinks	Tom Tully is one of the best examples - possibly the best example - of a Hollywood character actor who played prominent supporting roles in many films yet who remains unknown to audiences ( even movie-trivia buffs ) because he consistently gave understated and subtle performances , refusing to throw a film's storyline off-centre by calling attention to himself . In ' Behind the High Wall ' , Tully gets a rare chance in a leading role , and he proves himself an actor of great talent and range . Unfortunately , his leading lady here is one of my least favourite actresses : Sylvia Sidney ( snaggled of tooth , bulbous of lips , coarse of accent ) . Tully plays Frank Carmichael , a prison governor with money problems and a crippled wife ( Sidney , not crippled enough to suit me ) . Some inmates , who have accomplices and money waiting for them on the out , organise an escape . . . killing a cellblock warder in the process . They take along two hostages : Carmichael and Hutchins , an inmate who wants to go straight . Once they're on the out , the escapees join up with accomplices who have $100 , 000 in hot swag . A convenient road accident kills everyone except Carmichael and Hutchins . As the loot can't be traced to Carmichael , he decides to keep it , pinning the warder's murder on Hutchins to get him out of the way . But then of course there are complications . . . Sylvia Sidney's role here is too similar to her role in ' Fury ' , a much better movie than this one . In both films , she forces the protagonist to stay honest when I wanted him to benefit from a circumstance of chance that worked illegally in his favour . I have a lot of problems with Sylvia Sidney : I've never liked her in any performance of hers I've ever seen . Yet my all-time favourite director ( Fritz Lang ) cast her in the lead roles in his first three American films , so he must have seen some merit in her . Damned if I can find it , though . Shortly after Sylvia Sidney's death , a tribute for her was held at the Players Club in Gramercy Park , New York City ( she had lived there on the club's charity , with her yapping little pug dogs ) . I covered this event as a reporter . One after another , dozens of celebrities related anecdotes about Sidney , but each of those stories boiled down to one of three punchlines : Sylvia wanted some booze , Sylvia said a dirty word , or Sylvia was rude to somebody who didn't deserve it . If you changed the booze to drugs , any of those stories could have been told about John Belushi . The difference was , all the blue-haired dowagers in the Players Club - who laughed merrily at these stories of Sylvia Sidney boozing , cursing and insulting people - would have been profoundly offended by these exact same stories if they had been attributed to John Belushi . In the key role as Carmichael's fall guy , John Gavin gives a good performance but is miscast . Gavin is so superhumanly handsome , he isn't believable as a small-time criminal . There are fine performances here ( in small roles ) by Don Beddoe , Ed Kemmer , John Larch , Peter Leeds and satchel-mouthed Barney Phillips . Tom Tully is a revelation , and deserves to be better known . I was annoyed that all the actors kept using the American pronunciation of the name ' Carmichael ' , with the accent on the wrong syllable , but that's to be expected in a Yank movie . I'll rate ' Behind the High Wall ' . I might have rated it higher if Sylvia Sidney's lips didn't enter the room five seconds ahead of the rest of her body .
A midget with an over-sized harmonica .	' Lazy Bones ' is one of a series of shorts produced by the Fleischer studio which followed an interesting format : some typical Fleischer black-and-white animation ( cartoon gags with a musical soundtrack ) would book-end a live-action musical performance by some popular vaudeville act of the time . Generally , the title of the short was also the title of the tune sung by the performer . In ' Lazy Bones ' , we get some indifferent cartoon gags featuring a slow-coach racehorse . Much more interesting is the live-action sequence , featuring Borrah Minevitch and his musical cohorts . . . one of whom is a midget , and all of whom dress like racetrack touts , in jackets with windowpane checks and other loud patterns . ( They resemble Spike Jones and his City Slickers . ) Minevitch and his buddies perform the song ' Lazy Bones ' on an elaborate set of harmonicas , some of which are quite large and have multiple octave ranges . After this performance , the cartoon returns for a weak wind-up . Apparently there was some sort of legal problem with the live-action sequences in Fleischer's series : on several occasions in recent years , these shorts have resurfaced with the live-action sequences chopped out ; the cartoon builds up to the entrance of a performer who never arrives ! This is a real shame , as the performers in Fleischer's series often did very little other film work , so their performances here are of historical value . I'll rate ' Lazy Bones ' .
Don't Chase me , Charley .	Charley Chase's films were highly variable . I'm always willing to watch a Chase movie I haven't seen before - - hoping it's one of his better ones - - but I'm not enough of a Chase fan to seek out his work . Usually , Chase tends to impress me intellectually with his professionalism rather than provoking me to laughter . However , ' Crazy Like a Fox ' had me laughing several times . It's not as funny as Chase's classic ' Mighty Like a Moose ' , but it's definitely well above Chase's average . Charley's character here is not named , although his unseen father is named John J Wilson . Charley and Martha Sleeper have never met , but their respective fathers have betrothed them in an arranged marriage . ( Does such a thing happen among native-born Americans ? ) By coincidence , Charley and Martha meet without either knowing whom the other is ; they fall in love , and Charley tries to get out of his engagement to his unseen fiancée so that he can marry Martha . . . all unaware that they're the same woman . Now , here's where it gets so contrived that it's not very funny : Charley tries to break his engagement by feigning insanity . That's unlikely enough , but it becomes even unlikelier when he establishes that he can be temporarily restored to sanity whenever someone blows a whistle . It's hard enough to believe that anyone would create such a ruse in the first place ; why would he compromise his own ruse by allowing other people to control it ? Every time Charley starts his loony routine , he has to stop it when someone blows a whistle . Oliver Hardy ( pre-Stan Laurel ) shows up briefly in what would later be his " Ollie " bowler , but without his moustache . The family's black butler is played by white actor Max Asher in highly unconvincing blackface make-up . Since Asher was often typecast in Jewish or " Dutch " ( German ) roles , it's intriguing to see him here impersonating a black man . . . intriguing , but not funny . I laughed during a routine in which Charley shams insanity while he sports a wiggling cockade on top of his head . The cockade's movements complement his facial pantomime as Charley registers several different emotions in a single shot . Hilarious ! Unfortunately , there's far too little of this sort of thing in ' Crazy Like a Fox ' . I'll rate this , which is higher than I'd rate most of Chase's output .
When Hell gets boring , head for Paris .	IMDb's title for this French comedy translates as ' The Son of the Devil Spends the Night in Paris ' . I saw this film in July 1996 at the Cinema Ritrovato festival in Bologna ; they screened a print with a French title which translated merely as ' The Son of the Devil in Paris ' . The Bologna print was restored from two separate sources : an original French monochrome nitrate print , and an Italian print which had been released with hand tinting . The film's screenplay is credited to Hugues Laurent . The running time of this print was 15 minutes . This short movie's chief appeal to me is the fact that it stars Andre Deed , who is the earliest known ( and probably the very first ) film comedian in the modern sense of an actor who repeats the same comic role in a series of films , relying on audience familiarity to build his appeal . Deed typically portrayed a generic simpleton , billed by various names in the different countries where his very popular comedies were exhibited : Cretinetti in Italy , Foolshead in Britain , and so forth . Here , Deed steps out of his usual characterisation to play the upstart son of Beelzebub himself . One might assume that the Devil's own son would never be bored , but - - as played here by Deed - - he is very bored indeed . Perhaps he's merely waiting to take over the family business . At any rate , when a devil is bored with the pleasures of Hell , there's only one place that can entertain him : oui oui , Paree ! Our junior devil sets off for the City of Lights , where he dallies with a peasant girl . This very early and very crude comedy doesn't stand up to much analysis , but even so I found myself wondering about a few things while I was watching it . For instance : why is Deed's character explicitly identified as the Devil's son rather than the Devil himself ? French cinema audiences clearly had no objection to seeing the Devil portrayed on screen , as Georges Melies's films ( from this same period ) prove . Also , the unbilled actress who plays Deed's dalliance here is plainly portraying a peasant girl from the provinces rather than a Parisienne , so why did the junior devil bother going to Paris instead of , say , the Languedoc region ? It would be unfair of me to compare this crude comedy to the more sophisticated films made even a decade later . On its own merits , compared to other movies being made at the time , I'll rate this slapdash comedy .
Very much of its time	' In Again , Out Again ' was Douglas Fairbanks's first film for his own production company ( Artcraft ) but it finds him doing pretty much the same comedy he was doing for other producers : contrived slapstick , with set-piece occasions to show off his athletic prowess . Front-rank stardom would not come for Fairbanks until he learnt to soft-pedal the comedy in favour of swashbuckling . Here we have a 1917 comedy that's very much in tune with the politics of its time . Fairbanks's character is named Teddy Rutherford , and he shares the jingo expansionist politics of Teddy Roosevelt , with a dash of Rutherford Hayes . Unfortunately , he comes up against a family of pacifists cried Jennings . An insert shot of the centrepiece in their home - - a very large photo of William Jennings Bryan , with much smaller portraits of Lincoln and Washington - - told audiences in 1917 all they needed to know about this clan's sympathies . The cleverest character name in the film is that worn by the burglar played by Bull Montana . His calling card ( burglars have calling cards ? ) identifies him as Quentin Auburn , a clever play on the names of two Stateside prisons . There's also a good joke about Sing Sing . Sadly , the leading lady in this comedy is Arline Pretty , whom I've never found particularly pretty nor appealing in any other way . I was astonished by one sequence in which Fairbanks goes to his local dispensary ( drugstore ) and asks the chemist for a shot of rye whisky . This lurk was common in the USA during Prohibition , when druggists were the only people legally allowed to dispense alcoholic drinks ( for prescription only ) . But this film was released in 1917 , a couple of years BEFORE the Volstead Act . When did American druggists start selling ' snake-bite ' medication ? I'll rate ' In Again , Out Again ' : its biggest appeal will be for Fairbanks fans .
Elaborate fakery with authentic " book-end " footage	The earliest ' newsreel ' films were in fact fakes : re-enactments produced in a studio , with ( usually amateur ) actors impersonating the public figures , and often ludicrously bad stage effects to simulate fire , flood and other forces of nature . ' The Coronation of Edward VII ' is one more such fake , but is notable for being a much more elaborate production than others of its kind . . . and is also notable because it's a ' pre-enactment ' of a real event , having been filmed BEFORE ( rather than after ) the actual event it purports to depict . The synopsis of this movie ( elsewhere on this IMDb site ) is both an accurate rundown of the film and also an accurate recounting of the coronation ceremony itself , being so heavily ritualised as to be more or less scripted . However , the fakery is obvious to modern viewers and was probably obvious even to unsophisticated film audiences of the time . ' Westminster Abbey ' , as seen here under the harsh and flat studio lighting , is clearly a painted set . The actors cast as H . M . Edward VII and his consort Queen Alexandra - - amateurs supposedly chosen for their physical resemblance to the real figures - - are obvious fakes . The actor playing the king is too thin , and his beard is too small ( the real Edward VII , after decades of soft living , was quite heavy-set indeed when he finally succeeded to the throne ) . The actress playing Queen Alexandra looks nothing like her , and is too heavy . Worse luck , the ( fake ) Archbishop of Canterbury and the other priests are garbed in robes which look more appropriate for a French Catholic mass than for an Anglican service . Filmmaker Georges Melies and his ( American-born ) British producer Charles Urban made considerable effort to have this film shot , edited , printed and shipped to exhibitors in time for Coronation Day , so that audiences who couldn't watch the actual event would be able to witness this enactment simultaneous to the actual coronation ! On Coronation Day , Urban set up a Bell & Howell camera outside Westminster Abbey and shot authentic footage of the royal carriage arriving for the coronation and departing afterward . This footage - - genuine newsreel - - became book-ends , spliced before and after Melies's faked footage of the coronation . So , audiences who saw this film after Coronation Day were at least able to witness some authentic footage at the beginning and the end . More for the effort and ingenuity put into it than any historic value , I'll rate this movie .
Edna May Oliver wants a good time .	In the late silent-film era , Richard Dix played virile young men in a successful series of comedies . In the early sound era , he gracefully matured into dramatic roles . ' Let's Get Married ' is somewhat atypical for Dix , as he plays a character who is less sympathetic than usual , and who must earn the audience's sympathy . Dix plays Bill Dexter , the spoilt playboy son of a wealthy publisher . Bill's father publishes hymnals : can there really be so much money to be made in that particular line ? Apparently there can be , because Bill has got plenty of leisure time for drunken carousing with his football buddies from a college identified as ' New Haven ' . At regular intervals , Bill and his buddies ( one of them a young Nat Pendleton ) like to smash up the El Prado nightclub . Bill's father uses his influence to keep the scapegrace out of trouble , but the judge ( a New Haven alumnus ) warns Bill's father : if Bill gets arrested one more time , he's going to chokey . Bill's father confiscates his petrol-driven car , giving him a much slower and more staid electric . There's an amusing sequence in which Dix drives his electric car through city traffic at its top speed . . . which is so slow that Dix is able to jump out of the moving vehicle , run a circle round it , and get back inside . This leads to a ' meet cute ' sequence in which Dix's electric gets rear-ended by the car driven by pretty Mary ( Lois Wilson ) . Now get this . To win the fair lady , Bill suddenly decides to make something of himself , so he gets a job selling his father's hymnals . His big customer is JW Smith , who turns out to be a woman , played by Edna May Oliver , one of my favourite character actresses . She is delightfully cast against type here : she looks prim and proper , but she really wants a good time . She dragoons Bill into taking her to El Prado , where she hopes to see one of those notorious brawls . ' Let's Get Married ' isn't very plausible , but it's quite funny and the cast give ingratiating performances . I'll rate this comedy .
Too many clichés , but good anyway	The 1930 ' Street of Chance ' ( no relation to a 1942 semi-noir with the same title ) is a highly entertaining showcase for the excellent William Powell . Unfortunately , the central character ( Powell's role ) is one of those implausible stock characters who are encountered so frequently in movies but so seldom in real life . Powell is cast here as ' Natural ' Davis , a professional gambler who is always scrupulously honest . . . yet who is able to live in luxury because he consistently wins high-stakes games . Even more insufferably ( and implausibly ) , this guy moves effortlessly through the criminal underworld ( even though he's completely honest , mind you ) , and he has the undying respect of all the big-shot gangsters AND all the police detectives . Oh , yes . There may be a very few gamblers like this in real life , but not many . . . and yet they show up in movies all the time . George M . Cohan played a similar version of this implausible role in ' Gambling ' , his last starring film . Powell's characterisation in ' Street of Chance ' is made even more annoying ( and more implausible ) because he's clearly based on a real-life figure who WAS a crook : Arnold Rothstein , the playboy who made millions as a gambler precisely because he was NOT honest . Most infamously , Rothstein was the man who fixed the 1919 World Series which produced the Chicago ' Black Sox ' scandal . ' Natural ' Davis ( Powell ) is a high-roller who bets thousands on the turn of a card . . . but he's such an inveterate gambler , he lays odds on every possible happenstance . When we first see him in Times Square , he's casually making book on whether the next car that stops for a traffic light will have an odd or even number plate . ( He wins , of course . ) Nowadays , we recognise this sort of behaviour as a pathological gambling addiction , but in this film we're meant to admire Davis for always taking chances and winning . There's some very impressive location shooting in Manhattan during these early scenes . ' Natural ' Davis is made even more insufferable by yet another cliché : this guy is worth millions , but - - to show us that he's a ' regular ' guy - - there's a scene in which Davis takes time for friendly banter with Tony , the local crippled newsboy . Tony is played by a young man with no right arm and no acting ability , yet he still fits all the crippled-newsboy stereotypes : he wears a flat cap , and every edition of the newspaper prompts him to yell ' Extree ! Extree ! ' ( Did any real-life newsboy ever actually say ' Extree ' ? ) Davis is always honest , but he knows all the angles : he gives a bankroll to a guy with a hard-luck story , but carefully plants his own thumbprint on the banknotes . . . so that later he can catch the guy out , when the money is misspent . Davis's wife Alma is played by Kay Francis , a very mannered actress who has always annoyed me with her speech impediment and her raccoonish eye makeup . She had an arch habit of frequently planting one hand akimbo , very high up on her waist ( not her hip ) , and she repeats that here . Davis and Alma were in love once , but now they've come to a tough patch . SPOILERS COMING . Along comes a Midwestern yokel named ' Babe ' Marsden , a newlywed with a nice wife named Judith ( Jean Arthur , wasted in a small bland role ) . Babe's older brother John gave him $10 , 000 as a wedding present ; instead of banking that money , Babe went gambling in California and parlayed the money into $50 , 000 . Babe is determined to be a high-rolling gambler . He's heard about the great ' Natural ' Davis . . . and now Babe has come to Manhattan , intending to beat Davis at the card tables . Surprise , surprise ! ' Natural ' Davis is actually Babe's older brother John , conducting his gambling activities under a false name . ( We're constantly hearing dialogue about how scrupulously honest this Davis geezer is , so why does he use an alias ? ) John / " Natural " doesn't want Babe to become a gambler like himself , apparently feeling that Babe isn't cut out for it . To teach Babe a lesson , he agrees to play against him in a high-stakes poker game , clearly intending to win Babe's money and send him home skint . John gives Babe fair warning : ' I don't want to hear any " brother " stuff . ' MORE SPOILERS NOW . ' Natural ' Davis invites some gangsters to sit in on the poker game , and he stakes them to some of his own bankroll , telling them in advance that his intention is to clean out Babe . ( All in a good cause , of course . ) But the game goes Babe's way , with Babe taking the pot . In desperation , Davis deals cards from the bottom of the deck . . . cheating so that Babe will lose . ( We keep hearing dialogue about how totally honest Davis is . . . so how come he just happens to be skillful at crooked card deals ? ) Babe learns his lesson and goes home with his wife , remarking on the train to Hickburg about what a wonderful guy his brother John is . . . not realising that John is dead , because the gangsters caught him out cheating and they took him ' for a ride ' . I found this ending utterly implausible . We keep hearing thick-ear dialogue about how all the gangsters respect Davis , and how he has an impeccable reputation for honesty . Why didn't he warn the crooks in advance that he was planning to beat Babe by fair means or foul , and promise to reimburse the crooks for any stakes they lost in the process ? Despite its faults and its very many clichés , ' Street of Chance ' is extremely well directed by the underrated John Cromwell ( who also plays a small role as a plainclothes officer ) , and the editing and photography are splendid . I'll rate this movie .
Airborne bildungsroman , but I like it	I'm tempted to make a joke that ' 20 , 000 Men a Year ' is a movie about a woman I dated once . Actually , this is an impressive low-budget film , based on a story treatment by Frank ' Spig ' Wead . ( If anybody knows how Wead got that nickname , please let me know . ) Wead was a career military officer who logged many hours of flight time in combat , without a scratch , only to cripple himself off-duty in a bizarre accident : he got drunk , fell downstairs and broke his neck . Remarkably , Wead made a partial recovery and ( although severely handicapped for the rest of his life ) he went on to a prolific civilian career writing screenplays with aviation themes . SPOILERS COMING . In the late 1930s , with another world war in the offing , the Civil Aeronautics Authority ( precursor to America's Federal Aviation Authority ) instituted a training scheme intended to produce 20 , 000 civilian pilots annually . This movie offers a fictional plotline devised to bring attention to that real-life programme . Randolph Scott plays a military pilot who ( for principled reasons ) disobeys an order and is cashiered out of the service . He starts a civilian pilot school in the Midwest , near a college campus . . . at just the right time to get involved in the CAA programme . One of his first students is Skip Rogers , a bright teenage orphan . Skip's older sister ( and guardian ) is Ann , a prissy schoolmarm who disapproves of the flight school because the ' planes are unsafe . Of course , she changes her mind . . . but not before Skip has to prove his mettle in a daring flight through a narrow canyon , with two other men's lives at stake . This film's intentions are in the right place . I'm especially intrigued that one of the student pilots in this white-bread movie is an Asian-American , played by Victor Sen Yung . Far too often , Sen Yung was typecast in stereotypical ' Chinaman ' roles , but in this film he gives an intelligent performance as a realistic human being . Less welcome here is ' Slapsie Maxie ' Rosenbloom , in one of those sledgehammer-subtle comic-relief turns that bears no resemblance to a plausible human . Expert character actor Matt McHugh , in a brief appearance as a wise-cracking Brooklynite , lifts his role out of stereotype . The flying sequences ( which are the main point of this picture ) are impressive and genuinely exciting , relying on stunt pilots ( notably the great Paul Mantz ) more than usual , and process photography to a lesser extent than usual . Also , it's a pleasure to see a movie devoted to civil aviation for once , rather than the more obvious ( and more hackneyed ) theme of military pilots . I'll rate this movie .
Interesting unusual failure	' Ambush ' is a semi-noir with some very interesting credits . The script is by S . J . Perelman and his wife Laura , whose screenwriting careers are entirely associated with comedies , yet they acquit themselves respectably in this thick-ear drama which features an uneasy blend of comedy . Kurt Neumann was an extremely talented director who never acquired the commercial success ( nor the critical attention ) which he deserved . The leading lady in ' Ambush ' is Gladys Swarthout , an opera star who here attempts a straightforward dramatic role in which she never sings a note . ( And she does reasonably well . ) ' Ambush ' is similar in mood to the much better ' Jeopardy ' ( starring a much better actress , Barbara Stanwyck ) . Both films play out their stories from the premise of an ordinary person being in the wrong place at the wrong time . Mr Gibbs is the mastermind of a gang of bank robbers in need of a getaway vehicle . They kidnap a secretary named Jane ( Swarthout ) , whom they intend to use as a hostage . Then , in this film's least plausible sequence , they force her to hijack a lorry and its driver . The driver - a prole named Tony - is well-played by Lloyd Nolan , clearly pleased to be portraying an honest guy for once . Jane and Tony will be spending some time in forced togetherness , at gunpoint . . . so it's obvious how they're going to end up . The single biggest flaw in ' Ambush ' is the casting of Ernest Truex in the key role as Gibbs , the ' brains ' of the heist ring . I've never liked Truex in any of his film or television appearances . He always seems indecisive , evasive , often effeminate , with awkward little bits of physical business which I quite find alienating . Bluntly , Truex just doesn't have the chops to play a criminal mastermind . . . even one whose plans go awry , as here . There are some welcome appearances by supporting actors whom I associate with comedy far more than with noir or suspense . Broderick Crawford , William Frawley and Polly Moran are all good here . George Melford , more successful as a director than as an actor , acquits himself well as the president of the bank Truex robs . I recognise Rufe Davis from cheap westerns and ' Petticoat Junction ' repeats ; this is the first ' normal ' film in which I've seen him , and he's quite good here in his bit part . The ending of ' Ambush ' is obvious , but this is a creditable attempt to tell a story in an unusual way , with an unusual blend of comedy and suspense . It's not altogether successful , but I'll give it credit for trying . I'll rate ' Ambush ' .
Excellent , but no masterpiece .	A master recording of this 1973 tele-drama is in the archives at CBS's Television City complex ( where I saw it , thanks to someone who's got more influence at CBS than I'll ever have ) , but they are unlikely to re-release it due to various controversies . That situation is regrettable for two reasons : this is an excellent drama , and its controversial aspects have long since been eclipsed by other productions . It's autumn , 1968 , the peak of America's involvement in the Vietnam War . Tom Aldredge and Anne Jackson give impressive performances as suburban couple Ozzie and Harriet , who have two sons named Rick and David . Those names alone were responsible for some of the controversy in 1973 , when this tele-drama was originally transmitted . The family's names are clearly meant to evoke the Nelsons : the white-bread married couple ( and their two sons ) who starred in the 1950s sitcom ' The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet ' . Rick ( Cliff De Young ) was wounded in Vietnam , and has come home blind . I was annoyed that much of the mise-en-scene in this production implies that , since Rick's eyesight is gone , his life is over : that attitude is an insult to all blind people , all injured servicemen ( and - women ) , and all handicapped people . But Rick's blindness isn't the only problem . Some of his traumas from ' in country ' have come back to America with him . His parents and brother are baffled by the arrival of Rick's master sergeant and a South Vietnamese peasant woman , who are apparently hallucinations that have become real . . . or are they ? Eventually , the rest of the family decide that they would be better off if Rick would just do the decent thing and shoot himself . I didn't arrive in America until after the Vietnam War , so I never really experienced that conflict from America's viewpoint . ( During the war , though , I interviewed several G . I . s who were on R & R in Queensland and who expected to go right back to the front lines . ) Although playwright David Rabe's stagecraft is sure here , I got the feeling at several points during this production that Rabe was trying to be controversial merely for the sake of controversy , rather than for any higher purpose . The cast are uniformly superb , as is the direction by Robert Downey . He cleverly shades the events in this drama so that we can never quite be certain whether we're witnessing real events or whether Rick's hallucinations have spread to the rest of the family . I'll rate this drama , and I hope it becomes available again . . . although it's now very much a period piece .
Max Schreck gets snatched : cats and burghers but no catburgers .	I saw ' The Battle of the Tertia ' in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone , Italy ; the festival screened a print ( with German and French titles ) from the Murnau archive in Wiesbaden , restored on acetate colour stock to reproduce the colour tinting of the original nitrate release print . IMDb's cast list for this film has a major omission : the villainous furrier Biersack is played by none other than Max Schreck , the actor famed for playing the vampire Count Orlock in ' Nosferatu ' . In many of his film roles , Schreck appeared in heavy make-up or very briefly , or both ; here , he has considerable screen time in a role which gives him an opportunity to demonstrate a range of emotions . Schreck has one of his largest and most visible screen roles in this film . I misunderstood the movie's title ; when I entered the screening , I assumed that Tertia was the name of a ship or a town in this story . In fact , the Tertia is ( or was ) the mid-level grade in a German secondary school : most of the characters in this movie are Tertianers , boy students in their early teens . Many such Boy's Own movies have one girl in the otherwise all-boy gang , and her role is usually to be the token girl . Here , intriguingly , the one girl in the gang is also the leader : Daniela , slightly older ( and definitely prettier ) than the boys . They follow her lead eagerly , not questioning that she's the best qualified to give the orders . Boestrum is ( in this movie ) a German coastal town ; the Tertianers at the local school have organised a juvenile hideout for themselves on an island just offshore . Biersack , the local furrier , has convinced the town council ( the Boestrum burghers ? ) to round up and kill all the local cats ; Biersack will then take possession of their pelts , which he will fashion into garments and sell at a large profit , fobbing off the cat-fur as rabbit or something else . The boys ( and Daniela ) mount a resistance intrigue , which starts out with simple stuff such as painting pro-moggy graffiti on the town's walls . Eventually it escalates into outright felonies , with the Tertianers kidnapping and torturing Biersack . These scenes reminded me of the climax of Cecil B De Mille's movie ' This Day and Age ' , in which American high-school students kidnap a gangster and threaten to kill him . The scenes on the island - - where the boys have set up their own community , with Daniela as ruler - - had tones of ' Lord of the Flies ' . ' The Battle of the Tertia ' was apparently meant for a juvenile audience , possibly slightly younger than the boys in the movie , so it's quite obvious how the adventure will end . Still , even though this is a movie for kids , I felt troubled by the violent ( and definitely illegal ) antics of the Tertianers . This movie was made in Germany in 1929 : a time and place when many people felt that committing violence and breaking the law were perfectly valid acts for a ' higher ' purpose . ( And the word ' Kampf ' in the title of this movie reminded me of guess-which book . ) The fact that these Katzenjammer Kinder are breaking the law to protect a bunch of cats ( ! ) made things even weirder . I have misgivings about this movie , but Max Schreck's excellent performance , and the fine performance of Ilse Stobrawa as the boys ' leader Daniela , prompt me to rate it . Here , kitty , kitty !
Get thee to a Nunnally	' The Man Who Broke the Bank at Monte Carlo ' has a good script , mid-level production values and a fine performance by Colin Clive in a villainous role . The great theatre director Joshua Logan was peripherally involved in this film ( without credit ) ; his autobiography ' Josh ' mentions his participation but does not discuss the movie in detail . This movie got its title ( and premise ) from a once-popular music-hall song performed by the Englishman Charles Coborn ( not the American actor Charles Coburn ) . Ronald Colman stars as a White Russian nobleman who has fled the revolution and now ekes out an existence in Monte Carlo . When he manages to break the bank at the casino , the casino directors are delighted : surely the publicity will bring more suckers ( I mean gamblers ) to the tables . But Colman gives an interview in which he acknowledges that his lucky streak was against the odds , and he warns others to save their money and stay away from the casino ! The casino directors try various stratagems to lure Colman back to the tables . Eventually they hire Joan Bennett to pretend to be romantically interested in Colman , planning to lure him back to the casino . ( Surprisingly , Colman falls for this : he's just been widely publicised as a man with a potful of casino winnings , yet he assumes that Bennett is interested in him for himself . ) It's no spoiler to reveal that she genuinely falls for him . But Colman doesn't know that Bennett has a husband : namely Colin Clive , who is becoming homicidally jealous . . . Colman is good in this film , but Clive ( in a smaller role ) gives a better performance . There was a basic coldness to Colin Clive which made him more effective in sinister roles than in heroic ones . Bennett is bland in a predictable role . Nigel Bruce is good ( as usual ) in an atypical role as Colman's valet , a fellow Russian expat : wisely , Bruce does not attempt a Russian accent . A sequence in the Swiss alps ( via 20th Century-Fox's backlot ) is not very convincing . The photography is excellent , the editing and sound recording less so . Nunnally Johnson's sparkling dialogue is up to his usual standard . I'll rate this enjoyable film .
Some good gags and funny character animation .	I'm not remotely a fan of Chuck Jones , but this is one of his better efforts . The premise is intriguing : Daffy Duck ( or one of his ancient ancestors ) was alive ' trillions ' of years ago , and crossed paths with a hungry caveman . Casper Caveman has a pet apatosaurus named Fido , who is drawn and animated as one of Chuck Jones's usual insufferably twee critters . However , I laughed out loud when the dinosaur tags along behind his prehistoric master . Two-legged Casper and four-legged Fido each have a distinctive gait , and when they walk in unison the visual counterpoint of their movements is very funny . For some reason , many Warners toons of this period begin with a multi-plane shot , apparently hoping to convince audiences that they can be just as ' arty ' as Disney's cartoons . However , the very crude multi-plane pan near the beginning of this toon ( more of a ' bi-plane ' ; only two planes ! ) is not remotely as impressive as Disney's multi-planes in ' The Old Mill ' and elsewhere . This cartoon violates the laws of physics even more than usual for Termite Terrace standards , with objects and characters able to pause in midair and change direction ditto . Various sources have stated that the character Casper Caveman in this cartoon is a caricature of Jack Benny . Well , yes and no . The vocal performance ( by Jack Lescoulie ) expertly copies Benny's distinctive delivery and some of his catchphrases ( ' Good night , folks . ' ) , and Jones's animation even duplicates a few of Benny's gestures . However , the character as drawn simply doesn't look like Benny , neither facially nor physically . I wonder if this was an attempt to avoid a lawsuit . Or perhaps it was down to the fact that Jack Benny ( who had already made some film appearances dating back to the late 1920s ) was at this point best known as a radio star , so movie audiences might not be sure of what he looked like . An advertisement for ' Duckies ' in this toon is a parody of a contemporary real-world ad for ' Luckies ' , i . e . , Lucky Strike Cigarettes , which were the long-term sponsor of Jack Benny's radio show . ( He had better luck with his next sponsor , Jell-O . ) A nice try at a slight variation of the usual Warners formula , and I'll rate this one .
Sawdust triangle for a moonlighting clown	I saw this circus melodrama in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone ; the annual festival has made a welcome return to that town after eight years in nearby Sacile . . . a town no less beautiful , but in Sacile the festival's programme was split between two smaller cinemas at opposite ends of the town , thus forcing me ( and other attendees ) to hustle back and forth from one screening to another . The original negative of ' Looping the Loop ' was lost in a lab fire ; the print screened at Pordenone was loaned from a Munich Stadtmuseum print , which in turn was restored using out-takes that weren't included in the release edit : I'm surprised that these had been saved . At several points in the movie , the shot matching or camera angles seem ill-chosen : this may have been the result of substituting out-takes for the original footage . Here we have a sawdust triangle , unfortunately just a bit too similar to those in several other big-top dramas of the period , notably ' He Who Gets Slapped ' , ' The Unknown ' and ' Variety ' . Werner Krauss ( who will always be Doctor Caligari for me ) gives a stand-out performance as a circus clown who performs under the name Botto . He's in love with the much younger Blanche , a pretty girl with the troupe . Blanche in turn is infatuated with Andre , the handsome daredevil acrobat . One look at the dumpy porridge-faced Botto ( with or without his clown slap ) makes it obvious that he hasn't a chance of competing with the muscular Andre . Botto has enough sense to realise that a clown is not a romantic figure , so he courts Blanche by pretending to be an electrician whose job ( conveniently ) keeps him elsewhere whenever it's showtime for Botto . The fact that Blanche is deceived makes me wonder if she's intelligent enough to be worth courting in the first place . . . but then neither Botto nor Andre seems interested in Blanche for her frontal lobes . ( The ones in her brain , I mean . ) Werner Krauss's eyes are astonishingly expressive , conveying a wide range of emotions and often shifting gears ( as it were ) within the same close shot . For some reason , I kept picturing Emil Jannings and Paul Wegener playing this same role : either would have been excellent , yet Krauss was probably the best casting for the part . Sig Arno ( later a Hollywood character actor ) is briefly effective as another circus artiste . SPOILERS COMING . The film's title , ' Looping the Loop ' , refers to a daredevil stunt which Andre performs at the climax of his act . And here , again , I was reminded of yet several more circus films : ' The Third Degree ' , ' The Devil's Circus ' , ' Laugh , Clown , Laugh ' ( Lon Chaney sliding down a guy wire , with fatal results ) , and also Murnau's ' 4 Devils ' ( which I haven't seen , but I've read the Herman Bang story on which it was based ) . Andre ends up with a broken neck , yet is able to wink to indicate this doesn't matter ! Aye , it's physically possible for a quadriplegic to wink , but I found it implausible that Andre would do so in this situation . ' Looping the Loop ' is well-made and extremely well acted ( especially by Krauss ) , but somehow this circus movie feels too similar to several other circus movies from the same period . My rating : only .
Pardon me , guv'nor .	Another " lost " film that was merely mislaid . I viewed a print of ' Capital Punishment ' restored by the Library of Congress from several source prints , including a nitrate release print that had been tinted : because this monochrome acetate print did not reproduce the tinting , some subtle grey tones were lost . When George Hackathorne cries in one scene , his tears in this print are so dark that I checked to make sure he wasn't wearing mascara . ' Capital Punishment ' is now deemed a Clara Bow vehicle , since she's the only cast member whose name is still remembered . Less than a month before ' Capital Punishment ' was released , Bow had attracted major attention in a supporting role in ' Black Oxen ' ; as a result , B . P . Schulberg ( producer of ' Capital Punishment ' ) radically revised his publicity campaign to imply that Bow is the star of this film . Although Bow is quite good in the female lead , her role and her screen time are very definitely subsidiary to George Hackathorne's as her boyfriend . Hackathorne gives an astonishing performance here , leading me to wonder why he never had a bigger career . ( Maybe it's down to his disconcerting resemblance to Stan Laurel . ) There are also fine performances by Wade Boteler as a helpful cop and by Fred Warren ; the latter convincingly expresses a wide range of emotions in his two brief scenes . This movie has the same premise as Fritz Lang's last American film , ' Beyond a Reasonable Doubt ' . In both films , a self-appointed crusader hopes to abolish capital punishment by persuading a confederate to allow himself to be falsely convicted for murder and sentenced to death , at which point the crusader intends to come forward with proof that the convicted man is actually innocent . . . before the sentence can be carried out . In both films , of course , the plan goes agley . But this movie takes its plot line in a direction utterly different from Lang's ( and without the twist ending that weakened Lang's film ) . Schulberg quite openly meant ' Capital Punishment ' as a propaganda piece against the death penalty . However , he queered his own pitch by inserting a prologue which is deeply contrived . A young man on Death Row ( Eddie Phillips ) swears his innocence as he's led to the electric chair . Elsewhere , the real murderer makes a deathbed confession , provoking a race against the clock for the governor's pardon . . . but the governor's phone call doesn't arrive in time to save the youth . ( Insert moral here . ) How incredibly convenient that the confession comes at the most suspenseful moment , rather than a day earlier or later ! Still , I was intrigued by some stark Expressionist camera set-ups in this sequence , which reminded me of Fritz Lang's films . . . and I know of no higher praise . But James P Hogan was a lacklustre director , so I have difficulty believing that he deserves the credit for these set-ups . Also , I was surprised to see the phrase ' some damned pest ' in a dialogue title during this pre-Hays Office sequence . IMDb correctly credits this film's script to John F Goodrich , but also credits him with the cinematography : no ; that was done by JOSEPH Goodrich : I don't know if they were related . There's a continuity error in the film : we see a close-up of Hackathorne's wrist with a handcuff already slipped out of his sleeve , then in the NEXT shot we see the moment when the handcuff slips out . The production design is excellent throughout . Bow , playing a working-class young woman , wears dowdy clothes and make-up appropriate to that role rather than a glamour treatment . The scenes featuring wealthy characters are appropriately swank . I was distressed by a fantasy sequence , apparently meant to be funny , in which Hackathorne's character envisions himself wealthy : he and his mother and Bow are dressed in finery and attended by footmen , yet they still exhibit lower-class table manners . Elsewhere , in an implausible reality sequence , Bow ponces into the governor's office in a manner implying that anybody can just walk in on the governor any old time . SPOILERS COMING . Of course , a last-minute confession clears Hackathorne . But what happens next is laughably implausible . The governor ( the same one from the prologue ) is now convinced of Hackathorne's innocence . . . just a few minutes before the execution . Does he pick up the phone and order a stay of execution ? No ; because of that pesky prologue , the governor decides to deliver the news HIMSELF by jumping into his car and highballing all the way to the prison for a climactic race against time . Hoo boy . The stay arrives at literally the last instant , with the executioner's hand already lowering the switch . The very charming and knowledgeable Library of Congress historian Christel Schmidt told me that Schulberg's publicity campaign for this ' message ' movie included one very bizarre stunt : the movie was screened for the inmates at Sing Sing Penitentiary , with actor George Hackathorne appearing in person to make an impassioned speech against the death penalty . Ironically , the only inmates at Sing Sing who weren't permitted to attend the screening were the ones on Death Row . . . but they heard Hackathorne's speech , via the prison's Tannoy system . I wonder what they thought of it . I'll rate ' Capital Punishment ' . Now that DNA technology is freeing inmates who were falsely convicted , this movie's argument is more relevant than ever .
The song of Roland has no Love for Montagu	Pearl White is the best-known silent-serial star , but Ruth Roland deserves to be remembered too . I find the dark-haired Ruth sexier than the fair-haired Pearl , and Ruth Roland's serials tended to be slightly more plausible than Pearl's . Some of Ruth Roland's silent serials even featured the intriguing device of captions and dialogue superimposed ( in white letters ) upon black objects on-screen in the frame compositions during the movie's action , so that there was no need to interrupt the action with inter-titles . Whereas Pearl White's screen career ended in 1924 , Ruth Roland continued to make films into the talkie era , revealing a pleasant voice for speaking and - - here in ' Reno ' - - for singing . Sadly , her screen career had lost momentum even before the cancer that prematurely killed her . SYNOPSIS : Society matron Felicia Brett ( Roland ) is unhappily married ; she and her husband Alexander have a young son , whom Felicia dearly loves . When it becomes clear that her marriage cannot be saved , Felicia heads for the divorce mecca in Nevada . . . but she's determined to retain custody of her son . One of the deepest flaws in this film is the performance of Montagu Love as Felicia's husband . On an earlier occasion , drama critic Heywood Broun described Love's acting technique as follows : ' He thrusts out his chest and then follows it across the stage . ' In ' Reno ' , Montagu Love plays all his scenes in Snidely Whiplash mode . When Alexander Brett contests his wife's attempts to gain custody of their son , Montagu Love's scenery-chewing makes it clear that Brett is motivated by sheer spite rather than love for the child . It helps a bit that young Bobby Brett is played by a child actor who's actually less twee and more talented than usual . SPOILERS COMING . Before Felicia has lived in Reno long enough to qualify for the residency status that will enable her to divorce Alexander , he contrives a situation in which she appears to be committing adultery with Dick Belden , her friend from childhood . Using this falsified evidence , Alexander Brett proceeds to take sole custody of Bobby . But then a convenient avalanche kills Brett . As the divorce was not yet final , Felicia is now Brett's widow - - not his ex-wife - - and she's free to marry Belden . Ruth Roland acquits herself well here , projecting grace and dignity and some sex appeal . Her speaking voice records well , and she has a musical number - - ' As Long As We're Together ' - - which she sings splendidly , although the song itself is insipid . Despite her premature death , I'm surprised that she didn't have a better career in early talkies . On the strength of Ruth Roland's performance ( and a few supporting performances ) rather than any merits in the turgid script , I'll rate ' Reno ' .
She guides her boyfriend's dinghy into a snug harbour .	I saw ' The Lighthouse Keeper ' at the Pordenone silent-film festival in Sacile , Italy , in 2006 . The print that was screened for us had a surprise bonus : at some point in its history ( presumably during its original release , while William Howard Taft was President of the U . S . A . ) the starting leader had broken off the print , and some projectionist had replaced it by splicing in several feet of newsreel footage showing President Taft . The programmers at the Pordenone festival decided to keep this in , and I'm glad they did . I well and truly had a sense of watching this film as it was exhibited in 1911 . . . in the rough and ready days when , if a film broke , you did whatever was necessary to keep the show going ! ' The Lighthouse Keeper ' is a shortened version of James Herne's 1893 stage melodrama ' Shore Acres ' , radically abridged and revised as a star vehicle for Mary Pickford . ' Shore Acres ' was hugely popular in its day , and controversial with it . . . largely due to the fact that one character was ( gasp ! ) an atheist who spoke the earth-shaking ( in those days ) line " He said he'd see me in Hell first . " ( That line and the character who spoke it are absent from this version . ) Herne's play was a perennial favourite for about 20 years , but is now painfully dated . ( Buster Keaton and his father were lampooning ' Shore Acres ' in their vaudeville turn , circa 1905 . ) Several of the scenes in this melodrama do not work well on stage , notably the climax in a fishing boat in a storm at sea during a dark night : this film version benefits from being able to open up such scenes . Pickford plays Polly Berry , daughter of the old lighthouse keeper Nat Berry ( J . Farrell MacDonald , excellent as always ) . Two local youths , noble Tom Atkins ( John Harvey ) and rakehell Bert Duncan ( William E . Shay ) , are rivals for Polly's affection . When Tom earns her favour , Bert darkly vows revenge and then skulks off into the canebrakes . Later , Polly and Tom are incautious enough to be in a fishing boat at sea while a storm brews . Their only hope of safely reaching shore depends on the lighthouse's faithful beacon . Bert , in a drunken rage , climbs into the lighthouse and tries to put out the light . He and Nat Berry scuffle . ( Although this scene is heavily rewritten , it retains the climactic fistfight from the original play . ) SPOILERS COMING NOW . Although much older and less fit than the drunken Bert , cold sober Nat Berry manages to defeat him and keep the lamp lighted . Bert wanders off into the surf . Come morning , the storm has passed : Polly and Tom are safely home , while Bert's bloated corpse washes up on the rocks . By far the best thing in this creaky mellerdrammer is Mary Pickford's performance . Age 19 at the time , she is ( for once ) exactly the right age for the role she is playing . There is just a hint of Pickford's " Little Mary " in her portrayal of a young woman who is sexually mature yet emotionally innocent , with a touch of Grace Darling at the film's climax . Character actor J . Farrell MacDonald had a long film career , yet is now completely forgotten except by die-hard film fans : his stalwart performance is likewise an asset to this film , which otherwise tips over dangerously into the laughable territory of morality plays . As for the performances of the actors playing the rivals Tom and Bert . . . well , there's a reason why they languish in obscurity . More happily , there's a wedding scene in which I briefly spotted actor Hayward Mack and Mary's sister Lottie Pickford . IMDb's web page for ' The Lighthouse Keeper ' says that this film was shown aboard the Titanic , three nights before the fateful Night to Remember . I've never heard this rumour from any other source , and I've no idea whether or not it's true . If so , it's deeply ironic , as the climax of ' The Lighthouse Keeper ' depicts two people struggling to survive in a small craft at sea on a dark night . No icebergs , though . . . nor even iceberg lettuce . I'll rate ' The Lighthouse Keeper ' .
Did the Joker follow the Ace of Spades ?	SLIGHT SPOILERS AHEAD . ' Tomorrow at Seven ' is one of those wildly implausible movies from Hollywood's studio era which still manage to be hugely enjoyable on the strength of sheer audacity and some colourful performances . Here we have that old chestnut : the serial murderer who announces his crimes in advance , in a highly theatrical manner , yet repeatedly kills his victims without getting caught . We also have that even mouldier chestnut : the amateur sleuth who is able to outwit the cops and nab the baddie . In this case , the murderer proclaims his intentions in advance by delivering to each victim an ace of spades ( the death card ) , with a neatly-written message announcing the hour at which he intends to do the deed . Naturally , he consistently manages to kill his victims ( and get away clean , his identity a secret ) even though they've been well and fairly warned . As the killer neglects to leave his name in the guest-book , he is cried the Ace of Spades . He murders wealthy art dealer Asa Marsden , and here we get another old-movie cliché : the murder shown from the killer's viewpoint . We see the victim goggling into the camera as the killer carks him , but the murderer is unseen . Next , the Ace of Spades announces his intention to murder wealthy Thornton Drake ' tomorrow at seven ' . ( Presumably this is P . M . , not A . M . . . . surely even serial murderers shouldn't have to get up early . ) At the fatal hour , the deed is done aboard an aeroplane in flight . At the stroke of seven , the lights go out in the passenger cabin . . . then they switch on again , and there's a corpse on the deckplates , stabbed through the heart . But the dead man isn't Drake : it's his secretary Austin Winters . Afterwards , the pilot claims to know nothing . The official detectives in this movie are played by two of my favourite character actors : Frank McHugh and the superb Allen Jenkins . Here they play characters named Clancy and Dugan , which gives you some idea of what to expect . Unfortunately , both actors perform their sleuth roles as comedy relief , which I found regrettable : the murders in this movie are played straight , so the seriousness of the homicides is undercut by the intentional comedy of the detectives trying to catch the killer . Screenwriter Ralph Spence often combined straightforward chills and broad comedy in his scripts - - notably in his play ' The Gorilla ' - - but here the mixture isn't as smooth as usual . The hero of this film is played by Chester Morris , so it's obvious who will solve the crime . For some reason , a lot of Hollywood whodunnits of the 1930s and ' 40s featured amateur detectives . Here , Morris plays a mystery novelist ( oh , boy ) who is researching the criminal career of the Ace of Spades as material for his next book . Morris decides that it might make a nice finish for his book if he actually catches the murderer . Along with this film's other merits , there's the Batman factor . It's well known that Batman's greatest villain the Joker ( created in 1939 ) was inspired by the character played by Conrad Veidt in ' The Man Who Laughs ' . But the premise of ' Tomorrow at Seven ' strongly resembles the premise of the Joker's debut story , and this 1933 movie may have supplied some inspiration to Batman's scriptwriter Bill Finger . ' Tomorrow at Seven ' has a lot of the little touches that make 1930s B-movies so enjoyable . Unfortunately , this movie also has a couple of the little touches so typical of that time which are very much less enjoyable . Here , we get a mercifully brief turn by African-American actor Gus Robinson in a ' yassuh ! ' role . I don't blame Robinson , whose options as a black actor in 1930s Hollywood must have been limited . I'll rate this otherwise enjoyable movie .
Rescued from a paper print .	' The Bargain ' , a William S . Hart western , is one of the many thousands of silent films which survive only because of the U . S . government's ' paper prints ' law , which seemed rather bizarre at the time , but in hindsight may indicate that the U . S . government know what they're doing after all . I'll describe the situation , and you can judge for yourself . In the late 19th century , when movie production companies first tried to copyright their films in the U . S . , the Library of Congress stated that only artistic works published on PAPER could be registered for copyright . Movies , being photographed on celluloid , were ineligible . This seems rather a capricious ruling , but perhaps the LoC simply didn't want to accumulate cans of film stock . . . which , in those days , were usually highly flammable nitrate-emulsion celluloid . ( Although the LoC acquired plenty of nitrate films eventually . ) This decision prompted many production companies to make special ' paper print ' versions of their films , to be used solely for registering U . S . copyright and for storage in the Library of Congress . Essentially , a paper print reproduces the movie frame-by-frame on long paper streamers rather than celluloid filmstrips . Such prints cannot be projected , but can be bound into books and ' read ' . The LoC's decision was borne out when those nitrate prints started to decompose . Many early movies - - including ' The Bargain ' - - have no known surviving original film prints , and exist today only because the paper prints registered in the Library of Congress were eventually re-photographed onto acetate-emulsion ( safety ) film stock . Thank you , Uncle Sam . Unfortunately , some film producers weren't completely honest when registering their movies for copyright . I saw ' The Bargain ' in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy , where it was screened from an acetate print struck from the paper original . As much as I enjoyed this film , I was more interested in seeing another one which the festival programmers scheduled along with ' The Bargain ' , a film so rare that it isn't listed in IMDb yet : ' Marceline , the World-Renowned Clown of the N . Y . Hippodrome ' . This purported to be the stage act of a famous European clown who was ( among other things ) Chaplin's mentor . To my great annoyance , the producers of that movie had only bothered to convert the first few frames of their nitrate filmstrip into a paper print for the copyright office . . . so the programmers at Cinema Muto could only show us those opening frames , looped several times . SPOILERS AHEAD . ' The Bargain ' was made early in William S . Hart's career , but shows his screen character firmly in place . Rather than playing a standard white-hat hero or black-hat varmint , Hart typically played corrupt characters who are reformed in the last reel , usually by the love of a good woman . Here , Jim Stokes ( Hart ) is a stagecoach robber who's wounded while stealing the express-company's money , but is saved by miner Phil Brent and his pretty daughter Nell . After Jim marries Nell , his past catches up with him . . . in the form of sheriff Bud Walsh , determined to bring Jim to justice . Jim has conveniently saved the stolen money all this time , and now he claims that he intends to make restitution . . . which I found unlikely , since he was last seen scarpering for the Mexican border when the sheriff caught up with him . Walsh confiscates the money , but manages to lose it while gambling on a crooked roulette wheel . He then offers Jim a bargain : if Jim steals the money back for the sheriff , he'll allow Jim and Nell to escape into Mexico , presumably to live happily ever after . I'm not much of a fan of westerns , but I found this one enjoyable . For once , Hart isn't the only morally ambiguous character : the sheriff who comes after him is just as crooked . . . and stupid with it , since he manages to get snookered by a crooked wheel . Having blown the money at the roulette wheel , why didn't the sheriff simply claim that Jim had spent it before the sheriff captured him ? The ending is rather contrived : since Walsh sets Jim free to rob the gambling house ( with the understanding that Jim is to surrender the winnings to Walsh ) , there's nothing to prevent Jim from welshing on Walsh by keeping the money AND going free with Nell ; because Jim honours the bargain , we accept that his reformation is genuine . I'll rate this intriguing early oater .
Good film , but Disney's is better .	Richard Harding Davis , now barely remembered , was a hugely popular author-journalist in the years just after the Great War . A war correspondent , Davis covered many dangerous events and wrote thrillingly about them . When he turned his talents to fiction , he used his long experience as a newspaperman ; Davis's fiction is extremely believable and remains highly readable . Some of his best ( and best-selling ) stories were about a Tintin-like boy named Gallegher who aspires to be a newspaperman . In the 1960s , Walt Disney's studio made several highly entertaining telefilms about Gallegher , scrupulously kept in their original period . " Let ' Er Go Gallegher " dramatises a Davis story that was later remade by Disney as one of his ' Gallegher ' episodes . This silent version isn't bad , but the Disney remake is better in every way except for period detail . Young Gallegher , who aspires to be a newsman , witnesses the murder of W . H . Burbank by a mysterious man with a finger missing on one hand . Bootleggers are involved . Gallegher gives the scoop to his hero , Henry Clay Callahan , a conceited crime reporter . This leads to Gallegher getting a job as the newspaper's office boy . Callahan is engaged to Clarissa , the newspaper's prissy society editor . But after one drink too many , Callahan loses his job and Clarissa . Meanwhile , Gallegher is hot on the trail of the murderer . He spots a man wearing gloves , with one finger jutting at an unnatural angle . ( Shades of ' The Invaders ' . ) Could this be the four-fingered killer ? SPOILERS COMING NOW . Gallegher follows Four Fingers to his hideout and then gets word to Callahan , who arrives just as Prohibition agents raid the joint . Gallegher and Callahan , rather implausibly , spirit Four Fingers away from the cops and rush him back to the news office - - one jump ahead of the feds - - where he confesses all . This movie is less plausible than Davis's stories , but it's fast-moving and enjoyable . Harrison Ford ( the silent-film actor ) is good in a role that's only somewhat sympathetic . This is the only film I've seen to date in which silent-screen actor Harrison Ford gives a performance that reminds me of his modern namesake . Elinor Fair is much less effective as the love interest . In the lead role , Junior Coghlan is excellent : it's a pity that he had a screen name which doomed him to playing juvenile roles . Coghlan might have had a decent career in adult roles , but they failed to materialise . As the chief villain on offer here , Ivan Lebedeff is far less impressive . I'll rate this neat caper . The Disney ' Gallegher ' episodes are much more enjoyable .
Does she want ( Hein ) Fries with that ?	' The Rhineland Dream ' has quite a few merits , not least some beautiful footage of Rhineland scenery . This movie could almost qualify as an example of Germany's ' heimatfilm ' genre . The film begins in America , of all places . ( ' America ' in this case being a backlot at a German film studio . ) Thirty years ago , German-born Jupp Steinweg emigrated to the United States , seeking his fortune . He did this so very well that he's now wealthy . He's also nostalgic for his birthplace in the Rhine valley . He decides to go home for a trip . The widower is accompanied by his pretty daughter Mary and by her fiancée , a Yank who rejoices in the name Conny . ( I wonder if this character was named after Connie Mack . ) Much of this movie is concerned with the threesome's journey : first by ocean liner to Bremen , then by motorcar into the Rhineland , and lastly by boat on the river to Steinweg's hometown . . . where of course he and his money are greeted warmly . When they reach their destination , Mary meets Hein Fries , a local German who is charming and debonair though unemployed . He claims to be a schoolteacher , but he hasn't a school . This being a German film meant for German audiences , it's bang obvious that Mary is going to fall for him , and send Conny packing . Oh , I quite forgot . There's a minor subplot about a stolen gold coin . There really isn't a huge amount going on in this pleasant but minor movie . This 1933 German film tells its intended audience that a German-American such as Mary is happier reclaiming her true German heritage by returning to the fatherland and marrying a native . In 1933 , Hitler hadn't really started his excesses yet : even so , I'm sure that reality in 1933 was actually the other way round , with plenty of Germans wishing they could emigrate to the United States . Friedrich Wilhelm Schröder-Schrom is excellent in the central role . This film's leading lady , who rejoiced in the bizarre name Gay Christie , is pleasant to look at but not much of an actress . My rating for this one : .
Eric Blore as a jolly genie	The funniest Bowery Boys movies are the ones with the most wildly implausible plots . Anybody who watches a Bowery Boys movie in expectation of deep thoughts on the human condition is looking in the wrong place . ' Bowery to Bagdad ' has one of the looniest plots in the entire Bowery Boys series . . . and it's possibly the funniest of them all . Much of the credit goes to a splendid performance by the veteran character actor Eric Blore , making his only appearance in a Bowery Boys movie . This movie should actually be titled ' Baghdad to Bowery ' because that's the way the action moves . The story starts with a newspaper headline announcing the disappearance of a valuable Oriental lamp . Then we see a montage shot of a couple of bit players pretending to be Arabs ( with beards and headcloths ) who are searching the entire world for the missing lamp . Of course , it turns up in Louie Dumbrowski's candy shop . ( Stranger things have happened in real life : the necklace worn by Mary Queen of Scots when she got her head chopped off later turned up in an obscure antiques shop . ) Needless to say , this is a magic lamp with a genie . The genie is played by Eric Blore with his usual droll humour , wearing a pantomime-genie outfit that includes a turban and a pair of those curly-toed shoes . When Sach ( Huntz Hall ) frees the genie from the lamp , Blore offers to use his magical powers to give Sach anything he desires . Proving just how big a moron he is , Sach wishes for a long row of chocolate sodas . He also wishes that the genie would enlarge one particular part of his body . Guess which part . Yes , you're right : his biceps . The sight of Huntz Hall swaggering about with Schwarzenegger muscles is truly bizarre . This film has a larger budget than usual for the Bowery Boys . The genie's magical effects are amusingly depicted with some well-edited jump cuts , of the sort later used on ' Bewitched ' . Even the plot is more engaging than usual : the Bowery Boys go up against a gang of deeze-dem-doze crooks who want the lamp ( and the genie ) for themselves ; when the lamp falls temporarily into the gangsters ' clutches , I actually felt some concern . The ending is quite funny , with Sach innocently making a wish that lands him and Slip ( Leo Gorcey ) in big trouble . Speaking of Leo Gorcey , did you know he shared a wife with Groucho Marx ? Kay Marvis divorced Gorcey , then later married Groucho . I'll bet she had some interesting stories . I'll rate ' Bowery to Bagdad ' . It's a toss-up between this film and ' Master Minds ' for the funniest Bowery Boys movie .
No mystery , and no logic , but lots of fun	My thanks to Robert Gitt , of the U . C . L . A . Film & Television Archives , who permitted me to see this film shortly after it was restored . ' The Second Floor Mystery ' has an interesting pedigree . While this movie was in production , its two stars - - Loretta Young and Grant Withers - - eloped . Very soon afterward , Young ( a strict Catholic ) , petitioned the church to have the marriage annulled . By that time another Young / Withers film was about to be released by Warners-First National . To cash in on the scandal , the new film's title was hastily changed to ' Too Young to Marry ' . The early Warners talkies were released without a soundtrack , using audio provided by a series of 16-inch phonograph discs ( one per 12-minute reel of film ) . The projectionist in each cinema had to start a new record simultaneously with projecting each reel . As an experiment , ' The Second Floor Mystery ' was released in a variation of this format : in 8-minute reels , with the soundtrack on 12-inch discs . This proved to be a bad idea , as the projectionists had to work harder with more discs and more reels of film . The audio of ' Second Floor ' was lost for many years , and has only recently been united with a new 35mm print of this film , copied from a 16mm print that was made for television . . . but never televised , as it had no soundtrack ! The 16mm print was made with the wrong aperture plate , so the left-hand edge of the image was lost , and had to be recreated via computer software . This explains why , in the opening titles of the restored print , the capital T in the word ' THE ' ( at the left-hand edge of the screen ) doesn't match the T in the word ' MYSTERY ' ( nearer the centre of the screen ) . I expected this movie to be a mystery , because of its title and because it's based on material by Earl Derr Biggers , creator of Charlie Chan . ' The Second Floor Mystery ' turns out to be a weird anecdote , more like ' Seven Footprints to Satan ' or GK Chesterton's stories about the Club of Queer Trades . ' Second Floor ' isn't remotely plausible , yet it has a fast-moving screwball charm that's enjoyable . When I saw that this American film is set in London , I expected the title to refer to the wrong storey : in Britain , the second floor is TWO floors up ( not one ) from ground level . Amazingly , they got this right . But some other details are troubling : at one point , Withers speeds a car ( with right-hand drive ) through London , only to careen over a sand dune somewhere in the Home Provinces . ( I defy anyone to find evidence of any sand dune anywhere in the Home Provinces within ten years of 1930 . ) Earlier in the film , Withers sees an advert in the London Times involving the ' phone number Central 2001 . ( That's an American ' phone exchange . ) He walks into an American-style ' phone booth and asks the operator for Central 2200 : a double error . Some of the insert shots of newspaper advertisements have been re-typeset ( in the wrong font ) for this restored print , due to that cock-up with the aperture plate . Marion ( Loretta Young ) is visiting London with her aunt , where she begins a correspondence ( via personal ads in the London Times ) with Geoffrey ( Grant Withers ) . This is the first movie I've ever seen with epistolary flashbacks . Geoffrey keeps writing letters to Marion , telling her tall stories about his involvement in a murder case , and then we see these incidents in flashback as Marion reads them . The last one features flashbacks within the flashback . Don't try to figure out the story . Geoffrey and his upstairs neighbour live in flats , but the huge interior sets ( with their high ceilings ) look more like they were filmed inside mansions . Scotland Yard apparently keep a private dungeon at someplace called Leeds Hall , which is a castle bigger than the entire Tower of London complex . The movie's soundtrack features some incredibly unconvincing thunder . One exterior sequence during a rainstorm is heavily undercranked , so the rain falls much too quickly . Claude King's role in this film is even more contrived and confusing than the role he played in ' London After Midnight ' . This movie was directed by Roy Del Ruth , a severely underrated director whose career is long overdue for reappraisal . I was impressed with a couple of tracking camera shots , very rare for early sound films because of the unwieldy soundproof ' blimp ' that had to surround the camera and its operators . ' The Second Floor Mystery ' makes no sense at all , and has an ( implausible ) ending that worked better in ' Seven Footprints to Satan ' , but it's hugely enjoyable and is an interesting example of film-making from the early talkies era when the technical aspects were still being worked out . This film is hardly a classic , but I'm pleased to welcome it back from the lost , and I'll rate this movie .
Diabetes alert !	" Seven Days ' Leave " is based on James M Barrie's play ' The Old Lady Shows Her Medals ' . The title change is interesting , as it moves the play's emphasis from the old-lady character ( Sarah Ann Dowey ) to the soldier ( Private Dowey ) who visits her on his furlough from the trenches . The soldier is played ( very well ) by Gary Cooper , and the original advertising campaign for this film made it clear that ' Coop ' was the star of this movie , with the old lady firmly a supporting role . But in fact Sarah Dowey is still the central character in this maudlin drama , even though the screenplay builds up Private Dowey's character . I viewed this film in 1992 through the kind assistance of film scholar William K Everson , who had a restored print in his collection . Mr Everson and I both had some trepidation in watching this film , as the central character of Mrs Dowey is played by Beryl Mercer , whom William Everson and I agreed is the single most annoying performer in the entire history of motion pictures . Mercer specialised in maudlin tear-stained performances , all trembling and whines and heaving bosoms . The fact that " Seven Days ' Leave " has a maudlin plot line in its own right seemed to threaten that Mercer's performance would be even more bathetic than usual . James M Barrie's plot lines veered towards the diabetic , and this one is no exception . But I was curious to see Gary Cooper's performance . As Mr Everson himself had not viewed this film in more than 20 years , our mutual curiosity won out . " Seven Days ' Leave " turns out to be better than I'd thought . Cooper gives an impressive performance , and Mercer's maudlin moaning is less obtrusive than I had feared , due to the fact that this story has some legitimate tear-jerking to do . SYNOPSIS CONTAINS SPOILERS . Sarah Ann Dowey ( Mercer ) is an elderly charwoman in London during the Great War . She cries herself ' Mrs ' Dowey , but in fact she never married and is childless . ( Apparently an elderly widow commanded more respect in 1914 than an elderly spinster . ) The other three scrubwomen who char with Mrs Dowey - Mesdames Mickelham , Haggerty and Twymley - all have sons in uniform , and Mrs Dowey feels left out . . . until she spots a newspaper despatch mentioning Private Kenneth Dowey of the Canadian Black Watch . ( In the original play , the soldier was Scottish : here he's been made Canadian so that Gary Cooper won't have to attempt a Scottish accent . ) Mrs Dowey tells her neighbours and co-workers that this soldier is her son . She then proceeds to send him letters and cakes , which she claims are from ' Lady Dolly Kanister ' , apparently a genuine person . ( I guarantee that no peeress was ever named Dolly , much less Kanister . ) She reads to the other charwomen extracts from ' letters ' she receives from her ' son ' ; these are really blank paper . The well-meaning Reverend Willings , believing that Pvt Dowey is genuinely Mrs Dowey's son , arranges for them to meet . Private Dowey ( Cooper ) is astonished to learn that this scrubwoman is his ' Lady Dolly ' benefactress . There is a genuinely touching scene in which Dowey tells her that he is an orphan , while Mrs Dowey excitedly recalls her ' memories ' of young Kenneth's boyhood . These ' memories ' are all her own invention , yet she has genuinely persuaded herself that this handsome soldier is her son whom she has raised from birth , and that these memories are real . Like Martha in ' Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? ' , Mrs Dowey has given herself a pathetic fantasy of motherhood , and now she inhabits it so fully that she believes it is real . This screenplay opens up the original play considerably , as Private Dowey now takes his ' mother ' to the theatre and to a restaurant , where they sup champagne . ( He must be getting a general's wages . ) By the time his leave is up , these two people have touchingly accepted each other as mother and son . Private Dowey returns to the front , where he soon volunteers for a mission to eliminate a German machine-gun nest . He dies a hero . . . and his posthumous medal is given to his mother , Sarah Ann Dowey . " Seven Days ' Leave " could have become dangerously bathetic , yet it works much better than I had expected , and this is largely down to Gary Cooper's splendid performance . The screenplay dilutes much of James M Barrie's twee-ness , and I expect that cynical John Farrow deserves the credit for this . Beryl Mercer gives ( by her standards ) a surprisingly restrained performance ; the very underrated director Richard Wallace deserves praise for this . Daisy Belmore is quite good as one of Mercer's sister charwomen . I was expecting " Seven Days ' Leave " to be a wallow in treacle , but it's far less cloying than I'd expected . I'll rate this movie , mostly for Cooper's performance , Wallace's directing , and the screenplay .
Death looms .	SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . ' Loom ' is a weird little movie . All the characters are stop-motion mannequins - - with some cheating at the beginning and the end - - but there's more weirdness here than there needs to be . Two of the mannequins have blue skin , versus the semi-realistic flesh tones of the others , but there doesn't seem to be any specific link between the two blue characters . One of the mannequins , a busker , has a square goatee which is apparently meant to signify that he's a hipster . A flesh-and-blood man with such an unnaturally-shaped beard would look disorienting but still real . Here , the oddly-shaped beard adds to the unreality of a character who already looks only vaguely realistic . The opening shot is a close-up of a real loom in the process of weaving a piece of cloth : entirely realistic , and therefore not preparing us for the unrealities to come . Then we see the weaver ; a bizarre blue-faced crone . Someone enters and gives her a pair of shears . With great effort , the crone steps outside . A 1950s-style American car , with rocket tailfins , zips past . In the street , a busker is playing a bass viol : an odd instrument for a street musician . A man and a little girl approach . In realistic interaction without dialogue , the little girl indicates to her companion ( her father ? ) that she wants some money to give to the busker . One of her coins rolls away ; she steps into the street to retrieve it , unaware of an approaching coach . The busker dives into its path , saving the girl's life but ending his own . We next see the injured busker lying on the pavement , in agony . The little girl and her father have apparently scarpered , even though this man just saved her life : that's gratitude for you ! Now the crone takes out a bobbin , which hangs suspended in air , slowly revolving round its longest axis above the busker's head . A long thread extrudes from the dying man's forehead , levitating skyward like the Indian Rope Trick , and is slowly wound onto the bobbin . When the crone takes out her shears and snips off the thread , the man dies . . . peacefully resting at last . The crone takes his thread back to her loom , and adds it to her tapestry . It's obvious that this crone represents one or more of the three ancient Fates : Clothos , Lachesis and Atropos . I was impressed by the bookend device which film-maker Scott Kravitz used in order to bring us into and out of his fantasy realm . All of the characters are stop-action mannequins . . . but at the very beginning and ending , the crone is played by an actress ( actor ? ) filmed in real time , wearing soft-sculpture mitts on both hands and a mask over her face . This makes the loom sequences easier and less expensive to film than the stop-action sequences ; it also has the effect of beginning and ending the movie with a comparatively realistic image . I'll rate ' Loom ' , and I look forward to seeing more work by Scott Kravitz .
Elevator music .	George Stoll was a long-time utility man in MGM's music department who did a bit of everything : orchestration ( to Oscar-winning success ) , composing ( to much less success ) and even dubbing the singing voices for the male Munchkins . ' Swing Banditry ' was his big attempt at being an on-screen performer . It took me a bit of time to realise that this short film's title is a play on the phrase ' swing band ' . I suspect that Stoll's ' orchestra ' in this film were merely house musicians under contract to MGM rather than a troupe formed by Stoll . This ' tabloid ' musical was written and directed by Reginald Le Borg , who worked successfully in several film genres but is now remembered ( quite fondly , though ) only by fans of his low-budget horror movies . For ' Swing Banditry ' he comes up with a deeply contrived plot . SPOILERS AHEAD . After an establishing exterior shot of a skyscraper , a sign informs us that this is the quarters of the Globe Broadcasting Company . We see several men in snap-brim hats and trenchcoats loitering in the lobby . One of them is Stoll , clutching a violin case ( hmmm . . . ) . The men are accompanied by a pretty blonde in a slouch hat : could she be the Stoll moll ? Along comes a weedy little man ( Maurice Cass ) wearing a pince-nez . When he gets into the lift , most of the trenchcoats jump aboard too , shoving the liveried liftman out into the lobby . ' You're going for a little ride ' , Stoll tells the trembling pince-nezzed man as the elevator ascends . The weedy little man is the oddly-named Royal Cummings , head of the broadcasting company . . . and Stoll and his musicians ( for of course that's what they are ) have tried this desperate stratagem because they can't get a chance to audition . They promptly launch into a rendition of ' Sing , Sing , Sing ' right there in the crowded elevator . ( Acoustics ? What acoustics ? ) The tuba player and the trombonist have to take the stairs . The pretty blonde turns out to be the vocalist ; now she unbuttons her coat to reveal her maracas , which she shakes while she warbles . I really like ' Sing , Sing , Sing ' but - - like most big-band fans - - I associate this number with Benny Goodman's arrangement featuring the dynamic drum work of Gene Krupa . Stoll's ensemble in ' Swing Banditry ' have got no percussionist at all ( except for those maracas ) , and Stoll's orchestration of this tune is meant to favour his own violin playing . There's simply no way that a violin can outperform a drum in ' Sing , Sing , Sing ' , a number for which that manic beat is so important . Stoll and his bandmates continue their strong-arm tactics , abducting a page and stealing his Buttons uniform so they can stitch up the radio company's real orchestra and get them arrested ( by an improbably large squad of cops ) . I was delighted to spot Franklin Pangborn in this movie as the radio announcer , but his role is quite brief . Of course , Stoll and his gang go on the air instead of the house band , and are a huge hit . It's a shame that Stoll's blonde vocalist is uncredited , as she's quite good . ( Though she freshens her makeup just as she starts her RADIO performance . ) Here she sings ' My Blue Heaven ' with the lyric changed to ' just Georgie and me ' , implying that she and Stoll are an item . I try to perceive old movies in the context of their time , but it's sometimes difficult . . . such as when they treat racial stereotypes as humour ( we get a chucklin ' Negro porter here ) , or when cigarette smoking is romanticised . During ' Swing Banditry ' , Stoll and his musicians commit several illegal acts which are laughed off as legitimate ploys to obtain an audition . In our post - world , these antics would have got Stoll locked up toot-sweet . But there's sweet music in ' Swing Banditry ' , and I even liked the ( unlikely but attractive ) 1930s typeface on the elevator's dial . I'll rate this unusual short .
Too many Ladislauses ; or , are you being Serbed ?	The movie's title translates as ' Ulrich of Celje and Ladislaus Hunyadi ' . This 13-minute Serbian film was acclaimed as one of the real finds at the 2006 Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy , where I saw it . The festival screened a beautiful new 35mm sepia print made via the Desmet method , copied from the original nitrate positive and nitrate negative , both of which have miraculously survived in the Reinthaler Collection at Filmarchiv Austria . The excellent photography was credited to one Louis De Beery , a mystery man of the silent-film era . It has only recently ( as I write this ) been learnt that De Beery was actually Lajos Zoltan Arpad Pitrof , a Hungarian who apparently felt that success would come more easily if he were a Frenchman . The uncredited script ( believed to be by ' De Beery ' ) is based on an 1839 stage play and an 1844 opera adaptated from that play , both titled ' Hunyadi Ladislaus ' . All three dramatisations are based on a true incident in Serbian history . I'm not familiar with the original incident ; this film review is based solely on the film , which I'm assuming is historically accurate . In November 1456 , numerous intrigues and pretenders threaten the royal succession in the kingdom of Hungary . Count Ulrich of Celje is the uncle , guardian and regent of young King Ladislaus V . This film details the uprisings of another Ladislaus - - Hunyadi - - whose insurgents storm the Belgrade fortress , murder Count Ulrich , and seize control of the city . Hunyadi's forces are then overthrown by loyalist royalists , leading to the execution of Hunyadi . Even though it has room for one Ladislaus too many , this film is so brief that it necessarily consists of tableaux rather than a flowing narrative . The actors show absolutely no experience in the techniques of film acting , and confine themselves largely to striking poses and pulling faces . Evidently this particular incident in history is deeply significant to the people of Hungary , and I've no doubt that audiences in 1911 applauded this very simple and simplistic staging of a story they already knew well . The programme notes at Sacile revealed an interesting fact about this movie which I would not have known on my tod : this brief and by-the-numbers epic was the first film ever made in Serbia ( explaning why the actors have no film experience ) . However , a few days after this production was wrapped , the same production unit made a larger and more ambitious historic epic , ' The Life and Deeds of the Immortal Duke Karadjordja ' . Recognising that this second film was the better of the two , they chose to release it first . Accordingly , ' Duke Karadjordja ' has been ( inaccurately ) acclaimed in Serbia and neighbouring nations as the very first Serbian film , when in fact ' Ulrich of Celje ' precedes it . Ah , well . The makers of this film deserve high marks for effort , with somewhat lower marks for execution . If I make allowances for the fact that this movie was made way back in 1911 , I must also bear in mind that far more elaborate and ambitious ( and better ) movies were being made in other nations at that date . However , those production companies in other nations had access to bigger production budgets . Split the difference , and I'll rate this interesting historical footnote .
Movie magic revealed !	For reasons which quite elude me , there are a large number of people who claim to be movie-lovers yet who are actively hostile to the technical aspects of the film-making process . One very respected film critic has repeatedly asserted that the Academy Awards ceremony would be improved by having the " boring " tech awards " that nobody cares about " ( his words ) presented off-camera . I guess people like him want to believe that the Emerald City of Oz is a real place , instead of a set that somebody designed and a lot of people built . It saddens me , angers me and baffles me that more people are interested in the " red carpet " part of the Oscars ( in which a bunch of overpaid airheads flaunt their face-lifts ) than in the behind-the-scenes magic that is a vital part of movie-making . People such as the above critic will be bored by ' Masters of Production ' . However , if you ( like me ) are passionately interested in every aspect of film design and production , then you will be utterly fascinated ( as I was ) by this tele-documentary , which includes some gorgeous clips from classic Hollywood films . ( Full disclosure : I've recently worked on a project with Hugh Munro Neely , one of the filmmakers who created this documentary . ) A major flaw of documentaries like this one is that they can't always get legal access to the clips they want . . . or must pay too much money in order to obtain those clips . Consequently , what we see here is skewed towards the clips that are available , rather than a full history of the subject . ' Masters of Production ' tells us , quite accurately , that the greatest production designer of all time was William Cameron Menzies . . . but then creates the impression that Menzies's career consisted solely of ' Gone with the Wind ' . We see nothing of his brilliant work from ' Thief of Bagdad ' , ' Things to Come ' , ' Kings Row ' or ' Invaders from Mars ' . We get a brief clip of the delightful ' Ascot Gavotte ' , possibly the most art-directed number in ' My Fair Lady ' . I would like to have seen more of this , and a few clips of the stylised exterior sets from ' West Side Story ' would have been nice too . We get a few sound bites from Richard Sylbert ( to whom this film is dedicated ) , and some clips from perhaps the most famous film he production-designed : ' Chinatown ' , with its faux 1930s setting . I've long considered ' Chinatown ' to be a deeply overrated film , for several reasons . As far as its production design goes , ' Chinatown ' has the same flaw as many other films with period settings : everything is too clean , and all the actors display lots of orthodontia . I was more impressed with Sylbert's comments on ' The Graduate ' , another film he designed . According to his quotes here , an incredible amount of thought and effort went into such minor details as the size , shape and colour of the front door on Benjamin's ( Dustin Hoffman's ) house . Indeed , some of the best production design work avoids calling attention to itself . When I first saw ' The Graduate ' , I assumed that the interior sequences in Benjamin's house and in Mrs Robinson's house were shot in actual locations : now I realise how much painstaking work went into the design and creation of what were , in fact , movie sets . Also impressive here is the fact that ' Masters of Production ' gives some tribute to Cecil B DeMille , a director who is currently very unfashionable . As this documentary accurately notes , DeMille ( unlike most directors ) was deeply and passionately involved in the design aspects of all his films . We see here a brief clip that purports to be DeMille directing a sequence from ' The Crusades ' : actually , this is from a promotional trailer , with DeMille enacting staged dialogue . Given that one of the producers of ' Masters of Production ' is DeMille's grand-daughter , I'm surprised and disappointed that so little footage from his films is on offer here . We also see a brief clip from ' Frankenstein ' : the thunderstorm sequence in which the Monster is brought to life by Dr Frankenstein's elaborate lab equipment . I regret that this documentary didn't identify the designer of that equipment : Kenneth Strickfaden , who parodied his own mad-scientist apparatus decades later in ' Young Frankenstein ' . Perhaps I'm being too critical : this documentary was created for a one-hour time slot on educational television , and I suppose it's inevitable that many details of this subject would get left out . if you're one of those Munchkins who doesn't want to know that there's someone behind the curtain , manipulating all the magic that you see in front of the camera , then give this documentary a miss . However , if you are a true movie lover , passionately interested in the behind-the-scenes aspects of movie-making , ' Masters of Production ' is an utterly fascinating and too-brief overview of that subject . I'll rate this documentary .
Huston in Lon Chaney-land	' A House Divided ' is an excellent film from early in the career of underrated director William Wyler . It features a first-rate performance by Walter Huston . ( His son John Huston gets a dialogue credit . ) In 1926 , Walter Huston starred on Broadway in ' Konga ' , a melodrama that became Lon Chaney's silent film ' West Zanzibar ' , which in turn was remade as a talkie under its original title , with Huston playing Chaney's role . Walter Huston and Lon Chaney were very similar actors : they both started in vaudeville as song-and-dance men but achieved success in dramatic roles . They were similar types and often played similar roles . Coincidentally , both had sons who achieved success as character actors . Although Chaney is best known for playing deformed or crippled men , he more typically played a coarse villain who sacrificed himself for a younger woman who spurns him in favour of a younger and more callow man . ' A House Divided ' stars Walter Huston in a role that seems tailor-made for Lon Chaney . Huston plays Seth Law , a widower in a Pacific fishing village . Law's son Matt ( played by Kent Douglass , who later became better known as Douglass Montgomery ) is a sensitive type who longs to give up the hard life of a fisherman in favour of an easy job as a farmer ( ! ) . Seth despises his son , whom he considers a weakling . Seth sends away for a mail-order bride , intentionally choosing a plain-looking woman who's built for hard work . What he gets instead is the delicate and pretty Ruth Evans ( played by Helen Chandler , in a much better performance than she gave in ' Dracula ' ) . Seth gallantly offers to pay Ruth's way back to where she came from , but Ruth is determined to make a life for herself here . To give Ruth his protection , Seth marries her . . . but it's clearly a marriage in name only . Charles Middleton plays the minister who presides at the marriage , but Middleton's fans will be disappointed at how little he gets to do here . Inevitably , Seth gradually becomes attracted to pretty Ruth and decides to consummate the marriage . . . but just as inevitably , a romance evolves between Ruth and sensitive young Matt . I was watching this movie with no idea of where its plot would go , and I found myself thinking this was really a Lon Chaney vehicle . . . and then suddenly the movie leaps directly into the heart of Lon Chaney territory . One dark night , Seth and Matt have a fight in Seth's house . Matt knocks Seth through the upstairs railing , and the fall breaks Seth's spine . ( Just as Chaney's character was crippled in ' West of Zanzibar ' . ) Seth is now a paraplegic . From this point to the end of the film , Walter Huston literally drags himself across the scenery , as Chaney did in ' West of Zanzibar ' . I shan't tell you the ending , but it's a two-fisted climax with lots of melodrama , very much in the Chaney tradition . The art direction for this movie is excellent : it was filmed in a real fishing village , and the set dressing reeks of authenticity . There's one very good line when a boat returns to harbour , and a fisherman onshore can tell from a distance that the boat hasn't caught any fish because it isn't shipping water : this is exactly the sort of thing that a real fisherman would notice . Gibson Gowland ( a major actor in silent films ) gives a good performance as the bartender , and there's one very funny gag involving a ( genuine ) one-legged man in a barroom brawl . In the early scenes of this film ( before he gets crippled ) , Seth sings and dances . Walter Huston was an expert singer and dancer , but here he wisely ( and bravely ) restrains his own abilities , so that Seth Law sings and dances in the clumsy and untrained manner which is exactly appropriate for a coarse fisherman . I'm always annoyed by scenes in non-musical dramas in which an actor or actress playing a ' normal ' person suddenly bursts into song or dance and uses the opportunity to show off a trained singing voice and years of dance lessons . Walter Huston was too good an actor to indulge in such ego trips . I'll rate ' A House Divided ' . Huston is excellent , but I wish I could have seen Lon Chaney playing this role .
Neglected Frank Capra classic	' The Way of the Strong ' is an excellent crime drama from the late silent era , proving that Frank Capra had a firm grasp of the grammar of film techniques before he made his first talkie . The subject matter is also unusual for Capra : this film deals with themes that are more typical for Raoul Walsh or Howard Hawks . One of my least favourite movie plots is the old ' good crook / bad crook ' chestnut . This is the one in which the ' hero ' is a crook , but we're supposed to like him because he's charming and good-looking and a snappy dresser . . . and because somebody else in the same movie is an even bigger crook but without the good looks and the charm . We're expected to empathise with the ' good ' crook while he takes over the criminal empire of the ( uglier , coarser and sloppier ) rival crook . . . and , conveniently , the ' good ' crook is never shown robbing or cheating anyone except other criminals . ( ' The Sting ' is a textbook example of this hoary old plot . ) This plot line was already a cliché in 1928 , when Tod Browning directed Lon Chaney in ' The Big City ' . Refreshingly , ' The Way of the Strong ' stands the cliché on its head . In Capra's film , both of the rival gangsters are established as unsympathetic at the beginning of the film , and the ' good ' crook must gradually earn our sympathy through his actions , rather than charming us with a flashy wardrobe or some snappy dialogue . Even more refreshingly , for once the ' good ' crook is extremely ugly . Outside of ' The Hunchback of Notre Dame ' or ' The Elephant Man ' , I can't recall any other film besides ' The Way of the Strong ' in which a character so grotesque-looking is still meant to engage our sympathy . ( I'm excluding films such as ' The Phantom of the Opera ' , in which the deformed character hides his features behind a mask . ) Mitchell Lewis gives an astonishing performance as a bootlegger with the ironic nickname ' Handsome ' Williams . . . ironic because he is a spectacularly ugly man . The close-ups in this movie indicate that actor Lewis is displaying his own extremely lumpy face on screen , with little or no prosthetic make-up . Based on this film , Lewis was an extremely talented actor , yet I've never seen him in a leading role in any other film ; I'm forced to conclude that his grotesque features compromised his career . He looks slightly acromegalic , although not so extreme as Rondo Hatton or William F . Sauls ( an acromegalic bit actor whom Capra used in several films over the course of three decades , and who also played a gangster in ' Some Like it Hot ' ) . ' Handsome ' Williams meets Nora , a young woman who is down-and-out but attractive . ( A good performance from Alice Day , whose voice was unsuitable for talkies . ) It's clear that Williams is attracted to Nora for sexual reasons , but we gradually see that he also feels genuine concern for her welfare . He gives her money and allows her to live in his mansion , which is also the headquarters for his bootlegging empire . We sense that Williams would like to have sex with Nora but fears rejection due to his spectacular ugliness . Williams's enemy is rival bootlegger Tiger Louie , played by William Norton Bailey . Each bootlegger commands a gang of thugs . Eventually the rivalry between the two gangs erupts into all-out gang war , with Nora caught in the middle . SPOILER COMING . It would be nice to report that Williams is reformed by the love of a good woman , and that Nora overcomes her disgust for Williams's ugliness , and she learns to return his love . Sad to say , these things don't happen . Williams wins the gang war , but he knows that Nora could never love him . He ends up drowning . The final shot in this movie is remarkably similar to the final shot in ' Phantom of the Opera ' . I saw this movie at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City , and I was distressed when other people at the screening laughed during the gang-war sequence , in which Williams and his henchmen defend his mansion with elaborate machine-guns on the staircases . I didn't see anything ludicrous about this . During Prohibition , bootlegging was an extremely lucrative enterprise , and criminals defended themselves ( against government agents and rival crooks ) with substantial firepower . Nowadays , drugs dealers use the most lethal weapons available : bootleggers did the same thing in the 1920s . I'll rate ' The Way of the Strong ' . The script is excellent ; why did these screenwriters spend their entire careers in obscurity ?
A brief glimpse of briefs	IMDb's synopsis for ' He Didn't Finish the Story ' is accurate but incomplete . It leaves out the single most important event in the film . . . the event that prompted nickelodeon audiences ( especially men ) to view this short movie over and over . In the very early days of the cinema , movies were so short that a ' comedy ' film was basically a set-up for a single very simple gag , usually crude slapstick . This film is a good example . ' He Didn't Finish the Story ' consists of one camera set-up , showing a man presiding at a dinner table with a long tablecloth , laid with place settings . The table is flanked by two women in rocking chairs . The women wear the long skirts of this period . The man is telling a complicated story : he makes extravagant gestures all the while he is talking . He mops himself with his pocket handkerchief . The two women rock back and forth faster and faster as they get caught up in the excitement of the man's ( unheard ) narrative ; there is some impressive acting here in this crude dumb-show , and good use of body language . As the man approaches the climax of his story , a messenger arrives with a telegram . The man is annoyed at this interruption . He drops his handkerchief , retrieves it , and stuffs it into his pocket without noticing that he's also cramming a corner of the tablecloth into his pocket . The man reads the telegram . There's no insert close-up to show us the telegram's message , but - whatever it says - the man is so agitated by the message that he runs from the room . There's a slapstick ' punchline ' : the tablecloth comes with him , scattering dishes all over the floor . SPOILER COMING . Now here's the bit that's the whole point of the film . As the man hurries out of the room , one of the rocking chairs tips over and the woman inside it falls to the floor in a flurry of petticoats . This is so well done , I can't tell if it was rehearsed or if it's a genuine accident that the cameraman captured on film . ( The cameraman for this brief film was the great Johann Gottlob Wilhelm ' Billy ' Bitzer , later so important in the career of DW Griffith . ) I suspect that the on-camera accident seen here is genuine ; in 1899 , there probably weren't a lot of women who were willing to take a deliberate fall in long skirts ( even for pay ) . . . and they probably wouldn't have been able to make it seem an accident . Anyway , when this woman tips over , her skirts fly up and we get a good look at her petticoats . In 1899 , a glimpse of a lady's underthings was a big deal for most men , and probably a thrill for women too . Probably this spill was an unscripted accident , but the bosses at American Mutoscope realised they had something good on their hands . ' He Didn't Finish the Story ' was one of this company's most popular releases for 1899 , and I'll bet that those petticoats are why . I'll rate this crude comedy , for its producers having the sense to hang onto an on-camera accident .
Now , if he'd made her CLOTHES disappear . . .	' Concealment of a Lady at the House of Robert-Houdin ' is one of the early ' trick ' films of Georges Méliès . In this case , his choice of trick is a questionable one , as here Méliès is merely reproducing ( on film ) a conjuror's illusion which Robert-Houdin and many other magicians had done live in their stage acts . . . so , Méliès is using a camera trick to achieve what the conjurors achieved with stagecraft . Later , Méliès's better and more complicated trick films offered feats which could only be done via camera wizardry . . . thus beating the stage illusionists at their own game . An elegant corseted lady is seated in a chair on the stage . Méliès , dressed in evening attire , drapes a cloth over her , then whisks it away . Hey presto ! The lady has been transformed into a skeleton . For modern audiences , accustomed to ' Bewitched ' and such , it's almost laughably obvious that Méliès achieves his effect with a simple jump cut . Unfortunately , Méliès's trickery is cruder and more obvious than it needed to be - - even by 1896 standards - - because the skeleton seated in the chair is about three inches taller than the woman it has replaced . I suspect that , even in 1896 , audiences realised that Méliès had substituted the skeleton for the lady , rather than whisked away her clothing and her flesh to leave her own skeleton remaining . This film's title may have been clear in the 19th century , but now wants some explanation . Robert-Houdin was a legendary French stage magician of the Victorian era . ( As I write this , Michael Douglas is planning to star in ' Smoke and Mirrors ' , based on a true incident in Robert-Houdin's career . ) Harry Houdini adapted his own stage name in honour of Robert-Houdin . As a boy , Georges Méliès attended performances of stage magic at Theatre Robert-Houdin , the magician's exhibition hall in Paris . After Robert-Houdin's death , the adult Méliès bought the magician's theatre and adapted it as the studio in which he filmed his trick movies . Quite conveniently , Theatre Robert-Houdin was already fitted with trap doors and other trickery which Méliès put to good use . More for its historic value than for its entertainment value or the level of its conjuring , I'll rate this early film .
Karloff on the brink of stardom .	' Graft ' is a peculiar film . It's a straightforward crime drama , except that the actor in the central role - - Regis Toomey - - plays his character as a comic-relief stumblebum . He plays a reporter named Dustin Hotchkiss , a name that's nearly as funny as " Regis Toomey " . At one point , Hotchkiss sees the D . A . shot dead by an unknown assailant . As Hotchkiss hurries away , he bumps into another man fleeing the same scene . . . and it doesn't occur to him that this might be the gunman , as indeed it is . Nor is Toomey's character the only one slow on the uptake . Dorothy Revier plays a ward-heeler's floozy who threatens to shop him to the D . A . The ward-heeler's toady promptly abducts her , holds her hostage for several days , then tells her she's going on a trip . He hustles her to the quay , drags her aboard a yacht , puts her in a cabin and locks the door . This is when she begins to suspect she's in trouble . We get several of the crusading-newspaper clichés here . Willard Robertson is extremely impressive as the newspaper's overworked editor , juggling incoming calls on a row of candlestick telephones . Hotchkiss's rival is a reporter cried Speed Hansen , but Speed doesn't seem to be in a hurry . Sue Carol is annoyingly twee and crumple-faced as the daughter of the reform candidate . George Irving is good in that brief role . . . but please note that his character is named Robert Hall , not the punning " M . T . Hall " that's shown on IMDb's cast list . Carmelita Geraghty , whom I've never liked , has one very peculiar scene as a receptionist who shows up at the office dressed in elaborate chinoiserie . Christy Cabanne's direction is brisk throughout , although with a bit too much undercranking in the action sequences , and some of the rear projection is more obvious than it needs to be . This story takes place in an unnamed city , but the street photography makes it clear we're in Los Angeles . ' Graft ' is ( rightly ) best known for featuring Boris Karloff in one of his last roles pre-'Frankenstein ' . ( James Whale discovered him while he was shooting this film on the Universal lot . ) Although Karloff has only a supporting role , Cabanne seems to be aware of Karloff's star quality , and gives him every opportunity to shine . Karloff makes his first entrance with his back to the camera ( anticipating ' Frankenstein ' ) , and he's thoroughly menacing throughout the film . There are several good points in ' Graft ' , but Karloff's performance is far and away the best reason for seeing this film . Almost entirely on the strength of his performance and Cabanne's direction , I'll rate ' Graft ' .
It's no ' Metropolis ' , but . . .	' Metropolis ' is my all-time favourite film , although the performances of its romantic leads ( Brigitte Helm and Gustav Fröhlich ) are hardly the greatest assets in that great movie . Still , I was eager to see them teamed up in ' Gloria ' , partly to find out if the chemistry of their pairing could make the transition to talkies ( it does ) , and partly to see them acting together in roles that are more realistic than the highly expressionist ' Metropolis ' . The early talkie ' Gloria ' was shot in two different versions - - one German , one French - - both with Helm , but with different male leads and supporting casts . In the days before overdubbed soundtracks , this multiple-version system was a common practice in Hollywood but much less commonplace in Europe . The name ' Gloria ' doesn't refer to Helm's character : it's the name of the hero's aeroplane , and of course it's also Latin for ' glory ' . Georg Köhler ( Fröhlich ) is a former stunt flyer , who has now settled down to a comparatively safe job as a mail pilot . . . which is still very dangerous . His wife Maris ( Helm ) , concerned for his safety , doesn't want him to fly at all . But Georg has got the stratosphere in his veins ( figuratively ) , and he refuses to give up flying . Maris believes that her husband loves flying more than he loves her , and there's certainly evidence of this . Even though Georg and Maris have a young son ( well-played by child actor Rolf Drucker ) , their disagreement over Georg's passion for flight has strained their marriage to the breaking point . SPOILERS COMING . But then Georg gets a chance to make a transatlantic flight which - - if he survives - - will mean financial security for both of them and their son . Will Maris accept Georg the way he is , or will she clip his wings and bring him down to earth ? ' Gloria ' is largely a marital soap opera , but there are some exciting flight sequences which are well-staged and don't appear to involve stock footage . ( Although I suspect that the aerial footage used here was re-used for the French-language version . ) The direction and the photography ( ground-level as well as aerial ) are above average . Helm is excellent as a realistic woman , radically different from her two ' Metropolis ' roles . Fröhlich is rather less impressive , yet he acquits himself well . As their son , Rolf Drucker is blessedly free of the twee mannerisms of so many child actors of this period . My biggest dislike about this film was that I couldn't sympathise with the character played by Helm : if she objects so strongly to Georg's passion for flight ( which is also his livelihood ) , then why ever did she marry him ? The ending was quite as I expected , yet deeply satisfying . I'll rate this film .
Passing the buck before Buchenwald .	This film's title merits some explanation . Technically , the German word for a 50-mark banknote is " Fünfziger " ( mit umlaut ) , but in informal speech this is often rendered as " Fuffziger " ( ohne umlaut ) . Literally , " ein falscher Fuffziger " means " a false ( counterfeit ) 50-mark note " , but in German slang " ein falscher Fuffziger " is usually applied figuratively to a person , to indicate that he or she is phony or dishonest . Just as Americans will refer to a certain sort of individual as " a three-dollar bill " , Germans will refer to a fraudulent person as " a phony fifty " . In this very interesting movie , the title seems meant both literally and figuratively . I wish I knew what the 1935 exchange rates were , so that I could tell you what 50 German marks might equal in dollars or sterling of that time . I do know that the weekly wage in 1935 for a typical German worker - - such as Christa Bach , the heroine of this film - - was significantly less than 50 marks . In 1935 Germany , 50M banknotes were comparatively rare , so the average citizen ( seldom handling the genuine article ) would be unfamiliar with them and mightn't readily spot a fake . Mr Wallner and Mrs Strachwitz are partners in crime : he counterfeits 50-mark notes , and she passes them . Her favoured method is to make a small purchase in a busy shop , paying for the item with a fifty and demanding more than 45 marks ' change whilst the cashier is too distracted to inspect the banknote properly . When she does this in the appliance shop where pretty young Christa works the till , Mrs Strachwitz haughtily claims to be Frau Plüschkow , the wife of the local privy councillor . When Christa discovers that the banknote is boodle , she realises that she is now responsible for the shop's loss : more than her weekly wage ! Rather than doubting Frau Plüschkow's honesty , Christa assumes that the councillor's wife must have passed the bad note in good faith . . . and will surely make it good . However , when she brings the counterfeit to the very posh plush Plüschkow residence , the real Frau Plüschkow ( honestly ) denies all knowledge of it . Thinking that Christa is accusing her of falsehood or theft or worse , the councillor's wife indignantly has Christa tossed into the street . Reluctantly , Christa makes good the shop's loss from her own meagre funds , and she puts aside the bad banknote . . . intending to hold it for a few years until her now-infant nephew is old enough to appreciate it as a novelty present . But the note accidentally gets back into circulation , and complications ensue . SPOILERS COMING : The privy councillor and his wife have a handsome son George who is a bank director , and therefore very interested in banknotes both true and false . So , guess how this movie ends for Christa . There are several excellent performances here , not least from the pretty Lucie Englisch as Christa Bach . I found her character's surname distracting , since " bach " in Wales ( literally " little " in Welsh ) is a term of endearment . Käthe Haack and Theo Lingen are quite good as , respectively , Christa's sister and brother-in-law . I must strongly disagree with IMDb reviewer Thursdays ( any relation to the Man Who Was Thursdays ? ) , who stated that it " was rare during this period " for a German film to lack Nazi propaganda or political references . I'm no defender of the Third Reich , but the historic truth is that most of the movies produced in Germany during Hitler's reign were in fact NOT propaganda movies . . . and the ones that were propaganda nearly always avoided explicit Nazi references , preferring to cite earlier figures in Germany's history , such as Schiller or Goethe . ' The Phony Fifty ' is an excellent film , quite entertaining , and while watching this 1935 German production it is indeed quite easy not to think of Nazism at all . I'll rate this one .
Gnong , gnong , gnong !	Bert Lahr starred in several musical revues on Broadway , but one of his rare successes in a ' book ' musical ( with a plotline ) was ' Flying High ' , a topical comedy which scored points off the aviation contests and wing-walking stunts that were so popular in America at this time . The plot is some froth about rival aviators competing for a transcontinental air race ; the winner to receive a large cash prize , fame , and so forth . Gordon is the wealthy playboy pilot who wants to sink his skyhooks into sweet little Eileen Cassidy . Bert Lahr , in fine form and looking surprisingly athletic , plays Rusty Krause , the airfield mechanic who is ( somewhat unwillingly ) engaged to Pansy ( Charlotte Greenwood ) , who seems to be some sort of airport groupie . Rusty , who has no piloting experience , accidentally goes aloft in an experimental ' aero-copter ' . Not willing to let her man fly away that easily , Pansy jumps on the tail of the ' copter just before it leaves the ground . Once they're up in the air , something goes wrong with the ' copter . While Rusty moans in terror , Pansy climbs out on the fuselage and fixes the rudder . Charlotte Greenwood is one of my favourite actresses : funny , intelligent , and extremely athletic despite her tall gawky physique . She often played super-competent women strangely attracted to weakling men . She's an utter delight here , doing her airborne acrobatics ( despite some bad process photography ) . When ' Flying High ' ran on Broadway , Lahr's leading lady was Kate Smith . . . yes , the moon-mountainous singer . I can't imagine how the stage production managed the climactic scene in the aero-copter , high above solid ground . . . and I also can't imagine the very plus-sized Kate Smith as Pansy , enacting a stagebound version of Charlotte Greenwood's acrobatics in this movie . That's not a cheap crack about Kate Smith's girth ; I'm forced to assume that her characterisation was very different from Greenwood's . The funniest scene in this film is Lahr's medical examination , in which Doc Brown straps him into a revolving drum and sends it spinning rapidly while Lahr howls in agony . But the best gag of all comes in the same scene , while Lahr's feet are on the ground . ( I'll set up the joke by mentioning that this movie was made during Prohibition , when every red-blooded American male carried a hip flask full of booze . ) The doctor hands Lahr an empty bottle and tells Lahr to give him a ' specimen ' . Lahr doesn't know what this means . Just as the doctor is about to explain , his phone rings . While on the phone , Doc Brown pantomimes to Lahr that he must fill up the bottle . As the doctor looks away , Lahr whips out his hip flask and fills the bottle with amber fluid . ( I assume it's amber ; this is a monochrome movie . ) Doc Brown rings off the phone , just in time for Lahr to hand him a full bottle and announce : ' Here y'go , Doc . I could only spare a quart . ' The sophisticated audiences on Broadway gave this line the biggest laugh of Lahr's career . It's a pity that Lahr is remembered only as the Cowardly Lion , and his brilliant comedy portrayals are forgotten . I'll rate ' Flying High ' .
Dance , Gypsy maiden .	Shown in October 2008 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone , Italy . They screened a DVD print from the Danish Film Institute . This is one of a series of short films made in Copenhagen by Peter Elfelt ( born Peter Lars Peterson ) as a cinematic record of the principal dances of the Danish Royal Ballet . The films are of course silent , but they depict dances choreographed to specific passages from well-known operas and ballets : for this DVD , the Danish Film Institute added an audio track of the appropriate musical passages in modern arrangements . Here we have Valborg Borchsenius performing the Gypsy dance from Verdi's " Il Trovatore " , using choreography devised by August Bournonville in 1865 . ( I wonder how they preserved it over the decades ; did they use Labanotation ? ) Borchsenius's birth name was Guldbrandsen ; apparently she thought that it would be less unwieldy if she changed it to Borchsenius . For technical reasons , Elfelt shot these dance films at his studio rather than on the stage of the Royal Ballet . Unfortunately , his studio's stage space was much smaller than the ballet's stage ; unsurprisingly , the ballet troupe choreographed their dances for the full stage . In this brief but fascinating film , Borchsenius is clearly constrained for space , and she seems to be pulling some of her movements rather than giving her body free rein . She performs in front of a painted cyclorama representing a forest glade ; at several moments , she executes a flawless single entrechat but seems to be wishing it could be a double or treble . Nevertheless , I found this film fascinating and a priceless historic record of a dance created for Verdi's music during the composer's lifetime . I'll rate this film , but I recommend it for hard-core balletomanes only .
George Formby's funniest film	In wartime England , the # 1 box-office attraction was George Formby , a chirpy little comedian with a Lancashire accent who sang comic songs while strumming his " banjolele " ( a ukelele-sized banjo ) . His on screen character was a virginal simpleton who always caused disasters ( through his own incompetence ) and then solved them through sheer dumb luck . At the end of each movie , George always got the girl . . . but he never kissed her , since his real-life wife Beryl was usually present on the movie set to make sure that no hanky-panky transpired . " Let George Do It " is Formby's funniest film . He portrays a banjo-player who stumbles into a wartime espionage plot . There's some genuine suspense when the bad guys show up during his nightclub act , planning to murder George . . . who ( as always ) is blissfully unaware of the danger he's in . Formby's songs often featured double-entendre humour , just slightly smutty . In this film , he sings two of his best songs : " Count Your Blessings and Smile " and " Mister Wu's a Window-Washer Now " . There's a Hitchcock-like plot line , with plenty of action . In one scene , a U-boat full of Nazis rolls over and over underwater , and the film crew came up with a clever way to create this effect convincingly on a low budget . Compare this scene to a similar scene in Frank Capra's " State of the Union " , in which Van Johnson is aboard a plane that's rolling in midair . The Capra film had a much larger budget , yet the effect looks completely fake . Some of the wartime jokes in " Let George Do It " will escape Americans , such as the gag about Lord Haw Haw . ( The G . I . s in the Pacific had Tokyo Rose ; the British soldiers in wartime Europe had to deal with Lord Haw Haw . ) There's also a joke about Formby's hometown Wigan . In the same way that Jack Benny ( from Waukegan ) and Lou Costello ( from Paterson , New Jersey ) often worked their hometowns into their material , George Formby never forgot his Wigan roots . " Let George Do It " features lots of slapstick comedy and some excellent songs ; you'll enjoy it . I rate this film . Turned out nice again !
Startling visual compositions	' Living Buddhas ' is officially ' lost ' ( who gets to make these decisions , anyway ? ) , but about five and one-half minutes of footage survive in the possession of film collector Henry Nicholella , to whom my thanks for arranging their recent transmission on German television . The surviving fragments ( on which this review is based ) are non-consecutive , thus making a weird story seem even more confusing . Yet these few minutes contain some fascinating visual compositions which make me want to track down any more of this movie that might possibly exist . An expedition of European scientists to a Tibetan lamasery is led by Professor Campbel ( who spells his name with only one ' L ' , possibly because he's searching for the one-L lama ) . The rules for such movie expeditions require that he bring along his nubile young daughter ; apparently lacking a daughter , he brings along his nubile young wife instead . He crosses paths with the High Lama ( Paul Wegener ) who is in the middle of conducting some hideous insidious invidious rituals which require the sacrifice of a nubile young female . Shall we say that complications ensue ? As depicted here ( in the surviving footage and some intertitles ) , Wegener's High Lama and his acolytes are endowed with genuine supernatural powers . ( In the early twentieth century , there seemed to be a western vogue for attributing all sorts of supernatural abilities to Tibetan priests ; thus we have James Hilton's ' Lost Horizon ' and several American comic-book superheroes who got their powers in Tibet . There's also Tintin's levitating lama . And did someone mention ' The Champions ' ? ) In the footage seen here , I was impressed by a sequence in which one of the lamas ( not Wegener ) sends his soul out of his own body . While he meditates in a semi-lotus position , a double exposure of the same actor ascends through his head ( in Buddhism , the most sacred portion of the body ) and passes upwards into a levitating halo . The effect is reversed when the lama's spirit returns . Elsewhere , we see a tight close-up of Wegener's face as he bends forward , extending his broad forehead towards the camera . A separate image is superimposed on his forehead , showing the Campbel expedition while the High Lama spies on them via the psychic faculty of ' remote vision ' . I was extremely impressed by another shot of a steamship at sea , in an empty ocean with no visible land . Suddenly , from behind the horizon , a gigantic image of Wegener's Lama rears up and surveys the ship . Genuinely eerie , this . . . and made all the more effective because of Wegener's sardonic expression and facial structure . Wegener had very prominent cheekbones , which made him well-suited to playing ' alien ' characters from exotic foreign climes . I've seen colour film footage of Wegener from the mid-1930s ; he had very bright green eyes , which photographed very well in the nitrate film stock of the 1920s : the blue in Wegener's pupils drops out , making his eyes seem yellow and cat-like even in monochrome stock . Wegener was a very stolid actor , of limited expression ( making him just right to play the Golem ) but with that face he didn't need a wide range of emotions . Also seen all too briefly in these fragments is the ethereal Asta Nielsen , one of the most beautiful actresses ever to appear in films . There are also some impressive exterior shots of crowd scenes in Chinoiserie sets . The German actors in Chinese make-up look more authentic than one might expect , not remotely like the usual ' Mister Wu , how do you do ? ' Sellotape stereotype . I very seldom give ratings to films which I've seen only in incomplete versions . . . but , based on the very tantalising glimpses which I've seen here , ' Living Buddhas ' is a brilliant film which deserves to be resurrected in its entirety . I'll cautiously rate it .
Shut up , Henry : she's NOT perfect !	Each year since 1973 , the American Film Institute have given their Lifetime Achievement Award to a prominent film star or director . The choice of whom to honour has been motivated by various factors . . . such as whose name will sell the most tickets . The guest of honour must be alive , and must be willing to attend in person and give an acceptance speech . The first four annual awards were given to male recipients : in 1977 , the AFI decided it was time to honour a woman , but their committee's first choice ( Katharine Hepburn ) refused to accept the award in person , so they gave it to Bette Davis ( who apparently didn't mind being second choice for an award based on gender ) . Cary Grant had a standing offer to receive the AFI award , but he was never willing to make an acceptance speech and so he was never chosen . The year after Bette Davis accepted her tribute , the AFI chose to honour one of her co-stars , Henry Fonda . An ongoing flaw of the annual AFI tributes is that they tend to load the dais with big film names who don't really have anything to do with the guest of honour ( but who will bring in a few TV viewers ) rather than people who actually worked with the guest of honour . This Fonda tribute avoids that problem . There is a large and impressive roster of speakers here : first-rank stars who actually worked with Fonda . There is an especially heartfelt tribute from James Stewart , who knew Fonda before either was famous : they were classmates at Princeton , and then roomed together as struggling actors in New York . ( Fonda won their friendly rivalry by getting a Broadway role before Stewart . ) Ron Howard , not yet a big-shot director and major Hollywood player when this tribute was produced ( but a TV star on ' Happy Days ' ) offers some memories of co-starring with Fonda in an obscure TV series , ' The Smith Family ' . As usual for the AFI tributes , there is a generous helping of film clips from the guest of honour's career . Some of the inclusions are obvious choices , such as Fonda's brilliant ' I'll be all around in the dark ' set-piece from ' The Grapes of Wrath ' . Also as usual , the choice of clips is partly determined by which people are on hand to give tributes . Lucille Ball is one of the speakers here , so we get a clip of one of her films co-starring with Fonda . Fair enough , but the choice is a strange one . I've never liked Lucille Ball , but I was deeply impressed by her dramatic performance opposite Fonda in ' The Big Street ' , in which she played a vain selfish nightclub performer who exploits a waiter ( Fonda ) after she becomes paraplegic . Instead of a clip from this film - - in which Fonda and Ball both gave excellent performances - - we get an unfunny clip from the bland ( but hugely successful at the box office ) comedy ' Yours , Mine and Ours ' . Even the producer of that pabulum - - Robert Blumofe ( who ? ) - - gets to speak a few words here . From the star-filled crowd on offer here , it looks as though everybody in Hollywood knew Hank Fonda . Well , everybody but one . Fonda and Katharine Hepburn both spent decades in Hollywood , but they met for the FIRST time when they co-starred in ' On Golden Pond ' , two years after this AFI tribute . Another person who's not on hand here is William Wyler , who directed Fonda and Bette Davis in ' Jezebel ' . Fonda and Wyler had both been married to actress Margaret Sullavan ( Fonda had her first ) , and there was no love lost between the two men . The AFI tribute always ends with a speech by the recipient . Fonda introduces his own family ( trophy wife , film-star daughter Jane , cult-actor son Peter , granddaughter Bridget ) and then offers some memories about his own father , a newspaper editor , who influenced young Henry . ( I wish that Fonda had mentioned the interesting trivium that his drama teacher , back in Omaha , was Marlon Brando's mother . ) Next , Fonda tells a rambling yarn about his amateur debut in a high-school play . His father attended the performance , and when several people told Fonda pere how inept an actor his son was , the father replied : ' Shut up , he's perfect ! ' This gets a laugh from the AFI audience . With a smirk , Fonda then goes on to mention that people have criticised his daughter Jane for her political activities . He lets this thought linger for a moment , and then he adds ' Shut up , she's perfect ! ' . . . to great applause from the left-wing Hollywood crowd attending this event . Sorry , Hank , but your daughter gave aid and comfort to the enemy when America was at war , and she has never offered any real apology to the servicemen whom she dishonoured , even while her workout videos reap profits from the capitalist system she criticised . I've long considered Henry Fonda a great actor but a political idiot , and this tribute is diminished by the agenda of his acceptance speech . But the stardust quotient is so high , I'll rate this tribute .
High-flying high jinks	The title ' Thirteen Hours by Air ' seems vaguely science-fictionish , because in 1936 it was simply impossible for an airplane to cross the United States in 13 hours . ( Sixteen was more like it . ) But this movie seems to be presenting itself as cutting-edge rather than futuristic . Fred MacMurray , slightly less bland than usual , stars as the pilot of the fastest transcontinental ' ship ' available . He's heading from New York to California , and he's all set for chocks-away when along comes blonde Joan Bennett as an heiress who's eager to hop aboard . She hasn't a ticket , so she hands him a diamond ring the size of a doorknob . All the passengers aboard the flight are very obvious ' characters ' , ranging over a wide gamut of types . This sort of thing works very well if the film is a murder mystery , and we've got to guess which of these suspects is the killer . ( In fact , an airplane in flight would be the perfect setting for a ' locked-room ' mystery : Agatha Christie used this in one of her novels , but has anyone ever used it in a movie ? ) There is just a touch of a mystery here , but it isn't a murder . After the ' plane is in flight , MacMurray learns that some jewel thieves are on the lam : a blonde and her two henchmen . Could Bennett be the blonde ? It would explain how she got that diamond ring . Among the passengers aboard the flight are a bratty little boy named Waldemar ( whom I was hoping would turn out to be a midget police officer , working undercover ) and his nursemaid , played by ZaSu Pitts . I can tolerate Pitts in small doses , but in this movie her character gets airsick in flight . . . giving Pitts an excuse for an overdose of her annoying fluttery gestures . I was hoping MacMurray would throw her out of the ' plane over the Rocky Mountains . Oh , yeah . Among the merry passengers is a gun-toting European nobleman , played by Fred Keating with a bad accent . There are no end of high-flying high jinks along the way , some of them more plausible than others . There's an exciting sequence in which the ' plane makes a forced landing in a blizzard . MacMurray's beleaguered pilot gets some help from an unexpected source . . . although , if you read this review carefully , you'll know who I'm talking about . Ruth Donnelly is quite good , as usual . . . but there ought to be a law against Brian Donlevy and Dean Jagger ever appearing in the same movie . Both of these actors had about as much screen presence as a block of wood . Put them both in the same movie , and they resemble the Petrified Forest . ' Thirteen Hours by Air ' is about as implausible as ' Airport ' , but - - like that extremely manipulative movie - - it manages to be quite entertaining without ever being realistic . I'll rate this movie , and I enjoyed the flight .
The very first stop-action animation .	I viewed a print of this short film in the archives of the British Film Institute . ' Matches : An Appeal ' is the earliest known example of stop-animation , or indeed any form of movie animation . It is therefore of vital historic importance despite its crudity . The very brief film shows a stick-figure made of matchsticks , who climbs a stepladder to swab a paintbrush against a wall . In a technique that probably looked extremely unconvincing even to contemporary audiences , words form on the wall , presumably painted by the match-man . The message reads : ' For one guinea Messrs Bryant & May will forward a case containing sufficient to supply a box of matches to each man in a battalion with the name of the sender inside ' . As the film is dated 1899 ( when matches were still comparatively expensive items ) , presumably the battalions are British troops serving in the Boer War . However , I spoke with a curator at BFI who absolutely asserts that this film was made in the early 20th century and accordingly refers to the Great War . As I viewed an acetate dupe print rather than the original footage , I shan't offer any opinion as to this film's provenance . By modern standards , this film is almost laughably crude . But its historical significance is undeniable . I'll rate this very short film .
Hungarian ' West Side Story ' ; quite powerful .	I saw ' The Paul Street Boys ' in October 2007 at the Cinema Muto festival in Pordenone , Italy . An original nitrate print from the archives of the Jugoslovenska Kineteka in Belgrade was copied onto acetate colour stock by the Hungarian National Film Archive to recreate the original film's colour tintings . The print screened at Pordenone had intertitles in Croatian , a language which I barely comprehend . Headphones were available at the festival so that attendees could hear the titles translated into English , French or German , but I didn't use these ; I wanted to see if I could follow the action unaided , and perhaps learn some Croatian into the bargain . This film is based on a novel by Ferenc Molnar which was originally published as a Boy's Own magazine serial ; apparently the novel remains extremely popular in Hungary . I can well understand its appeal to that culture , if one perceives this story as an analogy for Hungary's political history as a piece of territory fought over by more powerful nations . The nominal heroes of this film are the Paul Street boys , a kids ' gang who are carefully established as never being involved in any serious criminal activity . Their chief activity is an ongoing turf war against a somewhat better-organised gang who wear red shirts and resemble renegade Boy Scouts . ( Good use of colour tinting to distinguish the Redshirt gang . ) The turf under contention is the ' grund ' , a piece of undeveloped land between the tenements . The Paul Street gang is run on semi-military terms , with every boy assigning himself an army rank . Every boy in the gang is an officer , except for little Nemecsek ( Gyuri Farago ) , who is the only private . Nemecsek is constantly bullied and stigmatised by the other boys in his gang , who repeatedly penalise him for minor infractions and dunk his head into water as punishment . I found it painfully credible that Nemecsek would choose to be this gang's scapegoat , since at least he is accepted as a member of the gang . . . which he clearly prefers over being a total outsider . SPOILERS NOW . As the intrigue escalates between the gangs , it becomes clear that one of the Paul Street boys is actually a traitor . Nemecsek discovers that the spy is Gereb ( Ferko Szecsi ) , a gang member more respected than himself . Nemecsek also manages to win the final battle for the " grund " . . . but at the cost of his life . And then the other boys discover that the " grund " is going to be paved over and developed , so that neither gang can claim it . Oh , bitter irony ! I don't know much of Hungary's history before the twentieth century . From a 21st-century viewpoint , it would be easy to perceive ' The Paul Street Boys ' as a political analogy : the " grund " is Hungary , with the two rival gangs representing Germany and the Soviet Union . However , Molnar's novel was originally published in 1907 : either he had some 19th-century political intrigue in mind , or else there simply wasn't any political content intended . This film makes excellent use of authentic locations , conveying the stark lives of these youths in an industrial estate which is only marginally better than a slum . ( The Redshirt gang seem to live in a better neighbourhood than the Paul Street lads . ) The child actors are convincingly gaunt and underfed ; most of them give realistic performances . Watching this movie , I felt as if I was viewing a run-up to ' West Side Story ' featuring younger boy gangs in a slightly less lethal conflict : only one boy dies here , but ultimately the violence here is shown to be just as futile . Despite my difficulties with the Croatian titles , I was entranced by this story . . . and I'll rate this powerful movie .
Excellent second feature	' Millionaires in Prison ' is an excellent example of something that doesn't exist anymore , but which was commonplace in the days of the big Hollywood studios : the second feature . In the 1930s and ' 40s , Americans went to the movies expecting to receive a full evening's worth of entertainment : a double feature plus short subjects and a newsreel . The second feature ( which was actually first , as it was screened before the main feature ) typically had a shorter running time , lower budget and more obscure actors and director than the more prestigious main feature . . . but , at their best , the second features were always well-made and solidly entertaining in their own right . ' Millionaires in Prison ' is one of the very best examples of that tradition . The movie opens with a brisk but heavy-handed expository scene , featuring a newspaper editor named R . J . Reynolds . ( Could this be a plug for the tobacco company ? ) Reynolds is giving his reporters an assignment to do a story on four millionaire financiers who have recently been sent to prison for financial shenanigans . Interestingly , the editor tells his reporters in advance precisely how they're supposed to slant their reportage . ( This sort of thing happens all the time in the real world , but I've never seen it depicted in any other movie : in Movieland , reporters are always objective truth-seekers . ) Two of the millionaires , well-played by veteran actors Raymond Walburn and Thurston Hall , are befuddled fall guys who somehow took the rap for someone else's embezzlement . Reynolds tells his reporters ( and us ) that these lads are innocent , and he adds : ' Go easy on them , boys . ' On the other hand , the other two millionaires are outright crooks who are guilty as hell , and Reynolds gleefully tells his newshounds to pull all the stops out on them . Walburn and Hall give enjoyable performances , but the characters they're playing aren't very credible . It's difficult to believe that these two dimwits could ever have been successful financiers . They're in a fairly conventional prison ( not a Club Fed ) , doing hard time , yet they seem to think they're in some sort of country club . There's a nice complement of veteran film faces here , with Lee Tracy and Morgan Conway at their cynical best , and a welcome turn by Shemp Howard . Even the annoying Chester Clute , one of my most un-favourite actors , manages to be less annoying than usual here . I kept hoping there'd be a cellblock riot and Clute would get taken hostage . ( Or maybe a scene in the prison showers where Clute drops the soap . . . ) ' Millionaires in Prison ' is very ably directed by Ray McCarey , who was much less talented than his brother Leo McCarey but who was nonetheless a reliable director in his own right . Ray McCarey's work is long overdue for reappraisal , and ' Millionaires in Prison ' is a good place to start . I'll rate this film .
Long-lost Laurel & Hardy hilarity	Besides being very funny , the silent film ' Duck Soup ' is a vitally important link in the evolution of Laurel and Hardy as a comedy team . This movie was based on a music-hall sketch written by Stan Laurel's father , Arthur Jefferson , a successful theatre manager in northern England who resented his son's attempts to become a stage comedian . Laurel and Hardy made ' Duck Soup ' at a point when they were already established as a team but were still developing the ' Stan ' and ' Oliie ' characters that would soon become so popular and beloved . By this time , Oliver Hardy had already got his fastidious little moustache , but in ' Duck Soup ' he also has a considerable amount of beard stubble which makes him look quite jowly . ' Duck Soup ' was remade only three years later as ' Another Fine Mess ' . ' Duck Soup ' was a lost film for more than 50 years : in the early 1980s , a print turned up in Belgium . The original silent-film intertitles had been cut out and replaced with French titles . Also , one insert shot of a newspaper article had been cut out and a French translation spliced in . The prints which are currently available feature English-language titles which are blatantly translations of the French titles , and this brings a jarring touch : Laurel keeps addressing Hardy as ' sir ' , which doesn't really fit the relationship between their characters . The missing shot of the newspaper article has been replaced ( in 1982 ) with a modern mock-up , and this provides an unintentional laugh . While Hardy reads the newspaper article in 1927 , we can see the article directly underneath it . . . which is all about John DeLorean getting arrested for financial misdeeds in 1982 ! Oo-er ! In ' Duck Soup ' , Laurel and Hardy are tramps who discover that a local forest fire has made things hot for them : forest rangers are conscripting all the local indigent men for firefighting duty . Fleeing from the rangers , the two pals end up sharing a bicycle at the top of a steep hill , with disastrously funny results . Still hiding from the rangers , they end up inside the swank house of Colonel Blood , who is currently away . . . but Lord and Lady Plumtree have arrived to rent the house in the colonel's absence . Hardy disguises himself as the colonel , pressing Laurel into service to masquerade as the maid ! Stan Laurel was a gifted female impersonator : one of the very few male performers who could convincingly portray a woman and be funny at the same time . His drag turn as the maid here is astonishing and funny . The ending of this movie is quite different from the ending of the remake ' Another Fine Mess ' . Laurel and Hardy would occasionally end a film with an impossible gag , and they use one here . Is Laurel and Hardy's " Duck Soup " any relation to the Marx Brothers ' movie " Duck Soup : " ? Yes , indeed ! Leo McCarey was an assistant director on this movie . Six years later , when he directed the Marxes in what would become their greatest and funniest film , McCarey decided to recycle the title from this earlier film . The talkie revolution had changed Hollywood so utterly that silent movies made only a few years earlier were regarded as obsolete and unfit for re-release . . . so McCarey figured he had a free hand to re-use the title , and this silent movie vanished into oblivion for more than half a century . Fortunately , ' Duck Soup ' is now available again , and it's very funny . I'll rate this movie .
Impressive abridgement .	There is an excellent print of this silent film in the Cineteca del Friuli , Gemona . ' Trilby ' was originally a novel by artist George du Maurier : remarkably , he wrote and illustrated this book after going blind in one eye and losing most of the sight in his other eye . A successful stage version was performed in London , in which the actress playing the title role made her first entrance wearing a man's snap-brim hat : this created such a sensation that hats of this type have ever afterward been known in Britain as trilbies . This film version is too short to dramatise the entire novel , but it abridges the plot effectively . In the original novel , a young Englishman named Little Billee ( why did du Maurier use this annoying spelling ? ) is an aspiring artist in Paris , who shares his studio space with two other Britons : a Welshman nicknamed Taffy and a Scotsman cried the Laird . They are faithful companions , who deem themselves ' the Three Musketeers of the brush ' . In this film , Billy's two companions are reduced to end-men with no distinctive business of their own . ( Taffy is played by James Young , husband of this film's star . ) In the title role , Clara Kimball Young is attractive , and she impressively depicts the two distinct personalities of Trilby : her true self , and her alter ego under the mesmeric spell of Svengali . There's a powerful symbolic scene - - visually impressive - - in which Trilby , in diaphanous robes of virginal white , struggles in the mesh of Svengali's sinister plans . Svengali is well-played here by Wilton Lackaye , a distinguished American stage actor who made only a few films and no talkies . Lackaye's private life was much like that of John Barrymore , with many anecdotes about his drunken carousing . It's interesting that Barrymore later played Svengali in an early talkie version of this story . As Svengali , Lackaye overacts in a role that almost demands to be overplayed . Amusingly , in this silent film , we learn that Svengali's forename is Belznick ! Apparently this was meant as an in-joke reference to producer Myron Selznick . An actor named Paul McAllister , previously unknown to me , is quite good as Gecko , Svengali's minion violinist . I'll rate this film , but I recommend that you put off watching it until you're familiar with the plot , either from the original novel or from another film version : the abridged version here will confuse anyone who doesn't already know the story .
Low-budget apocalypse .	' Five ' is the sort of science fiction I enjoy : long on ideas , short on rayguns and F / X . That's very likely why the movie flopped : most filmgoers seem to think that science fiction should have a big special-effects budget and no ideas at all . This Cold War film depicts the fate of five desperate survivors in California after a nuclear war has wiped out nearly all human life . The film's atmosphere greatly benefits from the fact that its five cast members are all obscure actors , not recognisable from work elsewhere . Interestingly , the most familiar face in this cast is also the movie's only African-American : Charles Lampkin , who later portrayed the only black man in Mayberry . Lampkin also gives the best performance in ' Five ' , at one point reciting James Weldon Johnson's lyrical poem ' The Creation ' . ' Five ' is very much the personal vision of Arch Oboler , a writer now unjustly forgotten . Like Rod Serling ( whom Oboler influenced ) , Oboler wrote in several genres but found that he could best put his ideas forward in the anthology format , and in the genres of science fiction and dark fantasy . Also like Serling , Oboler wrote scripts in several media but only had real success in one medium : television for Serling , radio for Oboler . Arch Oboler's science-fiction and horror radio series were the direct forebears of ' The Twilight Zone ' and ' Night Gallery ' . The film's title - - ' Five ' - - is somewhat of a misnomer , as one of the survivors ( Mr Barnstaple ) dies just before the arrival of another ( Eric ) , so we never have interplay between more than four people . The film's ultra-low budget is cleverly used , especially in the sequences when Roseanne ( pregnant with the child of her deceased husband ) visits the dead metropolis , now a shattered necropolis . ' Five ' also benefits from Oboler's choice of locations : he shot most of this film inside the rooms and on the grounds of his mountainside house , designed and landscaped by Frank Lloyd Wright . As with many of Wright's designs , there's a slightly askew quality to this house that brings an other-worldly undertone to this very still , very moody drama . Some reviewers of ' Five ' seem to regard the five protagonists as archetypes : for instance , the banker Mr Barnstaple , now senile and useless - - he doesn't even realise that the war has taken place - - allegedly represents Capital , now obsolete in a world where money is useless . I disagree . Barnstaple worked in a bank , but he wasn't an executive : he was an elderly clerk who happened to be in the underground vault when the bomb went off . If we're going to label these characters , then Barnstaple is white-collar labour , while Charles ( the black man ) is blue-collar labour . Michael , I guess , represents humanity's artistic side . James Anderson , giving a James Mason-like performance , is excellent as the human snake in this post-apocalypse Eden . He portrays the elitist ( not elite ) intellectual , who clearly deems himself superior to Charles but avoids saying so until late in the proceedings , when he finally reveals his racial attitude . ' So . . . now it comes out , ' says Charles , who has clearly encountered racism before . Lampkin's performance is excellent , but I felt that he and Oboler tried a bit too hard to establish his character as a virtuous black man . When Roseanne , the only female survivor , accepts Michael as her lover , Charles basically moves out of the house and sleeps rough in the back garden so that this Adam and Eve can have the place to themselves . I thought it would have been more realistic to depict all four survivors sharing the house , with Roseanne and Michael established as sharing one room , and the other two men sleeping elsewhere under the same roof . Oboler gave himself a tough assignment with this project . It's not surprising that this film went belly-up at the box-office , and that Oboler's next projects were mindless entertainment ( ' Bwana Devil ' ) and silly comedy tricked up as science fiction ( ' The Twonky ' ) . ' Five ' is real SF , and I'll rate this brave effort .
The last scene is magnificent .	Jeanne Eagels is one of those film figures who are notorious rather than famous . She was a beautiful stage actress who scandalised Broadway with her erotic performance as Sadie Thompson , the hooker in Somerset Maugham's " Rain " . Her film career started promisingly , but her drugs addiction became increasingly difficult to conceal . By the time she made her last film , her arms and legs were nearly as thin as broomsticks , and she resembled a blonde skeleton . She died in her thirties . Like a few other movie figures ( Houdini , George M . Cohan , Fanny Brice ) her own movies are less well-known than the movie ABOUT her , in Eagels's case the bio-pic starring Kim Novak ( who was much more beautiful than Eagels ever was ) . ' The Letter ' is Eagels's first of two talkies . Like her most famous role , this film is based on material by Somerset Maugham , and takes place in that same Oriental tropics milieu : in this case , Singapore . This early talkie is a very crude effort . There was apparently a music soundtrack which is now lost , so ( except for one sequence ) there's no music at all , and several sequences which ought to have music are now silent . Elsewhere , we see various exterior shots in which silent action ( of a car moving soundlessly down the road , for example ) contrasts jarringly with the dialogue sequences . One reel change occurs during a shot , when Mrs Crosbie ( Eagels ) takes the witness stand , so the last frames of one reel are repeated at the start of the next reel . On the positive side , this movie ( filmed at the Astoria Studios in Long Island ) creates a credible facsimile of the Singapore jungles . This is the same story that was remade with Bette Davis , but there's one major difference . The remake begins with Mrs Crosbie ( Davis ) killing her lover : we don't know what led to this , and as the action unfolds we must decide whether she is lying . In Eagels's version , we see the argument between Mrs Crosbie and her lover , so we know the truth . The remake's gambit is much better . Herbert Marshall appears in both versions : here , as the murdered lover ; in the remake , as the cuckolded husband . Marshall had lost a leg in the trenches of the Great War , and wore a prosthetic limb through his entire film career . In his later films , he had a clumsy lurching walk . Here , he rises from a couch quite gracefully . I usually like Reginald Owen , but here - - as the cuckolded husband - - he's stiff and mannered , lumbered with Victorian dialogue . There are some regrettably racist comments about Orientals in this story , including the famous line ' Damn peculiar , these Chinese ' . Eagels's character berates a Chinese woman as ' a vile yellow thing ' , and this really doesn't stand out from the mood in the rest of the film . The Issei actor Tamaki Yoshiwara , playing a Chinese man educated by whites , speaks his dialogue in one of the strangest accents I've ever heard : is this genuine , or did the director impose it on him ? O . P . Heggie gives a fine performance in a contrived role , as the barrister who ( implausibly ) compromises his professional ethics by shelling out $10 , 000 of his own money to buy evidence illegally , without bothering to find out if his client will reimburse him . Did Singapore have $1 , 000 banknotes at this time ? When Mrs Crosbie hands $10 , 000 cash to her enemy , the whole dosh is a mere handful of paper . Several American actors here play British roles with Yank accents . In her early scenes , Jeanne Eagels attempts an upper-class English accent : this is unfortunate , as we have so few recordings of her voice . By this point , her drugs addiction was running its course . In several scenes , Eagels stands awkwardly or fidgets : she's playing a woman who's on trial for murder , yet she acts as if she has more urgent business elsewhere . ( Maybe a hypo and her next fix , waiting in her dressing room ? ) But , in the magnificent last scene of this film , Eagels abandons the faux accent and shows the fiery talent that made her ( so briefly ) a great actress . Abandoning all her dishonesties , she tells the husband who has spent his life's savings to gain her freedom : ' With all my heart and all my soul , I still love the man I killed . ' At this moment , Eagels is superb . What a shame that this great actress destroyed herself . For all its crudities , ' The Letter ' is of vital historic importance , and I'll rate it . . . mostly for that final scene .
Ladies ' night in a Turkish bath	' A Bath House Beauty ' is an early and crude Keystone comedy , making better use than usual of Mack Sennett's penchant for filming in real locations . This very funny short is also a splendid showcase for the talents of Roscoe Arbuckle , still developing his craft . Here , Roscoe is a family man at the seaside , lumbered with a shrewish ( though attractive ) wife and an extremely annoying young son . I don't recognise the child who plays Roscoe's son - - he might be Paul Jacobs , wearing an Orphan Annie wig - - but this kiddywink is such a brat that I laughed when Roscoe kicked him in the face . Roscoe meets up with a charming young lady in a bathing costume ( the uncredited actress is Arbuckle's real wife at this time , Minta Durfee ) , and the two of them break into a charming and delightful dance . For all his girth , Arbuckle was an extremely light-footed and graceful dancer , and his pas de deux here is a sheer delight , not remotely relying on ' fat ' gags . Unfortunately , the bathing beauty has a husband . . . and the husband has got two pistols which are magically capable of firing dozens of bullets without reloading ! I wish I could identify this actor : he's hilarious , clearly determined to fire his pistols in every direction EXCEPT at their proper targets . Roscoe and his new girlfriend jump aboard the Dip Dip ( a fun-fair switchback ) , and we see some impressive exterior locations of the amusement park . But the husband is hot on their heels . Roscoe ducks into a bath house and disguises himself as a woman , in one of the elaborate bathing costumes that female swimmers wore at this time . Here we witness another of Arbuckle's remarkable talents . Despite his huge size , Arbuckle was one of the few male comedians who could convincingly impersonate a woman . ( It helped that his body was entirely hairless . ) Arbuckle is absolutely believable as a woman , and hilariously so . SPOILERS COMING . Of course , Roscoe's son spots him en-femme , and immediately sets out to expose him . Roscoe's wife joins the chase . So do the Keystone Cops . One of the funniest things about this movie is that the husband's pistols are obviously going to carry on blazing away indefinitely , firing dozens of bullets . . . so then , at the worst possible moment , they DO run out of bullets . HIlarious ! This crude comedy features some fascinating California locations , and is very funny as well . Thank you , Roscoe . I'll rate this one .
Spooky ending !	I saw the Library of Congress print of ' The Haunted Hotel ' . Here's an American movie that's clearly inspired by the French ' trick ' films of Georges Melies . But whereas Melies relied on slapstick comedy and pretty girls from the Folies Bergere , this movie is more sombre . After some early camera tricks , it seems meant actually to frighten us ! IMDb's synopsis is accurate . The furniture and the traveller's clothes seem to be bewitched : the tricks are accomplished with jump cuts and some early stop-motion animation . The hapless traveller is played by Paul Panzer , who would later portray the villain in ' The Perils of Pauline ' . Panzer was somewhat sharp-nosed in real life ; here , as the traveller in ' The Haunted Hotel ' , he wears a putty nose so long and sharp that its effect is alienating ; it looks more like a heron's bill than a human nose . Perhaps the alienation was intentional ; maybe the makers of this film didn't want us to empathise with the victim of these hauntings . I was intrigued that Panzer is shown in close shot , whilst Melies's very similar movies were nearly always filmed in long shot . SPOILERS COMING . Although this movie might seem quite innocent , I don't recommend it for very young children . At the very end of the movie , as the traveller attempts to go to sleep , the frame is suddenly invaded by a rather hideous and malicious-looking demon in extreme close-up : the effect is frightening rather than funny . Also , the demon's presence seems to imply that there's no escape from the haunted hotel . The natural ugliness of actor William Ranous , as the demon , only adds to the shock of that final coup de cinema . I'll rate this clever movie . . . but don't let very young children watch that ending !
A cheesebox on a raft	' Hearts in Bondage ' is a Civil War drama placing fictional characters at the centre of real events . First , some background : in the first month of the American Civil War ( April 1861 ) , the Confederate navy attacked some Union ships at Gosport shipyard ( near Norfolk , Virginia ) . The Union steam frigate USS Merrimac was sunk in this engagement . The Confederates later raised the hull and refitted it as an armourclad . Meanwhile - at Greenpoint , Brooklyn - US naval engineer John Ericsson was building an ironclad warship , the USS Monitor . On 9th March 1862 , these two vessels squared off in an engagement that has been known ever since as ' the Monitor and the Merrimac ' . In strict accuracy , the refitted Merrimac had been christened the CSS Virginia . But , among the other spoils of war , the winning side gets to pick the nomenclature . So , the Virginia is still known as the Merrimac , just as a certain Civil War battleground is now known as Bull Run ( the name the Union favoured ) rather than Manassas ( the Confederates ' name ) . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . James Dunn and Mae Clarke ( badly miscast ) play lovers circa 1861 who meet for trysts on the banks of the Potomac near Washington . As the nation gins up for the Civil War , their relationship is threatened because he's a US Navy officer but her brother is sympathetic to the Confederate cause . The brother is played by David Manners , a Canadian actor who was very British in his on screen demeanour ( Manners claimed to be a descendant of William the Conqueror ! ) , so it's distressing to see him here as a son of the South , y'all . Dunn serves aboard the Merrimac during the battle of Norfolk . When the battle goes in the Confederates ' favour , Dunn is ordered to set fire to his own ship so she doesn't fall into Confederate hands . Instead , Dunn sinks the ship so that ( he hopes ) the Union can raise her later . ( The movie gets its facts slightly wrong here : in reality , the Merrimac was fired , and she burned to her waterline . When the Confederate navy raised her hull , the Merrimac's ammunition - in watertight casings - was intact and undamaged , and was promptly added to the Confederacy's ordnance . ) When the Confederates raise the Merrimack , Dunn is disgraced for having disobeyed a direct order . The fictional character played by Dunn is the nephew of ( real-life ) naval engineer John Ericsson . To get back into the navy's good graces , Dunn goes to Brooklyn and assists his uncle in the construction of the Monitor . And Dunn is aboard the Monitor during her historic battle with the Merrimac . Meanwhile , guess who's aboard the Merrimac : yes , David Manners . After Manners gets killed , Dunn ( his reputation restored ) meets with Clarke once again . Their tryst is interrupted by none other than Abraham Lincoln , played by Frank McGlynn ( who specialised in playing Lincoln ) . I found it slightly ludicrous that Lincoln would be walking about in wartime with no Secret Service escort - especially on the banks of the Potomac - but I guess it's possible . He offers a few encouraging words to the lovers , then saunters off while the soundtrack plays ' The Battle Hymn of the Republic ' . The most intriguing thing about ' Hearts in Bondage ' is that it's directed by Lew Ayres , an actor who ( in real life ) was extremely antipathetic towards warfare . ( He was a conscientious objector during World War Two . ) Ayres's direction of this material is workmanlike but not in any way distinctive . The scenes of naval warfare are staged with miniatures , but look quite convincing . The USS Monitor was famously described as ' a cheesebox on a raft ' , so the miniature ship here ( a rotating turret on a flat platform ) is crude but strongly resembles the crude design of the actual Monitor . Fritz Lieber gives a dignified performance as the real-life John Ericsson . ( Full disclosure : Lieber's son Fritz Jnr was a friend of mine . ) Gabby Hayes and Charlotte Henry do not do well in their roles , and Irving Pichel is a bit too wild-eyed . James Dunn is quite good in his role here ; notwithstanding his Academy Award , Dunn is a very underrated actor . Overall , I'll rate this movie . It's hokum , but enjoyable hokum .
Izzy Cohen , or izzn't he ?	' Cohen Saves the Flag ' is a very early Keystone comedy , one of several starring Ford Sterling as a scruffy coward named Izzy Cohen . All of the instalments in the ' Cohen ' series feature some humour based on Jewish stereotypes , which has dated badly ; fortunately , these films also have clever storylines and non-ethnic slapstick gags , so ( with the possible exception of ' Cohen Collects a Debt ' ) these films are still funny in spite of some ( arguably ) anti-Semitic content . All of the other ' Cohen ' shorts are set in the contemporary present ; ' Cohen Saves the Flag ' backdates Izzy Cohen to 1861 in order to put him in a Civil War setting . The Keystone comedies were filmed on the cheap , but Keystone's directors often employed the clever device of filming their actors in front of some elaborate public event , thus enhancing a quickie movie's production values . The best-known examples of this are the soapbox derby gate-crashed by Chaplin's tramp in ' Kid Auto Races at Venice ' and the parade in ' A Busy Day ' . For ' Cohen Saves the Flag ' , ingeniously , producer / director Mack Sennett was able to piggyback on the filming of ' Battle of Gettysburg ' , an elaborate Civil War drama produced by Thomas Ince . ( Ince's big-budget dramas and Mack Sennett's low-budget comedies were both bankrolled by the same financiers , so Keystone actually had permission to shoot ' Cohen Saves the Flag ' on the sidelines of Ince's war film ! ) In the opening scene ( which unconvincingly depicts 1861 ) , Cohen ( Ford Sterling ) and his rival Goldberg ( Henry Lehrman ) are competing for the affections of dainty Mabel Normand . The men resolve their differences intelligently by poking each other's eyes and biting each other's ears . I suspect that there was meant to be some ethnic subtext here : ie , supposedly , Jews fight ' dirty ' . . . but in fairness , there are many Keystone comedies that feature dirty fighting among non-ethnic characters . Anyway , I laughed heartily while these two ' Jewish ' characters noshed and gnashed each other . Suddenly the Civil War breaks out . Mostly to impress Mabel , cowardly Cohen enlists in the Union army and somehow receives a sergeant's stripes . Goldberg enlists too . . . and becomes a lieutenant , with Cohen under his command . Gleefully , Lieutenant Goldberg sends Cohen into battle , confident that he'll get killed . The battlefield sequences in this cheapjack comedy are genuinely impressive ; Mack Sennett ( underrated as a director ) manages to frame the action so that Ince's costume extras in the background actually seem to be in the same movie as the Keystone clowns in the foreground . More by accident than anything else , Cohen rescues a Union flag during his terrified efforts to escape the cannon fire . Goldberg finds Cohen guilty of desertion , and convenes a firing-squad to shoot him . The climax of this comedy - with some good work by Normand - is unexpectedly exciting as well as funny . Ford Sterling is now almost completely forgotten , which is a great shame . He was an extremely talented and versatile comedian . Funny , too . Even people who are familiar with Ford Sterling's work seldom realise how extremely influential he was on the work of later comedians . Harvey Korman built an entire career out of imitating Ford Sterling . You may have noticed that , whenever modern actors imitate silent-film comedians , they always do a little hop straight up into the air . This cliche has been around at least as far back as 1928's ' Show People ' , a silent-film comedy about silent-film comedians . But in fact , Ford Sterling was the silent-film comedian who invented this bit . . . and the only one who consistently used it . Sterling had a vast repertory of gestures and facial expressions , which he used for expressing an astonishingly subtle range of emotions . And Sterling proved his ability as a dramatic actor in ' He Who Gets Slapped ' , in which he had the great honour of applying makeup ( on-camera ) to Lon Chaney . Sterling successfully made the transition to talking-picture roles ( notably as the White King in ' Alice in Wonderland ' ) , but an accident caused him to lose a leg , forcing his retirement and hastening his death . I usually give low ratings to comedies that rely on ethnic or racial stereotypes , but there's actually less of this in ' Cohen Saves the Flag ' than you might expect , and the movie is very funny . I'll rate ' Cohen Saves the Flag ' .
Unique , moody , compelling .	The Finnish film ' White Reindeer ' is marketed in the USA and Britain as a horror movie , but that's not precisely accurate . This is a stark , moody film but not a scary one . It purports to be an authentic Lapp folktale about a woman named Pirita who turns into a white reindeer in order to feed upon men . This story has elements of both the vampire and the werewolf legend , as well as the succubus . Apart from reindeer being native to Lapland , I can't imagine why the reindeer was chosen as the species for this folktale's version of the shape-changer legend . Bats and wolves are predators , and therefore scary . The reindeer is a domesticated herbivore that serves humans . . . not very spooky , is it ? In one sequence , the were-reindeer woman sprouts fangs . Actual reindeer don't have fangs , so why should these be part of her transformation ? Female reindeer have antlers , so why doesn't Pirita sprout antlers ? Speaking of superstitions and myths : early in this film , a black cat scurries across the path of an approaching sledge , but the director gives this so little emphasis that it appears to have no significance . In Cornwall , it's considered good luck to have a black cat cross one's path , and this same thing is considered bad luck in America . Do Lapps have any superstitions concerning black cats ? Mirjami Kuosmanen , the actress who plays the central role in this film , is quite pretty . . . but her performance as a native of northern Lapland is weakened by the fact that she is clearly wearing makeup . Due to the low production budget , we never actually see Pirita changing into the reindeer . . . but the director cleverly gets round this by having his leading lady lunge towards the camera , then cutting to a shot of a reindeer in the same position . Still , I was hoping we would see a shot of a woman's shadow changing shape . . . or a series of human footprints in the snow abruptly becoming hoof-marks . The Lapp landscape in this movie is starkly beautiful and awesome but never frightening . The photography is excellent . There are two impressive dissolve shots involving flames , and a splendid montage sequence . I was extremely impressed by a night sequence over a bonfire . During the Midnight Sun sequences , there are two shots featuring a weird colonnade of white pillars : these appear to be artefacts of the Lapp culture , but we never learn what they are . A sequence in which a carved vertrebra dances magically across a shaman's drum has an eerie pagan power that made me think of Nijinsky's staging of ' The Rites of Spring ' . My one complaint about this film - - a minor grievance - - is that we never learn the time period in which the main action occurs . These Laplanders possess milled coins , a rifle , and loomed curtains . One sequence takes place at a prayer service that is clearly Christian , featuring a minister in geneva bands . Are we watching scenes in the twentieth century , or some earlier time ? I'll rate this moody , compelling ( but not frightening ) film . Oh , my deer !
Pass the borscht , comrade .	( My thanks to Steven P Hill , University of Illinois , for helping me sort out the mukluks from the Muscovites in this confusing movie , the credits of which are in a barely legible Cyrillic typeface . The opinions which follow are entirely my own . ) I usually despise Soviet propaganda movies , and that's only partly because I despise communists . I despise Nazis too , but most of the propaganda movies made by the Third Reich were skilfully done , subtly invoking heroic figures from the past ( such as Friedrich Schiller ) rather than shilling explicitly for Hitler or the swastika . ( ' Triumph of the Will ' and ' Jew Suss ' were not typical . ) In comparison , most of the Soviet agitprop movies I've encountered are very crude propaganda indeed , employing all the subtlety of the bludgeon and the cudgel . This movie , ' Song of Good Fortune ' , is one of the very few well-made Soviet propaganda movies I've ever seen . If someone totally ignorant of communism's bloody history saw this film , they would probably believe that Stalinist collectivism is a very good thing indeed . I was especially impressed with the film's use of flashback to establish the hero's backstory . Mikhail Viktorov plays a young hermit who lives in the forest , playing his wooden flute like Papageno in ' Die Zauberflote ' . This young flautist crosses paths with a petty crook ( Boris Tenin ) who wonders why Viktorov lives in the woods . In flashback , we learn that Viktorov worked for a kulak ( a bourgeois land-owner ) , but got into a fight that caused the kulak to fall into the river , presumed drowned . ( Nikolai Michurin gives a good performance in his brief role as the kulak . ) Viktorov was forced to abandon his girlfriend ( Yanina Zheymo ) when he fled to escape punishment for the kulak's death . I found it unlikely that Viktorov's character would confide this to someone he's just met , but Viktorov's performance makes his character seem genuinely guileless . Tenin persuades Viktorov to accompany him to a high-street market , where Viktorov is wrongly arrested for theft . Now we see him in a Soviet prison , I mean re-education centre . Our hero has much to learn , comrade . The October Revolution transpired while Viktorov was living in the woods . . . so now killing a kulak is a revolutionary act , not a homicide . When Viktorov tootles his flute for his fellow inmates , the prison governor recognises his talent and summons a music professor ( Vladimir Gardin ) who can tutor the tooter to toot sweetly toot-sweet . As fast as the projectionist can change reels ( and credibility is reeling too ) , Viktorov becomes a good Soviet comrade , using his musical talent for the greater good of the collective . And his former girlfriend is still keeping a candle burning in her tractor for her tooter suitor . Pass the borscht , and I'll have mine with vodka . The prison in this Soviet movie is a bright airy place where all the inmates are treated with sympathy and understanding . Somehow , I doubt that the Lubyanka ( or any other prison in the real Soviet Union ) had this much sweetness and light . The exterior sequences in this movie are beautifully photographed , and the actors give better performances than usual for a Russian movie . I'm well aware that everything done here is in aid of the single most monstrous regime in human history , even worse than the Nazis . . . but this movie does very well what it set out to do . I'll rate ' Song of Good Fortune ' . Back to the salt mines , tovarich !
Did Karel Capek see this cartoon ?	Winsor McCay's 1921 cartoon ' Bug Vaudeville ' has almost precisely the same plot and premise as Karel Capek's stage satire ' The Insect Play ' , which was first produced in Czechoslovakia in 1922 . I wonder if Capek saw McCay's cartoon . We have here a series of variety turns by various species of insects and arachnids . In several cases , McCay amusingly matches a particular vaudeville act to an appropriate species : a daddy-long-legs does an eccentric dance , while two tumble-bugs perform as acrobats . Some of the other pairings of species and performance seem more arbitrary : the potato bugs stage a boxing match , while a cockroach is a bicyclist . McCay uses a framing device to include ' Bug Vaudeville ' in his sporadic series of ' Dreams of the Rarebit Fiend ' cartoons : a tramp has cadged some cheese from a housewife , and the bugs ' antics are apparently his cheese-induced nightmare . In Capek's play , the tramp's slumber is induced by alcohol , and the antics of the various insects are parodic reflections of various forms of human behaviour . ' Bug Vaudeville ' is amusing , and skilfully animated , but insects just don't seem to work well as cartoon characters , unless most of their distinctive appearance ( and behaviour ) is removed . The Fleischer Studio's ' Mr Bug Goes to Town ' was a flop , even when re-released with a non-insect title , and Walt Disney famously had almost every insect trait shorn from Jiminy Cricket until the character was essentially a miniature human . McCay , a major newspaper cartoonist in his day , made very few animations because his toons were so labour-intensive : McCay executed all the drawings himself , without the use of ' in-betweeners ' . In his early toons , he drew on paper rather than acetate cels , forcing McCay to re-draw background art even when the background didn't change . Sadly , almost none of McCay's original artwork survives . In 1982 , I interviewed American comic-book artist Leonard B Cole , who worked alongside artist Robert McCay ( Winsor's son ) in the 1940s . Cole told me that McCay once brought a large quantity of his father's artwork to the studio where they worked , and offered to give it away to any artist who would take it . There were no takers , so McCay simply threw out the lot ! ( Cole spent a long time regretting his decision to decline the offer . ) Today , those illustration boards would be priceless . I'll rate ' Bug Vaudeville ' . It's not very funny , but it's impressively made .
First-rate Formby	' Keep Your Seats , Please ' is based on the same Russian novel that inspired both Mel Brooks's film ' The Twelve Chairs ' and Fred Allen's most hilarious movie ' It's in the Bag ! ' . The latter was largely written by none other than Alma Reville ( Mrs Alfred Hitchcock ) , who must surely have been familiar with the earlier ' Keep Your Seats , Please ' . This hilarious George Formby vehicle has a couple of interesting " degrees of separation " , due to the film's leading lady and director . Florence Desmond was the only actress to work with both George Formby AND Will Rogers , two very different comedians . Monty Banks , who helmed this film , was the only person ever to direct a George Formby movie AND a Laurel and Hardy movie . Banks had an amazing career : he attained near-stardom as an actor in American silent films before moving to Britain and marrying none other than our Gracie Fields . A native of Italy , he was interned as an ' enemy alien ' during the war . In ' Keep Your Seats , Please ' , Formby's character is named George Withers ( any relation to Googie ? ) . He plays his usual chancer , skint and gormless with it . . . except that , this time round , he has an eccentric aunt who's wealthy . George is her favourite nephew , but she has a squadron of other relations who are eager to grab her estate . So , Aunt Georgina Withers sews £90 , 000 worth of jewellery and bonds into the cushion of a chair to keep them safe for George . Wait a minute : couldn't she just GIVE him the dosh ? Perhaps she's afraid that her other relations will contest the gift . Anyway , don't look for logic in this film . The chair is one of an identical set . It's bang obvious what will happen : the chairs get sent to different locations , and George must track down each one to find the fortune . ( Which of course is in the very last chair . . . or is it ? ) A certain irrelevant character keeps turning up everyplace , so it's obvious that this irrelevant character will become important at the climax . Florence Desmond was a beautiful comedienne and impressionist , but she's given very little to do here . In Britain at this time , she had a popular comedy recording - - ' Hollywood Party ' - - in which Desmond imitated several British and American movie stars . It's a shame she's given no real chance to shine in this movie , despite singing one dull song . Given far too much chance to shine here ( and too little talent to shine it with ) is little Binkie Stuart , who was known in the 1930s as " Britain's Shirley Temple " . Binkie is indeed very nearly a lookalike for Shirley , and has a very similar screen presence while speaking dialogue . The resemblance ends when Binkie attempts to sing and dance . As a singer and dancer , Binkie Stuart makes Shirley Temple look like Ginger Rogers . There's a fine supporting cast here , headed by Gus McNaughton in a role that reminded me of Leon Errol . Alastair Sim was a unique performer who never imitated anyone ( although Alec Guinness imitated HIM in ' The Ladykillers ' ) , yet here - - as a vaguely Dickensian lawyer - - Sim reminds me of the American character actors John Brown and Fred Clark . George Formby typically played a coward on-screen , so here it's a real pleasure to see him deliberately punch Sim . Harry Tate is a bit too ' busy ' here as an auctioneer , although Enid Stamp-Taylor is good as an elocution teacher . . . trilling her lines in the voice and accent that Billie Burke spent her entire career trying to develop ! Although comedian Formby always got the girl in his movies , he had to do so very chastely : Formby's real-life wife Beryl ( the Peril ) was a termagant , who constantly hovered on the sets of his films to make sure that George and his leading lady never kissed , even in character ! Considering the enforced chasteness of Formby's movies , ' Keep Your Seats , Please ' is surprisingly erotic . George and Florence ' meet cute ' by waking up in the same bedroom ( in separate twin beds ) ; each one having kipped since the previous night without knowing that the other was there . In another scene , Tom Payne comes home to find his wife and Sim ' asleep ' in bed together . . . actually they've both been knocked unconscious , but Payne's reaction is hilarious . Near the film's climax , Alastair Sim passes up a chance for a " spit-take " : his character is startled while supping a drink , but he merely drops the glass . Perhaps British exhibitors in 1936 felt that a spit-take would have been too vulgar . George Formby is not for all tastes : not even for all British tastes . He constantly speaks in an ' oop North ' dialect : for instance , in this movie he says ' you and all ' rather than ' you too ' . But , during an early scene in ' Keep Your Seats , Please ' , I shuddered in nostalgic pleasure at an achingly authentic shot of a milkie calling his morning rounds in a pre-Blitz English street . ' Keep Your Seats , Please ' is Formby at his finest , and I'll rate this fast-paced comedy .
Sheikh hands with the devil .	There were two different film figures named Rex Ingram : interestingly , the English director Michael Powell worked with both of them . One of the two Rex Ingrams was an African-American actor who appeared in both film versions of ' The Thief of Bagdad ' . The other Rex Ingram was an Irish-born director who set up an independent film studio in France after establishing himself in Hollywood as a highly innovative auteur with a unique visual sense . Sadly , after proving himself one of the most distinctive visual stylists of the silent-film era , Ingram's career petered out rapidly with the coming of sound . It is this Rex Ingram - - not the black American actor - - whom fellow Irishman James Joyce praised in ' Finnegans Wake ' . It may well be that the director ' borrowed ' his name from the black actor : ironically , the director's real name was Hitchcock . . . perhaps he thought that nobody could be a successful film director with a name like Hitchcock ! ( All further references to ' Rex Ingram ' in this review apply to the Irish director , not the American actor . ) Throughout his career , Ingram showed a penchant for the exotic , but in later years he became increasingly interested in the culture and religion of Arab lands . The interest was sincere , apparently , as Ingram eventually converted to Islam . His film ' The Arab ' was based on an existing play , yet this movie appears to be a project which Ingram initiated , and which was deeply personal for him , as opposed to some studio assignment . I viewed an archive print of ' The Arab ' which had its original titles cut out and Russian translations spliced in . Fortunately , a Russian curator ( who wanted to see the film herself ) screened it with me and offered verbal translations of some of the titles . This review is based on the film's visual images and a second-hand version of the title cards . ( Why won't IMDb allow me to post ' intertitles ' as one word - - the proper term - - instead of breaking it up into two words ? ) CONTAINS SPOILERS . The setting is Syria , during a war with Turkey . ( I make no claims for the historical accuracy of this movie . ) Jamil is a soldier in the Bedouin defence forces , but he has deserted his regiment . In a remote village , he encounters an orphan asylum run by American missionaries : Mary Hilbert and her father . Jamil and Mary feel a mutual attraction . Meanwhile , the Turks are on their way to pillage the village . The leader of the villagers is identified in the Russian title cards as ' the Governor ' , but surely ' the Mayor ' is more accurate . The Governor ( sic ) , eager to placate the oncoming Turks , arranges for the children in the orphanage to be ' evacuated ' to Damascus for their safety : actually , he intends to hand them over to the Turkish invaders , knowing that the children will be slaughtered . Jamil is modest and self-effacing . Mary is a Christian and Jamil is ( at the moment ) a Moslem , yet he casually admits to her that he has been a Christian several times and will probably be one again . It seems that his convictions change as easily as the desert winds . But now some of Jamil's fellow Bedouins arrive . Will they shoot him as a deserter ? No . It turns out that Jamil is the son of the ruling sheikh . ( He was too modest to mention this . ) And it also turns out that Jamil's father has died , so now Jamil is the new sheikh . As soon as he assumes this mantle ( or burnoose ) , Jamil suddenly gains a sense of responsibility . He risks his own life to save the children , repel the Turks , and overthrow the corrupt Governor . Naturally , sweet Mary gets a case of the hots for him . There is an exciting climax . Earlier scenes in the film hinted that the passion between Mary and Jamil is doomed to failure , due to their differing cultures and faiths . But now Mary - - who has devoted her entire life to Christian works - - starts dropping hints that she might convert to Islam . Why not just let Jamil convert one more time , as he's had more experience at it ? Much of this movie is deeply implausible , but Ingram directs it with a panache and visual flair that make the film exhilarating even while we don't believe a word of it . One assumes that he brought his personal beliefs to this project . In the lead role , Ramon Novarro takes the bold step of playing Jamil as a protagonist who must earn our sympathy and respect , rather than having them from the start . Alice Terry ( Ingram's wife , and his leading lady in many of his films ) is far less effective in her portrayal of the young Christian missionary . She is quite beautiful and photogenic , but Terry's good looks actually work against her in this role : would a missionary in a remote location devote quite so much time to her hair and make-up ? I'm rating this very entertaining movie , but I may be overrating it slightly to compensate for the fact that I saw it in difficult circumstances .
First you kill me , then I'll kill you	' Submit to Me ' , directed and ( supposedly ) written by Richard Kern , is a compendium of the obsessive themes which turn up constantly in his films : transgressive sex , fetishism , violence . I say that this film was ' supposedly ' written by Kern , because his performers appear to be improvising their scenes . Kern had a talent for surrounding himself with people who shared his own interests and obsessions , and who were willing to exhibit their obsessions for his camera . It's joyously clear that the cast members in ' Submit to Me ' are well and truly enjoying the activities which they enact here , not merely acting out roles for some script . In a rapid and noisy montage , we see a lesbian couple dancing , a Tom-of-Finland sort of biker ( wearing a black leather jacket but otherwise naked ) masturbating himself , whilst another man shaves his own pubic area . It would be easy to describe all of this as healthy sexuality , except that all of these people seem to be a bit more obsessed than perhaps they should be . It looks and feels rather improvised . The action rapidly escalates and becomes more violent . What we saw before now appears to be the foreplay for what Kern wanted all along : violence , bloodshed and butchery , as if he's been urging his performers to ' get to the good stuff ' . Now the performers seem to be doing less improvising for their own pleasure , and more of what Kern wants them to do for his own arousal . ' Submit to Me ' attempts to be disturbing , and succeeds . Kern was a unique and distinctive voice in underground filmmaking . By the standards and goals of that genre , I'll rate this movie .
Alma Schindler's list is blessedly Lehrer-less	' Alma : A Show-Biz Comes to Its End ' is a dramatised re-enactment of the life of Alma Schindler ( 1879-1964 ) . And what a life she had ! This Viennese woman of startling beauty must be the all-time champion artistic muse . In her girlhood , she kissed Gustav Klimt . Over the course of her life , she married successively the composer Gustav Mahler , the architect Walter Gropius and the novelist Franz Werfel . In there someplace she spent two years as the lover of painter Oskar Kokoschka , serving at least once as the model for one of his paintings ( ' Bride of the Wind ' ) . I find it deeply intriguing that Fraulein Schindler's list of men includes artists in so many different creative forms , almost as if she were some sort of collector . She apparently had considerable talent as a painter and musician , but her first husband Mahler demanded that she give up those pursuits . . . which prompted her to pursue her next husband . In fact , Alma was sexually involved with Gropius while still married to Mahler , and ditto with Werfel while still married to Gropius . She was quite a beauty ! In this miniseries , Alma is played at different stages of her life by no fewer than three different actresses . . . all of whom are quite pretty , but who failed to convince me that they were the same woman at different ages . Not counting some Ken Russell incoherence , there has been at least one other dramatisation of Alma's life : Bruce Beresford's ' Bride of the Wind ' . Some of the episodes in this German-language TV serial seem a bit far-fetched , including the Werfels ' escape from the Nazis by fleeing to Marseilles , across the Pyrenees to Spain , to Portugal , to New York and then ( of course ) to Hollywood . Apparently this actually happened , but the way those scenes are depicted here is not conducive to belief . Watching this serial , I was pleasantly surprised by the presence of Leon Askin , the Viennese-born actor who is inevitably best known for his performance in the US sitcom ' Hogan's Heroes ' . I was even more pleasantly surprised when I realised that Askin is here speaking as himself , not portraying an historical personage . Askin and his wife Liese were friends of Alma Werfel in New York City , where she spent the last 19 years of her life following Werfel's death in 1945 . I was also very pleasantly surprised that this film does NOT include any rendition of a certain annoying song written about Alma Werfel by an American named Tom Lehrer . I'll rate this fascinating biographical drama . Well done , Alma !
Doug Fairbanks unbuckles his swash .	I saw ' Manhattan Madness ' , starring Douglas Fairbanks Snr , in October 2005 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Sacile , Italy ; they screened an Eastman House print , and the screening was made even more enjoyable thanks to a live-music performance by a seven-piece ensemble led by John M Davis , who had painstakingly reconstructed most of the original music cue-sheets from this film's 1916 release . Although Davis was ultimately unable to find some of the original music cues , he did discover an obscure Irving Berlin song titled ' Manhattan Madness ' - - unrelated to this same-named movie , yet similar in tone - - which he patchworked into the score . Some of the more elaborate silent films had music scores specially composed for them . More typically , productions such as ' Manhattan Madness ' were released to cinema exhibitors with a cue sheet of sound effects and musical cues compiled from classical music and / or popular songs already published . The original 1916 music cues for ' Manhattan Madness ' featured an eclectic score of melodies from many sources , as well as sound effects for gunshots , horses ' hooves and breaking furniture . Several Fairbanks films ( notably ' The Mollycoddle ' and ' Wild and Woolly ' ) cast Fairbanks as an eastern ' dude ' who goes out to the wild West and tangles with cowpokes : after some initial culture lag , Doug proves his ability to root'n'toot with the best of them . ' Manhattan Madness ' reverses the formula , starring Doug as a western cowpoke who comes to Manhattan and runs up against city slickers . This being a Fairbanks movie , there's no doubt that he eventually comes up trumps . In the opening scenes , there's some amusing cross-cutting between Manhattan life and the equivalent ( but very different ) life out on the range . Director Allan Dwan cuts from a swank Manhattan nightclub to a chuck wagon ; from a double-decker bus on Fifth Avenue to a rattling stagecoach ; from a Manhattan playboy to an ornery hombre . Doug , or more likely his uncredited stunt double ( Richard Talmadge ? ) , gets to do plenty of athletics here : as Steve O'Dare - - a native New Yorker who was raised out west , now returned to the east - - Doug jumps over chairs , leaps over fences , climbs in and out of windows and even dives off a roof . However , his surroundings are somewhat less swashbuckling than usual : the very un-Fairbanksian narrative sends him into a spooky old house , with lots of trap doors , secret passages and ( of course ) a fair damsel in distress . This movie is as close as Doug Fairbanks ever got to Scooby-Doo territory . The cutting in this film is very rapid , with many shots in the climactic sequence each running barely ten feet of footage at 18 fps . No editor is credited ; Allan Dwan probably cut the negative himself , or supervised it . ' Manhattan Madness ' is not a typical Fairbanks film , but he manages to include most of the elements that kept his fans happy while varying his usual formula . Any movie by Allan Dwan deserves to be better known . My rating for this one : .
Subtle ? No . Funny ? Yes !	' The Woman with Four Faces ' is utterly implausible , but it's enjoyable hokum . Betty Compson stars in a role that gives her plenty of chances to pull the stops out while wearing outrageous disguises . The opening scene finds Liz West ( Compson ) on a ledge , wearing a mask . She's a cat burglar : she bursts into a posh upstairs parlour , holds a society matron at gunpoint , and makes off with her necklace . A few moments later , with a change of clothes , Compson has tossed the sparklies to her henchman and now she's posing as another victim of the same robber ! In subsequent scenes , we see Compson pulling off more robberies with multiple disguises . Richard Dix ( who gave excellent comedy performances elsewhere ) is stolid and humourless here as Richard Templar , the tough D . A . who is determined to put Liz away . . . if only he can get the goods on her . He manages to get Liz arrested and brought to trial . The results are extremely contrived , but still funny . On trial before Judge Westcott , Liz uses her good looks to vamp the male jurors . ( Sorry , but Betty Compson wasn't that good-looking ! ) Summoned to the judge's chambers , Liz lights up a cigarette ( this isn't just stupid ; it's illegal ) and then she offers the judge a stick of chewing gum ! Despite all this , she walks out of the courthouse smiling , due to lack of evidence . Templar decides to let Liz go if she'll use her criminal talents to help the law . Templar is trying to put away five narcotics pedlars who have conveniently signed a document outlining their business strategy . ( Yes , drugs dealers always put everything in writing . ) This document is , of course , just a McGuffin ( to use Hitchcock's term ) . Templar will arrange a full pardon for Marnie ( I mean Liz ) if she'll break into Judson Osgood's safe and steal this McGuffin . But Liz is merely the second best safecracker in the world . The only person who can open the safe is Jim Hartigan , who happens to be in prison at the moment . Hartigan is a crackerjack cracksman , but apparently he isn't a good enough yeggman to break out of prison . No , I take that back : as seen here , this prison is a nice comfy place where handsome young prisoners spend all their time in the exercise yard playing baseball . . . so ? apart from the total absence of totty ? Hartigan has no reason to escape . This is the cue for Betty Compson to put on an old-lady disguise and show up in the warden's office , posing as Hartigan's grey-haired old mother and begging the warden to release her ' son ' . Amazingly , this brilliant stratagem fails to work . Next thing we know , Liz uses an aeroplane to jailbreak Hartigan from the hoosegow ballgame during the seventh-inning stretch . Question : instead of all this umphery-bumphery , why doesn't District Attorney Templar use his office's influence to get Hartigan released into Templar's temporary custody ? SPOILERS COMING . Hartigan steals the McGuffin document with help from Liz , who passes it to D . A . Templar . Liz is expecting a full pardon , but the D . A . tells her ( in a title card ) that she's going to get ' a life sentence ' . . . as his wife ! Hoo boy . ' The Woman with Four Faces ' is extremely funny without being remotely believable . There are some impressive and elaborate sets ( notably the prison , and a mansion in the opening sequence ) , and there's some splendid stunt-flying during Hartigan's escape from prison . James Wong Howe's camera-work here is well up to his usual superb standard . Betty Compson was never a subtle actress , but her role here allows her to ham shamelessly in several guises . I'll rate this comedy .
Flawed but highly enjoyable	' Wonder Bar ' stars Al Jolson in a film with more plot than usual , and it's one of his best efforts . Jolson's films are notoriously tainted by racist blackface routines : in ' Wonder Bar ' , this material is completely avoided until the very end of the film , when we get a long blackface number called " Goin ' to Heaven on a Mule " . If you fast-forward through this to get to the last few minutes of the film ( tying up some loose ends in the plot ) , you'll be better off . Several Warner Brothers movies of this period ( ' Two Seconds ' , ' Central Park ' ) featured a ' book-ends ' structure in which the film's opening shot and closing shot are the same camera set-up . We get a variation on that structure here . The first couple of reels of ' Wonder Bar ' set up the conflicts between the characters . Then , about a third of the way into the film , we get the first ' book-end ' as Jolson's nightclub ( the Wonder Bar ) opens for the evening : a liveried doorman unrolls a red carpet and salutes us . At the very end of the film , after the Wonder Bar has closed for the night , the doorman rolls up the carpet and salutes us again . I'm a long-time fan of Dolores del Rio , an immensely talented actress who was also exceedingly sexy . Here , she gives the best ( and sexiest ) performance I've ever seen from her , as a cabaret dancer who is bullied and exploited by her dance partner ( the very hissable Ricardo Cortez ) . Jolson is in love with del Rio ( this is cleverly depicted with an unusual visual device ) , but she doesn't return his love . Dick Powell is less annoying and less obtrusive than usual . Ditto the raccoon-eyed Kay Francis , whom I always dislike . SPOILERS COMING . There's an amusing subplot with four Warners stalwarts ( Guy Kibbee , Hugh Herbert , Louise Fazenda and the splendid Ruth Donnelly ) as two stodgy married couples on holiday . The husbands conspire to sneak out for a night on the tiles while the wives are asleep ; the wives plot to sneak out while the husbands are asleep . Unfortunately , after setting up this very funny situation , there's no pay-off for it . Veteran character actor Robert Barrat plays a role well outside his usual range , with only partial success . Somewhat implausibly , Jolson allows Barrat to commit suicide because this will help Jolson conceal a murder committed by del Rio . We're meant to admire Jolson for this . I shan't comment on the protracted blackface routine late in the film , except to say that it's a dull number apart from its offensiveness . The effeminate tap-dancer Hal LeRoy performs , nearly naked , in blackface and full body make-up . Instead of painting a white man to look like a black man , couldn't Warners have hired a black tap-dancer instead ? Plenty of black men were much better dancers than Hal LeRoy . Much earlier in the film , there's one very surprising gag involving Jolson and two gay men . During his long career as a stage performer , Jolson frequently worked ' lavender ' material into his act . Like the British comedian Max Miller , Jolson was a heterosexual performer who deliberately led audiences to suspect he might be homosexual . ( Apparently the rumours were good for the box office . ) Jolson employed ' camp ' humour and gay jokes frequently onstage , but so far as I know ' Wonder Bar ' is the only time he ever did this in a film . I'll rate ' Wonder Bar ' . I was tempted to knock off several points for the blackface routine , but I put them back on again for Dolores del Rio's very erotic performance .
Which ' Affair ' are we discussing here ?	Here we have a riddle . . . and a perfect example of the difficulties awaiting anyone who would explore the history of silent film . This short comedy - - clearly American , and clearly made before American women got the vote in 1920 - - was screened in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy , where I saw it ( and laughed heartily ) . The original opening credits are missing from this print . . . an all-too-common occurrence in films from that period ; it implies that a dishonest exhibitor intended to screen this print under a false title ( with new opening credits spliced in ) , so as to avoid paying royalties . However , the dialogue intertitles all contain the film's original title in their ornamental border : this too was a common trait of silent films , as an attempt to defeat precisely that sort of piracy . So , where's the riddle ? According to the border of this movie's intertitles , the film's name is ' A Lively Affair ' . U . S . copyright records show only one silent film with that title : a 1912 Vitagraph domestic comedy starring Clara Kimball Young and Leo Delaney ( both of whom I would recognise on sight ; neither of them is on offer in THIS film ) . The movie screened at Sacile is also titled ' A Lively Affair ' , and does indeed seem to date to 1912 or nearabouts , yet it's clearly not the Clara Kimball Young movie . Nor are any of this film's actors - - some of them in heavy make-up - - identifiable , at least not to me . And this film doesn't resemble any Vitagraph production I've seen . It doesn't help that the title ' A Lively Affair ' is so generic , it could refer to ruddy well anything . Many American films of the 1910s were never copyrighted , which explains why the Library of Congress would have no record of THIS film . Some alleged authority has classified the Young / Delaney film ' A Lively Affair ' as ' lost ' . I don't know who makes those decisions , nor what they base them on ; I do know that so-called ' lost forever ' films have frequently resurfaced . I refuse to consider any movie irretrievably ' lost ' unless it's been deliberately destroyed : otherwise , it has merely been mislaid . When I looked up ' A Lively Affair ' on IMDb , I discovered that only the Young / Delaney ( Vitagraph ) film of that name is listed . . . yet ( as of March 2007 ) six votes have been cast for it , meaning that at least six IMDb users claim to have seen this movie . ( A supposedly ' lost ' film , remember . ) But were any or all of those IMDb users actually referring to the OTHER ' Lively Affair ' , the one screened at Sacile ? I've no idea . Right , then : the rest of this IMDb review refers strictly to the film screened at Sacile in 2006 . It's a sex-reversal comedy , of the type that was quite common during the suffragist movement of the 1910s in America and Britain . Like most of the others in that dismal subgenre , this movie assumes that if women ever get the vote , they will commence behaving precisely like men , eventually taking over men's roles in society . . . and forcing men into women's roles . SPOILERS COMING . And here's the hilarious ( not much ) plot : a woman in bloomer trousers ( signifying her suffragist status ) leaves the baby with her husband while she goes to what the intertitles identify as a ' suffragette meeting ' . ( The actual suffragists found the word ' suffragette ' demeaning and condescending . ) The suffragette meeting turns out to be an all-women poker party . . . but their hen night swiftly degenerates into an argument , which turns into a fight . Since this comedy depends on sexual clichés , an all-female brawl naturally consists of the women pulling each other's hair . The police raid the joint . Down at the cop-shop , the husband we saw earlier and some other husbands arrive . They taunt the women by marching in lockstep , implying that the women are going to prison . One of the husbands has a grotesque forelock that makes him look like cult author Harry Stephen Keeler . I did say that I laughed heartily at this movie , but in this case that's a dubious tribute . I laughed at how utterly unrealistic this movie is in its depiction of sexual relationships , either in 1912 or any other year . I laughed at the grotesque behaviour of both the male and female characters in this movie , which is quite implausible yet still extremely funny . ( In the same way that Keystone comedies from this same period are implausible yet funny . ) Intentionally or not , this film reveals a great deal about the sexual prejudices of Americans in the early twentieth century . I'll rate this ' Lively Affair ' , and I hope that the mystery of this film's production history will eventually be cleared up .
She pulls on his bellrope .	The joke in this film's title was too subtle for me , but a Yank friend explained it : " All-American " formerly designated a group of male collegiate athletes , and a " Co-Ed " was a female college student . . . so " All-American Co-Ed " is a sexual oxymoron . Here's a musical comedy about transvestism which ( except for some unpleasant racial humour ) manages to maintain at least a surface appearance of innocence . But under that surface . . . whoops ! The late choreographer LeRoy Prinz was openly gay : Max Wilk's book ' The Wit and Wisdom of Hollywood ' contains an hilarious anecdote about Prinz working for " Aunt Sam " during WW2 . Prinz usually subordinated his talents to other film-makers ' vision . When Prinz decided to make his first movie as a director-producer , ' All-American Co-Ed ' was the result . I can't help wondering to what extent this cross-dressed story struck a personal chord with Prinz . I'm aware that homosexuality and transvestism are two different phenomena , but there's inevitably some overlap . Considering that ' All-American Co-Ed ' is almost entirely about cross-dressing , there's surprisingly little homosexual content here . . . and most of it is sapphic rather than male . Every culture has its cross-dressed traditions . We Brits have got panto dames and principal boys . For some reason , the Americans have got Hasty Pudding clubs with college males in frocks and wigs . I normally dislike American college movies , since they're always about the Big Game or the Big Dance . ( Classes ? What classes ? ) ' All-American Co-Ed ' gets a free pass for that crime with its witty disclaimer : ' Any similarity to actual college life depicted in this picture is purely coincidental . ' Prinz starts out dangerously during the opening credits by showing a chorus line of shapely gams , inviting us to find them attractive . . . then tilting upwards to reveal that these are college boys in drag . Good job for me I'd spotted the male kneecaps . There are some weird musical decisions here . Johnny Downs , in full drag but male voice ( like Danny La Rue ) warbles ' I'm a Chap with a Chip on His Shoulder ' while tapping his shoulders . Why would a female impersonator deliberately call attention to his shoulders ? ( Elsewhere , some genuinely female chorines sing about ' The Crack of Dawn ' . . . is there a pattern here ? ) The 1940s seem to have been some golden age for drag , since women's fashions in that decade favoured padded shoulders , enabling transvestites to get by with linebacker clavicles . During one scene in this movie , Frances Langford's outfit has wider shoulders than Johnny Downs's ! Some of the clothes on the ( real ) females in this movie are extremely attractive . However , Johnny Downs's stunt double ( likewise in female garb ) , who shoulder-flips Noah Beery Jnr , is even less convincingly feminine than Downs . Considering that Bob Sheppard ( Downs ) is trying to pass for female , he makes some weird decisions . . . such as choosing the tomboy name ' Bobbie ' rather than a genuine female alias . ( Femalias ? ) Even more fatally , he fakes a dainty swoon in the presence of Noah Beery Jnr and Alan Hale Jnr . . . but deliberately falls into Beery's arms , letting Beery find out how heavy ' she ' is . Oh , and Downs gets to speak that line ( mandatory dialogue in every drag comedy ) about how it ' sure feels good ' to get out of those female clothes . . . so we don't get any , erm , ideas . Johnny Downs is apparently unable to speak in a convincing female register , so ' Bobbie ' pretends to have laryngitis . Downs should have used the trick that professional female impersonators use : practise speaking with only the upper half of his vocal cords , so that his voice will be in the female range and timbre with fewer overtones . There are quite a few double entendres in the dialogue and lyrics . Somebody comments that Johnny Downs ( in female disguise ) looks like ' orchids covered in dew ' . Did anyone connected with this movie check the origin of the word ' orchid ' ? The women's school is cried Mar Brynn , an obvious parody of Bryn Mawr . I wonder if anyone realised that ' Bryn Mawr ' is Welsh for ' big breast ' . Harry Langdon has the best role ( and gives the best performance ) of his talkies career here , as a glib publicist , while Esther Dale is lumbered with the role of the headmistress who doesn't twig that " Bobbi " ( with male jawline and falsetto voice ) is a male , even when ' she ' goes to bed in full make-up . Memo to all headmistresses : when a female student shows up at your boarding school with only one piece of luggage , she's no female . Downs ( in male garb ) and Langford ' meet cute ' in a surprisingly erotic scene with a bellrope . ( He ain't done right by our knell . ) I could have done without dialogue like ' A girl doesn't want to live in a mind ; she wants to live with a husband . ' Also annoying are Kent Rogers's alleged impersonations of celebrities , including ( just before the fade-out , in voice-over ) Jerry Colonna . Black performer Dudley Dickerson is stuck in a ' yassuh ' role but at least gets to cut loose with some dance steps . Less pleasant is a scene in which Downs ' haunts ' black laundress Lillian Randolph . Somehow , this impoverished all-female college devoted to ' horticulture ' ( oh , dear ) manages to stage an elaborate musical with plenty of invisible musicians on the soundtrack , some wince-worthy lyrics , plus Downs doing some surprisingly graceful pirouettes . However , the photography and lighting throughout the film are excellent , especially during Langford's big number . . . which contains a patriotic reference , possibly leading audiences in 1941 to wonder why all these big strong college boys are in frocks instead of uniforms . ' All-American Co-Ed ' gets my rating of . Now put your trousers on , lads .
So beautiful , so young . . .	This documentary begins with the portentous statement that Olive Thomas's ghost haunts the New Amsterdam Theatre in New York City , former site of the Ziegfeld Follies . I knew that Olive Thomas died in France ( more about this later ) , so I took the ghost statement as a figure of speech . It turns out that this documentary means it literally : allegedly , Olive Thomas continues to be spotted at Ziegfeld's theatre despite having died thousands of miles away . This documentary does a surprisingly impressive job of reconstructing the brief life and career of silent-film actress ( and Ziegfeld beauty ) Olive Thomas . Surprising , because there's so little material available : none of the people interviewed in this documentary ever knew her , not even 101-year-old Ziegfeld dancer Doris Eaton Travis . A great deal of credibility is given here to distant relations of Thomas who never met her : one talking-head cousin comments that her grandfather insisted that Thomas was murdered , but neglects to mention that her grandfather was a five-year-old boy at the time of the actress's death . Necessarily , we get the usual lurks here , so often employed in documentaries of this sort . Modern-day actors , their faces kept out of frame , re-enact incidents from Thomas's life . We also see clips from her films , showing Thomas in character , used here to illustrate the subject's life . . . for example , when Thomas's first marriage ends in divorce , the visual is a clip from one of Thomas's films , in which her on-screen character looks mournful . Devices like this are probably necessary : less excusable is the flat dull monotone narration of Rosanna Arquette . Just occasionally , this documentary grabs the attention . . . as when we see a brief clip from early in Thomas's movie career , showing three starlets who were expected to have major careers . Flanked by Thomas and Edna Purviance , the starlet in the middle is Virginia Rappe . . . whose notorious death triggered the scandal that destroyed Roscoe Arbuckle's career . There are some very impressive facts throughout this highly entertaining film , as well as glimpses at some very rare documents . . . such as Olive Thomas's death certificate ( from a French archive ) and the sheet music of a song written for one of her silent films . ( Many silents had songs specially written for piano accompaniment in the cinemas . ) But we just occasionally get some nonsense here too . The narration tries to persuade us that producer David Selznick took the middle initial ' O ' as a tribute to Olive . Wrong : David O . Selznick added his middle initial ( which was actually a zero , standing for ' nothing ' ) to distinguish himself from his namesake , a relative whom he despised . Olive Thomas's death at age 25 remains controversial . After a quarrel with her husband Jack Pickford , she mixed syphilis medication with alcohol and drank it . The official verdict was accidental death : supposedly , she'd mistaken the medicine for a sleeping draught . But nobody would mix a sleeping draught with alcohol unless they were planning to kill somebody . I believe that Olive Thomas's death was intentional suicide . But this documentary succeeds in showing us what a splendid career and life she had before the sudden end . This documentary was financed by Hugh Hefner , who has financed several documentaries about legendary screen actresses . I'll rate this movie .
What a web sight !	At a time when every other animation studio seemed to be imitating Disney , the Fleischer brothers ( producer Max , animator Dave ) were consistently turning out clever animation that was technologically innovative and often brilliantly funny . The Fleischer toons typically began and ended with live-action footage , and often used considerable live-action during the story proper . . . as in the well-known ' Ko-Ko's Earth Control ' and in the more obscure ' Trapped ' . One of the ways the Fleischers showed the originality of their cartoon technique was in their method of introducing their character Ko-Ko the Clown . Although Ko-Ko appeared in dozens of silent-era cartoons for the Fleischer studio , it was a point of pride for Dave Fleischer always to introduce Ko-Ko by means of a different visual device in each cartoon . In ' Trapped ' , we see the cartoonist's hands as still photograph cut-outs , manipulated in front of the camera to look like live-action movie footage . The hands sketch a small black dot and ink it in . Then the dot proceeds to bounce across the cartoonist's easel , until the hands finally catch it and unfold it into Ko-Ko the Clown . Now the toon gets going , with Ko-Ko encountering a giant spider . . . who has a human face that's decidedly male , even though the spider spins a gigantic web . ( In the real world , only female spiders spin webs . ) What makes ' Trapped ' distinctive is that the action cross-cuts between Ko-Ko's battle with the spider and our live-action cartoonist ( Dave Fleischer himself ) in his travails with a live-action mouse in the Fleischer studio . Eventually , the cartoonist sets a mousetrap . Of course , Ko-Ko escapes from his cartoon and gets caught in the live-action mousetrap . Then Ko-Ko develops some web-spinning techniques of his own , and he proceeds to spin a gigantic ( cartoon ) spiderweb all round the head of the dozing live-action cartoonist . ' Trapped ' is not as funny as ' Ko-Ko's Earth Control ' ( few cartoons are ! ) , but it's visually innovative , and you and your kids will enjoy it . The black-and-white footage of a real mouse is not likely to disturb anybody . I'll rate this delightful toon .
Down Underworld noir thriller	' The Hard Word ' is an excellent , well-paced Australian movie , straddling the genres of the American noir caper film and the British thick-ear crime drama . Some of the sequences in this movie remind me of scenes in ' The Asphalt Jungle ' , ' The Killing ' , ' La Jetee ' , the Peter Sellers comedy ' Two-Way Stretch ' and even ' Eating Raoul ' . . . but ' The Hard Word ' is definitely a one-off original , and it's very good . The early scenes in this film take place in the Australian prison system . I've done some prison time Down Under ( in my original name , before I changed it ) , and I found these scenes extremely realistic . Seppos and Poms ( Yanks and Brits ) will have difficulty understanding the Strine slang in this movie ; for instance , when an inmate shouts ' Half yer ( expletive ) luck ! ' , it's not instantly clear to non-Australians that this means ' I wish I was half as lucky as you . ' Also , American audiences will be confused by this movie's references to racetrack ' bookies ' . In Australia ( as in Britain , but unlike in the States ) , bookies are lawful businessmen ( ' turf accountants ' ) who privately take bets at sporting events , as independent contractors . And most confusing of all for audiences outside Australia : some of the dialogue in ' The Hard Word ' is spoken in ' butcher talk ' . This is never explained in the movie , so I'll reveal that butcher talk ( or ' rehctub klat ' ) is the dialect used by ( real-life ) Australian criminals for covert conversations in public . . . in which every word is spoken BACKWARDS , very rapidly . Even if you know the secret , you won't understand a conversation in ' butcher ' unless you've practised a lot . ( In Britain , criminals have a gimmick called ' backslang ' which is a simpler version of the same thing . ) Several times in ' The Hard Word ' , the dialogue is brilliantly ambiguous , carrying two meanings at the same go . Three felons are released on the same day : violent Dale , easy-going Malcolm and Pepsi-swilling mother-obsessed Shane . ( The dialogue identifies them as brothers ; they don't look remotely alike , but that line explains why they stick together no matter what . ) As soon as they get out , our lads participate in an armoured-car robbery that's been set up by their crooked lawyer Frank . . . but Frank might be setting them up for a fall . And while the lads were ' inside ' , Frank has been having a go with Dale's sexy wife Carol . Rachel Griffiths , who plays Dale's wife , is not conventionally beautiful . . . but in this film she gives one of the sexiest performances I've ever seen on screen . SLIGHT SPOILERS COMING . There are some eye-catching frame compositions in this film ; all credit to director / scripter Scott Roberts . But several pieces of business seem to be set up only to create odd images on screen . A rival gangster lures Dale into a trap by disguising himself as Dale's wife and then hiding in their bed with a gun ; I found this wildly unlikely . Frank kills another gangster by cramming a lava lamp into his mouth : no blood , no broken teeth ; just an interesting visual composition . One long sequence is played out inside a restaurant shaped like a giant cow . An actor named Robert Taylor ( doesn't he know that this name's been used before ? ) is very good as Frank , the brothers ' crooked lawyer . Frank dies a horrible death . How to get rid of the corpse ? We know that Malcolm is handy with a sausage-grinder , and in the next scene we see him grilling some FRANK-furters on the barbie . That pun is no coincidence . ( Damien Richardson is a revelation as Malcolm . ) On several occasions , the crooks jeopardise their own well-planned caper by brawling or arguing ; I found this a very accurate depiction of criminal behaviour . Yet there's one very implausible plot twist during the robbery at the Melbourne Cup , when Shane is supposed to open a locked door by typing a 4-figure number into a numeric keypad . . . but a henchman named Tarzan insists on doing it himself , even though he's dyslexic . Doesn't Tarzan realise that his dyslexia disqualifies him from this job ? Sure enough , he mucks it up . During the caper sequences , I kept expecting to see the cliché shot from every caper film . . . when a swag-bag rips open , and banknotes go flying in all directions . Blessedly , that hackneyed image never came . For most of its length , ' The Hard Word ' commendably avoids clichés . I thought Rhondda Findleton quite sexy as an anger-management counsellor with a semi-Louise Brooks hairbob , but I was annoyed when her character became that prison-movie cliché : the sexy female prison staffer who goes home every night and can get any man she wants on the outside , yet who becomes sexually involved with one of the inmates a few minutes after she meets him ! I couldn't believe that this woman would be having sex with Shane . . . it would have been much more plausible if she had merely led him on , arousing herself with his sexual frustration while offering him no release . At the very end of this flick , the three brothers and Carol are striding purposefully towards the camera . ' Please ' , I thought , ' please do NOT commit that horrible cliché of freeze-framing the final shot . ' Instead of a freeze-frame , the final image went into a slo-mo . . . which is also a cliché , but not quite so hackneyed yet . Despite a few complaints , I'm vastly impressed with this highly entertaining movie . I'll rate ' The Hard Word ' . Nice one , cobber !
Skewed version of penny-dreadful true murder case .	This afternoon at the Barbican , I attended a screening of ' The Life Story of John Lee : The Man They Could Not Hang ' , with excellent live piano accompaniment by John Sweeney , as part of the opening day's programme for the Silent Film & Live Music Series running through June . This fascinating true-crime film was shown today on a double-bill with a digital restoration of ' The Story of the Kelly Gang ' ( 1906 ) , generally believed to be the first feature-length movie . The bizarre story of John Lee was once well-known fodder for the penny-dreadfuls , but has now sunk to the level of ' Believe it or not ' lore . On 15 November 1884 , an elderly woman named Emma Keyse was found dead in her cottage in South Devon , clearly a homicide . The house had been fired deliberately . Yet Keyse's possessions appeared to be untouched ; apparently the killer's motive was something other than robbery . The police promptly arrested 20-year-old John Lee , who had occasionally worked for Keyse . His trial was a local sensation , made even more sensational shortly afterward when Lee's barrister and a Crown witness both went insane and died . Lee was convicted and sentenced to hang . On 23 February 1885 , he went to the scaffold . . . but something went wrong . The trap refused to open . Lee was taken back to his cell . The trap was tested with weights ; it worked perfectly . Try again , shall we ? Lee was brought back . Again , he mounted the steps to the scaffold . Again , it failed to work . Three times in all , the trap failed . . . yet it worked perfectly each time it was tested . There seems to be a widespread misconception that , when an execution apparatus malfunctions , the prisoner is set free . In fact , Lee's death sentence was changed to life imprisonment . Insisting all along on his innocence , he was eventually released in 1907 . Four years later , with a local barmaid named Kate ( surname uncertain ) , he emigrated to America . Some sources claim that he eventually returned , dying in a West Devon workhouse in 1945 : this has not been verified . This crude 1912 silent film was made in Australia , which explains the film's viewpoint . Most of Australia's white inhabitants at this time were direct descendants of convicts who had been transported from Ireland or England : criminals who , very often , had committed only very minor crimes , or who may even have been innocents falsely convicted . The makers of this movie take every opportunity to depict the Devonshire authorities as corrupt , incompetent , utterly uninterested in such petty details as facts or procedural evidence . As depicted here by the rather effete Mervyn Barrington , John Lee is not merely innocent : he is the people's hero . Most howlingly of all , this film's editing and direction strongly imply that the malfunction of Lee's gallows is an outright case of divine intervention , with God personally protecting Lee from the hangman . . . or perhaps the trap door is kept fast by some superhuman exertion of Lee's will power . This is utter rubbish , of course . It's quite possible that a Victorian gallows would repeatedly fail , with the erratic behaviour of this particular gallows - - working perfectly in tests , yet always failing in a real context - - being only slightly coincidental . If God ( or any other supernatural agency ) really intervened in the execution of John Lee , then why did no deity intervene to save Timothy Evans ( the fall-guy in the John Christie murders ) , or Leo Frank ( lynched for the Mary Phagan rape-murder ) , or any of the many other innocents who were executed for crimes they didn't commit , or who were lynched outright ? I try to rate films based on their effectiveness at what they attempt to do , rather than their factuality . ' The Life Story of John Lee ' plainly intended to tell only one side of a very skewed story , and on that count it succeeds very well . The screening which I attended was made more enjoyable by John Sweeney's excellent piano accompaniment . All in all , I'll rate this experience .
World's first S & M movie ?	I saw this early Italian silent film in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival . . . in Italy , appropriately enough . What a movie ! Why isn't ' Sole ! ' better known ? Apart from its other merits , this may well be the first S & M movie ! It's certainly the earliest movie I've seen which expressly depicts a character as sadistic in the Krafft-Ebing sense , rather than merely cruel . Leda Gys gives an astonishing performance as Sole , a demi-mondaine who lives on the outskirts of Naples . When a young man with amorous intentions ( Piero Concialdi ) follows her to her door , she ties him to the door and torments him erotically all night , leaving him a gibbering simpleton in the morning . ( Actually , I thought he was a gibbering simpleton before he got there . ) Next , she meets the wealthy and cultured Baron Silvestro ( Ignazio Lupi ) , who attempts to give Sole the male chauvinist Pygmalion treatment by giving her an education and introducing her to society . . . including the Marquis de Vamberry ( Goffredo D'Andrea ) . But it's clear that Sole is a woman of the streets and she chooses to stay that way , so she's soon back in her old Neapolitan haunts . . . where she meets another amorous young buck named Totò ( Giovanni Grasso ) . He too follows Sole to her door - - the same door - - but this time Sole's sadistic propensities know no bounds . We're not in Kansas any more , Totò . As I said : What a movie ! Leda Gys's acting and Pasquale Parisi's screenplay make it clear that Sole despises all men , and that she's erotically stimulated by arousing them and then hurting them . . . not merely tormenting them psychologically , but literally torturing them . At the same go , Parisi's screenplay takes a negative attitude towards Sole : she's a woman of the streets , so she's incapable of rising above her nature and appreciating the finer things in life . I'm astounded that this movie was made in 1919 , though I can readily understand why it seems never to have been exhibited in the much more staid climes of the United States and Britain . I'll rate ' Sole ! ' . Why don't I ever meet women like her ?
No budget , no banjo , but Formby's just fine	By almost any criterion , ' Boots ! Boots ! ' is an incredibly crude and primitive film . It was made in two weeks , on a shoestring budget , in a room above a garage off Regent Street . Although the action takes place in several different rooms of an hotel , the entire film was shot in one room , with the furniture and set dressing changed very slightly for the different settings . However , ' Boots ! Boots ! ' is a vitally important film for two reasons . It's the first starring vehicle for George Formby , and it's also the only film appearance of his wife Beryl . Although Beryl Formby began as a tap-dancer in the variety halls , she wasn't cut out for stardom . She found greater success managing her husband's career , and controlling every single aspect of his life , including his pocket money . Beryl Formby controlled her husband so utterly that he was forbidden to kiss any of his leading ladies in any of his films , and Beryl the Peril was always present on the movie set to make sure this rule was followed . ( On one occasion , when Beryl Formby was too ill to be present on the set , the entire cast and crew applauded . ) The title of ' Boots ! Boots ! ' refers not to the Kipling poem , but to Formby's character . He plays the gormless ' boots ' ( bootblack ) in what's meant to be a posh hotel , although you wouldn't know it from the production values seen here . Much as in Jerry Lewis's very similar film ' The Bellboy ' , there isn't really any plot here : the film is just an excuse to show George getting into various muddles with the hotel's manager , the chef , some guests and the scullery maid . The latter is played by Beryl Formby , who looks fairly attractive in a maid's uniform ( long skirt , long sleeves ; not much kink quotient ) but who proves she's no actress . Eventually , George gets to skin out of his servant rig and get into white tie and tails , performing in the hotel's nightclub . As usual for a George Formby film , the whole affair is an excuse for his cheeky songs , which here have titles such as ' Sitting on the Ice in the Ice Rink ' and ' I Could Make a Good Living at That ' . In the dialogue of his later films , George referred to his musical instrument as his ' uke ' or his ' ukulele ' , but in fact his usual instrument was a ' banjolele ' - - a short-necked banjo - - rather than an actual ukulele . In ' Boots ! Boots ! ' , George actually does play a standard ukulele . The sound is less distinctive than in his later banjolele efforts , but that might be down to the poor recording here . Beryl Formby does a spirited tap-dance to the ' Chinese Laundry Blues ' , showing that her dancing ability is superior to her acting ability , but not by much . The direction and camera-work in this cheapie effort are quite bad , and much of the pacing is bad too . Still , for fans of George Formby , this is a vitally important film . . . and it's an interesting example of no-budget film-making . I'll rate ' Boots ! Boots ! ' .
The wenches in the trenches meet the bitches in the ditches .	MGM's war drama ' The Big Parade ' was the single biggest money-maker of Hollywood's silent-film period . ( Actually , ' The Birth of a Nation ' made more money , but the profits were divided among several different distributors . ) Consequently , there were several unrelated movies - - such as ' The Wet Parade ' - - with titles evoking that box-office bonanza . ' The Mad Parade ' was one of them , and ( unlike ' The Wet Parade ' ) it resembles ' The Big Parade ' to the extent that it's also about the Great War . . . but this time from a female viewpoint . The film which ' The Mad Parade ' most nearly resembles is ' The Women ' , in which an all-female cast spent most of their time obsessing over men who remained just offscreen . But that movie took place in a female universe of salons and boutiques . ' The Mad Parade ' sets a bigger challenge : it's a war movie ( traditionally male territory ) with an all-female cast . It would be very contrived to keep men entirely absent from this setting , so ( unlike in ' The Women ' ) we do hear men's offscreen voices , occasionally seeing a man's shadow outlined on the wall , or glimpsing a man's shoulder at the edge of the frame . The setting is a military canteen during the Great War , staffed by women so that men will be available for combat duty . The commander is Schuyler , played by the underrated character actress Irene Rich . Each of the young women on her staff has a distinctly different personality , and much of the drama ( with some comedy relief ) comes from the clash of these personalities under the pressure of war . Monica Dale is nicknamed ' the Duchess ' for her reserved manner . She's romantically involved with Tony , a handsome young aviator . One drawback of this film's all-female conceit is that we know we're never going to see Tony even though we keep hearing about him . Monica's co-worker Janice is jealous and wants Tony for herself . Lilyan Tashman ( whom I've never liked ) supplies some bad comedy relief ; Louise Fazenda's comic playing is more welcome . Fazenda's character is cried Fanny Smithers , a name which would provoke unintended laughter in British cinemas . The film takes pains to establish that these women are in physical danger , just like the men they cater for . A German bombing raid hits the canteen . Monica finds a dud German grenade , and chucks it at a rat . . . but the grenade explodes and kills her co-worker Prudence . One thing I found immensely annoying about this movie is that most of the women are constantly obsessing about romantic entanglements with men , even though they've got far more pressing matters . In fairness , I'm sure that plenty of men in combat zones were thinking about women during lulls in the battle . . . but I'm also sure they put aside those thoughts and got to work when the shooting started . Most of the characters in ' The Mad Parade ' live utterly for male attention . Marceline Day's dialogue reveals her bizarre enunciation . Bill Beaudine's directorial efforts are - - as usual for him - - workmanlike and unimaginative . The editing is poor . But there aren't many films with an all-woman cast , and still fewer of those are war movies . This film's unusual setting and casting go far to raise it above the mundane . Despite its flaws and its derivative title , I'll rate ' The Mad Parade ' .
Powerful drama with a few false steps	' Alias Mary Dow ' has a fascinating premise which seems to unfold by the usual formula , but then surprises us . Sally Eilers gives a standout performance in the lead , effectively playing a dual role . Eilers is Sally Gates , a waitress and dance-hall tootsie who is clearly not above a bit of prostitution , although the script indicates that she hasn't had any breaks in her life . A wealthy and respectable man , Henry Dow , comes to her with a strange offer , hoping it will benefit his dying wife Evelyn . Eighteen years ago , the Dows ' young daughter Mary was kidnapped and held to ransom , but never found alive or dead . Now , on her deathbed , Evelyn Dow is calling for her daughter . Her husband bribes Sally to pose as the long-lost Mary , now grown to adulthood , so that Evelyn will die happy . At this point , the formula kicks in . When Mrs Dow meets her ' daughter ' ( Sally ) , she of course rallies . Now , Sally is stuck with the imposture . What makes this drama intriguing is the transformation in Sally . She originally accepted the charade for some quick compensation . Now , living as Mary Dow , she develops genuine affection for her faux parents . It's fascinating to watch actress Sally Eilers switching between two different personalities - - hard-bitten cynical Sally and sweet innocent Mary - - and it's even more fascinating as Sally genuinely becomes more like the false Mary . ( One question which is never properly addressed : Since Mary Dow was at the mercy of her kidnappers , why would she grow up sweet and innocent ? ) The script attempts to render Henry Dow sympathetic by having him undergo a change of heart and attempt to reveal the imposture to his wife . . . but she stops him . The script and the expert direction by Kurt Neumann imply that Evelyn Dow has sensed the truth but doesn't want to acknowledge it . Because there are some clichés in this movie , I was expecting a Dickensian coincidence at the end : namely , that Sally would turn out to be the real Mary Dow . The script sets up a fairly implausible ambiguity about Sally's childhood years . However , we learn at the end that Sally is definitely not the real Mary . In 1977 , Disney released a children's movie , ' Candleshoe ' , which has very nearly the same premise as ' Alias Mary Dow ' , but which ends ambiguously . . . implying that the female impostor might actually be the long-lost child she's pretending to be . ' Alias Mary Dow ' avoids that ambiguity , and is vastly better for it . One aspect of this movie makes it much more gripping , yet ultimately harms the film . If the real Mary Dow had been merely an off-screen plot device , all would have been well . But , in flashbacks , we see the real Mary Dow , played by a pretty child actress . These scenes are quite gripping , but they also force us to speculate about the fate of this little girl , who was never found again . When I wanted to be caught up in the drama of Sally Gates , I kept thinking about that frightened little girl who never found her way home . Still , this is a powerful film , which I'll rate .
Not exactly a fairy tale . . .	Hans Christian Andersen was an intensely neurotic man , with many phobias and obsessions . Many people who met him commented about how difficult he was to get along with . Famously , in 1847 Andersen stayed with Charles Dickens's family in London for six weeks ( ! ) , causing problems so obnoxious that Dickens refused to divulge them even in his personal diary . Several authors of gay history have claimed that Andersen was homosexual . I'm unaware of any solid evidence for this . He definitely had a Lewis Carroll-like obsession with one underage actress . From my limited knowledge of Andersen , I would characterise him as too confused to possess a specific sexual orientation . This film ' Young Andersen ' suggests a strong emotional bond between teenage Hans and a pre-teen boy named Tuk , but the bond doesn't seem to be sexual : it's more on a Huck-and-Tom level . Physically , Hans is much nearer to manhood than Tuk , but emotionally Tuk is the more mature of the two . SLIGHT SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . I know very little about Andersen's early life : this movie gets several details right , but I strongly suspect that it's largely fiction . Oddly , the filmmaker shows Andersen's teenage years in flashback , from the viewpoint of elderly Andersen on his deathbed . This decision has no payoff until the very end , when - - apparently at the moment of his death - - Andersen has a Citizen Kane moment , with the long-dead Tuk returning as Andersen's " Rosebud " . Oh , dear . The flashback begins with young Hans already having left his Danish peasant village for Copenhagen , where he penuriously lives in a doghouse ! There are references to Hans's backstory - - his parents ' poverty , his grandfather's insanity - - but these are never shown on the screen : to do so would have required a flashback within the flashback . The action is largely concerned with Hans's education ( at the king's expense ) in a grammar school in the village of Slagelse . As the schoolmaster , Henning Jensen gives a stand-out performance that reminded me of Wallace Beery and Leo McKern . There's a splendidly erotic performance by Puk Scharbau as the schoolmaster's randy wife , and one amusing scene in which she attempts to seduce Hans when he would prefer to write poetry . I was hoping that this movie would depict Andersen interacting with some of his fictional creations ; something similar to what Dennis Potter did in ' Dreamchild ' . We do get some semi-fantasy sequences , as well as some realistic sequences which I doubt actually happened . . . such as Andersen piloting a primitive hang-glider , and Andersen attempting suicide after the death of his friend Tuk . There are several virtuoso camera sequences : commendably , most of these are for valid purposes rather than merely self-indulgences . I was disappointed by a montage sequence featuring Andersen and his schoolmaster : the action called for a continuous 360-degree pan , but director Rumle Hammerich broke it into several smaller arc pans , probably for technical reasons rather than artistic ones . The exterior sequences are exquisite , the modern lighting is unobtrusive in the 19th-century interiors , and the art direction ( recreating early 19th-century Denmark ) is superb , although we get the usual problem for movies set in that period : everything is too clean , and the actors ' teeth are too good . Rumle Hammerich is already a splendid director whose career shows great promise . I'll rate ' Young Andersen ' , but I suspect that much of this movie is fiction .
Well above D . W . Griffith's usual standard .	I saw DW Griffith's ' Scarlet Days ' in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto film festival in Sacile , Italy . The festival screened a print supplied by the Museum of Modern Art , in New York City . Some words of caution are in order , however . ' Scarlet Days ' was never one of Griffith's more important nor more profitable productions . After Griffith's production company failed , no American archive attempted to preserve a print of this movie , and it soon became ' lost ' . As so often happens with ' lost ' American films , a print turned up in the Gosfilmofond archive in Russia . ( This one in 1972 , I think . ) Since the Soviet Union never honoured U . S . copyrights ; Russian film exhibitors seldom bothered to return the prints of American films distributed to Soviet cinemas . The Gosfilmofond print of ' Scarlet Days ' contained Russian intertitles rather than the English-language originals . The Museum of Modern Art possess a transcript of Griffith's title sheets for this film , but it's not clear whether these titles are the ones which accompanied its original U . S . release . ( Griffith was notorious for constantly revising his own work . ) At any rate , the MoMA print which I saw in Italy contains crude reconstructions of the MoMA titles , difficult to read and unattractive to the eye . If the following review contains any inaccuracies , please note that I saw a print with the ' wrong ' titles . Eugenie Besserer plays Rosie Nell , a dance-hall matron in the southwestern U . S . in the 19th century . The film manages to imply that Rosie Nell is more than merely a dance-hall girl - - i . e . , she's either a madam or a prostitute , or both - - but is evasive about this . Rosie Nell's business rival is one Spasm Sal , and here we have a female version of the old ' good crook / bad crook ' cliché . Even though Nell and Sal are in the same line of work , we're meant to sympathise with Nell while dismissing Sal as just cheap baggage . Like Mrs Warren in George Bernard Shaw's play , Rosie Nell does what she does in order to buy a finer life for her daughter , whom she is careful to keep at a distance so as to protect her purity . Played by Griffith's perpetual ingenue Carol Dempster , the daughter ( with a maidenhead of corrugated steel ) is lumbered with the ridiculous name Lady Fair . Lady Fair has been raised by a kindly aunt , on the money sent to her by Rosie Nell . This set-up topples into bathos when we see that the gaudy bawdy Rosie Nell keeps a small trove of ' respectable ' frocks buried deep in her closet for her visits with her daughter . Meanwhile , Richard Barthelmess - - the DIY Chinese in ' Broken Blossoms ' - - is cast here as a DIY Mexican named Alvarez , a local bandito . We're meant to accept that Alvarez - - like Zorro and the Cisco Kid , or like Robin Hood - - is a ' good ' crook who only robs those who deserve to be robbed , and who supposedly distributes his largess to the poor . Here again , on the male side of the cast list , we have the ' good crook / bad crook ' contrast . Whilst Alvarez is ostensibly a ' good ' crook , he is contrasted with King Bagley ( played by sack-faced Walter Long ) , who's just a crook full stop . Naturally , Long lusts for Lady Fair . Offscreen , actor Carol Dempster was rumoured to be DW Griffith's mistress : in his films , Griffith often cast the flat-chested Dempster as the vehicle for his rather peculiar notions about virginal maidenhood . In a few of their films , Griffith arranged to have Dempster's ingenue characters threatened with rape . . . never successfully , of course . We get an early hint of this in ' Scarlet Days ' when Walter Long ( who also played the would-be rapist in Griffith's ' Birth of a Nation ' ) brutally inserts his knee between the ruffles of Dempster's skirt . For Griffith's original audience , this must have been very shocking indeed . Later , Long's villain attempts to rape her . . . and the rape scene here is far more detailed and explicit than the rape scene in Griffith's and Dempster's ' Sally of the Sawdust ' . Long pulls the bodice of Dempster's dress off her shoulders , then lifts her skirt and petticoats . In a 21st-century movie , this would merely be business as usual ( rated PG ) . For a film made in 1919 , and especially one made by the sexually reticent Griffith , I found this scene to be shockingly explicit . Allegedly , the character played by Barthelmess in this movie is based on one or more genuine historic figures of the Old West . I have my doubts about that part . There are plenty of gentlemen highwaymen - - Jesse James in the States , Dick Turpin in England - - who , upon closer inspection , turn out to have been just thieving brutes after all . ' Scarlet Days ' is atypical of DW Griffith's work , and manages to avoid some of his more annoying excesses . There are a few credibility problems in the script , but perhaps these would have been cleared up if I'd viewed a print with the original title cards . ' Billy ' Bitzer's cinematography is up to his usual high standard here . My rating for this one : .
I applauded the art direction .	It is a truth universally acknowledged that reviews of Jane Austen movies must begin with the phrase ' It is a truth universally acknowledged . . . ' . I know very little about Jane Austen's life , although I spotted an error in this movie anyway : her deaf-mute older brother George was NOT raised at home with her ( as seen here ) ; he was institutionalised , and the hand-signing which Anne Hathaway briefly uses here is partly anachronistic . I confess that I've very little interest in Miss Austen , nor in her novels . But I'm hugely interested in the Regency period in which she lived . As I watched ' Becoming Jane ' , I was pleasantly astounded by the incredible period detail throughout the film : the houses ( inside and out ) , the books , the churchyards , the carriages and coaches , the clothing . Even the musical instruments , the music and the dances are authentic ! Well done ! Of course , all these late 18th-century people have 20th-century orthodontia , and their hair is too clean . And the cricket bats don't look ( or sound ) as if they were made of willow , as they should have been . I know that some people will be watching this movie for the costumes , so let me assure you that there are plenty of Empire waists , coal-scuttle bonnets , top boots and Kate Greenaway frocks . Several of the ladies wear delightful gloves . This movie follows most of the rules for costume-drama chick-flicks . We get the de rigueur scene in which fully-clothed young women surreptitiously watch naked young men . ( But not the reverse , of course . ) We get the de rigueur scene in which a young woman performs a traditionally male activity and ( of course ) she beats the men at their own game . At a cricket match , Jane Austen steps into the crease . The bowler gives her an easy one , and ( of course ) she knocks it for six . I suspect that most of this movie is fiction , and there is indeed one of those ' based on facts ' disclaimers in the end credits . I was annoyed that various characters in this film constantly tell Jane Austen that , as a woman , she cannot hope to be the equal of a man , nor can she expect a happy life without a husband . These may indeed have been the accepted realities of Austen's time , but I had difficulty believing that so many people ( especially young men who hope to win her ) would make a point of making these comments so explicitly and so often . Also , everyone in this movie keeps telling Jane that she cannot possibly write about anything which she hasn't experienced . ( So she can't write about sexual passion unless . . . nudge , nudge . ) However , even in Austen's day , this premise was demonstrably untrue . If I want to write a murder mystery , do I need to commit a murder ? The performances in this film are universally excellent . Any movie with Dame Maggie Smith in it , I'm there . Ian Richardson ( in his last role ) is superb , wringing the full value from some succulent dialogue . James Cromwell has matured into one of the finest character actors I've ever seen , progressing light-years beyond the infantile Norman Lear sitcom roles of his early career . As Jane Austen , Anne Hathaway has the sense to attempt only a very slight English accent , but she is far too pretty for this role . The real Jane Austen was apparently not pretty , and this was a major reason for why she never married . It beggars belief that the Jane Austen seen here - - the one who looks like Anne Hathaway - - would have so much difficulty attracting suitors . However , I'm a realist : there's simply no way that any production company would spend this much money on a costume romance and then cast an unattractive actress in the lead role . Evidence indicates that Jane Austen's sister Cassandra was the prettier of the two , and that this discrepancy strongly shaped their relationship . But , again , there's no way that the makers of this film would upstage their own star actress by casting someone more beautiful as her sister . Anna Maxwell Martin , cast here as Cassandra , is a splendid actress and fairly attractive but certainly no beauty in Hathaway's league . At the end of the film , a title card alludes to Jane Austen's ' short life ' . She actually lived to age 41 : a longer lifespan than any of the Brontë sisters ' , and fairly normal for Regency England . In the last scenes of this film , we see Hathaway in some dodgy ' age ' make-up which makes her look rather more sixtyish than fortyish . Near the end of her life , the real Jane Austen had an unidentified illness which darkened her skin : again , I have no expectations of a big-budget film doing anything to compromise the beauty of its leading actress . This film's title ' Becoming Jane ' is a subtle pun , since Hathaway's embodiment of Jane Austen is so very ' becoming ' . Geddit ? The makers of ' Becoming Jane ' have gone to considerable trouble to give their target audience precisely what that audience want , which is only marginally related to the facts . On that score , they have succeeded . And the art direction in this movie is astonishingly thorough , and good . I'll rate ' Becoming Jane ' as an excellent FICTION film .
Colman's run-up to ' Zenda '	' The Masquerader ' , an obscure drama starring Ronald Colman , is very similar in its premise and subplots to Colman's great vehicle ' The Prisoner of Zenda ' . . . but he did ' The Masquerader ' first . As in ' Zenda ' , Colman plays lookalike cousins who meet after many years of living in two different countries . . . one of whom has an opportunity to take over the other's life , while falling in love with the other man's disenchanted lady . Colman's main role is John Loder ( no relation to the bland actor of that name ) , a disaffected journalist who returns to his native England after many years abroad . Loder's more successful cousin is Sir John Chilcote , a prominent member of Parliament . But Chilcote is secretly a morphine addict , and his addiction is becoming harder to conceal . Also concealed ( not very well ) is Chilcote's philandering relationship with Lady Joyce , while his estranged wife Eve ( Lady Chilcote ) is humiliated on the sidelines . When Sir John's addiction causes him to collapse just before he introduces a crucial piece of legislation , Chilcote's loyal manservant Brock persuades Loder to impersonate his cousin . Loder , pretending to be Chilcote , gives an impassioned speech on the floor of Commons . Lady Chilcote has been estranged from her husband for years ; now , attending this speech , she wonders why she is suddenly attracted to her husband again . . . not realising that this is actually Loder impersonating Lady Chilcote's husband . ( Shades of Princess Flavia in ' Zenda ' . ) Meanwhile , Loder ( still pretending to be Chilcote ) is utterly cold to Chilcote's mistress Lady Joyce , much to her bafflement . SPOILERS COMING . Sir John dies of his addiction , without this becoming public knowledge . Brock persuades Loder to abandon his own life and become Sir John Chilcote permanently , appropriating Chilcote's wealth and reputation . Of course , this means that Loder will now be married to Lady Chilcote . Hmmm . . . ' The Masquerader ' is not very plausible , yet it's quite enjoyable . Ronald Colman gives two distinctly different performances in the lookalike roles . . . although his turn as the drug-addicted Chilcote is a bit too overwrought . Moss Hart's smooth dialogue papers over some of the cracks in the plot line . Gregg Toland's photography is up to his usual high standard , and I was especially impressed by the scenes in which both Ronald Colmans are on screen at the same go . ( Most dual-role movies made during this period featured flat sideline lighting during the double-exposure sequences ; Toland avoids this . ) Also well-photographed is a night sequence in Hyde Park ( filmed on the Goldwyn Studio's backlot ) ; Toland keeps the lighting bright enough for us to see the action , but dark enough to minimise the obvious fakery of the scenery . Creighton Hale is good in a small role . In the role of Lady Eve Chilcote , Elissa Landi is appropriately patrician ( and slightly less blonde than usual ) , but her performance is weak . In the role of Lady Joyce , Juliette Compton is so dull and unattractive that I had difficulty believing Sir John would ever prefer her to his wife . The studio reconstruction of the House of Commons is a lot more convincing than I expected it to be , especially for a Yank film . I'll rate this movie .
We're all kept " Hanging " in this suspenseful adaptation .	" Climax ! " was one of the many anthology television series of the 1950s : supposedly with a narrower focus than most , since it allegedly dealt exclusively in tales of suspense , and was therefore in competition with ' Alfred Hitchcock Presents ' . But ' Climax ! ' did not stay true to its mandate , and had some very non-suspenseful instalments . . . including an excerpt from ' Huckleberry Finn ' , a biopic of Lou Gehrig , and a tribute to gossip columnist Louella Parsons ! This review is specifically for ' The Hanging Judge ' , a genuinely suspenseful episode from the second series of ' Climax ! ' . I was deeply intrigued to learn about this story's gestation . Adapted from Bruce Hamilton's novel ' Let Him Have Judgement ' , ' The Hanging Judge ' was a stage play : the only play ever written by actor Raymond Massey , and the only stage play ever produced and directed ( in Britain ) by film director Michael Powell . Massey is in the cast of this tele-version , but he did not perform originally in his own play , which considerably alters the plot and focus of Hamilton's novel . Sir Francis Britten ( Cedric Hardwicke ) is a London high-court judge who has sent many men to the gallows , and he has no qualms about this . He refuses to believe that an innocent man would panic or behave irrationally when falsely accused of a crime . As is usual with such people , Sir Francis has a dark secret . More than twenty years ago , he had a sexual affair in Norfolk with a woman he did not intend to marry , resulting in the birth of a son out of wedlock . The son , Ted , proved to be sickly and mentally unstable , and Sir Francis has never acknowledged him . Ted and his mother lived in poverty in Norfolk , the mother eventually dying while Ted nurtured his resentment that Sir Francis , a wealthy and respected judge , has not deigned to help them . Shortly after expounding his beliefs at the Adelphi Club in Pall Mall , Sir Francis makes one of his rare visits to his son , now an adult ( Hurd Hatfield ) . But the demented Ted has planned his revenge . In Sir Francis's presence , Ted kills himself in a manner calculated to make it seem he has been murdered by Sir Francis . The judge panics ; he tries to tamper with the evidence to clear himself , but only makes things worse . Back at the Adelphi Club in London , Sir Francis tells a few ill-thought lies in an attempt to provide an alibi for his trip to Norfolk . But his lies backfire , only making his clubmates suspicious . Eventually , Sir Francis finds himself charged with Fred's murder and standing in the dock in a Norfolk courtroom . He receives what he himself concedes is an absolutely fair trial . . . yet he is falsely convicted on the evidence , and sentenced to death . Sir Francis now wonders how many of the men whom HE sent to their deaths were also falsely convicted . There is , of course , a surprise ending . There are several excellent performances here , notably from Raymond Massey as Sir George Sidney MP , a character not in Hamilton's original novel : a Parliamentary reformer who has long been Sir Francis's opponent , yet who now surprisingly aids him . Reginald Denny , cast against his usual type , is surprisingly good as a devious solicitor . Alan Marshal is excellent as the Javert-like Norfolk constable who pursues Sir Francis . John Carradine , who usually impresses me even in bad horror movies , merely goes through the motions here ( with a bad accent ) as a British colonel at the Adelphi Club . As the self-murdered man , Hatfield plays his role as the same neurasthenic degenerate whom he usually ended up portraying . Lumsden Hare is note-perfect as Major West , the Home Secretary who refuses to pardon the convicted judge . Hamilton's original novel was largely introspective , taking place primarily in Sir Francis's mind and his conscience . This tele-adaptation , smoothly paced by director John Frankenheimer , opens up the plot splendidly . If all episodes of ' Climax ! ' were this good , that programme would surely have been one of the classic anthology series .
Almost as great as Fritz Lang's ' M ' !	' Der Mädchenhirt ' was a special ' CineFest Event ' at this year's Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone , Italy , where I saw it last month . The festival screened a colour-stock print from Berlin's Bundesarchiv-Filmarchiv , which beautifully reproduced the delicate tinting and toning of the original nitrate release prints . However , I'd already seen the Czech remake of this movie ( ' Pasák Holec ' , 1930 ) when it was screened at the Cinema Ritrovato in Bologna in July 1996 . My eagerness to see ' Der Mädchenhirt ' at Pordenone was less to do with how heavily the festival committee emphasised the screening than because this film is based on a novel by Egon Kisch . Kisch , a Bohemia-born Jew , first made his reputation as an investigative reporter , exposing the now-notorious espionage case of Colonel Redl . During the Anschluss , Kisch fled Europe and landed up in Australia , where he proceeded to make a commotion in local journalism . My own career in journalism began in Australia , and in my early days as a stringer I knew several old veteran reporters and editors who told me some astonishing tales about Kisch , who appears to have been a very colourful individual . In fact , he was literally colourful : although Kisch claimed to be an observant practitioner of Judaism ( which forbids tattooing ) , he had festooned himself with several pictorially explicit tattoos before fleeing Hitler , and continued to embellish himself with more ' tats ' while living in Australia . There are several typos in IMDb's cast list for ' Der Mädchenhirt ' : the characters listed as Duschitz , Serenity and Lusie are actually named Duschnitz , Sereniy and Luise . Now , read on . This German film's very intriguing title ' Der Mädchenhirt ' translates as ' The Girls-Herdsman ' . . . which , as you might guess , refers to a pimp . Our story begins elsewhere , however : on a river near Prague ( presumably the Vltava ) . Chrapot is a humble ferryman who rescues a victim from a boat-wreck and takes him home to dry off . The man returns the favour by seducing Chrapot's wife and impregnating her . ( I guess he hadn't completely dried off yet . ) The resultant boy is christened ( in this movie ) Jaroslav ( in the original novel he's cried Jarda ) , and the movie implies that Jaroslav is innately a bad seed , who just can't help being evil . In adulthood , Jaroslav runs a nightclub in Prague , which is actually a front for his prosperous prostitution business . ( The nightclub , I mean ; not the entire city of Prague . ) Jaroslav is abetted by Betka , who is nominally the madame of the place . However , Jaroslav's sexual ardour is for young Luise , who is only just barely more virginal than Betka . Jaroslav is arrested and thrown in the clink ( I can't imagine why ) , and this film strongly implies that the police are more corrupt than the underworld . ( Considering the time and place , I can readily believe it . ) Since the entire law-enforcement system ( in this movie ) is corrupt , it stands to reason that the biggest crook of all must be police commissioner Duschnitz , who in fact has a secret of his own , to do with Jaroslav . ( Have a look at the rest of my synopsis , if you haven't guessed . ) While Jaroslav is in the Czech hoosegow , Luise must survive on the harsh streets of Prague without him . . . so she throws herself on the mercy of Busch ( well-played by Friedrich Kühne ) , who is a rival pimp . SPOILERS COMING . Eventually , Jaroslav gets out of prison , saves Luise from the clutches of Busch , reconciles with Chrapot and begins a new honest life . One of my least favourite film clichés is the ' good crook / bad crook ' rivalry , in which two equally dishonest criminals square off against each other but we're meant to sympathise with one of them because he's nominally more charming , handsome and better-dressed than his crude ugly thick-ear rival . ' The Girls-Herdsman ' goes far down that road , romanticising and eroticising the antics of handsome pimp Jaroslav and sensual Betka whilst depicting pimp Busch as a double-dyed villain in the Snidely Whiplash mode . Although ' The Girls-Herdsman ' is a German production , it was filmed in Prague and benefits greatly from authentic exterior locations in the seamier districts of that city . I'm not sure if Prague ever had an equivalent to the Reeperbahn , but this movie would seem to indicate that it did . Considering the economic situation in Europe in 1919 , I readily understand why so many people turned to criminal livelihoods , and why the police and other authority figures were widely regarded as corrupt . However , I can't help wondering if the decision by someone at the Berlin-based Künstlerfilm GmbH ( this film's production company ) to shoot ' Der Mädchenhirt ' in Prague ( where the original novel was set ) might not at least partly have been a gambit to mollify German audiences and censors : you see , all this corruption and vice is taking place over there in Czechoslovakia , not here in Germany ! Director Karl Grune shows a sure hand with this material , and at several points during the screening I felt as if I was watching the same dark underworld depicted by Fritz Lang ( my favourite director ) in his masterpiece ' M ' . . . in fact , several cast and crew involved in ' Der Mädchenhirt ' also worked with Lang . In my estimation , ' M ' will always rate a . As for ' Der Mädchenhirt ' : this movie would make an excellent companion piece to ' M ' in a double-feature screening , and that's high praise indeed . Despite my dislike for a couple of plot twists that weren't quite so twisted as they pretended to be , I'll rate this excellent film .
Several excellent performances .	It's generally accepted that silent-film star Clara Bow's career was ruined by sound , and she herself even said so , but I'm not so convinced . Before she made her first talkie , her fans were already aware of her prole Brooklyn accent . I think that a more plausible reason for her decline was simply that she was getting older : the ' It ' Girl became a star in Jazz Baby roles during the Roaring Twenties , and by the time she hit her own mid-twenties she was starting to look dissipated . ' Kick In ' is the unfortunately light-hearted title of a serious drama about crime and regeneration . In the central role , Clara Bow gives an extremely impressive performance , all the more laudable because - - cast as a working-class woman - - she has the sense not to try for glamour at the expense of credibility . SLIGHT SPOILERS COMING . There's a cheap attempt to mislead us in the opening sequence . We see Regis Toomey as a penitentiary inmate , nervously watching the clock . We're led to believe he's about to be executed , but in fact he's about to be released after doing porridge for a minor felony . His wife ( Bow ) is waiting for him , but they've no money and he finds it difficult to get an honest job . Paul Hurst , who usually played despicable characters , is more hissable than usual here as a Javert-like plainclothesman who keeps stalking Toomey , hoping he'll commit another crime so that Hurst can nick him . ( Don't the police have anything better to do ? ) Toomey's trying to go straight , but he still hangs about with his criminal acquaintances ( James Murray and Wynne Gibson ) . Murray burgles the D . A . ' s wife's necklace , but gets shot by the D . A . ' s butler . He must be using boomerang bullets : the butler fires at Murray's right profile , but Murray gets shot in his left side . James Murray , so tragically doomed in real life , gives a riveting performance in his death scene here . Also impressive is Leslie Fenton - - looking amazingly like Christopher Walken - - as Bow's ' snowbird ' brother , although they failed to convince me that they were siblings . Oddly , the dialogue makes frequent references to the ' stuff ' that Fenton's addicted character is using , but never identifies it explicitly . Donald Crisp has some good dialogue , which he delivers crisply ( no pun intended , for once ) in his incongruous Scottish accent as police chief Garvey . Less pleasant is the cod accent employed by Juliette Compton as Murray's criminal companion , who cries herself Piccadilly Bessie ( ! ) but who speaks in a rhinestone accent that's apparently meant to be Mayfair , while she freely admits she's never been to England . The interrogation scene between Crisp ( all Highland burr ) and Compton ( sounding like a Jessie Matthews impersonator ) will fascinate any phonologists in the audience . I found Paul Hurst's character deeply implausible , but Hurst gives an excellent performance in the role . Wynne Gibson is impressive too here , and quietly attractive as a moll who - - for love of Murray - - deliberately maims her own hand . Toomey's character knows some guy named Oscar who stays off screen but is willing to dispose of corpses at a moment's notice ; where can I find a fellow like that ? I'll rate this movie . I enjoyed ' Kick In ' , and I wish that this drama were better known . . . so that people will realise that Clara Bow was an actress of genuine talent , and not merely the ' It ' Girl .
Wynne Gibson's standout performance .	In several previous IMDb reviews , I've expressed my distaste for Sylvia Sidney's acting . Stop the presses ! I've finally seen her give a good performance , in ' Ladies of the Big House ' . Yes , it's a women's prison movie , and I was pleased that two of the clichés of 1930s women's prison movies were avoided : for once , the cellblocks are racially integrated , and also there are no smirking references to lesbianism . The premise of the film is somewhat contrived . Sidney's character is mildly criminal , but she dumps mobster Earle Foxe for a guy she's just met : Gene Raymond , as an engineer who's got a big damn project ( I mean , a big DAM project ) in South America . They get hitched , but before the marriage can be consummated , Foxe shoots cop Robert Emmett O'Connor and frames the newlyweds . They get sent to a co-ed prison , but they're staying in separate dorms : in fact , Raymond goes to Death Row . Sidney's cellblock has a lovely view of the prison courtyard and the gallows , so she'll be able to watch her husband hang for a murder he didn't commit . As usual , there's some bad B-movie dialogue . When Sidney enters the prison , a female lag smirks and declares : ' Didja pipe the fish that just came in ? ' Another inmate is a pregnant Mexican who keeps lapsing into Spanish . . . but when she dies , with nobody present to hear her last words , she implausibly lapses into English . On the night before Raymond is scheduled to hang , Sidney tells him : ' Wherever you go , I'm going . ' At the end of the movie , there's a rather contrived visual device to mislead the audience about Raymond's fate . Plausibility is also weakened because Sylvia Sidney wears full makeup throughout her prison scenes : yes , I know that most female convicts have access to cosmetics , but in this case I get the impression that Paramount just didn't want to take the risk of letting Sylvia Sidney attempt a natural look . End of bad news . Now the good news . There are several standout performances in this film . The best performance is by Wynne Gibson , as the tough moll who hates Sidney but ( very plausibly ) endangers herself to help Sidney when she realises that Sidney's been framed . Roscoe Karns , who was usually given weak material , is superb here as a condemned inmate who passes the time on Death Row by playing Twenty Questions , and then touchingly guesses the right answer just before he hangs . Louise Beavers , reprieved for once from her typecasting as a chucklin ' maid , makes the most of a meaty role as an inmate who murdered her husband ( who apparently deserved it ) . There are also fine performances from Evelyn Preer and Edna Bennett as inmates . Sylvia Sidney gives a genuinely impressive and convincing performance as the wife who risks her life in an escape attempt , desperately hoping to clear her doomed husband . The good performances outweigh all the clichés and implausibilities in this movie , and ' Ladies of the Big House ' rates a solid .
How many legs has she got under that skirt ?	I found ' 2a . m . in the Subway ' interesting for two reasons . Firstly , this 1905 movie ( nominally a comedy ) was made less than a year after the opening of the New York City subway , which clearly had already become a source of some amusement and derision . Secondly , this film was shot by G . W . ' Billy ' Bitzer , who is now remembered solely as D . W . Griffith's cameraman , yet who ( as this film demonstrates ) was already an experienced movie veteran before he came to work for Griffith . Many of the cinematic innovations which are credited to Griffith were in fact devised by Bitzer , or by the two men in tandem . All of the people seen here are clearly actors playing roles . A couple of comedy constables , looking rather more realistic than Keystone Cops , are on a subway platform where they contend with two smartly-dressed young ladies and their companion , an older man who is clearly the worse for drink . I expected the young ladies to be prostitutes or pickpockets intending to rob this man , but I wondered how this development would be conveyed to the delicate sensibilities of a 1905 audience . As it turns out , I was mistaken . One of the fair young ladies pauses to adjust her shoe and stocking . In so doing , she steps away from the other people on the platform - - but directly towards the camera - - and raises her floor-length skirt to a surprising height . . . nearly up to her knee ! In 1905 , plenty of American men ( including husbands ) went days or even weeks at a time without seeing any female leg farther north than the ankle , so I can imagine what the reactions must have been to this . Her stocking has an extremely decorative pattern , prompting me to wonder what her undergarments look like . SPOILER COMING . The cops bustle this trio aboard a subway train , clearly hoping they'll ride into some other precinct and become some other cops ' problem . At this point , a pair of shapely female gams protrude from the subway doors . Stop the train ! But it turns out that these are , in fact , phony legs which the trio have brought along as a joke . I found this ending a ' cheat ' . It's just remotely possible that the second lady ( the one who didn't flash her stocking ) was smuggling these two fake limbs under her own large skirts and petticoats of the type which were customary for 1905 ladies . But I doubt that this was the case . . . so the legs must have been waiting offstage on the train , as props for the actors to use at the appropriate moment . This gimmick ruined what had been up until that moment , for me , a realistic ' slice-of-life ' performance by a cast who are clearly actors rather than cinema-verite ' real ' people . For its historic value ( and out of respect for Bitzer's achievements ) , and in appreciation for that glimpse of a shapely female leg , 1905 vintage , I'll rate this brief movie .
Charming stagebound adaptation .	This adaptation of ' Alice in Wonderland ' - - which includes scenes and characters from ' Through the Looking-Glass ' - - was originally transmitted as a ' Hallmark Hall of Fame ' special on 23 October 1955 . I viewed a kinescope of it at the Museum of Television & Radio . This tele-version is actually based on a stage adaptation , produced on Broadway in 1932 , and written by two actresses : Florida Friebus and the legendary Eva Le Gallienne , who also cast herself as the White Queen . A high point of this TV production is when Miss Le Gallienne ( La Le Gallienne ? ) makes her entrance in a gust of wind , flying in from the wings on wires ! ( I had the pleasure of seeing her repeat this performance in person , when she revived the stage production on Broadway in 1982 . . . and this was an actress who had made her Broadway debut in 1916 ! ) Less effective here , sadly , is Elsa Lanchester as the Red Queen . Lanchester's physical appearance and personality more nearly resemble the White Queen in Lewis Carroll's book , but that role was already spoken for here . Various adaptations of the ' Alice ' books have made the mistake of moving arbitrarily from one story to the other . In this production , Alice begins the play by entering Wonderland through her looking-glass , this being an easier transition to perform onstage than having her fall down a rabbit-hole . Once inside the looking-glass , the first act is a fairly faithful ( abridged ) adaptation of ' Alice's Adventures in Wonderland ' , ending with Alice's denunciation of the pack of cards . But rather than awakening from a dream , this propels her into the second act , which is an equally faithful adaptation of ' Through the Looking-Glass ' . In the central role , Gillian Barber is excellent as Alice : an attractive teenager doing a credible impersonation of a little girl . Why didn't Barber have a better career ? Another good performance is given by an obscure actor named Gilbert Mack , masked and heavily costumed as the Frog Footman . I was intrigued to discover that the Walrus is played by Marc Breaux , who later had a notable career as a choreographer . Cast here as a walrus , he's appropriately ungainly . Most productions of the Le Gallienne version of ' Alice ' cast male actors in the female roles of the Duchess and the Queen of Hearts . I'm not sure if that was a good idea , as they often come off as shrill drag queens . Here , the Duchess is played delightfully by Bobby Clark . He makes almost no attempt at female impersonation , instead pretending that he's still starring on Broadway as half of the team Clark & McCullough . Clark's timing and delivery are excellent . I was also impressed with Reginald Gardiner , riding a pantomime horse as the White Knight . Far less impressive are the dithering Hiram Sherman as the King of Hearts and the annoyingly nasal Alice Pearce , who portrays the snoring Dormouse with sinuses at full blast . The ubiquitous J . Pat O'Malley is cast here as the Gryphon . I would have cast him in nearly any other role - - he had played Tweedledum and Tweedledee in Disney's animated version - - but he's surprisingly good here , in a role he doesn't really fit . This entire production is mounted on an extremely low budget , in what's very obviously a stage set . However , the fantasy and whimsy easily rise above the low production values . I'll rate this delightful special .
She shakes her maracas	I'm intrigued by the distinctive film genres which evolve among the world's cultures . Germany developed the ' mountain film ' genre , in which a male hero ( or sometimes two male rivals ) will achieve greater self-knowledge high up in the mountains , in the presence of a beautiful Aryan woman who embodies the earth-spirit . Mexico developed the ' wrestling mummy ' movie genre , about which the less said the better . But Mexico is also the home of the ' cabaretera ' genre of movie musical , in which a beautiful young woman is caught between a soap-opera plot line and elaborate floor numbers set in a nightclub . The 1950 film ' Aventurera ' ( ' adventuress ' ) is the best of the cabaretera films , and it's delightful . . . it's hokey and implausible , but in a very enjoyable way . MAJOR SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . Lovely young Cuban actress / dancer Ninón Sevilla stars as Elena , a virginal ( but gorgeous blonde ) Mejicana who is utterly devoted to her father . When Papa learns that his wife ( Elena's mother ) is unfaithful , he shoots himself . Elena abandons her villainous mother , and goes off to Mexico City to seek her fortune . She meets a handsome young man named Lucio who offers to protect her , and who immediately takes her to meet a domineering woman named Rosaura who offers Elena a cup of tea . . . which turns out to be drugged . Lucio and Rosaura are ' white slavers ' who plan to force Elena to use her body for their profit . . . but it's not what you'd expect . Instead of prostitution , they force her to perform as the star of a cabaret act ! Elena's cabaret numbers are campy , but I was relieved that they never quite sink to the Carmen Miranda level . ( I despise Carmen Miranda . ) The musical numbers are impressively staged , on a large budget , and are enjoyable in their own right . . . all with a Latin beat . The title song , a gentle ballad sung by a male soloist accompanied by Spanish guitar , is wistful and haunting . Eventually Elena escapes from the nightclub . She meets a handsome and wealthy young man who wants to marry her , but first he takes her home to meet his extremely respectable dowager mother . . . who turns out to be Rosaura the madame ! There is some witty dialogue here . Rosaura ( in her second guise ) offers a cup of tea to Elena , who replies : ' I had some once . I didn't like it . ' Although the plot line is outrageous , it's also extremely predictable . . . because ( except for her dead dad ) every major character whom Elena meets in the first half of the movie turns up ' unexpectedly ' in the second half of the film , so eventually these ' unexpected ' appearances become very expected indeed . At one point late in the film , as Elena walked back to her hotel room , I found myself thinking : ' Lucio hasn't come back yet : it's just about time for him to escape from prison and come looking for Elena . ' Just as I thought this , Elena walked into her room and switched on the light . Guess who's sitting there . ' Aventurera ' has some very strong ' noir ' elements . Except for Elena and her father , every major character in this movie is unsympathetic . Based on the worldview depicted here , almost all women are treacherous . . . and almost all men are criminals and perverts who exploit women . Interestingly , the sleaziest character in this movie is also one of the very few sympathetic characters . This is a filthy little toad-like derelict named El Rana , who has a talent for throwing knives . He attaches himself to Elena and follows her about pathetically . His appearance and behaviour suggest a stereotypical pervert , but his interest in Elena really seems to arise from dog-like affection rather than lust . At the end of the film , El Rana murders Lucio with a well-placed ' cuchillo ' , then he watches approvingly from the shadows as Elena goes off to seek a better life for herself . It's clear that this strange little man's interest in Elena is unselfish , and that he realises he's unworthy of her . I'll rate ' Aventurera ' . Its depiction of life in Mexico is wildly unrealistic , yet it still provides an interesting view of Mexican culture . . . because this is the sort of story that many Mexican filmgoers want to see .
Fast-paced delight	One of the movies I've previously reviewed for IMDb is ' Sleepers West ' , a taut low-budget thriller . ' 36 Hours to Kill ' has a set-up so similar to ' Sleepers West ' that at first I thought they were both based on the same novel . They aren't , and the films go in different directions after that initial set-up . Both films feature the same three archetypes as main characters : a tough cynical lawman , a young woman reporter of the ' news hen ' Lois Lane type , and a gangster who won't hesitate to murder anybody who gets in his way . Also , both films set most of their action aboard a cross-country train . And that's part of the excitement . Movies set aboard a moving vehicle ( especially a train ) are pretty much boredom-proof . ' Duke ' Benson has always prospered from his illegal activities as a mid-level gangster , secure in the knowledge that the Feds are more interested in going after bigger gangsters . But somehow Benson has been promoted to public enemy # 1 , and he doesn't fancy the attention . Now , Benson has attracted even more attention for an unexpected reason : he's just won the sweepstakes ! As he notes , this is the first honest money he ever made . ( I recall a real-life case from the 1980s , when a mid-list Mafiosa won a big lottery prize . After some investigation , the lottery officials conceded that this career criminal had won the lottery drawing honestly . ) Benson and his cheap moll wife Jeanie are aboard the same train as G-man Evers and news hen Marvis , and that's no coincidence . Marvis is trying to get a big scoop on Benson , while Evers hopes to arrest him . Big macho hero Evers is played by Brian Donlevy , who should have played gangster Benson instead . Donlevy has a cold personality that made him miscast in sympathetic roles ( including Professor Quatermass ) , but which worked well whenever he played a villain . ' 36 Hours to Kill ' starts out like a semi-comedy in tone , then plunges us into a borderline-noir action thriller , climaxing in a gun battle in Benson's hideout . Speaking of comedy : one unfortunate resemblance between this film and ' Sleepers West ' is that both films feature a ' comedy ' performance by a black actor in a stereotypical role as a Negro porter . Here , the role is given to Stepin Fetchit . . . no further comment is necessary , surely . Fetchit's character is named Flash , so you know he's a slowpoke . There are good performances by Warren Hymer ( one of my favourite character actors ) as Benson's goon , and by reliable stalwarts Jonathan Hale , Charles Lane and Julius Tannen . Speaking of which : it was Tannen who invented the catchphrase that has been attributed to George M Cohan . When Cohan was still performing in vaudeville with his parents and his sister as the Four Cohans , he attended a Friars Club dinner at which comedian Tannen did imitations of several vaudeville headliners . Tannen attempted to do an imitation of all Four Cohans at the same go : a turn which ended with Tannen imitating George M Cohan and saying to the audience ' My mother thanks you , my father thanks you , my sister thanks you and I thank you . ' Knowing a good line when he stole one , the real Cohan appropriated the fake Cohan's curtain line . In a rare leading role as the news hen , Gloria Stuart shows considerable beauty and talent : I'm disappointed that this fine actress walked away from the stardom she could have had , decades before her splendid comeback in ' Titanic ' . ' 36 Hours to Kill ' isn't quite as good as ' Sleepers West ' , largely due to the miscasting of Donlevy and a bad performance by Douglas Fowley , who was more effective in smaller roles . But this is a highly enjoyable and fast-paced film , and I'll rate it .
Mr Rodgers's neighbourhood	' America Salutes Richard Rodgers ' is an enjoyable tribute to the work of that composer . One might suppose that the whole point of a special like this is to perform Richard Rodgers's songs , with no excuses necessary . Unfortunately , there's a half-hearted attempt to supply some sort of framework ' story ' by bringing in two actors to portray Lorenz Hart and Oscar Hammerstein II , Rodgers's two most notable collaborators . Hammerstein is played by Gene Kelly , who speaks his lines decently enough . . . but why didn't the fools who produced this special give Kelly at least one number to perform ? Also , in real life , Kelly had actually worked with Richard Rodgers ( in the Broadway musical ' Pal Joey ' , in the MGM musical ' Words and Music ' , and as the Broadway director of ' Flower Drum Song ' ) , so why didn't the producers of this special give Gene Kelly a chance to offer some of his own memories of working with Rodgers ? Also on hand here is the beautiful and talented Diahann Carroll , who starred in the Broadway musical ' No Strings ' ( with music AND lyrics by Richard Rodgers ) : she sings splendidly , but why isn't she given a chance to share some of her memories of Rodgers ? Lorenz Hart is portrayed ( if that's the proper word ) by Henry Winkler , fresh from his triumph as Fonzie ( and probably bunged in here solely for his name value ) . There's a rather pathetic attempt to have Winkler ' act ' the role of Lorenz Hart . He sticks a cigar into his mouth and then asks : ' Where the devil are my matches ? ' The three most notable aspects of Lorenz Hart ( his alcoholism , his sexual self-loathing and his physical grotesqueness ) are not present here in Winkler's portrayal . Mickey Rooney's portrayal of Lorenz Hart in ' Words and Music ' , as bad and as inaccurate as it was , came much closer to the truth than Winkler's depiction here . Also , if we're going to have actors playing Hart and Hammerstein , then why not bring in another actor to play Richard Rodgers ? Despite those bad decisions , this is an excellent special . The first musical sequence , very interestingly , consists of songs that Rodgers composed in time . Cloris Leachman enters , singing ' Do I Hear a Waltz ? ' . ( After all the argle-bargle about Hart and Hammerstein , the first song performed on this show has lyrics by Stephen Sondheim ! ) Leachman , accompanied by a ballet dancer and a Beckettian tramp with glitter on their faces , segues into ' I'm in Love with a Wonderful Guy ' and other Rodgers waltzes . John Wayne , of all people , gets a look-in . . . and he actually presides over one of the better sequences in this special . The ' Duke ' narrates a sequence devoted to Rodgers's music for the 1950s TV documentary series ' Victory at Sea ' . I wish someone had pointed out that the most famous theme from ' Victory at Sea ' ( ' Under the Southern Cross ' ) was actually recycled from Rodgers and Hammerstein's short-lived Broadway musical ' Me and Juliet ' , in which it was originally the music for the ballad ' No Other Love Have I ' . There's also a sequence which could have been very embarrassing , but which is actually enjoyable , in which dozens of ' real ' people all over America sing snatches of ' Oklahoma ! ' and ' June is Bustin ' Out All Over ' . Their enthusiasm emphasises that Richard Rodgers's songs are , indeed , the songs of America's people . All of the musical performers in this special do an excellent job . At the end , Kelly and Winkler come back to announce ' Good night , Mr Rodgers . . . and thanks . ' I wish that someone in this large cast could have taken a few moments to quote Sir Noël Coward's envious tribute to Richard Rodgers : ' That man just PEES melody ! ' I'll rate this enjoyable special .
Long may they rain	' The Rainmakers ' is one of the more enjoyable Heckle and Jeckle cartoons . This one intentionally places less emphasis than usual on laughs , and concentrates on telling a story that kids and adults can enjoy . Without lecturing or moralising , this cartoon's enjoyable story also makes a serious point : if you do something that causes trouble , you've got to fix it . Heckle and Jeckle are trying to enjoy a picnic lunch that includes a roast chicken . ( Hmm , two cartoon birds are eating chicken . ) But a rainstorm is pelting down , ruining their picnic . The two magpies find the wishbone in the chicken , and they make a wish . " I wish it would stop raining , forever ! " says Jeckle , as the wishbone breaks and he gets the bigger piece . Instantly , all the raindrops hang suspended in midair , never to touch the earth . Heckle and Jeckle pop the raindrops as if these were soap bubbles , and then they do a cheerful song and dance : ' It's never going to rain a-gain , a-gain ! ' Next comes the one real gag sequence , as Heckle and Jeckle learn ( from a news report on television ) the consequences of Jeckle's wish . There is no more rain , anywhere in the world . We see a few spot gags , such as a cartoon dog ( who hasn't found out about the drought ) diving into his swimming pool and discovering it has no water . When Jeckle realises that this is all his own fault , the news reader pops out of the television screen and demands to know what Jeckle intends to do about it . Jeckle shrugs with both arms ( wings ? ) while he uses his foot to switch off the telly . Fortunately , being cartoon characters , Heckle and Jeckle keep a private aeroplane handy inside their house . ( Well , they would , wouldn't they ? ) The two magpies take off into the stratosphere , in search of a likely raincloud . There is one brief scene that younger children might find disturbing , when Heckle lassoes a raincloud that is animated to look like a little girl . The little-girl raincloud clearly doesn't want to be lassoed , and she puts up a struggle as both magpies stuff her into the cargo bay of their ' plane . Then they release her at an appropriate altitude to start a rainstorm . ' The Rainmakers ' isn't especially funny , but it doesn't try to be . Many cartoons depict characters who wreak mayhem with no consequences to themselves , so it's intriguing to see a cartoon in which the main characters make amends for their own actions . The drought is depicted as specifically the fault of Jeckle , not of both magpies together , so it's pleasing to see Heckle making so much effort to help his friend . Also , this cartoon's excellent story has another point that kids might want to think about : if you actually get what you wish for , you might discover you didn't want it after all ! I'll rate ' The Rainmakers ' .
Mein hairy herr .	' Ramper , the Beastman ' ( I'm translating this German film's original title ) is a weird film that capers madly in the borderland between science fiction and fantasy . It tries to set up plausible explanations for its events ( science fiction ) but makes them seem magical or metaphysical ( fantasy ) . The role played by Max Schreck in montage sequences pushes the film firmly into dark fantasy . This movie is laughably implausible by modern standards , but it has such powerful conviction for the merits of its own story that it forces us to appreciate this story by the terms of the period in which it was made . Paul Wegener , usually a stolid actor ( and therefore very convincing as the Golem ) , gives one of his most active performances here as Captain Ramper , a heroic aviator who makes a pioneering flight across the Arctic accompanied only by Ippling , his faithful mechanic ( Kurt Gerron ) . Near the North Pole , their plane develops engine failure and crashes in the desolate wastes . Ippling dies straight off . Ramper , astonishingly , finds a supply base containing food which has conveniently been left behind by a previous expedition . ( This is wildly implausible , but Admiral Byrd's expedition had made recent headlines , so audiences in 1927 likely accepted this . ) Even more astonishingly , there's enough food to sustain Ramper for the next fifteen years ! ( How does he thaw it out ? ) In all that time , Ramper has no other amenities whatever : no clothing , no medical supplies , no building materials . We return to Ramper fifteen years later ( which must be the FUTURE , given that the opening scenes of this film are set in the contemporary present ) . In the far-future era of 1942 ( not a good year for Germans ) , after fifteen years in the Arctic wastes , Ramper has considerably mutated . ( That's not the correct scientific term , but this movie's science is wildly inaccurate . ) Fifteen years on , Ramper's clothes have disintegrated but his body has compensated for this . He is now naked but covered with a thick coat of hair . Having no companions , he has lost the ability to speak . The hairy apeman outfit which Wegener wears in these scenes is unintentionally hilarious : he looks like a giant Weetabix . Along comes a whaling ship , captained by Carl Balhaus . ( Max Schreck doubles as one of the crewmen . ) The whalers see a big hairy naked bloke who can't speak , in a neighbourhood where no sane human would live , so of course they assume that Ramper is really Das Sasquatcher , or Der Yeti-mensch , or whatever the Germans would call a North Pole version of the Abominable Snowman . They capture him alive ; Ramper co-operates with this , as he wants to go home . ( This is the most plausible bit in the film . ) But , unable to make any sounds except animal noises , he can't convince the whaling crew that he's human . ( As this is a silent film , in which ALL the actors are mute , Ramper's speech defect is not conveyed very well . ) The whalers take Meinherr Gorillameister ( alias Der König Kong ) back to the civilised world ( Germany ) , where they promptly sell him to a carnival showman ( overacted by Dillo Lombardi ) . The whaling ship must be able to travel backwards in time : Ramper's aeroplane flight began in the present ( circa 1927 ) , but when he comes back to Europe as a beastman , much of the art direction in these sequences suggests 19th-century Bavaria . SPOILERS COMING . The last shreds of plausibility are flung to the winds when a beautiful fraulein ( Mary Johnson , her features suitably Aryan but not very beautiful ) sees the beastman in his cage . Straight away , she is ( wait for it ) touched by his tragic nobility , or some knockwurst like that . The Beauty ( who isn't much of a beauty ) and the Beast ( see above ) are attracted to each other . Well , not exactly . Ramper is genuinely in love with her , but she fails to perceive his humanity ( at first ) and she merely feels pity for this brute mute galoot in his cute hairy suit . Our Mary already has a boyfriend , but the two of them can't afford to wed . Eventually , when Ramper's human status is rediscovered , he receives a large financial compensation from the government . Does he spend the deutschmarks on a razor and several gallons of aftershave ? Not likely ! He selflessly gives the money to Mary and her beau , and he hightails it back to the Arctic ! I guess he doesn't want that food in the supply dump to go to waste . . . Wegener does well in a role which allows him to overact . The Arctic sequences are staged very unconvincingly on an indoor set . Possibly realising this and attempting to overcome it , the scriptwriter has added a weirdly symbolic role played by actor Max Schreck . . . the same actor who played the vampire in ' Nosferatu ' . Here , Schreck plays a semi-human ( and symbolic ) embodiment of Cold , Wind , Loneliness , Starvation and other unpleasant entities . He is Ramper's only companion during the montage sequences in which Wegener's character passes his 15 years in the Arctic . When Wegener sees Schreck's inhuman personage beckoning to him across the Arctic wastes , we understand that Ramper is hallucinating . ( So why doesn't he hallucinate some buxom Rhine maidens ? ) To see Schreck in ANY film other than ' Nosferatu ' is a revelation . The recent movie ' Shadow of the Vampire ' had for its central conceit the idea that Max Schreck ( who played a vampire in ' Nosferatu ' ) was a GENUINE vampire . This concept worked brilliantly , because modern audiences are familiar with Schreck's virtuoso performance in that film , yet so few modern viewers have seen Schreck in ANY other role which would contradict his vampiric appearance in that movie . I've seen a meagre handful of Schreck's films , but I'll make a wild assertion that his presence in ' Ramper , der Tiermensch ' is probably his role ( and his performance ) which most closely resemble his brilliant work in ' Nosferatu ' . With all the laughable faults of this movie , I'll rate ' Ramper , the Beastman ' . It has a dark brooding power which compels me to forgive its absurdities .
Gondo-leery	' Venus of Venice ' ( great title ! ) is a slick caper comedy , briskly directed by Marshall ' Mickey ' Neilan at the peak of his powers . The characters are implausible - - and ' Venice ' is clearly a studio set - - but this movie takes place in the same tinselled sham-glam world as Lubitsch's ' Trouble in Paradise ' , a film with a plot and premise very similar to this one . Constance Talmadge stars as Carlotta , a Venetian petty thief who's known to the constabulary as ' the Water Rat ' . She works with an older partner , Marco , who pretends to be a blind beggar . After they rob a wealthy victim , Carlotta makes her getaway by diving into the nearest canal . . . hence her nickname . This being Venice , there's no shortage of canals . SPOILERS COMING . This is one of those movies where our sympathies are supposed to be with the crook . All goes well for Carlotta until she crosses paths with Kenneth Wilson , an American . ( Played by Antonio Moreno , whose Spanish accent was no liability in this silent film . ) Wilson is a painter , and this movie takes place in the fantasy realm where handsome sensitive artists always have plenty of spending money . Carlotta sets her sights on robbing Wilson , so she pretends to be attracted to him . But then she actually does fall for him , and is dismayed when he spurns her . But then , eventually . . . guess what . There are no surprises in the plot , but this film is stylish and snappy . I had difficulty believing that this movie's art director had ever been to Venice , but the fake Venice depicted in this film is attractive in its own right . I'll rate this sparkling movie .
The bathtub keeps growing	' The Power of Thought ' is the most imaginative of the Heckle and Jeckle cartoons : not their funniest , but the one that most fully utilises the potential of character animation . . . making this cartoon the Terrytoons equivalent of Bob Clampett's ' The Big Snooze ' . Heckle and Jeckle are lazing about the house one day ( they live in surprisingly expansive quarters ) when Jeckle has an epiphany : ' We're cartoon characters ! We ought to take advantage of the situation . ' To demonstrate his theory to Heckle , Jeckle morphs into a puppy dog , then a one-man ( one-magpie ? ) band . Now that Heckle and Jeckle realise that they have infinite power to create anything they want , they straight away wish for . . . a hot bath . ' And it's just the temperature I like it , too , ' says Heckle as the bathtub materialises around them . They begin some synchronised swimming , and the bathtub obligingly elongates for them . . . breaking through the upstairs wall and then stretching out into the street beyond , where the bathwater spills onto a bulldog in a constable's uniform . SPOILERS COMING . The two strengths of Heckle and Jeckle were always their slapstick violence and their anarchic repartee , both of which are in short supply here . Basically , they use their cartoon-character powers to humiliate the cop . . . until he realises that he's a cartoon character too , with the same powers , so he can turn the tables on the magpies . ' The Power of Thought ' is enjoyable for adults and intelligent kids . I fear that most kids nowadays are likely more interested in video games or mindless japanimation . I'll rate ' The Power of Thought ' .
Weak story but very well-made film .	I saw ' The Last Appeal ' at the 2006 Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . This film is notable for its sophisticated use of several different narrative techniques ; unfortunately , it uses those techniques in the service of a story with a fairly obvious ' twist ' ending . John Martin is a handsome young man who can't seem to make a go at anything . He has just lost his latest job of work ( again ! ) and so his fiancée Jess scornfully returns his engagement ring , while taking up with a lounge-lizard : this man is more handsome than John , and also has more money . John commiserates with his white-haired old mother Lilian ( that's how it's spelt in the titles ) , wondering how anyone can be so cruel . The wise old mother peers into the distance and cues a brief flashback : we see her as a much younger woman , while a young man ( with his back to the camera ) explains to her that - - even though he has got her pregnant - - he has no intention of marrying her , as it would handicap his career aspirations . So that's why John has no discernible father , then . With laughable ease , John obtains a pistol - - I should have thought this was nearly impossible in 1921 Britain , especially for a man with no money - - and then he shoots Jess and her boyfriend , killing both . John makes no attempt to escape ; he is swiftly arrested and put on trial . The presiding magistrate is a Lord Chief Justice . ( I wrote down his name in the dark and now I can barely read my own handwriting ; I think he's cried Lord Altrincham . ) At the breakfast table , the justice's wife pleads with him to show mercy to John . Nonetheless , in court , the justice passes the death sentence . . . oddly , this sequence omits the usual ritual ( of woolsack and black cap ) which was observed in capital trials in Britain at this time . John's elderly mother writes a letter to the justice ; we don't know what's in it yet , but surely she's pleading for mercy for her son . The justice is seen reading a newspaper article , reporting that John Martin will be hanged at eight in the morning . At the breakfast table , on the morning of the hanging , the justice's wife again pleads with him to pardon John Martin . The lord justice coolly explains that it's now out of his hands ; John Martin will die at eight . The butler brings in some mail , which apparently arrived last night ( ah , the days when London had TWO daily mail deliveries ! ) but the justice hadn't bothered to read it . He hands some of the letters to his wife - - apparently he casually warehouses HER mail as well as his own - - and then he opens the letter written by John's elderly mother Lilian . SPOILERS NOW . I had already guessed the ' twist ' ending . Lilian's letter addresses the lord justice as ' Arthur ' . He is none other than her former lover . . . and John Martin is his son ! As he reads these words , the justice looks up at the clock . Now we see a really impressive shot : a triptych composition , with the clock in the centre , and close-ups of the justice and Lilian on either side of it , as the last seconds tick away to eight o'clock and John Martin's death . The end . Quite apart from being more obvious than it needs to be , the trick ending is a cheat . We are given to understand that the magistrate who chose NOT to pardon John WOULD have pardoned him had he known that this was his own son . But this hardly speaks well for the magistrate's probity . Why didn't Lilian send her letter earlier on , while the trial was still in progress ? At that point , the justice could have recused himself , deferring to a judge with no personal stake in the trial . . . or he could have chosen to keep schtum about the relationship , unethically ( but safely ) remaining on the bench to make certain that John was acquitted . Despite the flaws in this movie's script , I'll rate ' The Last Appeal ' for its graceful use of a flashback , for its equally graceful use of the visual device of a newspaper article , and for that very impressive climactic sequence which ends even more impressively with that triptych shot . Nicely done !
Did Hitchcock steal from this movie ?	I'm extremely impressed with every aspect of ' A Cottage on Dartmoor ' , directed by the underrated Anthony Asquith ( son of the Prime Minister ) . The camera-work features some superb tracking shots , kept perfectly in focus by focus-puller Arthur Woods ( later a brilliant director in his own right , all too briefly before his death in World War Two ) . There is a clever and subtle flashback transition . The frame compositions are excellent , as are the performances by this obscure cast . At the climax of this monochrome film , there is a single flash of red : Hitchcock would later use this same device in ' Spellbound ' . I wonder if Hitchcock copied it from Asquith . Most of this story takes place in flashback , a device which I normally dislike . Flashbacks are now so hackneyed that there is an entire cinematic grammar of flashbacks : the screen goes blurry , the soundtrack swells with theremin music . Here , the transition to flashback is done subtly , with the first dialogue intertitle bridging the shift . Well done ! Some minor details distressed me . We see a prisoner who escaped from Dartmoor . His uniform displays a number , but shouldn't it also have the broad arrow ? Also , since Joe ( the convict ) has sworn revenge against Harry Stevens - - his rival for the affection of Sally - - why ever have Harry and Sally moved to a remote cottage on Dartmoor , conveniently close to Joe's prison ? This is the sort of thing which Hitchcock identified as ' icebox logic ' , the cinematic equivalent of " esprit d'escalier " . This film was made at an awkward moment of cinema history . The movie is silent , yet ( in the dialogue titles ) the characters on screen discuss going to ' a talkie ' . But when they go to the cinema , a live orchestra are playing . . . which indicates that the movie being shown is a silent . And an insert shot of a programme book tells us that the movie is Harold Lloyd's ' Safety Last ' , definitely a silent . Not the least of this film's pleasures is its depiction of life in George V's England . I got a twinge of nostalgia from a brief shot of an infant clutching a rusk . ( Do modern babies eat rusks ? ) In the central role , Norah Baring is excellent : portraying a simple manicurist , she is personable and pleasant to look at , without the implausible amount of glamour that a Hollywood actress would have brought to such a workaday role . I'll rate this fine character drama .
See me , feel me , touch me .	' Land of Silence and the Darkness ' , written and directed by Werner Herzog , is an extraordinary documentary - - remember that word , please - - about Fini Straubinger . As a child in Germany , she suffered a terrible fall which caused a popping sensation in her neck . She was afraid to tell her parents ( I can well believe this ) , so the injury was never treated . As a teen , she progressively lost her hearing and her sight , becoming totally deaf and blind . When Herzog made this film , Straubinger was well past middle age , and had spent most of her life in silence and darkness . Americans who see this film will be reminded of Helen Keller . But Keller lost her sight and hearing ( to scarlet fever ) in very early childhood , and retained only very slight memory of her stolen senses . ( Touchingly , Keller did recall seeing the rainbows formed by sunlight refracted through the crystal prisms of her mother's chandelier . ) Because Straubinger retained a full memory and understanding of vision and sound , she became useful as an ambassador to the kingdoms of the blind and deaf . Fini Straubinger has dedicated her life to working with people who are deaf and blind , most of whom have borne those double handicaps either from birth or ( like Keller ) from infancy . Herzog follows Straubinger on a trip through Germany , financed by an organisation for the deaf-blind . We see her communicating with other deaf-blind people through a sort of tapping code . Activities which the rest of us take for granted are truly alien experiences for these unfortunate souls . For instance , the simple act of taking a shower : for someone who has never experienced this before , and cannot have it adequately explained , the sudden onslaught of pressurised water is deeply terrifying . In the final sequence , we see a deaf-blind man hugging a tree : attempting to experience this alien life-form through his senses of touch , taste and smell . One sequence , showing Straubinger interacting with a chimpanzee , I found unpleasant and unnecessary . I get the impression that this scene was staged by Herzog in an ill-thought attempt to inject some light ' comedy relief ' into a subject that audiences might find deeply depressing . I made a point of identifying this film as a documentary , meaning it's non-fiction . Indeed , Fini Straubinger is a real person : her blindness , her deafness , and ( more importantly ) her work with the deaf-blind are all real , all true . At one point in this film , Straubinger tells us that her most vivid sensory memory - - before the darkness and silence closed in - - is an image of the rapturous faces of ski jumpers as they leap into the sky . After this film was released , Herzog admitted in an interview that Straubinger had never seen a ski jumper : Herzog wrote those lines for her , because he felt that ski jumpers provided the visual symbol ( I refuse to misuse the word ' metaphor ' ) which would simultaneously represent sensory rapture and Straubinger's own isolation . I reluctantly concede that this sort of fictionalisation is a valid device in documentary films . Those of us who are fortunate to see and hear cannot truly experience the dark silent world of Fini Straubinger and her colleagues . ( Unless we too are conscripted into that realm , by accidents or illness . ) Since this film can never truly put us into the mind of a deaf-blind person - - especially one who has been both deaf and blind since birth , like most of the people encountered here - - some degree of invention is necessary . I recall an anecdote told by Albert Einstein ( too long to repeat here ; send me an email if you want the details ) concerning his attempt to explain milk to a blind man : this incident never actually occurred , but Einstein told the story to prove a point about his theory of relativity . ' Land of Silence and the Darkness ' is a fascinating film about a fascinating human being . My rating : .
Strike a light !	I saw ' Out Yonder ' at Filmmuseum Vondelpark in April 2005 ; this is one more of the hundreds of films that were ' lost forever ' only because nobody bothered looking for them properly . Fortunately , ' Out Yonder ' is an entertaining film , starring the beautiful Olive Thomas . Her character here ( named Flotsam ! ) is allegedly a tomboy , but the filmmakers are wisely unwilling to compromise this actress's beautiful looks . She is less glamorous than usual here , wearing a plain shift instead of a frock , and she wears one of those cunning make-up jobs that's meant to look as if she isn't wearing make-up . She's also wearing some beautiful sausage curls , a darker and simpler version of Mary Pickford's famous hairstyle . ' Out Yonder ' has a plot that reminded me of several other stories , including ' Captain January ' , ' Shore Acres ' , ' Thunder Rock ' and the true story of Grace Darling . The lack of originality in the script is more than offset , however , by strong performances from the entire cast , as well as proficient pacing from director Ralph Ince . Flotsam ( Thomas ) is the daughter and helper of crusty old lighthouse keeper Joe Clark ( Edward Ellis , in fine form ) . The reason why Clark lives ' out yonder ' is because he's a fugitive from justice : years ago , he killed a man under complicated circumstances . Clark's official assistant is Amos Bart , but Flotsam does much of the work of maintaining the lighthouse . When a yacht capsizes near the lighthouse , Flotsam skilfully rescues its passenger , wealthy Mrs Elmer . One thing leads to another , and a romance develops between Flotsam and young scion Edward Elmer ( what a name ! ) . SPOILERS COMING . In a very well-played scene between Ellis and Thomas , Clark reveals to his daughter that Edward Elmer's father was the man whom he killed years ago . He also tells Flotsam that she's actually a foundling , not really his daughter ; therefore , the sin of the father casts no stain on her , and she has Clark's blessing to find happiness with Edward . However , Clark is lying : Flotsam is his daughter , and he has actually disavowed her so that his own crime won't stain her happiness . Now it turns out that , in fact , it was Amos Bart who killed Mr Elmer , and he convinced Joe Clark that the death was Clark's fault . The two men battle in the lighthouse , knocking out the light and ( once again ! ) endangering the Elmers ' yacht , this time with both mother and son aboard . The doughty Flotsam snatches a torch and rows to the rescue . All ends happily . ' Out Yonder ' has a plot right out of Victorian mellerdrammer , and I was not surprised to learn that this film was adapted from a stage play . The play must have been very creaky indeed . ( And I wonder how they staged the nautical scenes . ) But this film version is well-acted and impressively photographed , with some scenes that appear to have been shot day-for-night . ' Out Yonder ' definitely transcends its moss-covered origins , and I'll rate this movie .
Bert Lahr's fragrant cartoon	" Scent of Mystery " is notorious as the film that ( literally ) had a smell . Filmed in Smell-O-Vision , it bombarded the audience with aromas . Concealed dispensers sprayed the cinema with concentrated essence , on cue , then sprayed a neutraliser to remove the scent before the next spray was dispensed . As with 3-D movies , Smell-O-Vision had a tendency to rub the audiences ' noses ( literally ) in the gimmickry . Actors in " Scent of Mystery " keep commenting on the various odours they detect , and there are lots of close-ups of freshly-baked bread or garlic cloves or some other pungent substance being shoved towards the camera for our olfactory inspection . But very few cinema managers were willing to spend money to instal the unwieldy Smell-O-Vision system , so most audiences saw " Scent of Mystery " without its odours . Smell-O-Vision was the brainchild of producer Mike Todd , bankroller of the Todd-A-O sound recording process ; after his death in a plane crash , " Scent of Mystery " was brought to completion by his son Mike Jnr . Less well-remembered than " Scent of Mystery " is the short subject that was released with it : " Old Whiff " , also punningly known as " A Tale of Old Whiff " . ( Old Whiff is a dog , and this is his TALE . . . geddit ? ) Conceived by Mike Todd Snr as an experimental prototype for the Smell-O-Vision process , " Old Whiff " is the only cartoon in the history of animation that LITERALLY stank up the movie houses . " Old Whiff " is also historically significant as the first cartoon filmed in 70mm . Bert Lahr does hilarious work as the voice of Old Whiff , a cartoon bloodhound searching for a museum's lost dinosaur bone worth $100 , 000 . . . but whose search is hampered by the fact that he has lost his sense of smell . While the bloodhound meanders through this cartoon , muttering to himself in Bert Lahr's distinctive voice , we see various items which Old Whiff encounters . . . including a hot dog , mustard , soap , soup , chocolate , violets , pine trees , a field of clover and a horse . We also SMELL those objects ; at least we smell them if the Smell-O-Vision process is working properly . But poor Old Whiff can't smell anything . " Old Whiff " was produced by Nathan Zucker , directed by Alan Zaslove , written by Leo Salkin and animated by innovative animator John Hubley , who also created Mr Magoo . . . and this cartoon has UPA-style graphics very similar to Hubley's best-known films . Bert Lahr is perfectly suited to play a mournful bloodhound . My only complaint is that Old Whiff sounds rather too much like the Cowardly Lion . Lahr apparently decided to recycle the vocal crotchets of his most famous characterisation , instead of inventing an entirely new character . Also , this cartoon's villain ( designed by Hubley ) looks almost exactly like Boris Badenov from the Bullwinkle cartoons . . . although actually ' Old Whiff ' had its cinema premiere before the Bullwinkle cartoons were transmitted . I saw " A Tale of Old Whiff " WITHOUT the Smell-O-Vision apparatus . . . an absence which diminishes the effect of this film , as we're meant to be able to smell all the items that Old Whiff doesn't notice . Still this is an excellent and innovative cartoon . . . not especially funny , but charming and imaginative . I wish that it were widely available , even without the Smell-O-Vision . If John Waters does a modern remake of " The Tale of Old Whiff " ( filmed in Odorama ) , you can guess what sort of aromas the dog would be sticking his nose into . Fortunately , this cartoon confines itself to smells that a human audience would enjoy . I'll rate " Old Whiff " ; it's a clever cartoon that deserves to be better known , with or without Smell-O-Vision .
Rossini meets Rasinski .	There seems to be a tradition in American animated cartoons , shared by nearly all the major animation studios : whenever cartoon characters decide to guy an opera , it's almost invariably ' The Barber of Seville ' . Even more specifically , it's got to be the barber's aria ' Largo al Factotum ' : the song in which he sings ' Figaro , Figaro , Figaro ' . I suppose that kids ( and lowbrow adults ) with no real experience of genuine opera must find some humour in the notion of a character singing ' Figaro ' over and over . Here we have Heckle and Jeckle sneaking into a performance of an opera that could just as easily have been ' Aida ' or ' Carmen ' , but it happens to be Rossini's popular comedy . I wonder if Terrytoons director Connie Rasinski was inspired to choose Rossini because of their similar surnames . No ; more likely it was all those Figaros . ' Off to the Opera ' is one of the more distinctive Heckle and Jeckle cartoons , featuring a visual style unlike most of their toons . . . or , indeed , unlike most toons from the Terrytoons studio . The background cels are much more elaborately detailed and coloured than usual . Unfortunately , this extra effort doesn't entirely pay off , because many of the background elements are orchestra musicians or audience members : figures that ought to be moving at least slightly , yet which remain static because they're merely painted into background cels rather than animated characters . The resulting effect gives an impression of cheapness , since it's clear that Terrytoons simply weren't going to spend money to animate these background figures . Refreshingly , the soundtrack features a couple of original variations on Rossini's score rather than merely the familiar Terrytoons stock music . As in so many other Heckle and Jeckle toons , here the magpies cross paths with that nameless bulldog . For some reason , this time he's drawn and costumed to look like a house detective in an hotel , but he's apparently meant to be the security manager of the opera house . It felt distinctly strange to see the familiar bulldog in dapper spats and a bowler . One sequence marks this cartoon as a period piece , with theatre-goers rushing out into the lobby for a smoke during the interval . Not any more ! ' Off to the Opera ' is one of the funnier Heckle and Jeckle epics , although it concludes with a gag that Leo McCarey used in several Hal Roach shorts dating far back into the silent-movie era . I'll rate this one . Feeeee-gaaaaaah-rohhhh !
Speed it up !	Here's an interesting American ' trick ' film which is much cruder than the trick films which Melies was doing in France at this time . Yet in some ways - - due to its fast action and use of exteriors - - this movie is more interesting than a typical Melies offering . I wonder if the makers of ' Liquid Electricity ' had read H . G . Wells's story ' The New Accelerator ' . We see a scientist with a Tintin cowlick , experimenting with a bizarre flywheel apparatus . He manages to distil some liquefied electricity , which he pours into a syringe . When he squirts some of this on himself , he runs around in accelerated motion . He then goes out to try it on other people . One sequence of this movie , with Brighton Beach Pier in the background , was filmed at almost the exact same spot as a scene in Vitagraph's later offering ' Jack Fat and Jim Slim at Coney Island ' ( 1910 ) . The scientist spots some boaters trying to rescue a drowning bather : he squirts some liquid electricity into the proceedings , and everyone moves at accelerated speed . The trick is done , of course , by undercranking : slowing the camera to lengthen the interval between frames . . . so that , when the film is projected at normal speed , the action is accelerated . It's unfortunate that the makers of ' Liquid Electricity ' undercrank a shot of the ocean : one of the lessons in Movie-making 101 is never to undercrank a shot of water , fire or smoke : the results will always look unnatural . Unfortunate for a different reason is a scene here in which the scientist encounters a Negro couple , played by a white man and woman in dark make-up . The husband lackadaisically whitewashes a wall : the scientist gives him a squirt of liquid electricity , and the black man works at superhuman speed while his black wife watches approvingly . Several scenes in this film are quite funny , but unfortunately the movie just ENDS , with no real punchline . I thought that perhaps a scene was missing from the end of the print , but apparently in 1907 the people at Vitagraph Studios were still learning how to tell a story with a punchline . I must correct the ( normally very perceptive ) IMDb reviewer Bob Lipton , who theorises that a rear-projection process is used in one sequence of this 1907 film , when the scientist moves at normal speed while one of his test subjects moves super-fast . In order to shoot a rear-projection sequence for this movie , the Vitagraph technicians would have been required to synchronise the gate mechanisms in the camera and the projector . . . very difficult to do in 1907 ! In fact , the trick here is something simpler ( yet more impressive ) than rear projection . If you watch the scientist closely in this sequence , you'll see that his movements in this scene - - and ONLY in this scene - - are very precise and deliberate , almost choreographed . It's obvious that the actor playing the scientist is actually moving very slowly , while the actor playing his test subject is moving at normal speed . Both actors are in the same set-up , with only one camera exposure . When the undercranked film is projected at normal speed , the test subject's movements are accelerated , while the scientist is moving normally ! This is very well done , and I regret that the film's credits don't identify the actor who plays the scientist . I'll rate this delightful movie .
The Felix and the Carpet	' Arabiantics ' is one of the better Felix cartoons from the Otto Messmer era . ( I had the painful pleasure of meeting Messmer shortly before he died : painful , because - - long after his ill-paid career was over - - he was totally skint and dependent on charity whip-rounds from New York City's Collective for Living Cinema . ) Most of Messmer's toons featured stark black and white compositions ; ' Arabiantics ' actually employs some shades of grey , and - - instead of the usual generic music - - the post-dubbed soundtrack of this silent cartoon features re-worked themes from Rimsky-Korsakov's ' Scheherezade ' and from the dance music used by the original Little Egypt at the World's Columbian Exposition . ' Arabiantics ' isn't necessarily funnier than the average Felix cartoon , but it definitely LOOKS and SOUNDS better . Here we have Felix the Cat in Arabia . . . so , roll on the usual Arabian clichés . We get gags involving a flying carpet , a hubble-bubble and a camel . I was surprised that there weren't any gags based on turbans , scimitars or curly-toed slippers . I was also slightly disappointed that the camel in this cartoon is neither drawn to look like nor animated to move like a real camel . I fondly recall a Warners cartoon ( much later , and with a bigger budget than this one ) that featured a scene with a very realistically animated camel , rotoscoped from film footage . At least one thing distinguishes Felix the Cat from most other cartoon quadrupeds who walk on their hind legs : when Felix is in trouble , he reverts to four-legged status and he scoot-scat-skedaddles on all fours , like an actual moggy . Despite that camel , the animation in ' Arabiantics ' is well above the usual Messmer standard . I was impressed by some jewellery sequences in which the gems sparkled convincingly . Unfortunately , the Felix cartoons tend to be very predictable . At one point , whilst Felix was going Arabian in the foreground ( Abou ben Ali cat ? ) , I noticed a peculiar object in the background which seemed to serve no purpose at all except for vaguely resembling a banjo . So I knew what was coming . Right enough : Felix reaches into the background , pulls the object into the foreground , and - - quick as you can say ' George Formby ' - - our Felix is strummin ' on the old banjo . With catgut strings ? I liked the animation of the Arabian women in this cartoon , which was more detailed than usual for a Felix opus . . . although I couldn't see why Messmer drew the women's fingers bent at such bizarre angles . On a positive note , this cartoon doesn't contain any jokes about Arabs which are extreme enough to be racist . ' Arabiantics ' even has a coherent plot , which is more than can be said for some of the earlier ( and later ) Felixes . Definitely an above-average Felix , and even its title is clever . I'll rate ' Arabiantics ' .
That 1940s bomber crew are back . . .	I saw ' Caterina va in Città ' in Sydney , where the audience had mixed reactions to the schoolboy who speaks Italian with what's apparently meant to be a Sydneysider accent . In general , I was impressed by the ensemble acting , but I felt that the best performance was given by Margherita Buy as the heroine's mother Agata . I was disappointed that Agata has so little to do with the main plot of the film . The symbolism is just a trifle heavy-handed in this movie . Remember those Hollywood war movies from World War Two , in which the bomber crew conveniently had one member of every ( white ) ethnic group ? ( And there was usually one rich guy and one guy from the slums . ) Well , director / co-scriptwriter Paolo Virzi has got that gimmick here , Italian style . When 15-year-old Caterina's parents move house from a Tuscan seaside town to Rome and enrol her in a big-city school , the student body conveniently includes the full spectrum of Italy's national archetypes . For example , Daniela is wealthy , beautiful and popular , the daughter of an official in the right-wing government . Margherita is a left-wing ' revolutionary ' , the daughter of a famous intellectual . Of course , the film implies that Margherita is somehow better and more ' authentic ' than Daniela . Because I found the political subplots of this movie to be deeply clichéd - - especially since Italy is in no position to lecture any other nation on the subject of politics - - I was pleased that the film's political content stays firmly secondary . The main story of this movie is , rightly , Caterina's uneasy and awkward progress through adolescence and into adulthood . It's no surprise to discover that being a teenage girl in modern Italy is difficult , but surely every adolescent - - male , female , rich , poor , in any century or culture - - has found adolescence to be a difficult time of transition . Except for some of its political comments , I found this to be a very honest and intelligent film , with characters I really cared about . I'll rate ' Caterina va in Città ' , and I look forward to more films from Paolo Virzi . Brava , Caterina !
He's got the horn . . .	This is a low-budget Danish television production of Eugène Ionesco's surrealist play ' Rhinoceros ' . I speak very little Danish , and I'm eager to improve my understanding of the language . When a chance to screen this kinescope came my way , I eagerly accepted . I'm very familiar with Ionesco's play in English translation , so I hoped I'd have no difficulty following the ( bizarre ) plot even if I couldn't follow the dialogue . Also , the dramatic progress of Ionesco's narrative depends much more on emotion and physical behaviour than on dialogue ( except for one scene involving a logician ) , so I figured that my lack of Dansk would be only a minimal handicap . For once , my instincts were right . ' Næsehornet ' ( literally ' nose-horned ' , as in rhinoceros ) is a very faithful and straightforward staging of Ionesco's tragicomedy . The extremely low budget of this production is no handicap , as the director and cast are able to concentrate on the ideas of Ionesco's writing , without the distraction of flashy production values . SPOILERS COMING . Unless something was slipped past me in the dialogue , this staging follows Ionesco's text very closely . Bérenger ( Erik Mørk ) is a lowly clerk in an unnamed city , similar to Zero in Elmer Rice's ' The Adding Machine ' . He is infatuated with Daisy ( Ghita Nørby ) , the attractive secretary in his boss's office , but has no serious expectations that anything will come of this . One day when Bérenger is on his way to work , the people of the city are alarmed because ferocious rhinoceroses are loose in the streets . The rhinos can't have escaped from a circus or zoo ; there are too many of them . The leading theory is that there has been an epidemic of ' rhinoceritis ' : one by one , humans are turning into rhinos . Rhinoceritis or no rhinoceritis , Bérenger doesn't much care . His life is defined by his pathetic little job . He reaches his office , and has problems with his boss Papillon ( Pouel Kern ) . Eventually , it becomes clear that Bérenger will no longer be able to ignore the rhino epidemic . His friend Jean ( Henning Moritzen ) turns into a rhinoceros , snorting and bellowing . In a sort of Adam-and-Eve scenario in reverse , eventually Bérenger and Daisy are the last man and woman who haven't been rhinocerified . But then Daisy begins snorting and bellowing . And now Bérenger is the only human left . . . Ionesco's play was written in the aftermath of World War Two , and its meaning is open to multiple interpretations . ' Rhinoceros ' can be seen as an indictment of the mindless conformity that enabled Hitler's rise to power . ( This interpretation is popular in Denmark , a nation that was conscripted into the Third Reich . ) Or , more positively , ' Rhinoceros ' can be seen as a testament to the virtue of the individual . . . with Bérenger perceived as a rebel simply because he insists upon remaining faithful to his true nature . As with Beckett's ' Waiting for Godot ' , if we knew precisely what Ionesco meant to say here , the work would lose much of its power . As I watched this production , I was also reminded of Friedrich Dürrenmatt's ' The Visit ' , another stage drama in which a small-town protagonist finds everyone else gradually turning against him . This production is excellent , and the entire cast are impressive . Lili Heglund is especially good as the wife of one of Bérenger's workmates , an absentee who has already succumbed to rhinocerisation . I had difficulty following a dialogue-intensive scene between Erik Mørk as Bérenger and Ingolf David as the logician , but that seems to be down to my own difficulty with the Danish language . Normally , I shan't rate a foreign-language film if I've difficulty following the dialogue , but for this production there weren't any crucial gaps in my comprehension , and I enjoyed it thoroughly . ' Næsehornet ' rates .
She fingers his plumb bob .	' Heritage of the Desert ' is an excellent western that will appeal to viewers who don't normally like westerns . Made early in the career of the underrated director Henry Hathaway , this is a splendid example of his skills . Veteran character actor J Farrell MacDonald gives one of his best performances here as Naab ( unnecessarily weird name ) , a rancher who permits neighbouring ranchers to run their cattle drives through a narrow pass on his land . . . all except rancher Judd Holderness ( great name ! ) , whom Naab knows to be a rustler . I usually dislike actor David Landau , with his coarse features and unpleasant voice , but here he has some great dialogue . . . baiting his henchman Lefty with lines like ' How often have I told you not to think ? You can do a lot better with your gun ' and ' You got a six-gun where your brains oughta be . ' When a morally ambiguous rancher ( good performance by Gordon Westcott ) tries to appeal to Holderness's conscience - - ' You wouldn't do a thing like that , would you ? ' - - Holderness calmly replies ' I do things like that every ten minutes . ' Sally Blane , Loretta Young's sister , gives a strong and appealing performance as the heroine . I'm a fan of Loretta Young , but I've always found her just a little too beautiful to be believable in most of her roles . ( I have the same problem with Nicole Kidman , whom I also like . ) Blane strongly resembled her famous sister but was slightly less beautiful , and this makes her far more credible than Loretta in roles such as the one she plays here . Blane spends much of the film in a set of culottes which show off her lissome figure , but which are probably not historically accurate . Vince Barnett , a character actor whom I usually like , is saddled here with some painfully thick-witted dialogue which he enunciates in one of the most bizarre and implausible accents I've ever heard . Randolph Scott is excellent as the surveyor who arrives at Naab's spread , where Sally shows interest in his plumb bob . SPOILERS COMING . Hathaway's directorial hand is sure throughout . I was especially impressed by one staggeringly beautiful desertscape , and by a long series of dissolve shots as Randolph Scott's stand-in , wounded by a cowpoke's bullet , stumbles through the alkali . Later in the film , there's an impressive sequence in which two characters draw their pistols and stand each other off . The camera pans to Sally Blane's reaction as two shots are fired off-camera . She screams , and we know that somebody got plugged . . . but we don't learn the outcome until later . Considering that this film was made on a low budget in 1932 , its sound recording is very impressive . I'll rate ' Heritage of the Desert ' .
She's from France , she can dance . . . but more prettily in Italy .	This movie takes place in Italy but the scenery looks as if it was filmed in France . The heroine is identified ( in the intertitles ) as French , but there's no particular reason for her to be French apart from the fact that the actress who plays her is French . In a sound film , this sort of backstory is necessary to cover casting problems such as a French actress who can't do a convincing Italian accent . Since this is a silent film , with the actors ' voices unheard , there's really no need for such pretexts . Anyhow : the very sensuous actress Regina Badet portrays a French dancer cried Manuella , which sounds like a Spanish name to me . She is touring Italy with her two musicians , Marco ( Marc Gerard ) and Lionel ( Andree Lionel ) . The latter is also her lover , and they're quite open about it . When Count Rezzi ( Gabriel Signoret ) sees the buskers performing , he is aroused with lust for Manuella . He is dismayed to discover that Manuella and Lionel are quite happy with things as they are . ( I was hoping that the very attractive Ma'mselle Badet would add a long flowing train to her costume , so that the faithful Lionel would be her train-bearer . Lionel train , geddit ? ) Meanwhile , Marco is aroused by the count's wealth . He tries to steal some of the count's jewels . The count catches Marco red-handed . Instead of demanding the return of his property , Count Rezzi blackmails Marco into planting the jewels on Lionel . Then the count arranges for the jewels to be discovered on the person of the guiltless Lionel , who didn't even know he was holding them . Now get this , folks . By means of some surprisingly subtle acting by the cast , with a minimum of explanatory titles , Lionel comes to the mistaken conclusion that Manuella nicked the dazzlers and planted them on his person . . . so Lionel pleads guilty to the theft in order to protect Manuella ! Delighted by this turn of events , the count has Lionel hustled off the hoosegow . ( Armand Tallier portrays the carabiniere . ) SPOILERS COMING . Manuella has been established as a poor wandering entertainer , but somehow she's managed to come into possession of a loaded revolver . Concealing this in her skirts , she pays a call upon the count and begs him to withdraw the charge against Lionel . Twirling his moustache in all directions , Count Rezzi declares that he will happily withdraw the charge . . . if Manuella will first become his " light of love " ( that's how the intertitles put it ; it feels a bit less ludicrous in French ) . Manuella whips out her piece ( the revolver , I mean ) and tries to shoot Count Rizzi . They struggle for the weapon , and the count accidentally shoots himself . Realising that he's done for , he clears Lionel . The lovers are happily reunited . Mama mia ! I didn't like the climax of this movie . Manuella is prepared to commit murder for the sake of her lover , but Count Rezzi conveniently shoots himself instead . . . thus achieving what Manuella set out to accomplish while leaving her technically innocent of murder . Even more conveniently , the count manages to live long enough to clear the accused man . On the positive side , there are some spectacularly beautiful exterior shots in this French film . The costumes and production design are excellent , and the actors ' performances are far more naturalistic than I expected for this operatic sort of story . My rating for this one :
A " lost " film , you say ?	This silent version of Eugene O'Neill's drama ' Anna Christie ' , starring Blanche Sweet , is an excellent film in its own right , very faithful to the source material . It also proves a point I've often made about so-called ' lost ' films : namely , that a diligent and intelligent search for a specific film can often lead to its recovery . ' Anna Christie ' was ' lost ' for several decades , but Blanche Sweet initiated an energetic search which led to the discovery of a well-preserved print ( with Russian intertitles ) in a Soviet archive . Happily , this film is now available with new English-language intertitles . One serious flaw in O'Neill's play is the extremely crude dialogue spoken by Anna and her immigrant father Chris , written in a wretched " yumpin ' yiminy ! " Swedish dialect . Apparently the Russian translator made no attempt to preserve this in the Russian-version titles . Eugene O'Neill did not like actors , probably because he spent so much of his childhood among barnstorming troupers ( including his own father ) . Yet O'Neill actively assisted in the production of this film , and it succeeds as one of the most faithful examples of his vision that I've ever seen . The greatest flaws are the stagebound sets and some howlingly bad footage of Chris Christopherson's ship at the mercy of " dat ol ' devil , sea " : these shots are obviously images of a miniature boat , bobbing about in a water tank ! As Anna's father , George F . Marion gives the worst performance in the film : surprisingly , he repeated this role in the remake starring Greta Garbo . In recent years , Garbo's English-language version of ' Anna Christie ' has been subordinated to the German-language version she filmed shortly afterwards . ( Same sets , different cast , much more explicit dialogue and racier costumes . ) As good as Garbo is in the German version , this silent version is better still . William Russell , as Anna's rough-hewn seaman lover , is slightly too mannered and slightly too prettified . He utterly failed to convince me that he had any emotional or sexual interest in Blanche Sweet's Anna . I have been reliably informed ( by an old-time Hollywood veteran ) that Russell's voice was inappropriate for talking films . I have mixed feelings towards Blanche Sweet . When I see her name in print , I tend to visualise a cloying simpering ingenue in virginal roles , similar to Bessie Love or Lillian Gish . ( I think it's Blanche Sweet's annoying name that causes me to perceive her this way . ) Yet , when I watch one of her films , I almost always find her attractive and compelling . Beak-nosed , almost anorexically thin , with a nearly nonexistent bustline , Blanche Sweet is unlikely to attract modern film audiences . Yet I found her extremely sexy in ' The Sporting Venus ' , in which she played a glammed-up heiress in expensive gowns and a tiara . Here in ' Anna Christie ' , Ms Sweet wears dowdy clothes that are entirely appropriate for her portrayal of a waterfront prostitute . I really dislike films in which a leading actor or actress dresses much more expensively ( and more extensively ) than his or her on screen character could plausibly dress in real life . Fortunately , Blanche Sweet does not indulge such vanities here . I'll rate this excellent film .
Ruling the roost in a coop d'etat	I'm a fan of Arnold Stang , but I dislike the Uncle Herman cartoons for which he provided the main character's voice . All the cartoons putting Uncle Herman at odds with Katnip the Cat have exactly the same boring plot . ' The Henpecked Rooster ' , at least , is a Herman cartoon which places the character in a different situation , and which offers some interesting character dynamics . Henry the rooster is bullied by his unnamed wife ( Henrietta ? ) , who summons him by shouting ' Hen-REEEE ! ' in an imitation of Henry Aldrich's mother . I agree with previous IMDb reviewer Robert Reynolds that the uncredited actor who voices Henry was probably Jack Mercer ; however , the actor is definitely imitating radio performer Bill Thompson : specifically , Thompson's portrayal of Wally Wimple , the henpecked husband from the ' Fibber McGee and Molly ' radio programme . Henry does all the housework while his wife reads a book titled ' How to Lay an Egg , by Bob Hope ' . ( That's the best gag in this cartoon . ) At this point , the score ( by Winston Sharples ) offers a snatch of ' Thanks for the Memory ' . When a mouse ( Herman ) shows up , the hen orders her husband to get rid of him . But Herman offers to help Henry reverse the balance of power in his chicken coop ( a coop d'etat ? ) . Soon enough , Henry is bullying his wife , and cheerfully enjoying the reversal . Paramount's cartoons from this period have never impressed me , yet I actually found myself intrigued by ' The Henpecked Rooster ' because my sympathies changed as the characters ' relationships changed . I felt sorry for henpecked Henry , but then lost all sympathy for him when he bullied his wife . There's also a surprisingly clever ending , when the toon appears to end with a typical iris-in , but one more unexpected gag completely changes the fates of all the characters . And there's some really superb scoring here by Sharples ; at one point , when Herman whispers a scheme to Henry ( so we can't hear it ) , Sharples's staccato music substitutes for Herman's voice . Sharples scores the whole cartoon very imaginatively and effectively . ' The Henpecked Rooster ' is quite misogynist ( certainly not the only cartoon to be guilty of that trait ) but it's much better than I expected , and I'll rate it .
Too good to be fiction !	I saw ' The White Rabbit ' when it was originally televised on the Beeb , and would happily watch it again if it were given a repeat transmission . However , considering Auntie Beeb's penchant for taping over her original recordings , I doubt that ' The White Rabbit ' still exists . Here's hoping . The IMDb credits correctly state that this miniseries is adapted from Bruce Marshall's book of the same name , but the credits wrongly identify Marshall's book as a novel . It's non-fiction , right enough - - some of it all TOO real - - although Marshall wrote it in the same novelised format made famous in Truman Capote's ' In Cold Blood ' . Kenneth More gives possibly the best performance of his career as Frederick Yeo-Thomas , a Welshman who volunteers for a dangerous undercover mission in Nazi-occupied Paris . ( ' The White Rabbit ' is his code name . ) ' Tommy ' is ordered to liaise with the Resistance . . . but he swiftly gets betrayed , and is handed over to the Gestapo for interrogation . From there , he's on his way to a death camp . The entire miniseries is taut and suspenseful , but I was especially impressed by one scene - - apparently a true incident - - during Yeo-Thomas's interrogation . In his undercover identity as a Frenchman , ' Tommy ' has a supply of French banknotes : intentionally rumpled and used , as crisp notes would be too conspicuous . One of his ten-franc notes has a ' phone number scribbled on it by a previous possessor . After Yeo-Thomas is captured and searched , the Gestapo naturally assume that this is the ' phone number for his contact . With impressive and terrible swiftness , they track down the Parisian to whom this ' phone number was issued . He turns out to be a meek little cabaret musician , played brilliantly by John Barrard . There is a harrowing sequence in which More is forced to watch while Barrard - - an utter stranger , who doesn't know him and doesn't have any tactical secrets - - is manhandled by Gestapo officers who demand he give up secrets he doesn't possess . Just because somebody wrote his ' phone number on a banknote ! It's a shame that the true story of the courageous Frederick Yeo-Thomas isn't better known . I'll rate this taut mini-series , and I should be delighted to watch it again .
Walk through this with me	Marcel Aymé ( pronounced ' Ah-may ' ) was France's equivalent to Thorne Smith . Aymé wrote fantasy stories which , like Smith's , tended to feature unobtrusive men whose lives are irrevocably changed by an unexpected encounter with the supernatural , not always ending happily but usually with a bit of sex along the way . There are also distinct similarities between Aymé's works and the stories of James Thurber . Some of Aymé's best stories , intriguingly , were written during the Nazi occupation . ( This is especially evident in his bitter story ' La Carte ' . ) My own favourite Aymé tale is ' La Grace ' , about an ordinary man - a decent individual , but hardly a candidate for sainthood - who suddenly finds himself equipped with an unwanted halo . Desperate to get rid of this inconvenience , he proceeds to commit every imaginable sin . . . but can't get rid of that halo . The TV production ' Le Passe-muraille ' , a one-off comedy , adapts Aymé's story of the same name , his best-known tale . Its title would roughly translate into English as ' The Passer-Through-Walls ' . This same story was adapted into the musical ' Amour ' , which flopped quickly on Broadway in 2002 . It's not hard to see why : ' Le Passe-muraille ' is a charming bit of froth , without the substance or plot line to sustain a full-length evening . Monsieur Dutilleul ( Michel Serrault ) is a typical Aymé hero : an obscure little clerk , a Parisian version of Cosmo Topper or a less imaginative version of Walter Mitty . One night in his flat , with the lights out , Dutilleul finds himself in the wrong room and can't account for how he got there . After some experimentation , it dawns on him that he can walk through walls . He never does learn how or when he acquired this ability . Being a creature of habit , Dutilleul goes to see a doctor ( Jean Obé ) , who blithely prescribes pills for this unusual condition . More as a failure of nerve than a desire to retain his new ability , Dutilleul accepts the pills but does not swallow them . Shyly at first , Dutilleul experiments with his newfound power to walk through walls . There is a very funny scene in which Dutilleul is summoned to his boss's office and slated for a minor matter . Returning to his own office to lick his wounds , Dutilleul has a clever idea . He sticks his head through the intervening wall , confronting his boss in the form of a head on the wall , like a taxidermy trophy . ' Sir , you are an idiot ! ' Dutilleul remarks , then recedes into the wall again . When the apoplectic boss rushes to Dutilleul's office , everything is of course normal . . . and Dutilleul feigns innocence . As Dutilleul becomes bolder in his ghostly ventures , he commits daring burglaries . . . eventually frightening all of Paris , as rumours spread of a super-thief known only as Garou-Garou ( roughly , the Werewolf ) . Of course , it dawns on Dutilleul that his new ability can benefit his sex life . Like the original story , this television comedy is quite funny until the ending , at which point ( again like the original ) it becomes quite bitter . The special effects in the wall-walking sequences are very poorly done - ' Twilight Zone ' did this sort of thing much better , more than a decade earlier - but this does no harm to the story's basic enjoyabilty . A nice bit of singing by Jean-Marc Recchia at the end . I'll rate this telefilm .
Barrymore steals the picture	Believe it or not , the Mona Lisa actually got stolen once , and was missing for nearly two years . In 1911 , Leonardo da Vinci's ' La Gioconda ' ( better known as the Mona Lisa ) was taken from the Louvre by a petty thief ( and former Louvre employee ) who allegedly sought to return the world's most famous piece of art to its native Italy . His actions after the theft make it seem more likely that he intended to sell the painting for his personal profit . ( Of course , he had no hope of finding a buyer . ) The Mona Lisa was quietly returned to the Louvre on the very last day of 1913 , and it has remained there ever since except for occasional loan-outs . When " Arsène Lupin " was released in 1932 ( twenty years after the theft ) , most moviegoers would have recalled that 1911 crime , and their knowledge would have lent some plausibility to this movie . " Arsène Lupin " is quite enjoyable , with MGM's usual high production standards and Jack Conway's usual briskly efficient direction . This movie does not lack for pleasure ; what it lacks is plausibility . John Barrymore is the master criminal of the title : he specialises in perpetrating ' impossible ' crimes , which he makes even more difficult by announcing them in advance . . . but of course he always commits the crime and fools the gendarmes . Tully Marshall has a good scene as one of Barrymore's victims . Lupin has a penchant for elaborate disguises , which enables Barrymore ( a U . S . ' Grade A ' ham ) to indulge his own penchant for tomfoolery . John's older brother Lionel Barrymore is Guerchard , the Javert-like Surete detective sworn to catch Lupin . Karen Morley was an extremely beautiful actress whose private life was filled with populist political activities ; onscreen , she was most impressive in working-class roles that fitted her own political beliefs ( such as her fine performance in ' Our Daily Bread ' ) . In " Arséne Lupin " , Morley's naturally dark hair is bleached a horrid blonde tone , and she's all tarted up in posh outfits that make her look uncomfortable rather than sexy . SPOILERS COMING . Eventually , Lupin decides to steal the Mona Lisa from the Louvre . He manages to slit the painting from its frame , roll up the canvas , and then smuggle it out in a flower basket . We see John Barrymore casually brandishing a tightly-rolled piece of cloth which is allegedly the greatest work of art in all human history . I had to laugh at the filmmakers ' error . In real life ( but not in this movie ) , da Vinci painted the Mona Lisa on a plank of poplar wood , so Lupin ( or any other thief ) would have difficulty rolling it up ! Eventually , Guerchard captures Lupin and hauls him off to gaol . The scene between John and Lionel Barrymore in the police car is sheer delight , as their genuine affection for each other spills out into their characters ' dialogue . I would have found this scene implausible with any two other actors . As it is , I can't imagine anyone but the Barrymore brothers playing these roles . Well , maybe Dennis and Randy Quaid , but just barely . Don't look for a good plotline here , but " Arsène Lupin " is a delightful example of old-style movie-making . I'll rate this movie .
Seven faces of Chic Sale	I viewed the UCLA print of this film , an acetate dupe which was struck from a nitrate release print that had seriously deteriorated . Charles ' Chic ' Sale was a vaudeville monologist who did rural material about hicks and hillbillies . More importantly , Sale was also the author of a book called ' The Specialist ' , consisting entirely of cornpone jokes about outhouses . This book was a tremendous best-seller in the 1920s and ' 30s , to such an extent that its success eclipsed Chic Sale's career as a performer , and - in an era when many Americans still used outhouses - it became fairly prevalent to refer to an outhouse as a ' Chic Sale ' . . . in much the same way that , a few years later when Don Ameche starred in a film about Alexander Graham Bell , people thought it was funny to call a telephone an ' Ameche ' . In the 1930s , Sale had some success as a character actor in dramatic films . ' His Nibs ' stars Chic Sale ' living ' seven different roles , as the opening credits describe him . After the credits , we see seven close-up shots of Sale in his seven different roles , one of them involving a very dodgy moustache . I've never understood the origin of the American expression ' his nibs ' . I know that this phrase is sarcastically applied to a self-important person , but why ' nibs ' ? Has it something to do with pen nibs ? Or maybe Nibs of the Lost Boys ? This is a weird film , actually a film within a film . In the main story , Sale is Theodore Bender , owner and manager of the Slippery Elm Picture Palace , a fleapit cinema in rural America . I found this film fascinating for its depiction of an early movie-house . Bender is also the projectionist , and he enters his projection booth by climbing a ladder up the front of the building . While the customers show up to watch what the intertitles describe as ' the filum ' , Sale plays five other roles . . . one of whom - - the cinema pianist - - is a woman . I was impressed with Sale's female impersonation ; he avoids overplaying the role , and he actually gives ' Miss Dessie ' some subtlety . No two of the six Sales show up in the same shot , so there's no trick photography . The movie that the folks have come to see is " He Fooled ' em All " , a melodrama in which Sale plays his seventh role : a small-town grocery clerk who gets fleeced in the big city , but ultimately triumphs . The other actors in the cast list - - Colleen Moore , Joseph Dowling - - appear only in this film within the film . Interestingly , the opening credits of ' His Nibs ' mention that Dowling had previously played the title role in ' The Miracle Man ' : a testament to that film's popularity . Bender has cut out the intertitles in " He Fooled ' em All " , preferring to narrate the action himself . SPOILING ONE GAG NOW . During the sequences featuring Sale as Theodore Bender , I laughed for the wrong reason : namely , because in Britain ' bender ' is a slang word for a certain type of sexual deviate . However , at the end of the movie Sale reveals the reason for this character's name . We see him climbing aboard a wagon painted with the name " THEO . BENDER " . Sale straddles the sign , his legs covering some of its letters so that it now reads " THE END " . The structure of ' His Nibs ' is so weird , I can't help wondering if it was originally intended as two separate movies , with " He Fooled ' em All " produced as a film in its own right . Anyway , I found ' His Nibs ' very enjoyable , and I'll rate this movie .
Comedy of social classes ; funnier than I expected .	I saw ' Lumpen und Seide ' in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone , Italy . Although this silent film is German , and the festival screened a print from a German collection ( the Bundesarchiv in Berlin ) , this print was from the film's release in Holland , so it had Dutch intertitles . . . and the movie itself had been renamed ' De klaplooper ' , whatever that means . The original German title - - ' Rags and Silk ' - - is symbolic , referring to the contrast between the social classes of the main characters . This is one of those movies in which the idle rich amuse themselves by playing games that exploit working-class people . Erik and Irene are a bored married couple who live in a mansion in the posh Grunewald district of southwestern Berlin . The young and pretty Hilde , conversely , is a factory labourer who lives in Wedding : this neighbourhood , in northwestern Berlin , has been working-class for a couple of centuries . At the time when this movie was made ( shortly after Germany lost the Great War ) , the residents of Wedding were highly politicised and often outright communist . Erik decides to amuse himself by inviting Hilde to move into his mansion . His motivation seems to be partly a Pygmalion impulse ( attempting to transform this gutter-wench into a proper lady ) and partly a very patronising effort to observe how a ' pet ' poor person will behave in an unfamiliar habitat . Irene , of course , is concerned that Erik's interest in the younger and prettier Hilde mightn't be entirely innocent . Meanwhile , Hilde's father - - in a manner very analogous to that of Alfred P Doolittle - - tries to turn the situation to his own advantage . Ferdinand Bonn gives an excellent performance in the latter role . By far the best performance here , though , is given by Reinhold Schünzel , who is hilarious as Hilde's outraged fiancé . There's some sexual innuendo in ' Rags and Silk ' , but the film makes sure we know that everything is all quite innocent : I suspect that this reflects the preferences of European audiences in 1925 . I laughed heartily during this comedy of manners , but none of the characters in this movie reminded me of anyone I've ever encountered in real life , and I have difficulty envisioning this story working in a modern setting . My rating for this one is .
Solid programmer , minor flaws .	' Afraid to Talk ' is one of those efficient low-budget Hollywood features that deserve to be better known . This drama of corrupt politicos is very much of the 1930s . I don't mean to say that modern politicians are less corrupt than their 1930s counterparts , but the corruption in this film is heavy with the milieu of the Depression era . This movie's appeal is helped considerably by a large cast of familiar faces . Even Arthur Housman gets a look-in , doing his perennial drunk act . SPOILERS AHEAD . The very talented character actor Edward Arnold spent most of his film career portraying two types : incorruptible authority figures , and seemingly incorruptible authority figures who are secretly crooks . Here , for once , Arnold plays an outright crook who doesn't hide his dishonesty . . . and named Jig Skelli , no less . Skelli's rival for control of the underworld is one Jake Stransky , played by Robert Warwick . I disliked this casting : Warwick was a deeply cultured actor with a cultivated stage voice ( although American , he sometimes played upper-class Englishmen ) . Warwick , a good actor within his range , is simply not believable as a thick-ear gangster . When Skelli rubs out Stransky , the hit is witnessed by bellboy Eddie Martin ( Eric Linden ) . Determined to leave no witnesses , Skelli tries to kill Eddie but merely wounds him . Eddie grasses to the authorities . . . which , in this movie , proves to be a mistake . The district attorney ( Tully Marshall , excellent ) , his assistant ( Louis Calhern , quite good ) and the mayor are all crooked too , and in Skelli's pocket . The mayor is played by Berton Churchill , who sometimes played respectable authority figures but more typically ( and more effectively ) portrayed authority figures who are secretly corrupt . Churchill's most memorable role was as the banker who embezzles from his own bank in ' Stagecoach ' : he plays a similar character here . The D . A . realises it wouldn't be a good idea to indict Skelli , since Skelli has got the goods on every crooked politician in town . But the murder of Stransky has got to be prosecuted . So the D . A . indicts poor Eddie Martin ! Talk of being in the wrong place at the wrong time ! The innocent Eddie is pressured into giving a false confession , and now he's looking at a death sentence . Eric Linden briefly played lead roles in this and a few other films . As the hapless bellboy Eddie , Linden is impressive in a role requiring a range of emotions . Viewers who have never run afoul of the justice system might have difficulty believing that an innocent man would confess to murder ; I found Linden's performance entirely believable , and I'm painfully aware of the tactics which corrupt police and prosecutors employ to wring confessions out of the innocent . Much of ' Afraid to Talk ' is excellent . Although there are several fine supporting performances , Sidney Fox is insipid and dull in the female lead as Eddie's frantic wife . Also , the last reel of the movie seems rushed . . . as if the scriptwriters needed to tie up the plot before they ran out of typing paper . My rating for this one : 8 solid points out of 10 .
Not a lucky dip .	I saw this short film at the Cinema Muto film festival in Sacile , Italy , in October 2006 . The directors of that excellent annual festival placed a great deal of emphasis on this particular film as one of the prestige attractions of the 2006 festival . In fact , the significance of ' Arrest of a Pickpocket ' is almost entirely historical rather than aesthetic . It's the earliest known British film which tells a story , rather than recording a real-world event ; it's also the earliest known British film which definitely survives . Filmed in April 1895 by cinema pioneers Robert W Paul and Birt Acres , ' Arrest of a Pickpocket ' is their second collaboration : the first ( now apparently lost ) was a brief excerpt of that year's Oxford-Cambridge boat race , filmed a month earlier at Henley-on-Thames . The brief but action-packed narrative which we see here is laughably crude by modern standards , but must have been riveting indeed to audiences in 1895 . A helmeted constable pursues a pickpocket , who violently resists and knocks off the peeler's helmet . The constable attempts to handcuff the pickpocket , who struggles right out of his jacket and carries on running . . . straight into the arms of an arriving sailor , who helps the policeman tackle the pickpocket . The tar restrains the dip while the cop handcuffs him , then the policeman marches him away . Fair cop ! End of film . Audiences in 1895 may well have believed they were watching a recording of an actual event , not realising the unlikelihood that a cameraman and his unwieldy apparatus might just happen to be present ( with the appropriate lighting ) at such an occurrence . There is only one camera set-up here , and the actors ( for actors they are ) perform in front of a simple backdrop which may have convinced contemporary audiences , yet which now looks blatantly phony . This is a wall , on which are stencilled the words ' STICK NO BILLS ' , yet on which several bills are posted anyway . The film was too blurry for me to read most of them clearly , but one bill is clearly an advertisement for Birt Acres's film company , listing some of the other motion-picture films which he offers for exhibition : these include ' British Retreat ' , ' Colonel Killed ' , ' Mail Train ' and ' Capture of the Burglars ' . So far , I haven't been able to match those up to specific Acres productions . ' Mail Train ' and ( just possibly ) ' British Retreat ' might actually be filmed records of genuine events , but ' Colonel Killed ' and ' Capture of the Burglars ' - - if these films ever existed at all - - have got to be staged enactments . ' Arrest of a Pickpocket ' should also be reckoned the first film with production design , as the set is clearly an artistic creation . Someone drew a stick-figure on the wall ( it looks like one of Sherlock Holmes's " Dancing Men " ) , in an attempt to make this backdrop look a ' real ' wall with actual graffiti . Entirely for its historic significance , rather than for any aesthetic content , I'll rate ' Arrest of a Pickpocket ' at .
See me , hear me , touch me	There is a damaged and incomplete print of this film in the Library of Congress ; some effort is underway to make it available on video . It's a shame that the 1919 film ' Deliverance ' has the same title as a much better-known film about hillbilly sodomites . ' Deliverance ' ( this one ) is a clumsily-made film , poorly paced , yet it's absolutely compelling because of the true story behind it . This film is the life story of Helen Keller , made with her active participation . Inevitably , this movie covers the same ground as the much better-known ' The Miracle Worker ' . ' Deliverance ' is organised in a triptych format , depicting Helen Keller's life in three acts : as a child , as a young woman , and in the present day ( 1919 ) when she is an inspirational world figure . We see Helen at age six ( played by a very impressive child actress ) , utterly blind and deaf from infancy : mute , cut off from nearly all human contact . ( Ms Keller lost her eyesight and hearing to scarlet fever , but this is not adequately explained in the film . ) We see the famous scene in which Anne Sullivan pumps water into Helen's hand whilst spelling out the manual alphabet word for ' water ' into her fingers . Despite the tableau staging , these scenes are profoundly moving because we recognise them as real events . The early sequences are largely marred by the depiction of some stereotypical black servants in the Keller household . In real life , Keller's father had been an officer in the Confederate army , but somehow I find the Keller family's servants more servile than they need to be for a story set in this time and place . The middle sequence shows Helen Keller in her 20s , now able to speak ( crudely ) and attending college with Anne Sullivan translating the texts into Braille for her . This film does not dwell on the central irony of Helen Keller's life : namely that , in order for her to interact with the world , another person ( Anne Sullivan ) had to dedicate her own eyes and ears to Helen Keller's purposes . Also , because this is a silent film , we are all necessarily deafened along with Ms Keller , and cannot fully grasp the isolation of her own silent existence within the world of hearing people ( as this entire film is set in silence ) . I've heard Hellen Keller's voice in some sound-era newsreels : it's a shame that ' Deliverance ' ( lacking a soundtrack ) is unable fully to convey her efforts to be able to speak coherently whilst unable to hear her own words . In the final and most inspirational sequence , we see the real Helen Keller working tirelessly as a public figure to improve conditions for other blind people , and helping them to learn useful trades . ( Another irony : none of those blind people could have appreciated this film . ) Speaking directly to the camera , she also conveys ( via silent-film titles ) her belief in an almighty and benevolent deity . What a remarkable woman Helen Keller was . Much of ' Deliverance ' is clumsy , but every frame of this movie is fascinating , and some of it is positively riveting . I'll rate ' Deliverance ' .
Slam-bang action but no credibility .	' Bedraget i døden ' would translate as the very intriguing ' Deceived in Death ' . I saw this film in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy ; they screened a Danish Film Institute archive print made in 1957 . The film's director is Eduard Schnedler-Sørensen . The credited scenarist is Ludwig Landmann , of whom I'd like to know more . The credited actors and their roles are as follows : Aage Hertel ( Doctor Gar el Hama ) ; Henry Seemann ( Baron Sternberg ) ; Carl Johan Lundkvist ( Count Wolfhagen ) ; Edith Buemann ( Lady Edith ) ; Otto Lagoni ( James Pendleton ) ; Einar Zangenberg ( Newton , the detective ) . The criminal mastermind Gar el Hama stood villainous duty in several Danish films of this period ; he appears to be an approximate equivalent of Doctor Mabuse ( in German films ) , Fantomas and Judex ( in French movies ) or Wu Fang ( in American pulp magazines and serials ) . I've no idea what ethnicity the name ' Gar el Hama ' is meant to indicate ( Arabian ? ) , but evidently the character is an all-purpose sinister foreigner . Lady Edith is the daughter ( and designated heiress ) of wealthy Count Wolfhagen : his will and testament explicitly state that she is to inherit his fortune . She is also happily betrothed to Baron Sternberg . However , a bizarre clause in Count Wolfhagen's will states that his fortune will pass to his friend , moneylender James Pendleton , if both Edith and her fiancée the baron should die without issue . ( So then the baron might be barren . ) Oh , blimey ! I know nothing about Danish estate law , but can someone actually do this ? There are strict rules of succession for noble titles , but property is quite another matter . It seems to me that , once the count's estate and his title are passed to his daughter , the estate ( as opposed to the title ) is solely her property , and only she can decide who will inherit it from her . Anyhow ! Pendleton proposes to Edith , clearly hoping to get his slimy mitts on her kronen . When she spurns him , Pendleton consults evil genius Gar el Hama , who slips Edith a potion which fakes the symptoms of death . . . but only for four days , mind you . When Edith slips into a death-like coma , her lover the baron is completely fooled and he has her cremated . That's the end of the movie . No , I only wish . Actually , the baron has his ' dead ' fiancée placed in her family tomb . Maybe he's been reading ' Romeo and Juliet ' . Pendleton sneaks into the tomb and abducts Edith to Constantinople , which is the obvious place to take women who have been drugged into a death-like coma . Meanwhile , Baron Sternberg discovers that his dead fiancée has gone bye-bye . It dawns on him that perhaps she isn't dead after all , so he engages the services of the brilliant detective Newton . When Edith wakes up in Constaninople ( or is it Istanbul this week ? ) , Pendleton proposes to her once again . . . and again she rejects him . Enraged , Pendleton pays Gar el Hama to kill Baron Sternberg . ( Kill the scriptwriter , too , while you're at it . ) The intrepid Newton foils the murder attempt , and he pursues Pendleton and Gar el Hama while they pick up the corpse of Edith . ( Is she alive in this reel or dead again ? I've lost count . No ; the count is dead already . ) SPOILERS NOW . Still dragging Edith along ( I guess she's dead after all ) , the two baddies hop a train , with Newton right behind them . In a desperate struggle , Newton flings Gar el Hama from the caboose , while sending Pendleton to the calaboose . The baron and Edith are reunited . As for the nefarious Doctor Gar el Hama , he evidently survives to spread his evil in another movie . Fade out . This film is laughably implausible , but no more so than most of the American cliffhanger serials . Also like those films , ' Deceived in Death ' is fast-moving , with plenty of slam-bang action and intrigue . The climactic scenes aboard the moving railway train are exciting enough to make up for the reams of illogic which precede them . The photography is excellent , and the exterior scenes are interesting in their own right . I've noticed that quite a few Danish films from this period depict the villain or ( less often ) the hero as an Englishman . Although Baron Sternberg is the nominal leading man in this movie , most of the heroics ( including the fisticuffs ) are handled by the English detective Newton . On the villainous side of the ledger , the Englishman Pendleton is nominally the head villain ( since Gar el Hama is working for him ) , yet it's clear that the oily foreigner Gar el Hama is a criminal mastermind who's capable of far greater villainy than Pendleton , who is merely a crook . My rating for this one : .
Brilliant enactment of Thurber's ' Last Flower '	' The War Between Men and Women ' was originally a suite of drawings by cartoonist / author James Thurber , depicting quite literally an all-out war between the two sexes . Thurber was an embittered misogynist ( as well as a philanderer ) , so it's no surprise that he ended his " War " with the women offering unconditional surrender to the men . During his boyhood in Ohio , Thurber's older brother bullied him into a stupid game that cost young James an eye and seriously infected his other eye . Thurber's mother , for her own stupid reasons , delayed getting her son medical treatment for his surviving eye . ( This may be one reason why he hated women . ) For the rest of his life , Thurber experienced increasing blindness in his one eye , eventually requiring an enormous magnifying lens in order to see his own cartoons as he drew them . In addition to hating women , Thurber disliked most men too : one of his favourite tricks at social functions was to goad the most popular man in the room until the man was provoked into hitting Thurber . . . thus becoming a social pariah for assaulting a blind man . The 1972 film ' The War Between Men and Women ' is an intriguing comedy-drama , an intelligent attempt to do something different . . . that ultimately fails . Part of the problem is this movie's deeply misleading title , which seems to promise sexual come-ons that never arrive . The central character ( played by Jack Lemmon ) is clearly inspired by the life and works of James Thurber , yet is significantly different from Thurber . ( For one thing , he's a much nicer guy . ) It's clear that scriptwriters Danny Arnold and Mel Shavelson have a deep love for Thurber's work . Shortly before this film , they had worked on the brilliant ( though unsuccessful ) TV series ' My World and Welcome to It ' , deeply inspired by Thurber's writings and cartoons . Shavelson had tried to dramatise Thurber's work at least as far back as ' Christabel ' , a 1959 episode of ' Goodyear Theatre ' . Peter Wilson ( Lemmon ) is a cartoonist / author who is trying not to deal with the fact that he's going blind . An operation might save his sight , or it might accelerate the deterioration of his remaining vision . He has an annoying ' meet cute ' with Terry Kozlenko ( Barbara Harris ) , a divorcée with three disaffected children . A romance develops between Peter and Terry , with Peter attempting to be a surrogate father to her kids . But their father ( Jason Robards ) isn't completely out of the picture : he's a macho journalist whose book of war photographs is a best-seller . Lemmon brilliantly depicts mounting frustration as Peter realises that he and his twee storybooks can't compete with the derring-do of Terry's first husband . A fine performance as Terry's son David is given by an extremely talented child actor with the ill-fitting name Moosie Drier . ( He doesn't in any way resemble a moose ; why this name ? ) SLIGHT SPOILER COMING . At one point , Peter attempts a father-son talk with David while they stroll along a quay : suddenly David slips and falls into the water . . . and he can't swim ! The look on Lemmon's face is astonishing , as the nearly blind Peter realises it's up to him to save the drowning boy . The best performance in this film is given by Lisa Gerritsen , a dynamically talented child actress who was also in ' My World and Welcome to It ' . ( Gerritsen , now an adult , reportedly has cut all ties to her thespian career . ) Terry's daughter Linda ( Gerritsen ) feels stigmatised by her speech impediment ; Peter feels a bond with her because of his own encroaching blindness . In this film's most lyrical scene , Peter attempts to convey the act of creativity to Linda through his picturebook story ' The Last Flower ' . This is actually an apocalyptic tale written and drawn by Thurber , brought to life here by splendid animation . In addition to despising women , James Thurber was a dog-lover . The funniest line in this movie occurs when Peter and Terry take her pregnant dog for a walk . Co-scripter Danny Arnold makes a cameo appearance as a cop , giving himself the chance to speak this line : a line that's not in James Thurber's writings , but which is so bluntly misogynist that Thurber would have howled in glee if he'd heard it . Despite this film's misleading title , the makers of ' The War Between Men and Women ' showed real guts in attempting this unusual story . Based solely on my own tastes , I'll rate it . Now , if someone would make a film version of Thurber's ' The Wonderful O ' , I could die happy .
Climbing the walls	In the very early days of film-making , when film distributors typically disrespected film producers ' copyrights ( especially those of foreign production companies ) , it often happened that one movie company would produce an unauthorised remake of another company's profitable film : they would copy the set , story , costumes and actors ' gestures as closely as possible , passing off the counterfeit as the original . I wonder if that's what happened here . I have viewed a French film with credits which identify it as " L'Ingénieuse Soubrette " ( ' The Clever Maid ' ) , copyright 1902 . IMDb have no such listing , but they do list " La Soubrette Ingénieuse " for 1903 . Normally I would brush off such minor discrepancies - - especially for a film made before 1910 - - and assume that these must be the same movie . But in this case I'm not so sure , because IMDb's synopsis ( from the Edison catalogue ) contains some details which contradict the film I've seen . In " L'Ingénieuse Soubrette " , the male servant is clearly a footman rather than a butler , as evidenced by his livery . Also , the ' short-skirted ' parlourmaid is in fact wearing a very elaborate skirt ( with panniers ! ) which descends to her ankles . Apart from these major contradictions , the Edison catalogue ( an American publication ) is accurate . . . which makes me wonder if the Edison Company are actually describing an unauthorised American remake of the original French film . . . with the European footman changed into a butler , and the maid's skirt shortened , so as to be more palatable to American audiences . The gimmick here is basically the same one used several decades later in ' Royal Wedding ' to enable Fred Astaire to dance on the ceiling . . . only Astaire performed inside a revolving drum , so that the same set could be rightside up , upside down , or anywhere in between . In this early French film , we have two duplicate sets : one of them a fairly unconvincing trompe l'oeil of a striped wall with a ( painted ) three-legged table in front of it , the other being the same set rotated 90 degrees , so that the ' wall ' is actually the floor , with a camera pointing straight down towards it . The transition from one set to the other is achieved with a jump cut , so that the acrobatic actress impersonating the parlourmaid is able to walk conventionally across a horizontal surface while seeming to walk vertically up a wall . From my modern viewpoint , the most surprising thing about this movie is that the maid actually thumbs her nose , cocking a snook at the audience . It was my understanding that , in the early twentieth century , this gesture was considered so vulgar as to border on the obscene . Perhaps I was mistaken . At any rate , the principal gimmick of this movie - - the maid's human-fly act - - is no longer as impressive as it was in . But it was highly clever for its time , so I'll rate this movie .
a Chile reception	I saw ' Hussar of the Dead ' at the 2006 Cinema Muto silent-film festival in Sacile , Italy , where it was definitely one of the high points of the excellent festival . This Chilean silent movie was at least the third film version ( and the second by actor-director-author Pedro Sienna ) depicting the life of Chilean hero Manuel Rodriguez , who fought for Chile's independence from Spain and was assassinated in 1818 . The print I viewed had some missing sequences , and new titles added to bridge the gaps . The original intertitles ( in Spanish ) appear directly on the film , superimposed ( in white ) over the actors . This device never works very well , because the portions of the letters appearing over a white image are illegible . I'm fluent in Spanish , yet I had trouble reading all the titles because of this device . At one point , a title flips over on its vertical axis to reveal a second title . I've seen this visual device ( not really a very expensive one ) in several Hollywood silents and a few British ones , but never before in any other nation's films . Pedro Sienna cast himself in the title role of this movie , but that's no vanity casting . He gives a fine performance : lithe , virile , and reasonably handsome without the supernaturally good looks of a Tyrone Power . There's also an astonishingly good performance by an amateur child actor , Guillermo Barrientos , as a boy who hero-worships Rodriguez . I know almost nothing about Chilean history , so I can't vouch for this film's accuracy . I was mildly annoyed that - - as depicted here - - Rodriguez seemingly possessed the supernatural ability always to pop up in just the right place at the right time , no matter how many guards he must get past . In this respect , he seemed more like the ( fictional ) Scarlet Pimpernel than an historical figure . But I laughed at a montage sequence - - an intentionally funny one - - in which a series of dissolves show Rodriguez in several different disguises . The misleading title ' Hussar of the Dead ' refers to the fact that Rodriguez had a price on his head and was technically a dead man walking , or rather riding . How come Hollywood hasn't made a movie about this man yet ? If ever they do , bet on them to change all the facts . I'll rate this entertaining movie , and I'd like to know just how accurate it truly is .
Very impressive editing	I viewed a print of ' Suspense ' in the National Film Archives , in London . Phillips Smalley is credited as director , but the film was probably co-directed by Lois Weber . Women film directors have always been a rarity , although Alice Guy Blache was also directing films in early silent days . Lois Weber's career is especially interesting because ( unlike Mme Guy Blache , who directed from behind the camera ) , Weber played the lead roles in her own films , directing herself . ' Suspense ' reminds me of a couple of early DW Griffith films in which a young woman ( or a pair of young women ) , alone in an isolated location , is in jeopardy . We have a similar situation here . Lois Weber plays a young wife in an isolated house . She and her infant are unexpectedly left alone by her husband when the maid has abruptly given notice , leaving her latchkey under the doormat . A passing tramp discovers the situation and tries to break in . When the woman rings her husband ( are there no police ? ) , the distress call is terminated when the tramp cuts the ' phone line . The husband , rushing home to rescue his wife and child ( are there no police ? ) , steals a motorcar . NOW there are police , as a cop nabs the husband for grand theft auto . Rather than explaining that his wife is in danger , he gives the cop the slip . SPOILERS NOW . The tramp , meantime , has found the maid's latchkey and he lets himself into the house . Just when things look grimmest for Wifey and her child , the cops arrive . . . not to nick the tramp , but because they've been pursuing the husband all the way here . Only when the tramp is safely nabbed does the husband finally explain himself . I was eager to view ' Suspense ' partly because I'm very interested in Lois Weber's career - - she proves herself a decent actress ( by silent standards ) and a fine director ( ditto ) - - but my primary interest in this film is because I was told that the tramp in this film was played by an actor who might be Lon Chaney . After viewing ' Suspense ' , I determined that the villainous tramp in this brief film is definitely NOT the Man of a Thousand Faces . However , there is a brief appearance by another tramp during the chase sequence : this actor wears realistic beard growth and an application of grime , and does indeed appear to be Chaney . ' Suspense ' is well-acted , quite well-directed and brilliantly edited , with some impressive cross-cutting and even a triptych split-screen effect . It's a shame that the plot line is so contrived , but despite some plausibility issues ' Suspense ' is most definitely suspenseful . I'll rate this movie 8 in 10 , and I wish that Lois Weber were better known .
Spring-time for Roscoe	" Close Relations " is one of the six short comedies which comprise Roscoe Arbuckle's entire talking-film career . He's ably assisted in this film by Shemp Howard , the once and future Stooge , riding on a pogo stick . The plot involves a rivalry between two branches of Arbuckle's family . Arbuckle's clan are named the Warts and the rival clan are named the Moles . Charles Judels , as Arbuckle's uncle , does a tasteless monologue in which he describes how to tell the difference between a Wart and a Mole . Even after his long exile from the screen , Arbuckle's agility is amazing . In this film , he does a very funny pratfall routine with a concertina attached to his body . Very good use of sound effects here . This film has a running gag featuring the punchline " Nuts ! " which will probably baffle modern viewers . In the 1930s , the slang word " nuts ! " was considered mildly obscene , and so it was a sure laugh-getter . ( The Hays Office production code specifically banned the word " nuts ! " from film scripts , unless it clearly referred to insanity . ) Several films of the early ' 30s came up with contrived ways to get the word " nuts " past the censors : " Close Relations " is one such film ; " Broadway Through a Keyhole " was another . " Close Relations " is hilarious , except for that Wart-versus-Mole routine . The ending is unexpected , and quite funny . I'll rate this short .
Magyar self at home	' Danube Rendezvous ' is froth , notably only because it offers some interesting views of Budapest circa 1936 , and because it shows that Hungarians were able to indulge in such frivolity at a time when events in Germany and Austria were getting very serious indeed . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . Zita Perczel ( an attractive blonde actress ) plays Erzsi , the daughter of pompous businessman Sandor . She wants to marry Istvan Bodo , a handsome young novelist . Just now , this particular novelist is struggling ( aren't they all ? ) , but the pengoes are sure to come rolling in just as soon as Istvan publishes his latest novel . ( Oh , so that's how it works . ) Sandor , showing what his priorities are , makes it plain that he consents to his daughter's marriage to this bum ( I mean this novelist ) only providing that Istvan's novel is a success . Actor Gyula Csortos - - who reminds me of Edward Arnold - - gives a good performance as Erzsi's father : he makes it quite clear that he's giving his conditional consent only because he's confident that the novel will never sell . But then the book gets published , to favourable reviews , and suddenly Sandor must scramble to sabotage the novel's success so as to block the marriage . Why doesn't he just withdraw his consent ? Come to that , if Istvan becomes financially successful , why does Erzsi even need her father's consent ? There's a funny performance by Gyula Kabos as Szalai , the publisher's publicity agent . He runs an advert in the Budapest papers , purporting to be a personal ad from a ( nonexistent ) wealthy young man seeking matrimony if he can find just the right young woman : a woman like the heroine in Istvan Bodo's novel . Naturally , this causes a run on book sales , as mercenary women hope to read the novel so as to pattern themselves after its heroine . There's a ' surprise ' ending that's really no surprise at all . Thanks to Szalai , Istvan's novel sells so well that Istvan is now a wealthy young man seeking matrimony : just like the guy in the ad . And - - surprise , surprise - - he based his novel's heroine on Erzsi . So , the young man in the advertisement ( guess who ) does indeed marry a woman just like the one in the novel ( guess who ) . I could see this coming from the other side of the Danube . As I say , this is froth , and it certainly has its charms without expanding the sum total of cinema craft . Good performances all round , and some impressive direction and exteriors . ' Danube Rendezvous ' achieves what it sets out to do : entertain audiences , and nothing more . I'll rate this movie .
A brief history of Hawking	' Hawking ' , which I saw recently on BBC2 , is a fictionalised telefilm biography of physicist Stephen Hawking . . . known to Homer Simpson as ' that wheelchair guy ' . ( Hawking is also the only person ever to make a guest appearance as himself in an episode of ' Star Trek : The Next Generation ' . ) Some modern-day public figures are so well-known - - in vocal patterns and physical appearance - - that any actor's attempt to portray them on screen must be to some extent a physical impersonation . A depiction of Hawking presents unusual opportunities and challenges . Firstly , audiences have no idea what Hawking's speaking voice sounded like , as he did not become a public figure until the progressive degenerative disease which afflicts him ( amyotrophic lateral sclerosis , or ALS ) had worsened to the point that he now ' speaks ' with the aid of an electronically-generated voice that makes him sound like a Dalek . In the early scenes of ' Hawking ' , before Hawking acquires ALS , actor Benedict Cumberbatch ( great name ! ) speaks in a cultured voice that is certainly appropriate to the character he plays on screen , if not the actual Hawking . More problematic is the physical portrayal , as we're aware that an ' able ' actor is portraying a disabled person : if Cumberbatch's rendition of Hawking's symptoms is accurate , inevitably some audience members will accuse him of overacting . This is a no-win situation , which would have daunted any non-disabled actor in such a role . Cumberbatch is appealing and charismatic ( more so than the real Hawking ) in the early sequences , leading up to when Hawking first experiences tremors at age 21 . There's an awkward scene in a jazz club , that could have degenerated into self-parody . We see Hawking , physically challenged but not yet incapacitated , watching enviously while others dance . Awkwardly , he rises and attempts to join in . ( By all accounts , Hawking was socially uncoordinated long before he was physically so . ) Cumberbatch gives as much dignity as possible to a portrayal which we recognise as that of a graceful actor depicting a man who has both social and neurological disabilities . The portrayals of some of the other real-life figures are not very well-thought . I knew Sir Fred Hoyle , and the actor who portrays him here is neither especially accurate nor especially credible in his portrayal . . . except for the scene re-enacting the famous incident when Hawking denounced Hoyle's latest theory in the auditorium of the Royal Society . Roger Penrose , the developer of tile theory , is played here as an absent-minded boffin who witters away at the public bar without remembering that he'd meant to order a pint . The most ludicrous scene ( a fictitious incident ? ) occurs when Hawking is in a railway compartment with a woman who can talk the hind leg off a donkey , prompting Hawking to suddenly imagine Time reversing itself . This scene appears to be inspired by a sequence in ' A Beautiful Mind ' , but that film depicted scientific inspiration much more cleverly than is done here . Cumberbatch is quite good in the early scenes , yet he gets even better in the later scenes as Hawking's ALS takes its toll on his body . Inevitably , Cumberbatch's role gravitates into Lon Chaney territory , yet his portrayal is so deft that it never quite tips over into histrionics . The period detail and production design are impeccable throughout . SLIGHT SPOILER NOW . There is an awkward framing device , reminiscent of several Tom Stoppard plays or Michael Frayn's ' Copenhagen ' , yet less effective than either . We see two Nobel laureates giving a TV interview , discussing a noise they've discovered , which turns out to be the background microwave radiation that fills the universe . . . the leftover sound of the Big Bang . ( Fred Hoyle invented that term , but intended it derisively : he rejected the Big Bang theory which is now widely accepted . ) I'll rate ' Hawking ' , as a flawed but excellent attempt to depict a difficult biographical subject who is involved in a field that audiences don't readily comprehend . ALS , the disease that crippled Stephen Hawking , is known in America as Lou Gehrig's disease , in honour ( ? ) of the baseball player whose brilliant career and promising life were ended by it . Lou Gehrig's story was told brilliantly in ' Pride of the Yankees ' , but that great film remained very shadowy and nebulous about the terrible disease at the centre of its story . ' Hawking ' does not pull such punches , and I recommend this excellent bio-pic .
Uncle Fester's father and some perforated cheese .	' The Hayseed ' is one of Roscoe Arbuckle's comedy shorts , with strong emphasis on slapstick and ' impossible ' gags . As usual at this point in his career , he's ably abetted by the great Buster Keaton . Also on hand is John Coogan , father ( and manager ) of future silent-film star Jackie Coogan . The elder Coogan made a few film appearances before sitting back and living off his son's earnings . SPOILERS COMING . Keaton is lumbered with a more awkward character than usual here . Midway through the proceedings , he discovers that the village constable ( Coogan ) has stolen a postal order worth $300 . When he confronts the thief , Coogan proceeds to beat the stuffing out of Keaton in a manner that's not quite realistic but rather too brutal to qualify as conventional slapstick . I can't call this a fight sequence , as Coogan is dishing out all the punishment , and Buster receives all the blows . After this startling encounter , Buster carries on going about his business as if nothing has happened . . . only to get justice against Coogan later . Arbuckle is sweet on a local girl ( Molly Malone ) who seems to conform to the standard stereotype of the rural ingenue . . . until she knocks Arbuckle down and causes him to pratfall into a washtub full of water . Molly is genuinely gleeful at Arbuckle's discomfort . In most of Arbuckle's Keystone and Comique films , he was assisted on-screen by his nephew Al St John , a skilled acrobat . When St John was briefly elsewhere , Arbuckle replaced him with John Coogan , a vaudeville performer whose speciality was eccentric dancing . Coogan does a few dance steps here , and they're enjoyable to watch but they don't fit the character which Coogan is portraying in his movie : a larcenous constable . Coogan also represents a great missed opportunity for Arbuckle and Keaton . A widower at the time ( he later remarried ) , Coogan brought his young son Jackie to the set with him every day . Arbuckle and Keaton were impressed by little Jackie's talents as a singer , dancer and mimic , but never thought of putting this talented boy into one of their films . Ironically , when rival comedian Charlie Chaplin read in the trade papers that Arbuckle had hired Jack Coogan , Chaplin interpreted this as a reference to the son rather than the father . . . and it was this misinterpretation which inspired Chaplin to build a starring vehicle ( ' The Kid ' ) around young Jackie . Without even realising it , Arbuckle and Keaton gave Chaplin one of his greatest inspirations . I've seen an original nitrate print of ' The Hayseed ' with its original ( English-language ) intertitles , and I've also viewed a print with French titles . At one point in the original film , a customer rings up Arbuckle and requests some Swiss cheese . The only cheese he has on offer is ( apparently ) Muenster , so he takes out a brace-and-bit and proceeds to drill some holes in it . In the French print I viewed , the customer asks for ' Gruyere ' . . . which kills the joke . Quelle fromage ! Many of the gags in ' The Hayseed ' were written by Jean Havez , a talented idea man who was even larger and fatter than Roscoe Arbuckle . Havez eventually followed Keaton to his own production company , at which it was mandatory that all male actors and crew participate in Buster's beloved baseball games . Because of Havez's bulk , he was the umpire . I'll rate the very funny ' Hayseed ' .
He's beside himself	This very clever time-paradox film is the first movie I've ever seen which contains a flashback shot that's also a flash-forward . If you find that confusing , then this movie's not for you . On the other hand , if you enjoy having your brain stretched by temporal causality paradox and Schrodinger's quantum superpositions , I heartily recommend " Los Cronocrimenes " . In the central role - - all three of them - - Karra Elejalde is excellent . However , I was distressed by his physical appearance : he has at least six prominent raised moles on his face and neck . Throughout this film , except for the sequences in which his face is bandaged , no matter how Elejalde turns his head , at least one mole is rampant . Director / screenwriter / co-star Nacho Vigalondo expertly quotes several other films here , without plagiarising them . SLIGHT SPOILER : In the film ' Time After Time ' , a time-traveller tries to unhappen a murder that's already happened , only to learn that it never happened : the real murder victim was someone else . In ' Los Cronocrimenes ' we get a variation on this theme , spiced with quantum uncertainty . If you see a corpse lying face-downward , wearing your wife's coat and your wife's haircut , you can't unhappen it . . . but the corpse's identity remains in superposition until you verify it . I was annoyed that Elejalde's protagonist Hector decided to unhappen his wife's death by setting up another woman ( who didn't deserve to die ) to fall in her place . Is this quantum identicality ? ' Los Cronocrimenes ' is a flawed but brilliant film , far more intelligent than the usual sci-fi fare . I eagerly await more work from Nacho Vigalondo . And I wouldn't mind seeing more performances by either of the talented and attractive actresses in this movie . My rating for this one : .
Informative and fun documentary .	' It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World ' is one of my all-time favourite comedies , one of the very few movies I've watched repeatedly . ( One reason I've managed to see so many movies is because I very seldom allocate the time to watch any movie I've already seen . " Mad World ' is one of the few exceptions that I'll watch over and over . ) Roundabout the sixth or seventh time I watched ' Mad World ' , I twigged that there isn't a single punchline in this very funny comedy : all of the humour comes from physical action and the characters ' reactions . The most hilarious scene is the one in which Jonathan Winters wrecks Arnold Stang's and Marvin Kaplan's service garage . As brilliant as ' Mad World ' is , it's a very unwieldy film . It would have worked better with fewer comedians making cameo appearances , since many of the ones who get a look-in are given nothing to do . The idea of casting the Three Stooges as firemen is downright hilarious , but in the film they merely make a brief appearance in firemen's gear : they never get to wreak any havoc . Many other comedians in this film are likewise wasted . If ' Mad World ' were remade today , the story would never work : most of the characters would have cell phones , and they would behave differently . I've read the script of ' It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World ' : it contains many scenes that were never shot at all . Spencer Tracy absolutely refused to work after five p . m . ( the time of day when he started drinking ) , and thus many of his scenes were never filmed . Among the unfilmed is a brief dialogue scene between Tracy and Sid Caesar . More interesting ( but also unfilmed ) is a touching dialogue sequence between Caesar and Edie Adams aboard Ben Blue's aeroplane , when they think they're going to win the race and get all the money . Adams reminisces about her early days in a demeaning hotel job in Saint Joseph , Missouri , when her co-workers humiliated her : now she plans to return to that hotel as a wealthy guest , and humiliate her former co-workers . ( Screenwriter William Rose was from St Joseph , Missouri : I wonder if this scene was autobiographical . ) Maddeningly , many sequences that were shot for ' Mad World ' were deleted . I especially regret the loss of a poignant telephone scene between Tracy and Buster Keaton as a reformed crook who owns a motorboat that can take Tracy to Mexico . When Tracy goes to the drugstore to eat an ice cream sundae , it's actually a pretext for him to use a coin phone to ring up Keaton . This is the scene that would have informed audiences of Tracy's plan to steal the money . As the movie now stands , Keaton's relationship to Tracy remains unclear , and it's also unclear precisely when Tracy's character turns crooked . For years , I'd hoped to rediscover the excised Buster Keaton footage : I now sadly believe that it no longer exists . When ' Mad World ' was re-released on video in 1991 , there was some publicity about ' restored footage ' . The only restored footage is during the service garage sequence - - we see highway patrolmen cowering behind their cars while Winters wrecks the garage - - and this added footage makes the movie less funny , not more so . ' Something a Little Less Serious ' is an informal documentary that was added to the ' 91 video . Director Stanley Kramer and some of the participants in ' Mad World ' have reunited for an informal lunch , in which they share some memories of the movie . Kramer had a reputation for earnest movies about racism and Nazi war crimes , so ' It's a Mad World ' was his attempt to create something a little less serious . I learnt a few interesting facts here . Arnold Stang broke his left wrist shortly before production began - - Stang is left-handed - - but he chose to conceal the injury so that he wouldn't be replaced . In the shot when Stang and Kaplan pick up a truck axle and use it as a battering ram , Stang is holding the axle with only his right hand . We also learn that Winters was mentally unstable throughout the shoot , channelling weird personalities . . . such as the Tuesday Bear , who only comes out on the Tuesdays . At the climax of the film , Winters and Dick Shawn are in the money pit together , respectively wielding a pickaxe and a shovel . This documentary reveals that Shawn was unwilling to stand in a pit alongside Winters while Winters was brandishing a pickaxe , due to Winters's erratic behaviour . I wish that Sid Caesar had shared here a memory which he previously divulged in a magazine interview , concerning his scenes in ' Mad World ' with Edie Adams , who played his wife . In real life , Adams's husband Ernie Kovacs had recently died in a road accident ; she was despondent , but had to keep working in order to pay off Kovacs's debts . It fell to Caesar to keep her spirits upbeat during the production of this movie . ( Sid Caesar's role in this film had originally been written for Kovacs ; Caesar got the role only due to Kovacs's death . ) This documentary also includes clips from ' Mad World ' , but they seem to be chosen at random and don't illustrate what the ' talking heads ' are saying . I'll rate this documentary , for giving me an opportunity to revisit one of my favourite comedies from a fresh angle .
Excellent voice work by Bletcher and Blanc .	" Daffy's Southern Exposure " is one of the funnier Daffy Duck toons from his black and white period . There are two errors in the IMDb description of this cartoon : the animal who tries to cook and eat Daffy here is a wolf , not a fox . . . and the voice of the wolf is supplied not by Mel Blanc but by ( uncredited ) Billy Bletcher , who also did the voice for Disney's Big Bad Wolf a few years earlier . Daffy has made the seemingly sensible decision not to fly south for the winter , because later he'll just have to fly north again , and so forth . But . . . " You'll be sorry ! " gloat a Greek chorus of ducks , just before their seasonal migration . Next thing we know , Daffy's caught in a blizzard right up to his gizzard . " Daffy's Southern Exposure " was released in 1942 , when a substantial portion of the audience still remembered silent movies . I was intrigued that the plot of this cartoon is advanced via the device of a silent-film intertitle ; it works gracefully enough here ( and includes a nice gag ) , but might have been jarring if used only a few years later , when the Warner toons were being made in colour . Seeking shelter and sustenance , Daffy ends up in a cabin inhabited by a locquacious wolf with an unlimited supply of beans but no meat . The wolf is partnered by a weasel who doesn't talk . For some reason , there seems to be a long cartoon tradition of teaming a speaking character with a partner who's either mute or only speaks incoherently . This is true not only at Warners ( with Sniffles the mouse and his speechless worm companion ) but at other studios as well . The wolf and the weasel in " Daffy's Southern Exposure " show real potential as characters who could have returned in later Warners toons , but their potential is undercut by the fact that the weasel remains silent . ( This tradition of a ' silent partner ' does not apply to Harpo Marx , who is never silent because - - although remaining mute - - he always makes as much noise as possible . ) It's a shame that Billy Bletcher receives no screen credit for his voice-work here , as his performance is excellent . The wolf dons a Granny disguise , requiring Bletcher to speak in falsetto . While the wolf is en femme , Bletcher performs a rapid patter song with a complicated lyric , singing it entirely in falsetto . He's excellent ! What a pity that so few people are familiar with this comedian's name and work . Mel Blanc does fine voice work here , too : wait'll you hear how he applies Daffy's speech impediment to the word " sustenance " . The slapstick in " Daffy's Southern Exposure " is well up to the usual Warners standard , with less violence than usual for a carnivorous plot line . I'll rate this one .
Reminds me of Ingmar Bergman .	' Amelia and Michael ' is a short film that gets in , tells its story with a punch , then gets out again with minimal frippery . The opening shot is a tight close-up of Amelia's eye as she applies her mascara ; actress Natasha Powell apparently did this while looking directly into the camera , without the aid of a mirror to guide her mascara wand . Amelia and Michael are a young attractive London couple ; Michael is evidently some sort of high-powered executive , about to depart on a business trip to Milan . We ultimately learn very little about this couple and their marriage ; the film's 10-minute running time doesn't enable much development . While Michael is away in Milan , Amelia visits a young man in hospital who appears to be in a coma . Actress Powell expertly conveys Amerlia's devotion to this man , yet we learn nothing at all about their connexion . Is he related to her in some fashion ? Is he perhaps a former lover ? Or is he merely a friend ? I wanted to know more about this undeveloped subplot , and I wish that the film could have devoted more running time to this . SPOILERS COMING . It develops that Michael's business trip to ' Milan ' is actually an overnight tryst ( much closer to home ) with another woman . Again , we learn nothing about her : is she a prostitute , or are she and Michael having an ongoing affair ? Amelia is a very attractive blonde who apparently loves her husband deeply , so I was curious about Michael's reason for cheating on her . ( And the film never explains this . ) After Michael returns home , Amelia checks his passport and discovers that there's no visa for the visit to Milan . ( She made a point of checking , which implies some suspicion on Amelia's part . ) Actor Anthony Head portrays Michael as a man of intelligence , so I wonder why Michael would spin a porky that his wife could rumble so easily . The climax of this brief film is powerful . . . but less powerful than it might have been , due to an unfortunate editing decision . I've seen several films by director Daniel Cormack ; in general , he shows a strong instinct for putting his camera in exactly the right place . Here , though , his instinct fails him . As Amelia charges down a corridor towards the final confrontation , Cormack repeatedly intercuts between close-ups of Amelia rushing towards the camera ( which recedes ahead of her in a travelling shot ) and close-ups of the back of a blonde woman's head as she rushes AWAY from the camera . I couldn't tell if this woman was meant to be Amelia seen from the rear , or whether this was another woman entirely ( possibly one of Michael's totties ) trying to flee from Amelia . In the event , it turned out that both intercuts were Amelia . I can't see any reason at all for shooting this sequence from both in front of and behind the same actress ; this gimmick added nothing to the film , and it created confusion that weakened the film's climax for me . Apart from that one odd decision , ' Amelia and Michael ' is extremely well made by all parties concerned ; the cast are excellent , the authentic locations are note-perfect throughout , and the background music by Nick Loe is effective without ever being intrusive . Portions of ' Amelia and Michael ' reminded me of various films by Ingmar Bergman , and I make the comparison as a compliment . My rating for this film : , and I look forward to more films by director Dan Cormack .
Be a crook and meet hot chicks ( and bad Czechs )	I screened the Czech movie ' Bony a Klid ' specifically because I wanted to develop some familiarity with the Czech language , but this turns out to be an enjoyable film in its own right , with several action sequences that don't rely on dialogue . The title ' Bony a Klid ' is an intentional pun on ' Bonnie and Clyde ' , as this movie depicts attractive young criminals who are meant to be latter-day Czech versions of Bonnie and Clyde . ( By the way , I wish that more people knew the facts about Bonnie and Clyde , instead of the Faye Dunaway mystique . The real Bonnie and Clyde were Depression-era punks who didn't have the guts to hold up banks , so they robbed small businesses ( such as groceries and gas stations ) that were just barely getting by . At one point , Bonnie and Clyde couldn't even steal a car , so they made their getaway on stolen mules . Over their entire career , Bonnie and Clyde stole less money than Jesse James hauled from one bank robbery six decades earlier , without adjusting for inflation . End of digression . ) According to a Czech speaker who viewed this movie with me and translated some of the dialogue , the title ' Bony a Klid ' translates as ' Boons and Rest ' . The criminals in this movie want to accumulate enough ' boons ' ( see below ) and stolen goods so that they can take it easy ( the ' rest ' ) . Martin is an innocent lad from small-town Mlada Boleslav who comes to big-city Prague , hoping to exchange his krona for deutschemarks so that he can visit Germany . A local spiv named Robert obliges Martin , but at an unfair exchange rate . When Martin finds out he was rooked , he plans revenge on Robert . . . but then decides to join Robert's gang instead . From this point , most of the rest of the film recounts the gang's activities in various black-market schemes and wide-boy scams . The gang buy , sell and steal foreign goods at dishonest exchange rates , and they also deal in ' boons ' : these are tariff coupons permitting the purchase of rationed foreign goods . The caper scenes are shot and edited to make the gang look a bunch of sexy young outlaws and bouncing Czechs . SPOILER COMING NOW : After the young crooks have lots of illegal fun , all ends tragically . I have very mixed feelings about this film . I get the impression that it's a fairly accurate depiction of black-market activity in Prague in the 1980s ; a point in this film's favour , even though the world which it depicts is an unpleasant one . I also recognise that young people in Prague in the 1980s didn't have the economic options of young Americans or Brits from the same period , and so their descent into crime is arguably justifiable . Still , I dislike the fact that this is one more movie that glorifies criminal activity , and which puts a veneer of glamour on the crimes by making the criminals young and good-looking . The ending seems morally forced , as if someone decided that we must accept a ' crime does not pay ' finale to atone for sympathising with the crooks . The lead actors give excellent performances . In the central role as Martin , Jan Potmeshil makes a convincing transition from gormless hick to cunning thief . Veronika Jenikova is attractive , and shows real presence . The directing and editing are above average , bringing taut pacing to the caper sequences . And I'm extremely impressed by the Anglo-Czech pun in the film's title . Despite my ethical misgivings , I'll rate this movie .
In this silent movie , it's moot if he's mute .	I saw this remarkable melodrama in October 2007 at the Cinema Muto festival in Pordenone , Italy ; they screened a print restored by Eastman House with the assistance of the Library of Congress . The 35mm print ( struck from a 28mm diacetate ) replicated the original Desmet colour tinting . Character actor Robert Warwick had a very long film and television career ; although he was an American , he was often cast as an upper-class Englishman because of his precise diction and modulated voice ( from his early training on the stage ) . I'm not aware that he ever sang on screen ; in ' The Stolen Voice ' he plays an opera singer . . . but , as this is a silent movie , we'll have to take it on faith that his singing voice is brilliant . The American adventuress Belle Borden , who is no better than she should be , is engaged to the Svengali-like Doctor Von Gahl . Gerald D'Orville ( Warwick ) is an opera star with many female fans . When Belle seduces D'Orville , Von Gahl decides to take revenge . . . on D'Orville , not on Belle . A bit of hypnotic hocus-pocus by Von Gahl , and . . . hey presto ! D'Orville is rendered mute ! The film's ending is unexpected , but quite satisfactory . Unfortunately , there are some bumps in the road before we get there . When D'Orville loses his voice , his singing career is over ( fair enough ) but this has the rather comical result of reducing him to ragged pauperdom , as if there's no other job that a healthy ( though mute ) man can obtain . And D'Orville is somehow able to journey to Europe in search of a cure , after he's been established as rendered penniless . D'Orville's friend Dick , depicted as a hopeless drunkard in the early scenes , has somehow sobered up enough to become a wealthy entrepreneur . ( What's he been drinking ? ) Already a veteran stage actor at this early date , Warwick gives a remarkable performance . Since all the actors are effectively mute in this silent movie , Warwick has a bit of difficulty establishing that his character has been stricken genuinely voiceless in a film where everyone is voiceless anyway . . . yet Warwick pulls this off , with little effort . And he skilfully conveys , in the earlier sequences , that he's an opera singer in fine ( unheard ) voice . Despite a plot that makes ' Trilby ' seem post-modern , I'll rate this movie .
Crude but funny .	In 1907 , the San Francisco Chronicle's cartoonist Bud Fisher began a comic strip called " Mr A . Mutt " , depicting the adventures of Augustus Mutt , a hapless punter and railbird . The tall lanky Mutt soon found visual contrast in Jeffries , a runty little wiseguy named for a recent heavyweight boxing champ . Soon retitled " Mutt and Jeff " , the comic strip became phenomenally successful , to the point where Bud Fisher owned 50 thoroughbred racehorses and employed a stableful of anonymous ' assistants ' to write and draw his strip . Hugely popular for decades , the strip is now entirely forgotten except as a piece of American police jargon : when describing two suspects who travel together - - one tall , one short - - the police will refer to them as ' a Mutt and Jeff ' . ' Home Sweet Home ' is one of the dozens of Mutt and Jeff cartoons released under Bud Fisher's name , though it's impossible to know how much of the actual drawing and scripting he did . Still , this cartoon captures the look and humour of his classic strip , and therefore it's quite funny . SPOILERS COMING . Mutt's wife is going out for the evening . Mutt wants to sneak out for a night of carousing with Jeff , but Mrs Mutt orders her husband to get to bed early . Jeff stands lookout , and gives Mutt the high sign : as soon as his wife has gone , Mutt shinnies down the drainpipe . Whoops ! The wife forgot something ! Mutt must shinny up the drainpipe again , and he gets back into bed just in time . Finally , she's gone . Mutt and Jeff scurry into the Dutchman's saloon . ( This cartoon was released during Prohibition ; I assume that it was already in production before the Volstead Act took effect . ) Mutt and Jeff go staggering homeward at 3 a . m . , thoroughly drunk . But by now the wife must be waiting . Mutt urges Jeff to go upstairs ahead of him , telling Jeff ' My wife thinks the world of you . ' When Jeff goes upstairs , Mrs Mutt coshes him with a rolling pin . Jeff goes downstairs and tells Mutt the coast is clear . ( This is a running theme in Fisher's strip : the perennial willingness of these buddies to betray each other . ) Mutt goes upstairs , all unsuspecting , and gets thoroughly lambasted by his wife . Tossed out , he dejectedly tells Jeff ' My wife hates me ! ' Jeff shows Mutt the lump on his own noggin , and replies ' She thinks the world of me ! ' The animation in this toon is extremely crude , even by 1920 standards . . . yet it's streets ahead of the even cruder animation technique employed by Rube Goldberg in ' The Boob Weekly ' only 4 years earlier . Whereas Goldberg had to re-draw each scene in its entirety for every frame of animation , in ' Home Sweet Home ' Fisher is able to employ acetate cels , so that the background remains constant during action in the foreground . Several times during this brief toon , Mutt shinnies up or down the very long drainpipe connecting his upstairs flat's window to street level . The camera does long vertical pans up and down the side of Mutt's apartment building . I kept looking for joins or seams in this background , but I found none : apparently Fisher placed his animated figures against a single long vertical background . Well done ! But the animation overall is extremely jerky , with each position of the figures occupying several consecutive frames . The dialogue is expressed comic-book style , in hand-lettered balloons above the characters ' heads . This is appropriate to the overall look of the toon , but Fisher employs some very strange line breaks and punctuation in his speech balloons . When Mrs Mutt beats up her husband , the action is cleverly staged off-screen , with only sound-effects balloons to tell us what's happening : this is easier to animate and also funnier than if we saw the action directly . All in all , I'll rate this very amusing cartoon .
Shattering supernatural allegory	' Der Geheimnisvolle Spiegel ' would translate as ' The Mysterious Mirror ' . This is an eerie and moody supernatural fable that deserves to be better known , although the storyline is more episodic than it ought to be . SPOILERS COMING . An old castle in Bavaria contains a magical mirror . Whoever looks into it by the light of the full moon will see his or her future reflected in the looking-glass . Over the course of the film , several people take advantage of this . ( The castle is uninhabited , yet it's maintained in good nick and nobody seems to have any trouble getting into the place . ) In each case , the mirror shows its observer a vision of the future which seems to have a very clear-cut and unambiguous meaning . In every case , the future vision turns out to be extremely misleading yet entirely accurate . None of the visitors got what they originally wanted . This story has the flavour of all those ' deal with the devil ' stories , in which the Faust character gets exactly what he wished for , yet invariably regrets it . The last visitor to the castle shatters the mirror before leaping to his death . After he's gone , we see the pieces of the shattered glass reassembling , so that the mirror remains whole . The message seems to be that we can't escape our fate . I found this movie very shudder-worthy , and I rate it .
This is the Poe-est movie . . .	' The Avenging Conscience ' isn't the weirdest movie on DW Griffith's CV , but it's well up there . This is a drama of modern 1914 , but it's firmly influenced by several stories of Edgar Allan Poe , who is referenced ( by name and daguerreotype image ) in the film . Henry Walthall plays a young man whose mother died giving birth to him , and who apparently has no father , so he's been raised since birth by his uncle ( Spottiswoode Aitken , excellent performance ) . We see Aitken doting on the nephew as a child , then turning harsher ( in convincing old-age makeup ) as he tells his grown nephew to help him in his business affairs . Aitken's character wears an eyepatch over his left eye ; this seemed entirely pointless , until Walthall as the nephew starts reading Poe's ' The Tell-Tale Heart ' . In that story , you will recall , the young narrator lives with an older man who has a defective eye . . . and eventually murders him . Walthall is in love with the girl semi-next door over , well-played by Blanche Sweet . We're never told her character's real name ( nor anybody else's in this movie ) , but we learn that Walthall makes a point of crying her Annabel . This is clearly from Poe's tragic poem ' Annabel Lee ' , but that makes little sense . ' Annabel Lee ' ( inspired by Poe's real-life marriage to his much younger cousin , who died in her teens ) is about a child-like woman who dies far too soon . Why would any Poe devotee give this monicker to a more mature woman such as Sweet's character , unless he's hoping she'll die ? SPOILERS COMING . Eventually , Walthall quarrels with Aitken , and kills him . . . then bricks up the body in the chimney with laughable ease . From this point , the story becomes steadily less logical . For instance , Aitken's disappearance remains unsolved ( Walthall claims he's left town ) , yet Walthall has no difficulty inheriting his absent uncle's estate , without a death certificate . And a detective ( the under-rated Ralph Lewis ) shows Columbo-like powers , somehow intuiting every detail of the crime . . . even to noticing the brickwork in Walthall's inglenook . Walthall's house conveniently has a trapdoor escape hatch , but Lewis has just as conveniently rumbled it and nailed it shut . Then Aitken comes back as a one-eyed ghost to haunt Walthall , only it's clear that he's a manifestation of Walthall's guilty conscience rather than a genuine supernatural spook . There's an attempt to evoke the mood of ' The Tell-Tale Heart ' . . . in which the nervous murderer , feeling his own heart pounding in his chest , mistakes it for the still-beating heart of his victim . But this is a silent film , so - - instead of the sound of a heartbeat - - we see detective Lewis repeatedly tapping on the tabletop . Unfortunately , the rhythm of his taps doesn't match the steady iambic pulse of a heartbeat . More positively , there's a stand-out performance by George Siegmann as an Italian prole . Siegmann expertly emotes his prole role with just the right amount of Neapolitan gesticulation to make himself convincingly Italian , without indulging in ' mama-mia ' exaggerations . Along the way to the ending , we see the ghouls mentioned in Poe's poem ' The Bells ' ( which had earlier inspired another guilt-stricken mellerdrammer : a stage play by Leopold Lewis , staged by Sir Henry Irving ) . We also see the pagan god Pan ( who has little or nothing to do with Poe ) accompanied by some ridiculous nappied acolytes . BIG SPOILER NOW : Oh , it turns out that the whole pesky murder ( and everything that came after it ) was just a dream , so Walthall is reconciled with the unmurdered Aitken , who accepts Sweet . The set dressing in Sweet's bedroom vaguely resembles a human face , but I think that's unintentional . A weird movie but definitely an interesting one , and its basic implausibility makes this story work better as a silent . My rating : just this once , but . . . nevermore !
Learning the ropes ; or , Good to the last drop .	Albert Pierrepoint was the most prolific hangman in British history , executing German war criminals at Bergen-Belsen as well as hundreds of convicted prisoners in England . He was NOT the last hangman to carry out an execution in Britain , but he was the last to hold the official title of Chief Hangman . I attended a screening of ' Pierrepoint ' expecting this to be a straightforward documentary of his life and career . It turned out to be a dramatisation ; fair enough , except that some fictional events are inserted . . . and some crucial facts are omitted . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . I've no idea what the real Albert Pierrepoint looked like , but Timothy Spall is physically perfect in the role : he looks a cross between Robert Morley and the pre-Selznick Alfred Hitchcock . Also impeccable in the role of his ever-patient wife Anne is Juliet Stevenson . Her speech patterns , demeanour , hairstyle , make-up and jewellery are all note-perfect in her transition from 1930s working-class shop-lady to 1950s middle-class publican's wife . One major subplot , sadly , has ' fiction ' written all over it . Pierrepoint has a good friend whom he conveniently ( but implausibly ) knows only by the nickname ' Tish ' . And Tish is involved in a love affair that goes pear-shaped . ( Claire Keelan as the girlfriend is sexy and compelling , wearing black kidskin gloves that she can't possibly have acquired in wartime London unless she's dating a spiv on the side . ) It's bang obvious that Pierrepoint will be told the name of his latest ' client ' - - a name that means nothing to him - - and will walk into the death cell to discover that the condemned man is his best mate Tish . In an early scene , Pierrepoint drapes a white handkerchief over Tish's head : I knew instantly that this was meant to foreshadow the white hood which the hangman places over the face of the condemned prisoner . Eddie Marsan gives a virtuoso performance as the doomed friend , although I was disconcerted by his strong facial resemblance to El Brendel , an American dialect comedian of the 1930s . As good as his performance is , Marsan goes through every scene with a red neon sign over his head , flashing the words ' FICTIONAL CHARACTER ' . ( UPDATE : I've consulted a penologist who assures me that ' Tish ' actually existed , but that most of his activities in this movie are indeed fabrications . ) Spall has several excellent set pieces in which he expresses what purport to be Pierrepoint's feelings towards the men and women whom he hangs . ( Are these Pierrepoint's actual opinions , or the screenwriter's inventions ? We're never told . ) He treats the prisoners roughly enough , but insists that their corpses receive ' gentle dignity ' . Told that some of the prisoners whom he hangs may actually be innocent , he replies that they're ALL innocent . . . after they've been hanged , and therefore they've settled the accounts for their crimes . He is truly a full-mettle Jack Ketch . People who die by hanging usually soil themselves at the fatal moment , so someone's got to clean them afterward . Early on in this film , there's a touching sequence in which Pierrepoint gently and respectfully undresses and washes the corpse of a prisoner he's just hanged in Holloway Prison . . . showing the intimacy between the hangman and his clientele . This being Holloway , the corpse is naturally a woman . But we're given to understand that what Pierrepoint does here is done by him for all his corpses . Since the vast majority of Pierrepoint's hangings were male , I feel that it would have been more honest if this scene had shown a naked dead man ( not at Holloway , of course ) instead . It feels unnecessarily exploitative that this sequence shows a naked ( dead ) woman , even though her body isn't especially attractive . Apparently the film-makers didn't want to show Pierrepoint expressing this much intimacy towards a male , dead or alive . Some vital facts are omitted , probably intentionally . Timothy Evans goes to the gallows protesting his innocence , but we're never told that he was posthumously pardoned and was almost certainly innocent . ( Maybe the film-makers assumed that British audiences would know this . ) We're shown the huge crowds protesting the execution of Ruth Ellis - - the last woman to hang in Britain - - but we're never told the circumstances of this . The tremendous tide of sympathy for Ellis was entirely because she was a sexy young woman who had committed a crime of passion : the last woman but ONE to hang in Britain was an old crone whose crime was for profit ; HER hanging provoked absolutely no protests whatever . There are some excellent montage sequences here , and a couple of witty match cuts . I'll rate ' Pierrepoint ' , but I wish that this movie had stuck to the truth .
Eerie , moody . . . but confusing .	I'm fairly fluent in German , and yet I had trouble following the dialogue and action in this low-budget German-language teleplay . ( Admittedly , the sound recording is poor and the plot of this story is intentionally disorienting . ) I wouldn't have been able to understand it at all , if not for the fact that I had previously read the English-language story ( by Conrad Aiken ) from which this spooky teleplay is adapted . The German teleplay ' Mr Arcularis ' was videotaped on an extremely low budget . The credits list only the actors who have speaking roles , and don't identify which actors play which roles . All of these German actors are unknown to me ; I have no idea which one was cast in the central role of Herr Arcularis . SPOILERS AHEAD . In the opening scene , Arcularis is extremely ill with a severe heart condition ; his only hope of survival is a very risky surgical procedure . Miraculously , the surgery goes very well , and Arcularis decides to recuperate by going on a sea voyage . However , the passengers and crew aboard the ship are strangely similar to the medical staff he encountered in hospital . Right here , I had a problem . In some ways , this very moody drama reminded me of the Twilight Zone episode ' Shadow Play ' . In that classic episode , a man finds himself reliving the same grim experience over and over , encountering the same people each time . . . but the various people keep exchanging roles in the repeating drama . ' Mr Arcularis ' was staged on an extremely low budget . . . so , when I recognised the actors in the shipboard sequences as the same actors I'd previously seen in the hospital sequence , I assumed that this was down to the low production budget requiring the same actors to double and treble on roles . Even though I'd previously read Aiken's original story , I was disoriented - - in a bad way - - by the device of the repeating actors here . Various people aboard the ship accuse Arcularis of sleepwalking : they claim to have seen him wandering the decks at night . He has no memory of this . It develops that there is a sealed coffin aboard the ship , and someone has attempted to open it : the captain formally accuses Arcularis . Eventually , Arcularis must come to terms with his unresolved anger towards his dead mother . At the end , it develops that Arcularis isn't aboard a ship after all : he died in hospital during the surgery . A serious flaw in Aiken's original story , as well as in this adaptation , is that it cribs heavily from two better-known fantasies : Sutton Vane's play ' Outward Bound ' ( in which strangers aboard a fogbound ocean liner discover they are dead , and bound for the afterworld ) and Ambrose Bierce's ' An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge ' ( in which a man narrowly escapes death , but then turns out not to have escaped after all ) . Sir William Golding took the premise of ' Owl Creek Bridge ' and attempted to extend it to book length in his novel ' Pincher Martin ' , with only semi-successful results . The one real merit that Aiken brings to this material is that the protagonist must resolve a problem from his past before making the transition from life to death . The extremely low budget of this tele-version is not entirely a drawback . The dim lighting and the confined sets create an atmosphere of stark , moody claustrophobia . . . entirely suitable to the subject matter . The German actors , with their culture's acting techniques , bring a fatalistic air to the proceedings that might have been absent had this production been attempted by British or American actors . I found this production extremely creepy , and - - considering that this is a horror story - - that certainly means it succeeded . I'll rate ' Mr Arcularis ' , and I'd like to see more work by director Fritz Umgelter .
Follow that bathtub !	' Bath Tub Perils ' is hilarious , and I recommend it to any students of silent-film comedy as a good example of a ' generic ' Keystone . The star of the film is Fred Mace , whom modern audiences are unlikely to recognise ( he died young ) , and all the lesser actors are obscure . . . so we're able to perceive this short comedy as a Keystone rather than as ( for instance ) a Chaplin or Arbuckle movie . Contrary to legend , only a minority of Keystone comedies climaxed in a chase . Most of them degenerated into mere chaos . . . and , again , this movie is an excellent example . Also , although many Keystones had exterior sequences , the studio's comedies were usually ground out quickly on interior sets ; here again , ' Bath Tub Perils ' qualifies . Mace ( looking surprisingly like Kelsey Grammar here ) portrays a henpecked hotelier ; Dale Fuller is his termagant wife . An attractive couple ( Hugh Fay and the much younger Anna Luther ) obtain a room for the night . Mace attempts to flirt with Anna but she's not having any ; Mace's wife catches him at it and of course she disapproves . To make sure Mace doesn't go roaming tonight , she sends him to bed and then confiscates his clothing . Through the usual Keystone laws of physics , Mace ends up ( in his pyjamas ) inside a Murphy bed in Anna's room , where her husband finds him . This leads to a chase , though not a climactic one . Mace hides in a steamer trunk . Any trunk big enough to hold Fred Mace must be somewhat enormous , so of course a tiny little porter ( Bobby Dunn ) is sent to bring the trunk to Anna's room . Once again , her husband finds her with the pyjama-clad Mace ! All very obvious , yet hilarious . There's also some mayhem involving a leak in the plumbing and a leak in the gas-fittings , and of course the pipes get switched . Turn on the faucets and get a faceful of gas , turn up the gas-jets and get squirted . Meanwhile , elderly Frank Hayes looks as if he'd blow away in a stiff gust of wind . For those who absolutely insist on a climactic chase : we sort of get one here , as the flood and explosion send Anna's bathtub out into the open sea with Anna inside , and the Keystone cops and fire brigade go in lukewarm pursuit . ' Bath Tub Perils ' is crude but hilarious ; I'll rate it . If not for his untimely death , Fred Mace might have become one of the greatest comedians of the silent era .
Paul Muni tour de force	In ' Black Fury ' , Paul Muni gives one of his best performances , and also appears onscreen in one of his more plausible make-ups . This time he plays a Slavic immigrant , uneducated but keenly intelligent , working in an American coal mine . Muni's hair is dyed blond , yet looks realistic , and his own Eastern European facial features work with this characterisation . . . not against it , as they did for some of his other roles . The film also features a fine performance from John Qualen , a prolific character actor whose film appearances were often marred by unconvincing and unnecessary foreign accents of the " yumpin ' yiminy ! " sort . In ' Black Fury ' , Qualen's flavour-of-the-month accent is less obtrusive than usual , and it actually works for the character he plays : a Polish-American miner . Joe Radek ( Muni ) is a miner in a ' company town ' , where all the labourers are poorly-paid and live in squalid shanties . Radek and his fellow miners work in extremely dangerous conditions . The company that owns the mine also owns all the local businesses , and the local police force also works for the mining company . The cops have no interest in justice : they're bullies whose only concern is to keep the locals quiet and subservient to the company . The head cop is a slimy sadist named McGee , well-played by Barton MacLane . Radek's buddy Shemanski ( Qualen ) gets drunk one night and makes the mistake of criticising company policy : staggering home that night , he has a fatal ' accident ' arranged by McGee's goons . To call attention to various grievances , Radek fills the mineshaft with dynamite . He packs several days ' worth of food for himself , then he takes McGee hostage at gunpoint and brings him into the mine . Radek chains McGee to the pit face , slightly out of reach of Radek's food supply . If Radek's demands aren't met , he's going to blow up the mine . . . with himself and McGee inside . After they've been in the mine for several days , there's one harrowing shot of the starving McGee chained to the wall , begging Radek for food . The film ends with one of those slam-bang action climaxes that Warner Bros did so well , spiced with some social commentary that doesn't get too preachy . The film boasts an excellent supporting cast , filled with actors who are ( mostly ) more obscure than usual , which helps us to immerse ourselves in the action . Karen Morley , quietly beautiful , gives a fine performance , and Michael Curtiz ( a very underrated director ) does his usual superlative work . ' Black Fury ' is based on a story by Michael A . Musmanno , a Pennsylvania lawyer of Italian descent . Late in his life , Musmanno devoted several decades to writing a book called ' Columbus Was First ' , which purported to prove that no European explorers reached the Americas before Columbus . Musmanno's claims for Columbus have long since been disproven , but ' Black Fury ' is an excellent film . I'll rate this movie . Trivia note : Shortly after this movie was released , Warner Brothers released a Loony Toon starring Porky Pig as a hunter who had a dog named Black Fury . What a shameless plug !
Roz is riotously funny	' My Sister Eileen ' is based on true incidents . Ruth and Eileen McKenney were sisters from a small town in Ohio who came to New York City : Ruth intending to become an author , Eileen hoping to be an actress . Although Ruth McKenney sold a few magazine pieces , her most successful work was her series of fictionalised articles about the misadventures of her younger sister Eileen . The stories themselves have been out of print for many years , but they provided the basis for a popular play , ' My Sister Eileen ' ( NOT written by Ruth McKenney ) , which was a long-running Broadway hit and which has remained in print ever since . Ruth McKenney ironically gained fame and wealth from a play written by two other people , based on her stories . The real Eileen McKenney ended badly . A pretty actress with more looks than talent , she married the overrated screenwriter Nathanael West and she died alongside him in West's fatal car accident . The 1942 film ' My Sister Eileen ' is a faithful ( and funny ) version of the Broadway hit , although it bears only slight resemblance to the real-life exploits of sisters Ruth and Eileen McKenney ( here renamed Sherwood ) . Rather unusually , this movie was made at Columbia Studios during the play's Broadway run . Two of the best performances here are given by actors repeating their stage roles : Gordon Jones as an obsessive football player named ' The Wreck ' , and Richard Quine as nice young man Frank Lippincott , who fancies Eileen . Small-town sisters Ruth and Eileen come to the big city . Ruth ( Rosalind Russell ) is smart , cynical , and doesn't need a man . Eileen ( Janet Blair ) is naive and pretty and attracts all the lads . Because the sisters haven't got much money , the only place they can afford is a basement flat in Greenwich Village , owned by a crooked landlord named Appopolous ( George Tobias , not up to his usual high standard here ) . The flat is directly above a subway tunnel , where construction workers are blasting with dynamite : at regular intervals , the whole building shakes . Worse luck , the previous tenant was a young lady who ( ahem ! ) rented by the hour , and so Ruth and Eileen are constantly plagued with male visitors who assume that their apartment is still , erm , open for business . Ruth and Eileen have no end of misadventures while trying to start their careers as , respectively , a journalist and an actress . BIG SPOILER STARTING NOW . The last gag in this movie is absolutely hilarious . All through the film , we hear the sounds of the subway navvies directly under Ruth and Eileen's apartment . At the very end of this movie , a jackhammer pokes up through the floor and three construction workers emerge . When they pull off their helmets , we see that they're Moe , Larry and Curly ! Moe lambastes his two ' knucklehead ' workmates while the soundtrack starts playing the ' Three Stooges ' theme tune ! In 1953 , Betty Comden and Adolph Green approached Rosalind Russell to star in a Broadway musical version of ' My Sister Eileen ' with music by Leonard Bernstein , to be called ' Wonderful Town ' . ( The original title wasn't legally available . ) I really dislike ' Wonderful Town ' : it has a score which I consider extremely pretentious . Rosalind Russell , to her credit , had no illusions about her own song-and-dance abilities . ' Wonderful Town ' was never filmed , because Columbia had retained the musical rights . . . and they made their OWN musical version in 1955 , with tunes by Jule Styne that are vastly better than anything " Lenny " Bernstein ever wrote . Interestingly , Richard Quine ( who hed acted in the original film and the Broadway cast ) directed the musical remake , and his role as Frank Lippincott was taken over by Bob Fosse , giving his best performance as an actor and choreographing some snappy dance numbers as well . I strongly recommend both film versions of ' My Sister Eileen ' , which is more than I can say for the overrated ' Wonderful Town ' . I'll rate this 1942 version . Well done !
She flips for him . . . pancakes , I mean .	I saw this film at the 2006 Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . The very popular William S . Hart was something of an anomaly among silent-film stars . Whereas most male silent stars tended to play either exclusively good guys or exclusively baddies , Hart usually played characters who started out bad but were reformed by the love of a good woman before the last reel . Offscreen , Hart had the bizarre habit of proposing marriage to his leading ladies . In ' Branding Broadway ' , Hart plays a rootin'-tootin ' sixgun-shootin ' rancher from the Triple Bar X ranch who rides into Whetstone , Arizona in search of a drink , pausing only to address some Chinese immigrants as " Chinkos " . The local goo-goo committee hog-tie Hart and toss him into a baggage van bound for New York . In the city , Hart gets a job as " nurse " to a tough playboy who likes to start stosh-ups in nightclubs . ( Why do they keep letting him in ? ) The playboy has written some compromising letters to pretty Seena Owen , who demonstrates her skill flipping flapjacks in a restaurant called the Wheat Cake . ( Where a stack o ' wheats will set you back 20 cents . ) When the playboy's father sends Hart to retrieve the letters , Hart takes one squizz at pretty Seena and . . . Katie , bar the door ! I hugely enjoyed this film , which is a nice urban change of pace for the outdoorsman Hart , but still features enough action to keep his fans happy . There are a couple of nice stock shots of Manhattan , and some funny jokes in the intertitles . If not for that " Chinkos " line , I might have rated this movie a perfect 10 . As it is , .
After you , Alphonse . . .	Marcel Aymé ( pronounced ' Ah-may ' ) was France's equivalent to Thorne Smith . Aymé wrote fantasy stories which , like Smith's , tended to feature unobtrusive men whose lives are irrevocably changed by an unexpected encounter with the supernatural , not always ending happily but usually with a bit of sex along the way . There are also distinct similarities between Aymé's works and the stories of James Thurber . Some of Aymé's best stories , intriguingly , were written during the Nazi occupation . ( This is especially evident in his bitter story ' La Carte ' . ) My own favourite Aymé tale is ' La Grace ' , about an ordinary man - a decent individual , but hardly a candidate for sainthood - who suddenly finds himself equipped with an unwanted halo . Desperate to get rid of this inconvenience , he proceeds to commit every imaginable sin . . . but can't get rid of that halo . The French television programme ' Theatre Tonight ' offered a 1973 production of Aymé's play " Other People's Heads " . It's a good choice for the television format , as the characters are kept on a single set by one character who holds them prisoner in a room . Several other plays - - notably ' The Petrified Forest ' - - have also used the hostage situation as a successful conceit for a one-room drama . Frédéric Maillard is a procurer : the French court system's equivalent of an assistant district attorney . Maillard is an extremely respectable man , so of course he has a few guilty secrets . Maillard has an attractive wife , Juliette , but he also has a mistress : none other than Roberte Bertolier , whose husband is Maillard's fellow procurer . Tonight , the Maillards and the Bertoliers are celebrating Frédéric's greatest triumph . He has just convicted a man for murder . What makes this conviction so noteworthy is the fact that there was absolutely no evidence against the defendant , a man named Valorin . . . yet Frédéric convinced a jury to convict Valorin purely by means of his own eloquence . Valorin has received the death sentence . The victory party is so jubilant that none of the celebrants is particularly disturbed when news arrives that Valorin has escaped . Guess who's coming to dinner . Valorin arrives chez Maillard , and proceeds to hold everyone prisoner . Now , they will listen to him . . . or else . SPOILERS COMING . Aymé's script skilfully combines drama , suspense and comedy , as the dishonesties of Maillard and the others are exposed . Valorin insists that he is innocent of the murder , and now he reveals an alibi which he was prevented from offering at his trial . On the night of the crime , Valorin was miles away . . . having sex with Roberte Bertolier ! There are several good performances here - - especially that of Georges Aminel as the desperate fugitive - - and the entire play is well-paced and expertly directed . I'll rate this .
Ethel Merman meets Doctor Caligari .	My thanks to Nick Markovich and the Yip Harburg Foundation for enabling me to view a print of this rare film . ' The Devil Sea ' is an above-average example of the thousands of short films from the early talkie era which made a trip to the movies similar to a trip to the vaudeville house . These movies , often featuring a major stage entertainer , offered ten minutes of music or comedy as one of several short subjects in a full evening's entertainment . Bring back the good old days ! The musical shorts made by Paramount tended to be better than the comparable fare by other studios , as the Paramounts were filmed in that company's studio in Astoria , Long Island , and had the benefit of access to performers from Broadway and the top New York vaude houses . This particular musical short stars Ethel Merman singing two songs : one downbeat , one upbeat . As was often the case with these shorts , there's some vague attempt at a plot . SPOILERS COMING , but the plot is merely a negligible excuse for Merman's two songs . The most remarkable thing about ' The Devil Sea ' is the opening shot , which looks like something right out of ' The Cabinet of Dr Caligari ' . Ethel Merman is seen framed in a stark backdrop of Expressionist black and white tones . A cut to a different angle reveals that this is actually a piece of a ship - - a bulkhead , a hatchway and a couple of transverses - - which for some reason is propped up on land . Merman is in conversation with Leslie Stowe , a histrionic ack-torr with one of the fruitiest cod accents I've ever heard . ( Appropriately , Stowe died in the Actors ' Home in Englewood , New Jersey . ) Merman is mourning the loss of some man who went to sea in his skiff and never came back . We never learn his precise relationship to Merman ( is he her brother ? her father ? her bootlegger ? ) , but Stowe smugly assures her that the guy is gone forever . He leaves , and Merman does her first song , ' Devil Sea ' ( lyric by E . Y . Harburg , music by Vernon Duke ) : a torch song that seems to want to be ' Old Man River ' . The most interesting thing about this song is that it anticipates a later and better Harburg song - - ' Old Devil Moon ' - - in casting a force of nature as the Devil . Just as Merman finishes the song on her knees , Stowe bellows ( from abaft the bulkhead ) that the missing man has been found alive . This is the cue for Merman's second ditty , the very upbeat ' Glory , Glory ' ( lyric by Harburg , tune by Johnny Green ) . This song really calls for some dance steps , but Merman doesn't seem up to any hoofing . Lyricist Harburg had a happy knack for extremely contrived rhymes : here , the strangest one is when he rhymes ' glory ' with ' sorry ' . Ethel Merman did not age well , which may be why her greatest triumphs remained on the stage rather than in the harsh close-up of a movie camera . Here , in one of her earliest films , she's quite pretty , although she wears an outfit that seems too elaborate for the character she's playing . A year later , in the Paramount short ' Let Me Call You Sweetheart ' , Merman was already beginning to lose her looks . I'll rate ' Devil Sea ' as a fine showcase for Merman's talents . . . and that weird opening shot has got to be director Mort Blumenstock's attempt to call attention to himself .
" The Hunchback's Revenge ! "	This early film version of the Gabriele D'Annunzio drama is amazing ; it features some deeply impressive sets and costumes , as well as elaborate title cards , and dramatic acting that's more subtle than usual for its period . I regret that the print which I viewed did not have a cast list or other credits . The story unfolds in a series of tableau-like scenes , each performed before an elaborate setting , and prefaced by an explanatory title . There are no dialogue intertitles , and some of the captions are as operatic as the subject matter : one of them reads " The Hunchback's Revenge ! " SPOILERS NOW . The film is a drastically simplified version of D'Annunzio's story . Hunchbacked Gianciotto is married to beautiful Francesca , but he is summoned to command his troops in the war . He entrusts his wife to the care of his handsome brother Paolo . When Gianciotto learns that his wife and brother have cuckolded him , he kills them both , then slays himself . By far , the most impressive aspect of this production is the series of elaborate outdoor sets . At this early date , many film makers - - notably Georges Melies and the Lumiere brothers - - were relying on painted backdrops . We see one such backdrop here , for the scene in Gianciotto's army encampment . The actors stand in front of an actual tent , while behind them a painted backdrop shows a series of tents stretching into the distance . However , unlike in the films of Melies or the Lumieres , this scene is carefully lighted so that the fakery is almost undetectable . It took me a moment to realise that the tents were a painted backdrop . Elsewhere , there is a spectacular scene in an elaborate floral bower . All of the actors in this drama wear beautiful Renaissance costumes , and give performances which are commendably restrained in view of the operatic material . The actor who plays the hunchbacked Gianciotto is not convincing , but - - in the days before digital effects - - it was really impossible for an actor with a healthy spine to counterfeit a hunchback convincingly . Even the great Lon Chaney , in his classic portrayal of Quasimodo , obviously wore a false hump over an unbroken spinal column . . . making his chest cavity seem larger , whereas a genuine hunchback's chest cavity would be caved in by his deformity . One actor in this Vitagraph film plays a jester who also serves as a messenger . This actor is constantly leaping and capering , but always in a manner appropriate to his character . However , I was slightly distressed by a scene in which this jester mocks Gianciotto by imitating his hunched posture and lurching gait . I always find it crude and tasteless when a healthy person makes fun of a handicapped person . I'll rate this very ambitious early film .
Would somebody review a movie without seeing it ?	At the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy ( in October 2006 ) I saw a movie which purports to be ' How the Professor Fooled the Burglars ' . The film screened at the Sacile festival was a print on loan from the University of South Carolina . Here we have a movie - - although we don't know for certain WHICH movie - - that shows how very dicey is the business of silent-film history and scholarship . When this short film surfaced with no introductory titles , USC's film curator Greg Wilsbacher tentatively identified it as a production of the Vitagraph studio , based on the patterned backdrop and several other traits which this movie shares with known Vitagraph productions . IMDb's credits list this as an Edison movie , but that isn't necessarily a discrepancy : some movies distributed by Edison during this period were actually made by Vitagraph and then sold outright to Edison for distribution . After comparing this movie's content to existing lists of Edison film titles , Wilsbacher has tentatively decided - - probably correctly - - that this movie is ' How the Professor Fooled the Burglars ' . IMDb's webpage gives a synopsis of that film , quoting the Edison catalogue . Now , here's the problem : the movie I saw at Sacile doesn't match that synopsis . . . or , rather , it does but with discrepancies . The titular professor has only ONE visitor in this movie , and there are no visual clues to indicate that the visitor is a burglar . The short movie is basically a trick film : an excuse for some Melies-like stunts for the purpose of baffling the professor's visitor , with comical results . But , since this movie contradicts the Edison synopsis , then it must be a different movie , aye ? Perhaps not . It's very possible that the copy-writer for the Edison catalogue simply didn't bother to view this movie before writing about it . ( I would never do such a thing , of course , but it's been known to happen . ) Maybe some publicist consciously lied , deciding that burglars ( plural ) would make this movie sound more interesting than a visitor ( singular ) . I don't know . Until and unless another movie surfaces which more accurately fits the description in Edison's catalogue , I believe that Mr Wilsbacher is correct , and this movie was indeed released as ' How the Professor Fooled the Burglars ' . On its own merits as an amusing trick film , and as a cautionary example of how silent-film historians must tread very carefully indeed , I'll rate this epic .
Hilariously relevant to our own times .	' Billy and the Big Stick ' is a comedy dealing with the expansionist policies of the United States in the years leading up to the First World War . As I watched this film , nearly a century after it was made , I was amazed at how extremely relevant this movie is to current United States policy and international relations . Also , this movie is hilarious ! The titular ' big stick ' is figurative , referring to the African proverb made famous by Theodore Roosevelt : ' Speak softly but carry a big stick , and you will go far . ' The film takes place in a Caribbean banana republic which the intertitles identify as ' Hayti ' . I'm not sure if this is supposed to be the real-world nation of Haiti , or if the spelling change indicates that this Hayti is a fictional place : the Caribbean version of Graustark or Ruritania . Anyway , the president of Hayti is played by a white actor , which would seem to indicate that this is a fictional country . ( The real-world Haiti being governed by French Africans . ) Billy Barlow ( a briskly energetic performance by Raymond McKee ) is the foreign agent for a U . S . utility company . He manages the power plant supplying electricity to Hayti , for which service his Yank employers are supposed to make a profit . But Hayti's president Poussevain has nationalised the electrical plant . He expects Billy to carry on supplying electricity to the Haytian people , but refuses to pay for it . Billy is in love with a native maiden , Claire Ducrot . This role is played by Yona Landowska , an actress I've never heard of before . In this film , she displays an exotic beauty and a sensuous presence that make me eager to see more of her film roles . Billy wants to get the hell out of Hayti ( good move ) and take Claire with him ( even better move ) , but first he's got to collect the substantial amount of money which Poussevain owes him ( possibly fatal move ) . By great good luck , along comes a Yankee battleship , and aboard the battleship is Harry St Clair , the handsome ( and vain , and stupid ) matinée idol of American films . St Clair is about to shoot a naval film , with himself in the lead , and for realism's sake the U . S . Navy have loaned him a ship , with a full crew complement and guns . SPOILERS COMING . Billy urges St Clair to get into his costume as a U . S . naval officer , and then he brings him to the president . It's been previously established that Poussevain speaks only French , whilst St Clair speaks only English . In an hilarious climax , Billy serves as interpreter for the two , deliberately mistranslating their dialogue so as to convince Poussevain that St Clair is a genuine naval officer preparing to attack , whilst telling St Clair that Poussevain is a fan of St Clair's movies , and would like to see him perform something . Harry St Clair is played by Bradley Barker , an actor quite unknown to me . What a discovery ! He's very convincing as the foppish egotistical matinée idol , histrionically emoting for his ' fan ' Poussevain while being too vain to understand what's really happening . It's unfortunate that this movie is silent , as the climactic scene requires one character to be speaking French and another to be speaking English , whilst Billy acts as interpreter . . . the catch being that Billy's translations are fake , and the audience realise this while the other characters don't catch wise . In a sound film , this could have been achieved with subtitles on screen while the actors are speaking in their own voices . But this movie is silent , so we're stuck with the unwieldy device of Poussevain's dialogue being rendered in English-language intertitles ( even though he's speaking French ) , and then having Billy say something else entirely which is ostensibly a translation . There are some fascinating shots of U . S . naval ships and artillery pieces . Unfortunately , it's blatantly obvious that these shots are stock footage ; the lighting in these shots doesn't match the rest of the movie . And some unbilled bit players get rather heavy-handed in their depiction of ignorant foreigners . ' Billy and the Big Stick ' is a well-paced comedy with a far-fetched plot that's all too plausible , and ( as I write this ) amazingly relevant to the politics of the early 21st century . McKee , Barker and Landowska give impressive performances , and the latter is quite sexy . Director Edward H Griffith deserves to be better known ; he's in top form here . I'll rate ' Billy and the Big Stick ' .
Has her lower half got a sister ?	I viewed the British Film Institute print of this early ' trick ' film . This brief and enjoyable comedy is purely a vehicle for some conjuring tricks , all of which are achieved in the camera rather than through stagecraft . The tricks are well done , with the jump cuts and other fakery being rather more difficult to spot here than in many other ' trick ' films of this same era . The Edison Company's synopsis , included on IMDb's web page for this film , is accurate enough . I was intrigued by the business featuring a beautiful woman divided into upper and lower halves . This impressed me for two different reasons . Firstly , the earliest example ( to my knowledge ) of a stage conjuror sawing a woman in half was P . T . Selbit , about 20 years AFTER this movie was made : is it possible that the well-known stage illusion was actually inspired by this movie ? Secondly , I was intrigued that this movie was imaginative enough to introduce the top half of the woman without the bottom half , and then show her bottom half walking into the scene . This is much more clever ( and unexpected ) than the more obvious lurk of showing a normal woman , then making her divide into halves . Compare this with the awful scene in ' Follow the Boys ' when Orson Welles supposedly saws Marlene Dietrich in half , in front of a live audience of servicemen . Marlene's lower half gets up and walks away , while the soldiers hoot with delight . . . but this is blatantly a camera trick , so we know that the ' audience ' aren't seeing what we're seeing , and we know they're giving a scripted reaction . The magic tricks in ' The Haunted Curiosity Shop ' are actually more convincing than the make-up job on the actor playing the antiques dealer . My rating : .
Thrilling and authentic	Of all the safari films made by Martin Johnson and his wife Osa , ' Congorilla ' was the most popular and most successful financially . I enjoyed ' Congorilla ' but I regretted that film's patronising attitude towards African natives , as well as a couple of wildlife sequences that appear to have been faked . ' Wonders of the Congo ' is free of those flaws , and is a hugely enjoyable film . Martin Johnson narrates the film , occasionally explaining what camera lens was used for which particular sequence . I was most impressed by a sequence on the veldt , in which Johnson - - who had nerves of steel - - allows a black rhino to come nearly all the way up to him before he shoots it dead . We can plainly see that Johnson is out in the open , with nowhere to hide from his quarry . . . and of course there's no question of stunt doubles . A definite asset in each of Martin Johnson's films was the participation of his pretty wife Osa , so I was disappointed that she had less than usual to do here . The Johnsons always made a point of including some comedy-relief material in their movies . Early in ' Wonders of the Congo ' , we're treated to a spectacularly beautiful sequence of an elephant bathing himself in a watering hole ; later , we see a sequence that's meant to be funny but which I found merely ludicrous : a protracted attempt by Osa to shepherd a family of elephants . The best thing about the Johnsons ' safari films is that they preserve footage of an Africa that largely no longer exists . I'll rate ' Wonders of the Congo ' .
Kiwi fiction , much more effective as a documentary .	I saw this movie in October 1998 at the Cinema Muto festival in Pordenone ; they screened a print from the New Zealand Film Archive with the original intertitles . Although this is a fiction film , it has more impact as a documentary . Part of this is for a bad reason - - there's really not much narrative in the story on offer - - but most of it is for a much better reason : this movie is filled with gorgeous footage of ( mostly caucasian ) New Zealanders of the 1920s at work and at play . We see fun-fair patrons riding the witch's hat at the Atlantic and Pacific show , and attending a race meeting . We see a few shots of Maori natives , with no real examination of the racial situation . There are splendid panoramic shots of Rotorua , Lake Waikaremoana , and the volcano at Ruapehu . As they say in Kiwi Land : " You'll be right ! " My rating for this film : , and it evoked for me some ( not entirely happy ) memories of my early years in the Australian outback in the 1950s .
Will this review get me in Dutch ?	' Das Recht auf Dasein ' ( ' The Reality of Existence ' ) is a German film , but the print I viewed ( at a Manhattan screening , from the archives of the Nederlands Fillmmuseum , Amsterdam ) had been edited for release in the Netherlands , so all the original German intertitles - - as well as several shots of handwritten letters , printed handbills and so forth - - had been removed and Dutch footage inserted . This gave me some unexpected amusement , for instance when a close-up of a handbill offering a reward of 5 , 000 gulden for Joseph Dermott's arrest is immediately followed by an exterior shot of a kiosk with German-language posters saying much the same thing in Fraktur type , and a handbill offering a reward of 5 , 000 marks . Which is it to be , then : gulden or marks ? More seriously - - and I hope that my Internet detractors are reading this - - here's a perfect example of the hazards ( for me , or anyone else ) of attempting to synopsise any silent film accurately , since re-edited prints are commonplace , and errors creep into translations . At one point in this print , a dialogue card ( in Dutch ) identifies Joseph Dermott as a ' murderer ' . He is indeed wanted for a crime , but the victim of that crime is known to have survived and is expected to recover . She wasn't murdered , and nobody thinks she was . So , is this a continuity error in the German film , which the Dutch title-writer has faithfully translated ? Or ( more likely ) is it an error that occurred during translation and production of the Dutch print ? In either case , there are so many discrepancies in this film's structure - - as is the case in surviving prints of MANY silent films - - that any attempt I make to describe this film accurately will inevitably produce some sort of internal contradiction . . . and , if ANOTHER print of this film turns up somewhere else , the two prints are likely to contradict each other . I can only do my humble best , knowing that somebody on the sidelines ( with too much free time on his or her hands ) will accuse me of errors or worse . Right : here goes , then . A policeman hears a commotion in a house ; he finds the unconscious form of the beautiful Edith ( the very attractive Ilse Bois ) sprawled on the stair-rails . Quite stupidly , the cop checks to see if she's alive by lifting her head ! If she'd had a broken neck , this could have killed her . From here , we go into a fascinating police-procedural sequence , depicting what were probably the latest forensic techniques in 1913 . A detective makes a plaster mould of a man's bootprint in the garden . Another ' tec lifts some fingerprints , and checks them against prints in a bound volume . The prints match those of Joseph Dermott , who already has a minor criminal record . His police description mentions a distinctive circular tattoo on his arm . SPOILERS AHEAD . In fact , Dermott ( Joseph Delmont ) is innocent of this particular crime . But his smallest finger on his left hand has a long fingernail , which in 1913 Germany marks him as a professional criminal . ( If you want this explained , send me an email . ) Plainclothes police pursue Dermott across the rooftops . Actor Delmont does a very impressive human-fly act , made even more impressive because he's wearing a stiff celluloid collar and tie . There's an intriguing shot of some hansard rooves and German architecture . The cops chase Dermott to a railway station . He jumps into a second-class carriage just as the train leaves , forcing the cops to grab hold of the closed doors of the moving train , and hang on for their lives . Now there's an impressive pursuit sequence , with ( so far as I could tell ) absolutely nothing faked . Delmont climbs across the tops of the freight vans while the police edge along the exteriors of the carriages , all while the train is chuffing through the countryside . At the top of a grade , Dermott gets onto the engine coupling . The camera aboard the moving train points straight down onto the rails and the sleepers from only inches above them as Dermott unhitches the engine , leaving himself alone with the engine-driver while the rest of the train rolls downhill . Exciting ! At this point , some convenient Americans come along . ( IMDb reviewer Bob Lipton is mistaken : there are no boats in this chase sequence . ) Earlier on , there's an interesting shot of a jitney-like German taxicab . It's no surprise that Dermott eventually exonerates himself and wins the love of the fair Edith , who is recovering from her assault . Before he's exonerated , he risks arrest by baring his arm ( and exposing his tattoo ) while giving a tranfusion to his purported ' victim ' . The guilty man is never caught , unless there's a reel missing that I don't know about . Among the delights of this Dutch print are some delicate chromatic tintings . In silent-film days , it was quite common to shoot night sequences in full daylight ( ' day for night ' ) and then tint them blue to simulate darkness . Here , more unusually , we have an interior sequence in a darkened room : the screen image is tinted blue until a chambermaid presses a light switch . . . then the tinting vanishes , to indicate the lights coming on ! Another sequence , featuring a photographer in a darkroom , is appropriately tinted a deep red . By the way : I enjoy seeing the old-fashioned maids ' uniforms in vintage European films ( and , less frequently , American ones ) but the chambermaid in this movie has got the weirdest apron-strings I've ever clapped eyes on . I'll rate this Dutch print of ' Das Recht auf Dasein ' a very enjoyable . If anybody out there thinks they've spotted any errors in my review ( you know who you are ) , please find an original German-language print of this German movie , and then get back to me .
12-minute ' Camille ' .	I saw this fascinating drama in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . ' Kameliadamen ' translates as ' Camellia Lady ' : this is the same story which would later become Garbo's classic ' Camille ' , and which also became the opera ' La Traviata ' . ' Kameliadamen ' is quite faithful to its well-known source novel , so I see no need to synopsise it here . What intrigued me about this very early silent film is that it managed to compress the novel's entire plot into such a brief movie : we have here about ten minutes of actors ' footage , plus two minutes of Danish intertitles , for a total running time of 12 minutes ! I was further intrigued by this film's tableau structure . The action of the novel is here divided into five scenes , each of which is recorded in a single camera set-up as if it were a stage play . The only editing within any of these scenes is the insertion of intertitles . Unfortunately , due to the film's extreme brevity , rather a large amount of intertitling is necessary to explain what's going on : about 15 % of this film's running time is devoted to intertitles . Since the original story is so well known , I regret that director Viggo Larsen and his uncredited scenarist ( probably also Larsen ) didn't trust us to follow the plot line with less titling . By the way , I've seen several dramatisations of Dumas Jnr's novel , and ALL of them - - including ' Kameliadamen ' - - leave out my single favourite detail from the original novel . They usually mention that the courtesan Marguerite Gauthier earned her nickname due to her fondness for wearing a camellia . What they don't mention is one especially intimate detail from Dumas Jnr's text : namely , that Marguerite always wears a white camellia , except for three consecutive days each month when she sports a red one ! Aye , that means exactly what it suggests . I'll rate ' Kameliadamen ' . I'm deeply intrigued that , as early as 1907 , director Viggo Larsen and his creative team had such a firm hand over the narrative techniques of cinema .
Whose little girl are you ?	The print of this film which I viewed had credits and intertitles printed on different film stock from the actors ' footage . . . and the title footage is older . This may explain why the title ' Madcap Madge ' doesn't match the film proper , in which the main character's name is Betty . In silent films , it was a fairly common practice for film exhibitors and re-issuers to rename a character by striking a new set of titles , or even giving the film itself a completely new title . . . sometimes for copyright reasons , sometimes to avoid paying distribution fees . Once again , a film that was " lost forever " turns out merely to have been mislaid . Even happier news is the fact that ' Madcap Madge ' stars Olive Thomas , an extremely beautiful and talented actress of the middle silent-film period , whose career is now sadly forgotten because of her tragic early death . ' Madcap Madge ' is a splendid showcase for her comedic talents , as well as her physical agility and her beauty . One of the few things I dislike about this movie is its contrived title . How often , in real life , does anybody ever actually speak the word ' madcap ' ? Not very often nowadays , and I doubt that it was heard frequently in 1917 . SPOILERS AHEAD . Mr Flower ( J Frank Burke ) is a respectable banker who isn't as prosperous as he seems : he has overdrawn his finances , and the notes are about to be called in . His wife Mrs Flower is a snob with social aspirations ( played by Aggie Herring : a name to conjure with , and an actress who looks more like a washerwoman than a banker's wife ) . Elder daughter Julia ( well-played by Dorcas Matthews ) is prim and serious : she hopes to marry a wealthy swain to improve her father's finances and her mother's social standing . The problem is younger daughter Betty ( Thomas ) , whose practical jokes and monkeyshines are an embarrassment to the rest of her family . The Flowers have packed Betty off to a boarding school , which ought to get her out of the way . . . or does it ? Just as Mrs Flower and Julia are planning a husband-hunt in Palm Beach , Betty is expelled from the boarding school for her shenanigans . ( I found this unlikely , since boarding schools depend on their students ' tuition for their income ; a student would have to be VERY unruly for the school willingly to give up that income . ) When teenage Betty lands up in Palm Beach , Julia ( for contrived reasons ) orders her younger sister to dress as a ten-year-old girl : an appropriate age , since Betty is acting like a ten-year-old anyway . Julia is scheming to marry the Earl of Larsdale ( J Barney Sherry ) , a wealthy English peer . SPOILERS COMING NOW . Since our sympathies are with Betty and against her sister , it's no surprise that the earl decides that he prefers Madge to Julia . . . once he realises that Betty is no ten-year-old . And the earl has been conducting a masquerade of his own : he's actually a wealthy American , who holds the notes on Mr Flower's bank ! Happy endings all round . Olive Thomas , age 18 at this time , is surprisingly believable ( and appealing ) as a fake 10-year-old . In her ' grown-up ' scenes in this comedy , I found her quite appealing and sexy . . . and , during her disguise sequences , I found it unnerving that I accepted her as a ( fake ) ten-year-old while still finding her very sexy ! Miss Thomas's bustline was minimal , yet there's one good sight gag involving her bust when she's supposedly a 10-year-old . Dorcas Matthews gives an excellent performance in a role that's meant to be unsympathetic , yet in which I found her likable . As the faux earl , JB Sherry seems a bit too old for Olive Thomas , but plenty of other movies have featured romantic couples with similar age discrepancies . Since this is a silent film , it entirely evades the question of whether or not the fake earl speaks with an English accent . The film's exterior scenes are attractive , though poorly photographed , and the camera set-ups are less imaginative than they might be . My single biggest complaint about this movie is that some of the intertitles are too busy and elaborate . ( Since these are clearly replacements for the originals , perhaps the original release print's titles were simpler and more effective . ) But the film is funny , and it serves as an excellent vehicle for Olive Thomas's beauty and acting skills . I'll rate ' Madcap Madge ' .
Impressive fake wildlife film .	I saw this impressive early silent film in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . Those who are unfamiliar with Scandinavian languages may find the title ' Løvejagten ' confusing . ' Løve ' has nothing to do with ' love ' : it's the Danish word for ' lion ' . The film's title translates as ' Lion Hunters ' . IMDb's credits for this film are incorrect . Axel Sørensen should not be in the cast list ; he is this film's photographer . Someone who should be in the cast list is William Thomsen , who plays the black African tracker for the white lion-hunters . I was intrigued that the African character is depicted with very little racial stereotyping or condescension . ' Løvejagten ' has the general feel of a wildlife documentary , and is done so well that the fakery is hard to spot . The action of the film is as follows : two white hunters and their native tracker progress through the jungle . They observe various fauna : ostriches , a hippopotamus , a zebra . ( The fakery was obvious for me here , as zebras in the wild always remain with the herd , unless one diseased zebra is outcast : it's only ever in zoos and wildlife preserves that one sees an isolated zebra . ) The hunters make camp for the night , but are awakened by a lion killing a young goat . ( Which would be unlikely to exist in the wild . ) The lion then kills the hunters ' horse , but then the hunters shoot the lion . One hunter poses beside the dead lion , smoking a cigarette . They shoot another lion , then skin both of them and display their pelts for the camera . The hunters enjoy another smoko , and offer a cigarette to the black man too . ( Just what the African people need : lung cancer ! ) This film consists entirely of staged enactments , made more realistic by the fact that the shooting and skinning of the lions is genuine . The ' jungle ' sequences were actually filmed in a forest north of Copenhagen . The wildlife sequences ( bar the lions ) were filmed in the Copenhagen Zoo . This explains a couple of askew camera angles , as photographer Sørensen had to avoid showing any of the fences or barriers separating the various species . The lion sequences were filmed on Elleore , a small island off the Danish coast . This was done partly so as to avoid bringing the lions into proximity of innocent by-standers , but the film-makers ' prime motive appears to have been a desire to escape the scrutiny of animal-rights activists ( yes , they were out and about even then ! ) who had heard about this film in advance and were determined to stop its production . Even the Danish minister of justice attempted to stop it . I'm extremely impressed with ' Løvejagten ' as an early example of movie-makers ' ability to fake real events credibly . I was tempted to give my review of this film some sarky title such as ' I Bwana Go Home ' or ' Life with the Lions ' . . . but in fact this is an excellent enactment which earns my rating of . Veldt done !
Beneath those bangs , her secret hangs . . .	' Louise Brooks : Looking for Lulu ' is one instalment in an ongoing series of documentaries by Hugh Munro Neely , each spotlighting an actress of the early film era . ( Full disclosure : I've had some professional dealings with Hugh Neely , and I consider him a friend , but I hope that this hasn't coloured my perceptions of his films . ) I enjoy Louise Brooks's movies , but I tend to be alienated by her fandom cult , much as I'm alienated by the fandom cult for Marilyn Monroe . Despite all evidence to the contrary , Marilyn's fans would have us believe that Monroe was some wounded little fawn , who - - underneath the glamour - - was actually Norma Jean the girl next door . ( Which is nonsense : if Marilyn Monroe really WERE Norma Jean , her fans wouldn't be interested . ) In Brooks's case , her fans tend to skim over her entire Hollywood career in order to fixate on the two films she made in Germany for GW Pabst : those two films do contain Brooks's two best performances , but I feel that the constant emphasis on her German films does a great injustice to her Hollywood films , in several of which Brooks does give excellent ( and sexy ) performances . Regrettably , Brooks's fans continue to assert that she WAS Lulu , the character she played in one ( or , unofficially , both ) of her two German films . I dislike the fact that many overviews of Brooks ( including this documentary ) make a point of referring to Brooks herself as ' Lulu ' , as if she was that fictional character . Admittedly , it was Brooks who encouraged this habit with her fascinating memoirs . ' Looking for Lulu ' is narrated by Shirley MacLaine , an interesting choice . In some ways , MacLaine's life and career are very different from Brooks's , yet in other ways they're very similar . Both actresses began as dancers , both had minor success on Broadway before achieving Hollywood stardom , and both were intensely devoted to a younger brother ( in MacLaine's case , Warren Beatty ) . As usual for Neely's excellent documentaries , he comes up with some amazingly obscure photos and artefacts here . The narration briefly mentions an incident in Brooks's childhood , when a male neighbour molested her , and afterwards her mother blamed her . I wish that the documentary had given this incident more emphasis , as I suspect that it was one of the major events in Brooks's life : much of her later behaviour was self-destructive , and very much fits the profile of someone who was sexually abused in childhood . I wish that this documentary had featured more identifying captions . We see a photo of Louise in a barber's chair , but are not told that this is a publicity still for her film ' A Social Celebrity ' . We see Louise in a brief romantic scene from ' The Show-Off ' , but we're told absolutely nothing about the ingratiating actor who plays her leading man in this scene ; not even his name . In fact , he was Gregory Kelly , who died tragically young . Viewers of this documentary might have been interested in learning that Kelly was the husband of actress Ruth Gordon , as well as the brother of playwright George Kelly ( author of ' The Show-Off ' ) and uncle of Princess Grace Kelly . The narration of this film features one statement that made me hit Rewind to make sure I'd heard it correctly . We're told that George Gershwin was ' the best and most beloved ' Broadway composer . ' Best ' is a matter of opinion , but ' most beloved ' ? Erm , no , not Gershwin . In addition to a generous array of juicy clips from many of Brooks's films , we also get some interview footage of Brooks in her later years , when she was a semi-recluse in Rochester , NY . Brooks is honest enough to admit that the rapid decline of her career was entirely her own fault , due to her own poor decisions . When her silent film ' The Canary Murder Case ' was reworked as a talkie , she refused to record talking sequences ; we see a clip here , in which Brooks's character is obviously post-dubbed with the voice of a different actress ( Margaret Livingston ) . We also see a clip from Brook's French film , ' Prix de Beaute ' , in which a French actress badly dubs Brooks's dialogue . Fascinating ! Yet I regret that this documentary did not include even a brief clip from ' When You're in Love ' , nor even any mention of that film . In an attempt to get back into Hollywood's good graces , Brooks appeared in the movie musical ' When You're in Love ' as a mere chorus girl ; the studio milked this for publicity with a " Former star , she starts over at the bottom " angle , promising Brooks a starring vehicle afterward . . . and then reneging on their promise . Brooks's last film was ' Overland Stage Raiders ' , an above-average low-budget western starring John Wayne . A few years ago , when I attended a Brooks retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art , a curator made the mean-spirited and gratuitous comment that Brooks's career ended with ' the humiliation of appearing in a John Wayne movie ' . I was pleased that no such editorialising was included in this documentary . ' Looking for Lulu ' is a fascinating look at an actress whose allure , talent and raw sex appeal continue to shine from films made nearly a century ago . Showbiz documentaries in general have a regrettable tendency to psychoanalyse subjects who really don't need to be analysed . In Brooks's case , though , I wish that this documentary ( and some other Brooks bios ) had dug a little deeper into Brooks's psychological motivations for some of her self-destructive actions . And I wish this documentary had concluded by reminding Brooks's fans of something which many of them refuse to acknowledge : in real life , Louise was NOT Lulu . I'll rate this fascinating , well-paced documentary .
Splendid low-budget delight	' Go West , Young Lady ' is a surprisingly delightful little film that easily straddles at least three different genres : it's a comedy western with a couple of full-fledged musical numbers , but which never quite becomes a full-scale musical . This film features the only good comedy performance I've ever seen by Glenn Ford , who is usually a dead loss in comedies . ( He ruined ' Pocketful of Miracles ' . ) I actively dislike Penny Singleton , partly because she's so annoying onscreen and largely because ( in real life ) , as the inept president of Agva , she nearly drove that union into bankruptcy . But Singleton gives an enjoyable performance in this film . Even Ann Miller ( whom I usually dislike ) gives a fine performance as Lola , the dance-hall girl in the local saloon . Allen Jenkins , one of my favourite character actors , is hilarious ( as usual ) as sheriff Ford's deputy . A high point of this film is the ' Yip-Ay-Yay ' number performed by Ann Miller and Jenkins . For possibly the only time in his prolific career , Jenkins sings onscreen ! His gravelly voice ( with his prole New York accent ) is completely unsuited to carrying a tune , but Jenkins sings gamely ( in both senses of the term ) while Miller does a couple of simple tap steps ( less elaborate than usual for her ) alongside him . SLIGHT SPOILER . There's a very funny running gag , well executed . Ford keeps getting into brawls with various tough guys who are bigger and stronger than him . Each time this happens , Penny Singleton tries to help him by coshing the other man . . . but she always misses him and beans Ford instead . The payoff comes when she tries this one more time . As Ford looks up in horror to see Singleton bearing down on him with a bottle , he shouts : ' Don't hit him ! It'll be me ! ' Very funny indeed , and several other scenes in this movie are funny too . I'll rate this charming low-budget gem .
Jimmy Durante meets George Bernard Shaw .	Columbia Studios ' low-budget Scrappy cartoons ( starring a blond boy of that name ) are mostly quite bad . Featuring poor animation and unattractive visuals , the Scrappies had a tendency to repeat every sight gag - filling up screen time by recycling the animation cels - and the sight gags were usually not funny in the first place . ' Scrappy's Party ' is the only funny instalment in the series , and most of its appeal comes from its heavy reliance on caricatures of celebrities . Scrappy decides to throw a party , and he sends invitations to a lot of public figures of the day ( 1933 ) , most of whom agree to attend . Scrappy does get a ' phone call from a cartoon version of Al Capone , who tearfully reports down the ' phone line that he can't come to Scrappy's party . The next set-up shows that Capone is telephoning from a prison cell . ( From a Capone-o-phone ? ) When the guests arrive , they all do a spirited dance . The animation is quite good in this sequence ; astonishingly good by Columbia's low standard . A cartoon version of Will Rogers does a rapid tap dance in cowboy boots while twirling a lariat . A cartoon Babe Ruth swings his bat repeatedly , smashing the party decorations , to the cheers of Scrappy and his guests . SPOILING ONE JOKE NOW . There is one genuinely hilarious gag here . Cartoon versions of Jimmy Durante and George Bernard Shaw dance rapidly side by side , in perfect unison . In the middle of their dance , Durante suddenly takes Shaw's beard off Shaw's face and attaches it to his own . When this happens , we suddenly notice that ( as they're caricatured here ) Durante and Shaw look exactly alike , except one is bearded and one isn't . Now that the beard has changed hands ( or chins ) , Durante has turned into Shaw and vice versa ! As they dance , the beard switches chins several times , so they take it in turns to be bearded . This very clever gag doesn't wear out its welcome , and - for once - the tendency of the Scrappy series to repeat a sight gag actually works in the joke's favour . Another good thing about this cartoon is that - by good luck more than anything else - most of the contemporary celebrities caricatured in this 1933 cartoon are still recognised by modern audiences . I've seen and heard modern audiences get audibly frustrated during screenings of old Warners cartoons featuring caricatures of forgotten celebs like Hugh Herbert and Edna May Oliver : the audiences realise that they're expected to know who these people are , but they don't recognise them . I'll rate ' Scrappy's Party ' , although the rest of the Scrappy series barely rate one point .
The looking-glass war	I saw this very amusing film in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone ; the annual festival has made a welcome return to that town after eight years in nearby Sacile . . . a town no less beautiful , but in Sacile the festival's programme was split between two smaller cinemas at opposite ends of the town , thus forcing me ( and other attendees ) to hustle back and forth from one screening to another . The print screened at Pordenone was loaned by collector Martin Starewitch - - a French-born grandson of the film's Polish-born director - - restored from a ( silent ) nitrate print in Nederlands Filmmuseum . ' The Little Parade ' undoubtedly delighted French audiences when it was first released in 1928 , not least for its title . . . coming soon after the European release of MGM's huge hit ' The Big Parade ' . Six weeks after its original French release , a second version of ' The Little Parade ' was released with a synchronised audio track of sound effects . Here we have a ' trick ' film , and of course anyone familiar with silent films will at once be put in mind of Georges Melies , the master of early cinema trickery . However , Melies's films relied very heavily on the jump cut , which enabled objects and people to vanish , appear and instantaneously change positions in the frame . ' The Little Parade ' relies on a larger repertory of cinema illusions . Also , there's more story in this film than in a typical Melies short : ' The Little Parade ' is adapted from Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tale ' The Steadfast Tin Soldier ' . Mirrors are cleverly used here to make the actors on screen seem magically to multiply , so that one soldier becomes a vast platoon . One of the annoying things about the sound revolution that changed cinema was the fact that audiences were so eager for sound that ANY movie which talked ( no matter how bad it was otherwise ) became far more profitable for exhibitors than any film which didn't talk ( such as this one ) even if it included sound effects . ' The Little Parade ' had the misfortune to be made just before the talkies changed everything , and consequently this delightful movie ( along with many other wonderful silents ) was swept out of the public consciousness and into oblivion . Fortunately , it has now been restored . I'll rate ' The Little Parade ' . It's an excellent film which owes nothing ( except its title ) to King Vidor's ' The Big Parade ' , but when a movie has a parody title I can't quite bring myself to consider it the equal of the film which its parodic title is based upon . . . and ' The Big Parade ' is a definite .
The tiptoeing gorilla is hilarious	Ralph Spence wrote his play ' The Gorilla ' in the mid-1920s , when Broadway audiences had already seen several dead-earnest thriller plays about spooky old houses full of trapdoors and masked villains . The posters for the 1925 Broadway production of ' The Gorilla ' acknowledged its predecessors , by ballyhooing : ' Out-bats " The Bat " ! Out-cats " The Cat and the Canary " ! Out-warns " The Last Warning " ! ' What made ' The Gorilla ' a hit onstage was the fact that it spoofed the cliches of spooky-house plays while managing to be somewhat scary on its own merits , much as ' Arsenic and Old Lace ' would be a few years later . The various film versions of ' The Gorilla ' downplay the thriller elements , replacing them with lowbrow slapstick comedy . . . thus rendering a wildly improbable storyline even more implausible . Fortunately , the 1927 silent film ( the first screen version ) is quite funny , although it deviates considerably from Spence's play . Sour old miser Cyrus Townsend ( played by sour old character actor Claude Gillingwater ) is murdered . There are several suspects , since Cyrus had many enemies . . . including his brother Uriah ( Tully Marshall ) . Cyrus's daughter ( beautiful black-haired Alice Day ) decides to solve her dad's murder . For some reason , the leading suspect is a gorilla , who appears to have wandered in from the street . ( As gorillas do . ) Or could it be that the gorilla is a murderer in a gorilla suit ? Maybe there are TWO gorillas : a real one , and one in a costume . . . The plot makes no sense at all , but this movie is enjoyable in a demented way . Veteran comic Charlie Murray ( a former Keystone Cop ) steals the show as a dim-witted detective . The funniest scene has Murray tiptoeing through the spooky house in search of the gorilla , unaware that the gorilla is tiptoeing along directly behind him ! This is the sort of routine that Lou Costello did later , but it's much funnier as Murray does it . . . and the silent film gives Murray an advantage over Costello . ( In a silent film , we don't wonder why the comedian doesn't hear the gorilla tiptoeing behind him . ) Eventually , virginal damsel Alice Day ends up in the clutches of the gorilla . Just so we get the symbolism , Alice wears a diaphanous white outfit in this scene that makes her look very virginal . The photography and direction are excellent , and there are some impressively creepy scenes centred in a spiral staircase worthy of Hitchcock's ' Vertigo ' . HERE COMES THE SPOILER RIGHT NOW . Handsome young Walter Pidgeon , who is so helpful to sweet Alice , turns out to be the dastardly villain . Interestingly , Pidgeon was also in the 1930 remake of ' The Gorilla ' , although in a different role . I'll rate this silent version , despite its wild implausibility .
Jessica Rabbit meets Virgil Partch	Virgil Partch , who signed his name ' ViP ' , was a magazine and newspaper cartoonist noted for his clean uncluttered linework and weirdly surrealistic humour . Although ViP was definitely an original , his subject matter is similar to that of Gahan Wilson , Arnold Roth and the great Basil Wolverton . The very first issue of Playboy magazine had two illustrations on its cover : a photo of Marilyn Monroe , and a drawing by ViP , with a caption stating that more ViP cartoons were inside . If it's good enough for Playboy , it's good enough for me . Oddly , the short Disney cartoon ' Duck Pimples ' seems to be Virgil Partch's one and only foray into film animation . . . odd , because it's a complete success which should have brought Partch similar job assignments . The credits of ' Duck Pimples ' list Partch only as scriptwriter , but the characters in this cartoon ( except for Donald Duck ) show the clear influence of Partch's linework , and they don't resemble other Disney characters from this period . I'm positive that Partch must have drawn the model sheets for these characters , and he may well have drawn key poses for the characters as well . This is a fun cartoon that the whole family will enjoy : it has Disney's high production values , yet ( despite the presence of Donald Duck ) it isn't a typical Disney cartoon . The title ' Duck Pimples ' is awkward : the opening title card bears the title ' Goose Pimples ' , with ' Goose ' crossed out and ' Duck ' written underneath . Either way , the title doesn't make much sense , because this cartoon doesn't have a scary theme . At the beginning , Donald Duck is alone in his house on a dark night , reading a spooky story . There's one very clever visual device , as Donald's armchair gradually morphs into a green monster underneath his body . Even small children will recognise that this is a symptom of Donald's imagination , not an actual event . But after this clever image , the cartoon veers away from scary themes into the wild surrealism typical of Partch's magazine cartoons . Even the story in Donald's book moves away from scary themes into whodunnit territory . The characters in Donald's story leap out of the book and start haranguing him . Among these is a police detective with an Irish brogue , his voice supplied ( uncredited ) by silent-film comedian and longtime voice artist Billy Bletcher . Also present is Pauline , a sexy female cartoon character who seems to be a prototype for Jessica Rabbit . The action is weird and fast-paced , more typical of Bob Clampett at Warners during this same period than anything Disney was doing at this time . But the violence in ' Duck Pimples ' is negligible ( which was seldom true of Clampett ) , and the whole film is delightful except for a very weak final gag . I'll rate ' Duck Pimples ' .
Eerie supernatural masterpiece .	I saw ' En Kunstners gennembrud ' in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . The festival screened a beautifully tinted acetate print , struck in 2001 from an original nitrate release print in Filmarchiv Austria , with German title card and intertitles replacing the Danish originals . The film's title has been rendered in English as ' The Soul of the Violin ' , but ' souls ' ( plural ) would be more appropriate for this story . The Austrian print's very minimal credits did not divulge whether this is an original story or an adaptation of some European folk legend . ( I hope that a Danish print surfaces , with more information . ) This movie has the very eerie feel of one of Hans Christian Andersen's darker fairy tales . It's a shame that Andersen's most well-known stories ( at least in Britain and America ) are the cheerful ones with happy or semi-happy endings . Some of his best fairy tales are very dark and eerie indeed , and ' The Soul of a Violin ' ( as I'll call it here ) had exactly that spooky ambiance for me . This movie also reminded me of Alexander Pushkin's horror story ' Queen of Spades ' , as well as ' The Student of Prague ' and the later ( 1921 ) German fantasy film ' The Lost Shadow ' , which also features an aspiring violinist . Emanuel Restes is a struggling young violinist who longs for fame , and it's clear that this is more important to him than the music itself . Eventually , he learns that it's possible to capture the soul of a dying person within his violin : the instrument will then emit music with all the eloquence of its captive soul . . . but at the cost of depriving the victim soul its rightful passage to the afterworld . Of course , Emanuel chooses to do this , and he straight away becomes a successful musician . But there are unexpected events destined for him . . . Normally , when synopsising an obscure film which other IMDb readers are unlikely to view for themselves , at this point I would put ' SPOILER ' and then reveal the ending . In this case , I choose not to . . . because I hope to cultivate widespread curiosity about this film , in an effort to give it more visibility . ' En Kunstners gennembrud ' is a beautiful and eloquent film which deserves to become widely available . Unfortunately , its awkward running time ( three-fourths of an hour ) means that ' The Soul of a Violin ' is unlikely to be released on home video or DVD except as part of a compilation programme . Whatever it takes ; this film deserves to be seen . ' En Kunstners gennembrud ' is an eerie supernatural story that borders on the horror-film genre . I'm tempted to state ( untruthfully ) that this movie IS a horror film , so that the well-organised cadres of horror-flick fans will get a campaign going to bring this obscure masterpiece to DVD . Nasty rumours elsewhere to the contrary , I'm not going to lie to you on this website : ' En Kunstners gennembrud ' is almost spooky enough to be a horror movie , but not quite . It's really more of a dark fairy tale for adults . My rating : . Make every effort to view this movie .
No , really . . . I was pushing that sheep through the fence !	THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SEXUAL CONTENT WHICH MAY BE DISTRESSING TO SOME READERS . ' Marquis ' is the only film I've ever seen by the oddly-named Henri Xhonneux , but it's so imaginative and entertaining that I'm eager to see more of his work . ' Marquis ' alleges to be based on incidents in the life and novels of the Marquis de Sade . If you're seeking a " Cliff Notes " crib-sheet about de Sade or his works , look elsewhere . On its own merits , though , this film is highly enjoyable for those with a taste for the bizarre . Some of the activities of the real-life Marquis de Sade were downright contemptible , but I intensely admire the tremendous efforts he took to write down his prose in prison ( where he was forbidden to possess paper or writing implements ) and to smuggle his text out of prison for publication . I was intrigued to learn that the Marquis was a prisoner in the Bastille until only a few days before it was captured by the revolutionaries in 1789 ; it now appears that de Sade actively fomented the riot of Bastille Day , shouting to the people outside that there were weapons and allies within the prison . IMDb lists ' Marquis ' as an animated film , but that's only partly accurate . The animation occurs chiefly in the sequences in which the Marquis de Sade has long heart-to-heart talks with his own penis ! The penis has a small human face ( upturned , oddly ) and a voice and personality of its own . All the characters in this film are anthropomorphised animals , walking upright and played by human dancers in elaborate costumes and masks . ( I thought these were even more impressive than the ones used in the Beatrix Potter ballet film . ) Thus , for example , de Sade's Justine is a white mare , dressed in a dominatrix costume which displays her very shapely human figure ! Juliette is a cow , only slightly less pulchritudinous than Justine . The characters ' dialogue is post-dubbed by voice artists , and the credits generously list both the performers who embody the characters and the voice artists on the soundtrack . The filmmakers cleverly match the personalities of the various characters to appropriate animal species . Still , I was pulled up short by one scene in a coffee-house . More than a dozen species of land-based animals are interacting , and then into the room walks a fish ! Somehow , it felt wrong to see an aquatic species among the land beasties . Thankfully , all of the voice artists speak normally , rather than trying to moo or whinny their dialogue . The Marquis spends most of the film in prison , where he is harangued by his warder : a rat who is obsessed with being buggered by the Marquis . ( He is apparently unaware that the Marquis's penis has its own thoughts on this matter . ) I found the rat character implausible : as a warder , unlike his inmates he can go home at night and find sexual release outside the prison . There's lots of hearty comedy here , not all of it sexual . . . but the sexual content is deeply aberrant throughout the film , so ' Marquis ' is not for all audiences . The animal costumes are so intensely detailed that there's an atmosphere of bestiality throughout this sexually-charged comedy . I'll rate ' Marquis ' .
Much better than I'd expected .	I saw this short drama at the 1998 Cinema Muto festival in Pordenone ; they screened a print from the Library of Congress with the original intertitles missing . IMDb's synopsis of ' The Fascinating Mrs Francis ' is accurate but leaves out some useful details . SPOILERS AHEAD . After the youth becomes infatuated with the older Mrs Francis , his father convinces her to pretend to be a drunkard ( ! ) so that the boy will dis-infatuate himself . Even if drunkenness was more heavily stigmatised in 1909 than it is today , I don't believe that this would dissuade a lovesick young man in the full flush of his hormones . Worse luck : after the young man ( played by Herbert Yost ) falls out of love with Mrs Francis , he decides to shoot himself . I was shocked that this callow idiot had access to firearms , and even more shocked that he'd be stupid enough to react so drastically to such a minor tragedy . I found the suicide attempt in this DW Griffith film to be even more shocking because it reminded me of the real-life tragedy of Bobby Harron , a young actor in Griffith's troupe who often played roles similar to the one Yost portrays here . After losing an important role to a rival actor , Harron shot himself . . . surviving just long enough to claim that the shooting was an accident . The ending of ' The Fascinating Mrs Francis ' is touchingly romantic . The boy's parents introduce him to a young lady nearer his own age , and we see them hit it off . The father offers money to Mrs Francis for her help , but she refuses it . She does , however , tenderly kiss a rose that the young man had dropped . Nice ending ! Good acting , too . I don't think I'd want to meet any of these people , but I'll rate this movie .
Knife-edge prison drama	The Puerto Rican playwright Miguel Pinero ( no relation to the English playwright Sir Arthur Wing Pinero ) was originally a career criminal who turned his life around while serving an armed-robbery sentence in Sing Sing . In an inmates ' playwriting workshop , Pinero wrote the brilliant drama " Short Eyes " which deservedly was produced on Broadway . A talented actor as well as a gifted writer , Pinero worked on other projects as well before dying tragically young of complications from his early years of drugs abuse . The movie version of " Short Eyes " was filmed in New York City's 19th-century prison the Tombs ( NOT Rikers Island ) , which was closed at the time of the film's production but has since then been re-opened for business . Many of the extras and bit players in this film are actual inmates who were serving minimum-security sentences in the NYC prison system while this movie was made . As one might expect , this movie's depiction of prison life is jarringly accurate . . . as is the foul language . All those prison movies of the 1940s featured Cagney or Bogart in an all-white prison population . In " Short Eyes " , we see a prison population of blacks and hispanics ( and black prison guards ) in which white inmates ( all working-class ) are the racial minority . The inmates live in racially-divided conclaves . A black prisoner named Omar has converted to Islam , and he harangues the other blacks for being slaves to the white man . The leader of the white inmates is " Longshoe " Charlie Murphy ( a standout performance by actor Joseph Carberry ) . The guards crack down on violence , but occasionally a guard will violate regulations and allow two inmates to brawl for a few minutes so that all the inmates will blow off some aggression which might otherwise lead to a riot . The subject of prison sex is dealt with tactfully in a brief shower scene . A young virginal hispanic inmate has been given the unwanted nickname Cupcakes . When he tries to take a shower , a predatory older inmate named Paco tries to seduce Cupcakes . What happens next . . . or rather what DOESN'T happen . . . makes this the least realistic scene in the film . The other outlet for the prisoners is music . We see Tex-Mex singer Freddy Fender as a Mexican inmate , leading his cellblock neighbours in a jam session . Curtis Mayfield also does double duty as an actor / musician here . There's a weird dance number which ( unlike anything in ' Jailhouse Rock ' ) is very plausible in this cellblock context . The prisoners are tolerant of one another's crimes : murderers , rapists and thieves are all accepted here . Now a new prisoner arrives : a middle-class white man named Clark ( brilliantly played by Bruce Davison ) . Figuring this first-timer is here for a white-collar crime , Longshoe tells Clark the basics of prison routine . But then a guard reveals that Clark is a " short eyes " : he's been charged with molesting a child . This is the one crime that these hardened inmates won't tolerate . Clark is now a pariah , and there's a harrowing scene in which the other inmates break down his dignity . . . stealing his cigarettes and bullying him into surrendering the gold chain his mother gave him . Clark has only been charged with a crime , not convicted , but all the inmates are convinced he's guilty . One of the warders has a daughter who was molested . . . not by Clark , but the guard is perfectly willing to scapegoat Clark for another man's crime . There's a riveting scene between Davison and Jose Perez as a trusty named Juan , who questions Clark about his guilt . Clark admits that he's a child molester , but he swears that he can't remember whether or not he committed the specific assault for which he's been arrested . Juan is sceptical about this . In a stark monologue , Clark describes one of his assaults on an underage girl . SPOILERS COMING RIGHT NOW . Because the white prisoners are outnumbered and out-toughed , Longshoe is under pressure to prove he's as hard as the leaders of the black and hispanic groups . While the other prisoners cheer him on , Longshoe grabs a prison knife ( a razor blade with a toothbrush handle ) and he slits Clark's throat . Before the guards arrive , the knife is whisked away . . . to be kept handy for other occasions . In an epilogue , a warder informs the inmates that an investigation has cleared Clark : he didn't commit the crime for which he was arrested . The hard faces of the inmates show they don't care : Clark was a " short eyes " , and that's the one unpardonable crime in this place . " Short Eyes " is a taut and brilliant movie , with only a couple of scenes that don't quite convince . I'll rate this movie .
Comet allez-vous ? Armageddon out of here !	I saw the Danish Film Institute's digitally-restored print of this film when it was screened at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy , in October 2006 . In 1910 , the entire planet Earth went through the tail of Halley's comet . The only physical effect was that nights were brighter than usual that year ( nowadays , we wouldn't notice , due to all the light pollution ! ) . However , a societal effect was a sharp increase in apocalyptic stories , with the world ending due to a comet or some similar phenomenon . The vogue continued for some years thereafter , leading to Conan Doyle's 1913 novel ' The Poison Belt ' and perhaps even Hollywood's apocalyptic drama of the 1930s , ' Deluge ' . The mise-en-scene of ' Verdens undergang ' makes it clear that this film is inspired not only by the recent visit of Halley's comet but also by the steadily worsening Great War elsewhere in Europe , and by the peasants ' overthrow of the Czar in Russia . Carl Lauritzen plays a mine foreman named West . His two daughters are a study in contrasts : blonde virginal Edith ( Johane Fritz-Petersen ) and dark adventurous Dina ( Emma Thompson , I mean Ebba Thomsen ) . After jilting a poorer man named Flint ( Thorleif Lund ) , Dina elopes with Frank Stoll ( Olaf Fønss ) , an industrialist who practically has dollar signs tattooed on his forehead . Edith is content to cast her lot with that of Reymers ( Alf Blütecher ) , a poor but honest ship's officer . Meanwhile , there are reports that a comet is on a collision course with Earth . ( Don'tcha hate it when that happens ? ) Stoll cleverly exploits the mounting panic to make a stock-market fortune for himself . . . even while the apocalyptic rumours are becoming more obviously an accurate prediction . The movie never questions why Stoll is so obsessed with increasing his wealth when even he realises that the world is doomed . Now get this , please . On the night when the comet is scheduled to strike Earth and kill everybody , Stoll and Dina and invite all their wealthy decadent friends to an orgy in the Stolls ' mansion . There's lots of frenzied orgiastics ( 1916 version ) . Meanwhile , Flint leads an attack of the enraged proletariat on the mansion . I found the behaviour of the lower-class characters in this movie even less plausible than the behaviour of the wealthy ones : fully aware that this is the last night of their lives , they waste it by trying to destroy someone else's property and killing them . . . even though that property and those lives are going to be ended tonight anyway . Sure enough : Flint and the Stolls die BEFORE the world ends . SPOILERS COMING . Meantime , fire rains from the heavens while the oceans flood the continents , in an apocalypse that looks astonishingly biblical . Rising seas , of course , are nothing for ship's mate Reymers . When all the trouble dies down , it appears that there are only two people left on Earth : Reymers and Edith . Up until now , we've been reminded of the Book of Revelations . . . but now it looks like we're back to Genesis , with a Danish version of Adam and Eve . Cue the end credits . ' Verdens undergang ' occasionally teeters on the edge of risibility , since most of the actors in this film appear to be playing social archetypes rather than human beings . Several times while watching this movie , I was reminded of my all-time favourite film - - ' Metropolis ' - - but , in every single way that these two movies are similar , ' Metropolis ' is definitely superior . I was deeply impressed with how ' Verdens undergang ' managed to stage the end of the world , and its aftermath , on a much lower budget than Fritz Lang had for ' Metropolis ' . The scenes of the comet's arrival are simply and cheaply depicted , by means of showering sparks and billowing smoke : this understated effect is surprisingly convincing , and eerie as well . Later , the scenes of the rising flood provide some powerful exterior shots . I'm always intrigued when film-makers attempt to depict an apocalypse ( or any real disaster ) in locations where people are actually living and working , rather than on a studio set . ' Verdens undergang ' is not the most plausible end-of-the-world film I've ever seen - - that would likely be ' The Day the Earth Caught Fire ' - - but it's eerily compelling in its own right , and I'll rate this movie .
A star at age 13 !	There are some remarkable similarities between Sally Ann Howes and Julie Andrews . Both began their careers as singing ingenues in the same era . Julie's stepfather Ted Andrews was a radio entertainer ; Sally Ann's father Bobby Howes starred in West End musicals , playing a character similar to Eddie Cantor's but less brash and more wistful . Sally Ann Howe's most famous film is ' Chitty Chitty Bang Bang ' , which is a clear attempt to copy the formula of ' Mary Poppins ' . ' Thursday's Child ' is Sally Ann Howes's film debut : at age 13 , she proves herself an astonishingly accomplished actress of almost supernatural beauty . She is cast here as Fennis Wilson , the younger daughter of a tradesman's family . Her 20-year-old sister Phoebe has ambitions to become a film actress , and wangles an audition at Elstree Studios . As part of a ruse to prevent her mother from chaperoning , Phoebe brings Fennis along to the studio . Meanwhile , Elstree are seeking a child actress to star in ' Strange Barrier ' ( sounds like a science-fiction film ) . A casting director ( with an annoyingly exaggerated Bow Bells accent ) spots Fennis waiting for her sister . He persuades Fennis to read for the role , and . . . a star is born ! This premise might seem unbelievable , were it not for the very real talent of Sally Ann Howes . Fennis is soon offered a contract , at 50 pounds weekly : an astonishing sum for wartime Britain . Fennis's father is a dispensing chemist ( a druggist ) , played by Wilfrid Lawson : there's a very touching scene in which he carefully measures drugs onto his balance scales while pondering the fact that his daughter has a chance to make more money in a few months than his father made in an entire year . SPOILERS COMING . Frustrated actress Phoebe becomes envious of her younger sister's success . Eventually , Phoebe leaves home . . . with no money and no prospects , a vulnerable young woman who will be easy prey for any man on the make . Oddly , this subplot is left unresolved at the end of the film . Stewart Granger is in the cast of this film , but he appears only briefly . Much better here is underrated character actor Anthony Holles as a man who counsels Fennis's mother on the consequences of her daughter's sudden stardom . Gerhard Kempinski ( looking amazingly like Danny DeVito ) is annoying in a cliched ' funny ' foreigner role . Director-scenarist Rodney Ackland shows a sure hand with the script . Less happily , his directorial style is distinctive , but not in a favourable way . Ackland has a penchant for tight close-ups of unimportant objects , giving them more significance than they warrant in the script . This is especially blatant during a sequence in the Elstree canteen , when Fennis's mother ( Kathleen O'Regan ) suddenly encounters an actor wearing monster-movie makeup . We see a tight close-up of actress O'Regan screaming in terror . This would be appropriate in a horror movie or a suspense movie involving genuine menace , but in this context Ackland's penchant for close-ups puts far too much dramatic weight on what's clearly meant to be a comic-relief bit . There's one extremely impressive montage sequence in ' Thursday's Child ' , depicting Fennis's rise to stardom . ( Done much better than a similar sequence in ' What Price Hollywood . ' ) I suspect that this montage was shot by a second-unit director , not Ackland . BIG SPOILER NOW . The film's ending is unexpected but completely welcome . Fennis reads a biography of Marie Curie , and is inspired to give up her acting career to become a research chemist . Ironically , earlier in the film , a press agent tried to ginger-up Fennis's studio biography by stating that her father ( a lowly dispensing chemist ) is a research chemist ( a much more glamorous job ) . I'm impressed that ' Thursday's Child ' tells its young female viewers to aspire to become scientists rather than actresses . Modern audiences might have trouble following some of the wartime references in the dialogue , such as when Phoebe spends her ' coupons ' to buy a birthday gift for Fennis . Still , this is an absolutely delightful film , starring a talented actress on the brink of womanhood . I'll rate ' Thursday's Child ' .
That's not how we re-Hearst it .	' Captured on Film : The True Story of Marion Davies ' is one of several documentaries directed by Hugh Munro Neely and produced by Hugh Hefner , each one spotlighting a legendary actress of silent films . Full disclosure : I've had some minor interaction with Mr Neely and I consider him a friend , so I may be slightly prejudiced in favour of this movie . But I genuinely enjoyed it . Any appraisal of Marion Davies's life and career must necessarily examine her relationship with William Randolph Hearst . ' Captured on Film ' goes to great lengths - - protesting too much , methinks - - in its insistence that Hearst and Davies were not the inspiration for the fictional relationship between Charles Foster Kane and Susan Alexander in ' Citizen Kane ' . Unfortunately , this documentary offers a series of talking heads making that disavowal , but provides no real evidence . I wish that ' Captured on Film ' had mentioned , even briefly , the two real-life couples whose relationships probably inspired Orson Welles's depiction of Kane and Susan Alexander . Jules Brulatour was an early film producer who tried to build up an acting career for his untalented mistress Hope Hampton ( whom he wed secretly ) ; their relationship strongly resembles the Kane / Alexander liaison . An even stronger inspiration was undoubtedly the life and career of newspaper publisher Colonel Robert McCormick , who built the Chicago Opera House so that he could groom his beautiful but tone-deaf mistress for a career as an opera diva . Anyone familiar with McCormick's career will realise that his life , and his relationship with his mistress , resemble Citizen Kane and Susan Alexander far more closely than Hearst and Davies ever did . It's a shame that Hugh Neely never mentioned any of this while making his argument . I predict that future generations will continue to ' know for a fact ' that Citizen Kane is Hearst and Susan Alexander is Davies , and will be uninterested in learning otherwise . This documentary features some delightful excerpts from Davies's more obscure films , but does not always identify them . We see a brief ( and funny ) clip of Davies walking down a street with a procession of men following her , but we're not told that this is from ' Tillie the Toiler ' . We also see a brief clip of Davies with a chorus line of Coldstream Guards from ' Hollywood Revue of 1929 ' ; I wish that this documentary had included her entire musical number from that film . More favourably , I was pleased when narrator Charlize Theron mentioned that Davies was production manager of her films : unlike Susan Alexander , Marion Davies was not some brainless bimbo living off a sugar daddy ! Also , I was gratified that Neely and his crew got the name right for Davies's film ' The Florodora Girl ' . . . because that show's title is often misspelt as ' FlorAdora ' . We're shown a brief clip of Davies in ' The Red Mill ' , but this documentary never mentions the tremendous irony behind that film : ' The Red Mill ' was directed ( under an alias ) by silent-film comedian Roscoe Arbuckle , after Arbuckle's acting career was ruined by the publicity-hungry Hearst . We get some sound bites from two matronly ladies who knew Davies when they were girls : these ladies are daughters of King Vidor , the man who directed Davies in some of her best films ( including her best and sexiest performance , ' The Patsy ' ) . I wish that this documentary had done more to establish the working relationship between Davies and the underrated Vidor , since he did so much to mould her career . Hearst liked to showcase Davies in elaborate costume dramas that would position her as a ' serious ' actress , but Vidor recognised that Davies's true talent was for light social comedies . I was pleased that this documentary entirely avoided a device that has been overused in several other showbiz documentaries : re-enactments of key incidents in the subject's life , performed by modern actors with their faces out of frame . Hugh Neely's documentaries often feature elaborate and imaginative visual sequences that must have been complicated to set up . We get one of those here , as pieces of a jigsaw puzzle conjoin themselves to form a head shot of Davies , which then dissolves into a publicity photo of Davies . It's clear that Neely and his crew must have done this sequence backwards : duplicating the vintage photo , then cutting up the duplicate into a jigsaw puzzle , then disassemblng the pieces . The effort involved is impressive . I'll rate ' Captured on Film ' . I would have rated this enjoyable documentary a perfect 10 if only it had included a brief mention of Colonel McCormick and his mistress . . . the real inspirations for the Citizen Kane story .
Betty Boop gives a lube job .	I'm not a fan of Betty Boop , but ' So Does an Automobile ' is one of her more enjoyable cartoons . It features Betty in a storyline that doesn't require us to accept her as beautiful or voluptuous . ( Honestly : if you saw a real woman who looked and sounded like Betty Boop - - that gigantic head , that tiny mouth , that perpetual whimper - - would you actually be pleased ? More likely , you'd scream and run away in disgust . ) In this cartoon , Betty is running a service garage for anthropomorphised cars that look like Benny the Cab from ' Who Framed Roger Rabbit ' : really more of a car hospital than anything else . As she ministers to the cars , Betty sings a very catchy tune , every verse of which ends with the song's title , and all the verses make comparisons between humans and cars . A person needs some sympathy , and ' so does an automobile ' . And so on . In addition to the very pleasant song - - which keeps Betty from doing her usual breathy whimpering - - there's also an extremely funny payoff gag , which should be easy to figure out if you look at this movie's title while considering the Fleischer studio's penchant for risqué gags . Still , by Fleischer standards that last gag is quite clean . I might even call it " auto " erotic . I'll rate this delightful movie 9 in 10 .
Banjo Eyes gets pulled over .	' Getting a Ticket ' , a comedy short starring Eddie Cantor , is much funnier than the peculiar and protracted tailor-shop skit which Cantor had performed a few months earlier in the feature film ' Glorifying the American Girl ' . There are some crudities here : at one point , there's a cut to another camera set-up just in time to step on Eddie's punchline . The jokes in this 1930 movie are dated too : Cantor makes a rueful reference to ' September B . C . - - before the Crash ' . He tells a traffic cop that the suspicious bundle next to him is his laundry . When it turns out to be a bottle of Prohibition whisky , Cantor explains ' My wet wash . ' There is an impressive travelling shot as Eddie drives his car down a highway in what appears to be Nassau County , Long Island . When the cop demands to know Cantor's address , Cantor replies ' We moved . ' Cantor then sings ' My Wife Is on a Diet ' , using most of his trademarked physical business . This delightful short gives us a look at a vitally important performer at the peak of his career , and I'll rate it .
Long before Zapruder . . .	William McKinley was an extremely popular President . ( The man who assassinated him was a crackpot nihilist , who shot McKinley merely because he was the President . . . not for any motive relevant to McKinley's policies . ) Among McKinley's other achievements was his very dignified method of campaigning . McKinley refused to ' run ' for office : instead , he made public appearances on the porch of his home near Canton , Ohio , politely answering the questions of reporters who came to interview him . This brief film purports to show William McKinley at the moment when he receives the Republican nomination in the summer of 1896 , but it's actually a re-enactment staged several weeks later . At this early point in the history of movies , most ' newsreels ' were doubly phony because the kings and generals depicted onscreen were actually anonymous actors in disguise , re-staging recent events . This film is also a re-enactment , but at least it features the actual people it claims to depict . William McKinley's brother Abner and his mentor Benjamin Harrison ( the former President ) were stockholders in the Biograph Film Company , and they persuaded McKinley to appear onscreen . A two-man camera crew arrived at McKinley's home in September 1896 , setting up their equipment outside McKinley's L-shaped house . McKinley comes out of the house with his secretary , George Cortelyou , who formally hands McKinley the nomination documents ( actually , a prop ) . McKinley glances at the papers , takes off his hat to reveal his receding hairline , and mops his large forehead with an even larger handkerchief . That's it . If you look closely at the porch in the background , you can see McKinley's wife : the former Ida Saxton sits on a rocking chair on the porch and fans herself during this gripping action . Mrs McKinley was a frail invalid : in private , she was pushed about in a wheelchair ; in public , McKinley and his advisors went to great lengths to conceal her condition . When McKinley was fatally shot ( in 1901 , with George Cortelyou nearby ) , it's noteworthy that he ignored his own condition and spent his last conscious moments imploring Cortelyou to look after Mrs McKinley . By all accounts , the McKinleys were deeply in love . If he had lived , he might have been one of America's greatest Chief Executives . . . he was certainly one of the most beloved . This movie is a vitally important historic document , but because it's a staged re-enactment I'll rate it only instead of a full 10 points .
George Rosener as Milton Parsons .	SPOILERS AHEAD . I must disagree with my IMDb colleague Bob Lipton , who says that Dickie Moore gets his legs chopped off in this movie . There's a very convincing special-effects sequence in which little Dickie's go-cart gets run over by a stolen car , and there's some dialogue in hospital about Dickie being crippled , but in the last scene he's walking quite nicely . ( Child actor Moore gives a very impressive performance here , unlike several cinema brats I could mention . ) ' The Devil Is Driving ' is a neat B-picture crime drama , in which the spiral ramp of a service garage figures several times in the plot . I was impressed with Henry Sharp's travelling shot of a speeding car up this ramp . Edmund Lowe starts the movie by cheeking a midget bridegroom ( step forward , Tod Browning ) , so I figured Lowe was playing an unsympathetic character , but he turns out to be the hero . James Gleason plays slightly more crooked than usual , as a character improbably named ' Beef ' even though there's clearly not much beef on Gleason's frame . Gleason's character gets murdered halfway through the movie , but Gleason remains on camera ( in close-up ) for some process shots as an automotive corpse , ' driving ' a car down that ramp and into traffic . Speaking of undersized actors , little Charles Williams has a larger role than usual here , as a brash newsreel cameraman . Among the great pleasures of 1930s Hollywood films are unexpected performances by obscure bit-part actors who are just occasionally given a chance to shine . The real discovery of ' The Devil Is Driving ' is George Rosener ( who ? ) , as a sinister deaf-mute henchman of spiv villain Alan Dinehart . If this movie had been made ten years later , Rosener's role would have been tailor-made for the great character actor Milton Parsons . As it is , Rosener - - who strongly resembles Parsons - - gives an astonishingly virtuoso performance in a role with no dialogue at all . Why isn't this programmer better known ? And why didn't Rosener get better roles ? I'll rate ' The Devil Is Driving ' .
Trouble at t'mill , squire .	I have mixed feelings about screen adaptations of classic novels and plays . On the one hand , they serve as a ' crib sheet ' for students ( and George Costanza types ) who are too lazy to read the original books . Also , they cheat viewers out of the experience of the prose by the original author , in this case Dickens . On the other hand , at least these film and TV adaptations make great literary works accessible to couch-spuds who otherwise would never experience them at all . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . This BBC Schools production of Dickens's ' Hard Times ' necessarily abridges the text , even though this was by far the shortest of Dickens's novels . As usual for Auntie Beeb , the period detail here is ( mostly ) perfect , although it would have been more realistically Victorian if some of the actors had bad teeth . and if the factory hands were not so well-fed . Mister Sleary's circus is only briefly seen , yet the shots of the circus fixtures look more like a 20th-century American circus than anything of Dickens's place and time . Considering the theme of this novel , it would have been nice to see a few shots of mills and smokestacks . I was intrigued by the changes made here . In Dickens's novel , two of the major characters had unfortunate speech patterns that made their dialogue distressing to read on the page : the circus owner Mr Sleary had an erratic lisp , and the falsely-accused millhand Stephen Blackpool spoke with an ' eeh , bah gum ' accent reminiscent of George Formby . Fortunately , in this adaptation , the lisp is lost , and Blackpool's ' oop North ' dialect is greatly toned down . In Dickens's original novel , after young Tom Gradgrind embezzles £150 from Bounderby's bank , he hides in Sleary's circus . . . where the circus folk conceal him by disguising him in blackface . I found this detail upsetting , partly because of its racism but also because blackface make-up ( even without the racial implications ) is physically disgusting to look at . For this television adaptation of Dickens's novel , it would have made sense to disguise Tom in the white Auguste make-up that most clowns in Victorian England wore . Instead , he is kitted out with a big red nose and a Weary Willie make-up which are decidedly anachronistic - - he looks like Emmett Kelly - - but definitely preferable to blackface . Another nitpick : in an earlier sequence , the actor who plays Tom Gradgrind is seen writing left-handed . . . but surely Tom's Victorian father would have ' cured ' him of that tendency ! One other change in this adaptation annoyed me very much , the more so because it was gratuitous . Although Tom's father , the schoolmaster Thomas Gradgrind , is often regarded as the villain of ' Hard Times ' , that perception is incorrect : Josiah Bounderby ( well-played here by Alan Bates ) is the principal villain ; Gradgrind is more like Ebenezer Scrooge in that he sees the error of his ways , repents and reforms . In Dickens's novel , Gradgrind stands for Parliament and is elected , but Dickens pointedly never identifies Gradgrind's political affiliation . In this BBC production , Gradgrind is explicitly identified as a Tory . Further , in the climactic scene , when Gradgrind tries to save his son from gaol by appealing to Bitzer's compassion , Bitzer taunts Gradgrind for his ' conservative philosophy ' . That adjective ' conservative ' was not there when Dickens wrote this scene ! It's clear that some liberal at the BBC has decided to score a few points against the Conservative party with some cheap shots that really don't belong in this otherwise splendid production . As a rates-payer , I deeply resent that my licence fee goes to support propaganda which do not reflect my own political beliefs . . . nor those of Dickens , I might add . It's because of that gratuitous politicking that I'll rate this production one point short of a perfect score : .
78 ( Russian ) revolutions per minute	The Russian comedy film ' New Moscow ' is barely known even in Russia ; apparently it incurred the wrath of the commissars during its original screening in 1938 , and was suppressed afterward . I'm amazed that it survived at all . Alyosha ( played by Daniil Sagal , uncle of Peg Bundy ! ) is a Siberian farmboy who looks amazingly like the Bolshevik version of Li'l Abner . But Alyosha longs to be an architect and urban planner : accordingly , he has designed and built a model of a glorious utopian city which he calls ' Moscow Future ' : if only the commissars will listen to him , Moscow Future will become reality . ( Among its other merits - - by communist standards - - this Moscow has no trace of Saint Basil's Cathedral nor any other church . ) Alyosha schleps his model all the way to the real Moscow , where urban renewal is in progress . This is a source of dismay for Fedia ( Pavel Sukhanov ) , a cityscape painter who can't finish any of his paintings . . . because the old buildings are torn down and new ones erected more quickly than he can paint them . While Alyosha prepares his presentation , he falls in love with little blonde Zoya ( Nina Alisova ) , who looks like a somewhat more modest and chaste Russian version of Daisy Mae Scragg . The high point of the film is when Alyosha activates his model city , and it almost magically seems to come to life . But this is a comedy , so the mechanism gets jammed in reverse . Alyosha is horrified as his midget Moscow actually begins to regress to its Czarist condition , with onion domes springing up and so forth . I was very impressed with the production design of this film , as well as by the performances of several of the actors . Some of the comedy is still funny after all these five-year plans . Writer-director Alexander Medvedkin is clearly critical of Stalin's regime : I applaud him for having the guts to say so in 1938 , and I'm astounded that this film was permitted to survive . I'll rate ' New Moscow ' .
Stan , Stan , the funniest man ( and woman )	' The Sleuth ' , directed by my friend the late Joe Rock , is a starring vehicle for Stan Laurel pre-Hardy . Laurel is excellent here , playing a character quite different from his later ' Stanley ' dimwit . He's Webster Dingle , a private detective . Alberta Vaughn walks into his office ; her husband ( Glen Cavender , excellent ) is a flirt and a crook , so she wants Laurel to arrest him . ( For which offence , please ? ) Laurel infiltrates the household as a parlourmaid ! Stan Laurel was one of the few male comedians who could plausibly impersonate a woman ( another such was Roscoe Arbuckle ) , and he's an absolute delight here in his maid's uniform and wig . Daringly , when we first see Laurel in female garb in this movie , he's standing with his back to the camera and wearing a hat - - thus drawing attention to the size and shape of his male body rather than relying on female cosmetics or a feminine hairstyle - - and yet he's still passable as a woman . In this scene , Laurel also uses a capelet to minimise his male shoulders . . . but he didn't need it ! In a later sequence , once again in female disguise , Laurel vamps the villains in an outfit that exposes his bare arms and shoulders . . . and he's STILL believable as a woman ! Most of Laurel's performance in this film - - in various disguises , male and female - - is quite subtle and funny , but he still can't resist a bit of the hand-to-brow histrionics of his earlier and coarser comedies . Laurel also has one ' impossible ' gag here that's badly done : after exiting a shot from the left side of the screen , he almost instantly re-enters at the right side of the screen . I wasn't expecting this , so I didn't watch for a jump cut . However , he killed the gag a few seconds later in the same shot , when he AGAIN exited at the left and then AGAIN re-entered at the right . This time , because I was expecting it , I spotted the join in the jump cut . Film-making 101 : never do the same trick twice the same way ; your audience will spot it the second time . There are some truly hilarious gags here , with female hands constantly snatching off Laurel's various disguises . I laughed uproariously at one sequence , when a whole band of Cavender's henchmen queue up to cosh Laurel . . . and he uses an amazingly effective trick to make them all cosh each other instead . Very funny ! I'll rate ' The Sleuth ' . Laurel's performance here is very different from his Stan-and-Ollie turns , and ' The Sleuth ' is easily much funnier than some of the poorer Laurel and Hardy comedies .
If this movie was accurate , I wouldn't be alive .	Mike Leigh is a brilliant filmmaker , whose films feature impeccable production design . Reportedly , Leigh never writes a script : he preps his actors in their characterisations , and then all dialogue is improvised on the set ! I found only one production flaw in ' Vera Drake ' : Susan , the upper-class young Londoner in 1950 , sports a Bettie Page hairdo that is simply not appropriate for her character's social class at this time . ( Women in postwar Britain favoured ' austerity ' hairstyles . ) ' Vera Drake ' is one of Leigh's best films , but there's a dishonesty at the centre of this film that should not pass unmentioned . I'm just barely old enough to recall Britain in the early 1950s . Vera Drake is a fiftyish prole who works as a daily for wealthier women . . . one of whom has a daughter who gets date-raped , resulting in a pregnancy . Her situation is depicted accurately : although abortion is illegal in 1950s Britain , exceptions are made for women who can get a psychiatrist's consent . . . and who can afford to pay for the surgical procedure in hospital . We see Vera Drake doing charitable work for various impoverished people in her neighbourhood . Because Leigh wants to manipulate our opinions , he is careful to establish his heroine as selfless by first showing Vera calling on elderly shut-ins . Only later do we learn the real agenda of this movie : among her other services , Vera performs illegal syringe abortions on young women . Leigh gets even more manipulative by setting up an extremely contrived situation in which Vera doesn't realise that the women are paying money for this service : all the lolly goes to Lily , the woman who pimps Vera's services while selling black-market goods . So , Vera is performing abortions without expecting any payment . Vera's son , an assistant tailor , does a spot of spivving on the side , selling black-market nylons and cigarettes . All of this is clearly meant to dilute the stigma of Vera's work as an abortionist . Most of the casting is first-rate , as usual for Leigh . I disliked Imelda Staunton in the sitcom ' Is It Legal ? ' , but here as Vera she gives a virtuoso performance . The actress cast as Vera's daughter Ethel actually resembles Staunton . The brothers Stan and Frank are played by actors who resemble each other . The one false note is the casting of the actor who plays Vera's and Stan's son , who doesn't resemble either of them . The very sexy and talented Fenella Woolgar ( an actress of whom I expect great things ) is impressive in her one scene in this film . I mentioned a central dishonesty . In 1950s Britain most people were deeply religious , or at least pretended to be ( if they weren't , they usually kept quiet about it ) , and nearly all Britons were opposed to abortion because they sincerely perceived it to be murder . Whether or not you share that opinion , historical truth requires Leigh to acknowledge that religious belief pervaded all social classes in Britain during the time and place where this story unfolds . Yet not one person in ' Vera Drake ' seems to have any sort of religious devotion . This is like setting a movie in the USA during Prohibition but never mentioning booze . Only one character in ' Vera Drake ' voices any moral ( rather than legal ) objection to abortion - - Vera's son - - and the sequence which establishes him as a spiv seems intended to undermine his moral credentials . Leigh clearly isn't interested in entertaining any debate on the abortion issue . ( Given this film's gynaecological plot line , I wonder if Leigh intentionally gave his heroine a name with the initials ' V . D . ' ! ) If this movie depicted postwar Britain accurately , I wouldn't be alive . My parents ( in Scotland , not England ) were deeply impoverished , and had more children than they could afford to raise . If there had not been such an overwhelming moral ( not legal ) stigma attached to abortion at that time , my parents simply would have aborted me . Instead , they handed me over to the postwar government's ' child migrant ' scheme , and I was unwillingly expatriated to Australia as a de-facto orphan . If the people in Britain at that time had actually been like the fictional ones we see in this movie , I wouldn't exist today . ' Vera Drake ' is proficiently and expertly made , but the calculated dishonesty at its centre prevents me from rating this movie a full 10 marks out of 10 . I'll praise Leigh's cinematic talents while condemning his dishonest storytelling , and I'll rate this movie .
Very nearly as good as ' Sunrise '	' City Girl ' is a tantalising glimpse of what sort of Hollywood career F . W . Murnau might have had , if not for his untimely death . In some ways , this film resembles Murnau's masterpiece ' Sunrise ' told in reverse : here , a young couple fall in love in the city ( Chicago ) , then travel to the countryside ( Minnesota ) , where they bitterly separate , then reconcile . The two romantic leads are excellent . Charles Farrell gives possibly the best performance of his career here , easily surpassing his performances in similar roles directed by Frank Borzage . Mary Duncan is a revelation : why didn't she go on to a significant career ? She shows herself here to be a talented actress as well as attractive in a believable way , without the artificial prettiness that so many Hollywood actresses of this time had . The scene in which Farrell and Duncan chase each other through the field of grain is delightfully erotic : a very convincing evocation of love mingled with sexual attraction . Murnau was a master at directing crowd scenes . I was deeply impressed by two scenes in this film : one in a crowded railway car , the other in a crowded restaurant . In both scenes , the people in the background are doing exactly what they would be doing if this were real life . ( Two children are running up the corridor of the train . ) Compare this with so many other Hollywood films , in which the background extras are obviously frustrated actors trying to call attention to themselves . I was amused to spot Murnau doing a Hitchcock-like cameo as a customer in the restaurant . Much less convincing is a scene depicting a crowded Chicago street . Although the very complicated set for this scene is technically impressive , it's clearly a constructed set on an indoor soundstage , not an actual exterior . Also , I was displeased to see in ' City Girl ' not one but two examples of that dire movie cliché , in which a character opens a newspaper and conveniently sees a headline which relates directly to his own personal situation . There is a very impressive sequence depicting the Chicago grain exchange , and also a clever visual transition from the countryside to the city : we see farmer David Torrence slicing a loaf of bread ( aiming the large knife directly at his own chest ) , followed by a cut to a waitress in the restaurant operating an automatic bread-slicing machine , which was a high-tech gizmo back in 1930 . All of the characters in ' City Girl ' are plausible and well-acted . I'll rate this movie . Herr Murnau , if only you hadn't taken that auto trip . . .
Just what the doctor ordered	' Maybury ' is a splendid example of the sort of television drama that British production companies do so very well , and which American production companies always do badly . The setting for this series is the psychiatric unit of Maybury General Hospital , and accordingly the central theme is the treatment of mental illness . This is exactly the sort of subject which Yank television shows can never depict honestly . In most American medical dramas , it goes like this : a patient suffering from chronic mental illness has a sudden epiphany about some childhood incident , and is miraculously cured in a single one-hour episode , with time left over for commercials and an emotional monologue by the kindly doctor . It doesn't help that the mental illnesses depicted in American TV dramas tend to be contrived and implausible . I saw one recently about a mental patient who thought he was Superman , and had to be constantly prevented from flying out the window . ( I know a quick way to cure this guy : put him in a ward on the upper storey , and leave the window open . ) Refreshingly and intelligently , ' Maybury ' consistently shows that recovery from mental illness is a life-long struggle , and the series emphasises this by placing the patients in multi-episode story arcs . Also , it helps that the patients in this series have plausible and realistic mental illnesses . We meet , for example , an Irishwoman named Maisie ( Pauline Delaney ) : a recluse who allows her house to fall into disrepair while she creates bizarre oil paintings and acquires a large contingent of stray animals . Is Maisie a nutter , or merely an eccentric ? Also admitted to Maybury is housewife Julia , played by the beautiful Suzanne Bertish . Julia is an agoraphobe , terrified of leaving her home . Another patient is Alice ( Sylvestra Le Touzel ) , a mysterious woman who wears a scarf over her face and gives conflicting accounts of her past . The most frightening case on offer here ( and a chillingly plausible one ) is that of Larry Chalmers ( Norman Eshley ) , who can see his own mirror-image spying on him . At the centre of the bedlam is Dr Edward Roebuck . Actor Patrick Stewart gives a stand-out performance in this role , projecting authority and intelligence . I expect that audience interest in the ' X-Men ' and ' Star Trek ' films will prompt some viewers to seek out ' Maybury ' purely on the basis of Stewart's presence in the lead role . Anything that gets viewers to watch ' Maybury ' is fine with me . This excellent series is consistently well-scripted , with a fine cast , and I'll rate ' Maybury ' .
You won't sleep through this movie !	' Sleepers West ' has a complicated pedigree . In the early ' 30s , pulp-magazine novelist Frederick Nebel wrote a detective story called ' Sleepers EAST ' . The Fox studio bought the rights and filmed this in 1934 , but the film ' Sleepers East ' is spoilt by some boring romantic elements that dilute the mystery plot . In 1941 , Fox remade the story . . . changing the plot to make this film an appropriate entry in their ' Mike Shayne ' series . They also retitled it ' Sleepers WEST ' . The directional change is appropriate to a private-eye story , as westward is the most noir-ish direction : the progression towards sunset . . . and death . ( Compare this with Rodgers and Hart's ' All Points West ' , in which the main character dies at the end . . . or Lucille Fletcher's radio script and Twilight Zone episode ' The Hitch-Hiker ' , in which Death and his victim are both heading west on the highway . ) ' Sleepers West ' is a nice taut little B-picture , a splendid example of those second-feature low-budgeters that Hollywood did so well in the great studio era . Even the film's title pleasingly evokes the 1940s , when sleeping-cars ( ' sleepers ' ) on American railway trains were commonplace . ( On a British railway , ' sleepers ' are the wooden ties that hold up the rails . ) Movies that take place aboard moving railway trains are always enjoyable : the characters are hurtling along at top speed even if the plot goes off the rails . Lloyd Nolan had a mug that usually cast him as criminals , but here he's perfect as Mike Shayne , the hard-bitten yet incorruptible private eye . Shayne is escorting Helen Carlson from Denver to San Francisco , where she's to testify in court . Helen's testimony will free a man who's been falsely convicted of murder . . . but her testimony will also expose a powerful corrupt politician . So , of course the train to Frisco is chock-full of passengers who want to kill Helen . As if Shayne hasn't enough troubles , there's also one of those stereotypical 1940s ' girl reporter ' types ( well-played by the vivacious Lynn Bari ) , who keeps getting in Shayne's way at inconvenient moments . There are lots of those great supporting roles that nostalgic movie-goers expect in 1940s films like this : I especially enjoyed the great Edward Brophy and the underrated ( but prolific ) character actor Harry Hayden . Unfortunately , another typical trait of 1940s Hollywood movies makes an unwelcome appearance here : the gratuitous Negro stereotype . In the days of Pullman sleeping-cars , there was a well-organised union of Pullman porters : all of them African-American men . It makes perfect sense that a black actor is cast as the porter in ' Sleepers West ' . Regrettably , the role is played by Ben Carter : a plump , simpering , pop-eyed , high-pitched , effeminate black man whom I always find painful to watch on screen . Ben Carter's character portrayals were consistently much more annoying ( and possibly more racist ) than those of the notorious Stepin Fetchit . . . though never quite so annoying as those of Edgar Connor , possibly the most offensive Negro actor in the ( no pun intended ) dark days of Hollywood stereotypes . Couldn't the railway porter in this movie have been depicted as an ordinary human being : a black man just trying to make an honest living , like pretty much everyone else ? Despite that one cavil , I eagerly rate ' Sleepers West ' . They don't make ' em like this any more !
a Pock o ' Lips now .	WARNING : This review contains frank language which may offend some people . Billie Whitelaw is an extremely talented actress who is also astonishingly good-looking and sexy ; sometimes her physical beauty actually distracts from the role she is playing . Although Whitelaw could easily get steady employment in conventional roles , she chooses to take risks in unusual and experimental roles . She is generally regarded as the world's leading interpreter of the plays of Samuel Beckett . . . and here , giving a solo turn in Beckett's short drama ' Not I ' , she burnishes that well-earned reputation . For all their weird symbolism , Beckett's plays are distinctly theatrical . He often imposes bizarre physical restrictions on his actors , for example in ' Endgame ' requiring two of them to perform their roles entirely inside dustbins . In his play ' Happy Days ' , the heroine spends all of Act One buried to her waist , unable to move her lower body . . . and then throughout Act Two she is buried to the neck ! I saw Billie Whitelaw in a stage performance of ' Happy Days ' : the mound of sand immediately below her upper body served to frame and emphasise her bosom , pleasantly distracting me during her long monologues . In Beckett's short stage play ' Not I ' , the main character is a mouth : a woman's disembodied mouth , framed in a tight spotlight that negates the rest of her body . While this mouth conducts a long obsessive monologue , the only other character - - identified in Beckett's script as the Auditor - - is a silent shadowy figure , looming at the edge of the darkness . Although the Irish-born Beckett wrote his plays in French - - the original title of ' Not I ' was ' Pas Moi ' - - this play's English title is intentionally a pun . The drama's protagonist is a mouth , not an eye . ( Not eye , geddit ? ) Also , this female character - - identified in Beckett's script only as ' Mouth ' - - refuses to refer to herself in the first person . She rants obsessively about an unnamed woman whom she identifies as ' she ' and ' her ' , yet it is clear that she is speaking of herself . Did Beckett intend this to represent disassociation ? This film version of ' Not I ' dispenses with the Auditor . Billie Whitelaw gives an impressive performance as Mouth . . . a performance in which her sex appeal and her beauty are entirely withheld , as all we see is a tight close-up of her mouth . The woman laments that she is old and dying , and has resented her life literally from birth , when she was prematurely ejected from the womb . She complains of a buzzing in her head . She obsesses so much about gynaecological matters that it becomes clear to us that this disembodied mouth is also meant to be a vagina . This woman's existence is defined entirely by her reproductive organs . ( Unlike in real life , yes ? ) Billie Whitelaw gives a brave and energetic performance here , in a role in which all of her aspects other than her voice , her emotions and her mouth are irrelevant . With nothing else for us to see during this rant , we focus obsessively on the physical structure of her mouth , her lips , her teeth , her saliva . I dislike it when film critics ( usually male ) fixate on some tiny physical imperfection in the face or body of an attractive actress . In Billie Whitelaw's case , any defects in her physical beauty are very minor indeed . Yet here , in ' Not I ' , we are forced to notice every dental occlusion , every flaw of her gum lines . Beckett's script and conception reduce this woman's identity to a single physical organ - - a mere orifice - - and prevent us from seeing her in any other way . I would call this play deeply misogynist , except that all of Beckett's work reveals a profound contempt for the human race in general , so I have difficulty believing that Beckett had an especial hatred for women . I've seen many of Billie Whitelaw's stage , screen and television performances , and I've never yet seen her make a wrong move . She's brilliant here , in a role that prevents her from relying on her good looks . The play itself is deeply disturbing , but this was clearly Beckett's intention . I give Whitelaw credit for being true to the work , and not playing for our sympathy . I'll rate this ' Not I ' .
Sisterhood forever .	I found this documentary absolutely fascinating . Its title ' Joined for Life ' inevitably reminds me of ' Chained for Life ' , the notorious road-house film starring conjoined sisters ( so-called ' siamese ' twins ) Daisy and Violet Hilton . But the Hilton sisters were two complete twins who shared no major organs ; modern surgical techniques could easily have separated them . ' Joined for Life ' is the story of another pair of conjoined sisters : Abigail and Brittany Hensel . But the Hensel twins are a much more unusual case . From the waist downwards , they share a single body . Moving upwards , the torso gradually diverges into two separate structures . . . never diverging entirely until the shoulders . There is one normal arm either side of the body . ( A third , vestigial arm was surgically removed . ) Effectively , Abigail and Brittany are a two-headed girl : one body with two heads . But , as Brittany ( the one on the right , when they face the camera ) is quick to note : ' I don't have two heads ! ' The girls ' mutual torso contains ( mostly ) one set of everything , as if they were indeed only one girl . But some bones and organs are extras : they have more than two kidneys . The upper half of the torso is much broader and wider than is normal for a girl : at least once during the years before their puberty , surgeons widened the girls ' torso to provide room for the growing organs . The twins also have scoliosis in their mutual spine ; a spine which branches out as it ascends to separate atlas vertebrae . The Hensel girls ' parents buy their lower garments normally , but the upper halves of their outfits must be specially made . In this documentary , made in 2003 , the twins are 11 years old . ( One can't help wondering what challenges they'll face as puberty arrives . ) In every way except the single most obvious one , these are normal American girls . One wants to be a dentist , the other an airline pilot . They wear orthodontic braces . They hold a slumber party for some of their schoolmates . ( I found this sequence a bit too intrusive . . . but , in case any voyeurs are reading this , the sequence is in fact quite innocent . ) The Hensel twins have younger siblings , physically normal . Impressively , the Hensels ' entire community have united to protect their privacy . The girls are sometimes brought to meet the press , but only in situations of their own choosing . Journalists are unable to doorstep them , because the Hensel family's address remains a secret . Unfortunately , as they travel farther from home there is less sympathy . The Hensel twins ' mother bitterly recalls an incident at a public swimming pool when a woman demanded to know " How'd you stick those two girls together like that ? " . When told they were born that way , the woman insisted : " No , really : How'd you stick those two girls together like that ? " . There are many historic cases of dicephalus conjoined twins , but usually such pairs have been unable to walk with their shared legs . Thanks to advances in physical therapy , the Hensel sisters can walk , run and swim , each controlling the leg on her side . In ' Joined for Life ' , we see the girls taking piano lessons . . . effectively playing a duet , as each girl controls one hand . We see them actively involved in team sports , including basketball , volleyball and softball . ( Wot , no double-headers ? ) Wearing two batting helmets , the girls bat right-handed and run the bases normally . These are two bright , eager , intelligent and pretty girls with a good chance of long full active lives ahead of them . ( One wonders if they'll be able to marry separate husbands . ) It's unfortunate that their heads aren't on an even plane : Abigail's head is upright , but Brittany's head droops to her left . This is a fascinating documentary that handles its theme tastefully and with dignity . If you're looking for a freak show , look elsewhere . I'll rate ' Joined for Life ' . Good luck , Abby and Britty !
Legendary Lola-Lola .	I got within twenty feet of Marlene Dietrich while ' I Wish You Love ' was in rehearsal ; her concert was produced by Bentwood Television , the U . S . production company of Alexander Cohen , in whose London office I was then employed . ( Five years earlier , Cohen had staged Dietrich's concert performance as one of his ' Nine O'Clock Theatre ' offerings . ) As a mere staffer , I had no direct contact with Dietrich . I recall that she didn't get along with Alex Cohen's dog . At this late point in her life , Dietrich made very few public appearances ; she was emaciated and had an extremely creped neck . For this live concert , later televised in Britain and Stateside , Dietrich looks magnificent . . . but her allure is a triumph of engineering . She was trussed into a skin-tight outfit strategically padded to give her a shapely physique . Her bugle-beaded bodice is made of sheer fabric , through which is glimpsed what appears to be her decolletage , but which is actually a sheath of flesh-coloured latex concealing the sagging hills of legend . Her throat is firm and taut , with no rumour of wrinkle . . . because the same latex sheath tightly encircles her turkey neck , and is kept in place with a sequined choker to conceal the join . Dietrich spends most of the evening stock-still at centre stage , permitting the camera to worship her . . . largely because she can barely move in that tight cozzy . At no time in this concert is Dietrich seen from the rear , as that angle would have revealed the corset-like trusswork of her outfit . The excellent music arrangements here are by Burt Bacharach . Before his songwriting career took off , Bacharach worked as Dietrich's arranger during the last years of her nightclub career . When Dietrich permitted Alex Cohen to lure her back into the limelight , she insisted that Bacharach be engaged as her arranger . Bacharach didn't need the work , but he complied for old time's sake , and does a superb job . One of the songs which Dietrich performs here is Cole Porter's ' I Get a Kick Out of You ' . Rather than sing Porter's original lyric - - ' I get no kick from cocaine ' - - or the substitute which Frank Sinatra and others have used - - ' Some like the perfume from Spain ' - - Dietrich warbles ' I think that smoking's insane ' . Although it's not mentioned in the credits , I know that this lyric change was supplied for Dietrich by her longtime friend Noel Coward , at her personal request . ( It was the last lyric Coward wrote ; he died the year that this concert was filmed . ) Considering how much nicotine Dietrich conspicuously inhaled over the decades , this particular lyric change was ( shall we say ) ironic . Many of the numbers which Dietrich performs here are hits from her long film career . I was disappointed that she doesn't sing her 1950s novelty number ' He's Too Old to Cut the Mustard Anymore ' . One song she does sing here , vivaciously , is her great Frank Loesser hit ' See What the Boys in the Back Room Will Have ' . When Dietrich performed this song in the movie ' Destry Rides Again ' , she did an amusing bit of business : using one hand to pull and release the skin of her own throat , producing a weird semi-yodel vibrato effect . In this concert , she doesn't repeat that business : she didn't dare , due to what I've mentioned about her neck . Dietrich is firmly a pro here , holding her adoring audience in the palm of her hand . I enjoyed every number in this concert , with one exception . Late in the evening , Dietrich performs Pete Seeger's ' Where Have All the Flowers Gone ? ' . I've enjoyed this poignant ballad when performed simply and unpretentiously by female vocalists less talented than Dietrich . For some reason , she performs her vocal arrangement with a bizarre conceit . Seeger's original lyric runs : ' Gone to young girls , every one . ( Slight pause . ) When will they ever learn ? ' Instead , Dietrich sings : ' Gone to young girls every one WHEN ! ( Long significant pause . ) Will we ever learn ? ' She repeats this change - - bellowing ' WHEN ! ' too soon , and bunging it into the previous line - - in every verse of Seeger's lyric . Whatever she intended , it doesn't work . ( Trivia note : Seeger's song was inspired by a passage in the Soviet novel ' And Quiet Flows the Don ' . ) Although Dietrich put her unique stamp on many songs over her legendary career , there's no doubt as to which song defines her image more deeply than any other . As edited for UK and US television , this concert features frequent commercial breaks , each of them bridged with the music for ' Falling in Love Again ' from ' The Blue Angel ' . The constant repetition of that theme - - without Dietrich's smoky voice singing the words - - becomes annoying . About three-quarters of the way through this concert , Dietrich comments : " I sang a song in the film ' The Blue Angel ' " . . . and then , when her audience burst into applause , she mischievously smiles and adds : ' No , not THAT one . ' She then proceeds to sing ' They Call Me Naughty Lola ' , her less successful song from that same landmark film . It's obvious that Dietrich is saving her biggest hit for last . Sure enough , as her finale , Dietrich wistfully sings ' Falling in Love Again ' ( for what must have been the thousandth time in her career ) . The camera cuts to a montage of photos reflecting her long glamorous career and remarkable life . The audience give her a standing ovation , which she richly deserves . Marlene Dietrich was one of a kind , and this concert ' I Wish You Love ' probably conveys her mystique and her stardom more eloquently than any other single performance she ever gave , including ' The Blue Angel ' . I'll rate this triumph .
' plane nonsense	The output of Mack Sennett's Keystone studio has been unfairly stereotyped as mindless slapstick : a steady diet of custard pies and pratfalls , climaxing in a chase . Although many Keystones did conform to that formula , many others did not . Some notable exceptions were the rural comedies starring Ora Carew and Joseph Belmont , featuring a much gentler sort of humour . ' Dizzy Heights and Daring Hearts ' is a Keystoner that varies the formula , placing more emphasis on daredevil thrills . There is some slapstick here , but most of it occurs within a framework of aerial thrills and bravado stunt work ( much of it crudely faked , yet thrilling in its audacity ) . There are laughs here , but the movie is more interested in astonishing us . . . and it does so , delightfully . Chester Conklin , one of Sennett's second-string comedians , plays an unnamed foreign agent , bidding against a rival for an experimental aeroplane . Cora Anderson plays the daughter of the owner of the Eagle aviation company , who is a fine aviatrix in her own right . She's aboard the craft when Chester skyjacks it . There are some trick shots here , blatantly phony yet very impressive for 1915 . Another pilot pursues Chester and his hostage . The ending will please you , although it won't surprise you . Along the way , there are some unexpected laughs and some impressive stunt work . One sequence features the blatant use of a dummy , when Chester gets caught in the aeroplane's spinning propeller . . . but the ' body ' that revolves is obviously a stuffed mannequin . The pacing of this comedy is rapid-fire , faster than usual even by Keystone standards , and the editing is far superior to Keystone's usual fare . As I've mentioned the pacing , here's a good place to clear up a misconception about silent comedies in general and Keystone comedies in particular . There is a modern perception that all silent slapstick films ( especially Keystones ) were intentionally projected too quickly , to speed up the actors . Although there was some intentional undercranking ( to increase the interval between frames , and thus accelerate the action ) , this was rare and was usually reserved for stunt sequences . The misconception arose because modern projectors run at a faster speed than silent-era projectors , and for several decades these old films were always shown at an unnaturally rapid speed . Videotape technology ( and now DVD ) gives us an opportunity to correct this error , restoring these classics to their intended projection rate . ' Dizzy Heights and Daring Hearts ' is thrilling , funny and outrageous , and I'll rate it . Well done , Mack Sennett and Chester Conklin !
Danish blue cheese .	I viewed an acetate print of ' Den Hvide Slavehandels Sidste Offer ' ( " The White-Slave Trade's Final Victim " ) at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy , in October 2006 . This film is yet another early 20th-century movie exploiting a theme that was hugely popular at the time , namely ' white slavery ' : white slavers were organised rings of criminals who abducted young women and forced them into prostitution , sometimes in a foreign nation where they had no friends and couldn't speak the local language . Undoubtedly , this crime genuinely existed - - and still does , in the early 21st century - - but I have difficulty believing that it was ever as glamorous or exotic as it was depicted to be in novels and films of the period . In Denmark , the passion for white-slavery novels and films appears to have originated with a 1905 novel by Elisabeth Schrøyer . Judging from this film's title , it seems to want to be the last word on the subject . At least this movie does vary the potboiler formula slightly . The heroine , Edith von Felsen ( played by an actress billed here as Clara Wieth ) , is a motherless girl from a middle-class background . Edith has boarded a ship to a distant city where she will live as her maiden aunt's companion . A Creole woman befriends her on the journey ; Edith doesn't suspect that this woman is a talent scout for a white-slavery ring . Also aboard ship , Edith befriends a handsome and brawny engineer with the unfortunate name Faith . ( Are his brothers named Hope and Charity ? ) The Creole arranges for Edith to be abducted when she disembarks , while her aunt receives a forged letter to explain Edith's absence . But handsome Faith is determined to find her . Will the lovers be united before Edith's abductors force her to lose her Danish cherry pastry ? SPOILERS COMING . One of the interesting and amusing aspects of this movie is the fact that the police are ( more than once ) depicted as incompetent and useless . It's obvious that Faith will triumph , but he does so with no help from the Danish bluecoats . Amid the hugger-mugger , there are actually TWO rival gangs of white slavers operating ; just as Faith is about to rescue Edith from the first lot , the second lot snatch her for themselves . Fortunately , a servant is willing to betray the criminals . ( I guess criminals just can't find loyal servants . ) Another impressive aspect of ' Den Hvide Slavehandels Sidste Offer ' is that the heroine is actually a wilful and self-minded young woman who actually makes some real efforts to win her own freedom . . . as opposed to the heroines of several other white-slavery sagas of this period , who tended to be fainting damsels entirely dependent on courageous boyfriends to rescue them from a fate worse than death . Apart from some fascinating exterior sequences in this film , we also get an impressive triptych sequence : a three-way split-screen , featuring a ' phone conversation between two villains ( at opposite sides of the screen ) while Clara Wieth emotes in the centre of the image . This sequence is slightly less impressive when one realises that the basic set-up was copied from yet an earlier white-slaver epic : ' Den Hvide slavinde ' , a 1910 Fotorama production which now appears to be lost except for a few tantalising fragments . It's a shame that most white-slavery films ( including this one ) are so overwrought that they make a genuinely serious issue - - sexual enslavement - - seem risible . However , this movie achieves most of what it set out to accomplish , and I'll rate ' Den Hvide Slavehandels Sidste Offer ' .
Focus on his feet !	" Let's Scuffle " is a short subject - - a single song-and-dance number - - that appears to have been cut from a feature-length movie : to be precise , a ' race film ' . ( This was the term used by American cinema exhibitors in the 1940s and earlier for any movie with an all-black cast , intended primarily for distribution in black neighbourhoods at a time when many American cinemas were segregated . ) The song-and-dance performer here is none other than the great Bill Robinson , but while he's dancing there are repeated cutaway shots to spectators : all of them black , but none of them doing anything interesting enough to warrant cutting away from Bill Robinson's dancing . It would make sense if these spectators are the lead roles in some larger film drama , with Bill Robinson merely performing a guest spot . However , I haven't been able to verify the existence of any feature-length movie from which this sequence might have been excerpted . Robinson wears his trademark outfit here : brown oxfords with wooden tap plates , brown bowler , tailored brown double-breasted suit . He's standing in what appears to be a soda shop , and he begins by singing ( not dancing ) a ditty about a new dance cried the Scuffle . The lyric is vaguely impressive . Like a few other spectacular dancers , Robinson was an underrated singer , so it's interesting to hear him trying to sell a tune with just his voice , his personality and his infectious grin , without the benefit of those tapping feet . But then Bill Robinson stops singing the Scuffle and starts dancing it , and that's what we came for ! Robinson tended to repeat himself much less than other dancers ( even the great Nicholas Brothers were sometimes repetitive and predictable ) , and here he performs some of his most interesting and distinctive steps . I've read that Robinson had set a speed record for running the 100-yard dash backward , so I was intrigued to see him here performing some of his steps while moving backward on a level surface . . . more typically , he tended to dance backward only during his famous staircase routine . Robinson had a penchant for alternating very easy steps with very difficult ones . He does that here , doing some easy nerve taps which any first-year tap student could copy , but then suddenly breaking into an airplane step with treble ball taps . Delightful ! And of course , throughout his performance , he's got that happy contagious smile . Another distinctive Robinson trait was his habit of standing absolutely still while his feet moved in rapid energetic steps : this is much more difficult than it looks , yet he does it gracefully . For some reason , several parts of Robinson's dance sequence in this movie are filmed in medium shot , so we get to admire his neatly-buttoned suit but we can't see his feet ! There are only two ways that dancers should be photographed : either with their entire figure in the frame , or with their feet in close-up . There are some welcome shots of Robinson's dancing feet here , but these are interspliced with those ridiculous medium shots . " Let's Scuffle " , only a few minutes long , is a delightful example of Bill Robinson's singing and dancing technique , marred only by those bizarre decisions to frame him in medium shot and to cut away from him . My rating for this one : .
The first Walter Mitty .	' How Baxter Butted In ' is a delightful comedy , featuring a daydreaming hero astonishingly similar to James Thurber's immortal creation Walter Mitty . Both men are overworked nobodies in their workaday lives , yet both are many-sided heroes in their fantasy worlds . The similarity between Walter Mitty and this film's protagonist Henry Baxter is so strong , I wonder if Thurber had seen this movie ( his eyesight had not yet failed him by 1925 ) or had read the story by Harold Titus on which this film was based . Henry Baxter ( very well played by Matt Moore ) is an accounts clerk at a newspaper office . He has a crush on the office's pretty stenographer Beulah ( despite her hideous name ) , but she barely knows he's alive . Baxter's milquetoast existence is made more miserable by office manager Higgins , who bullies him constantly and steals Baxter's ideas . Overworked underpaid Baxter is the sole support of his widowed sister-in-law Emmy and her two small children . As in Thurber's famous story , much of the comedy in this very funny movie derives from the extreme contrast between the hero's dull put-upon reality and his heroic fantasies . . . as well as the transitions between his two worlds . When Baxter sits down to a bland meal of a soda cracker floating in a bowl of milk , the camera shows the floating cracker in tight close-up . . . then neatly dissolves to a shot of a raft in mid-ocean , with Baxter and Beulah and Higgins as castaways on the raft . Of course , in this daydream and all his others , Baxter always triumphs over rival Higgins , and wins the girl . The director of this film is William Beaudine , a notorious hack who is better known for such deathless epics as ' Billy the Kid versus Dracula ' and ' Bela Lugosi Meets a Brooklyn Gorilla ' . Those cheesily enjoyable crapfests are more typical of Beaudine's output than ' How Baxter Butted In ' . I suspect that the excellence of this film , and its visual gimmicks , are largely down to the work of screenwriter Owen Davis . Matt Moore is impressive in the lead role , all the more so because he is physically miscast . Henry Baxter should have been played by a meek little man like Johnny Arthur or George K Arthur or George E Stone . I wouldn't precisely call Moore brawny , but he's clearly capable of defending himself in a fight , and that compromises his characterisation here . Prolific character actor Otis Harlan is very good as Baxter's pal . Very impressive indeed is the performance by tall handsome Ward Crane as the villainous Higgins . Crane is best known as Buster Keaton's crooked rival in ' Sherlock Jnr ' . Here , he plays a similar role , but with more depth and much more screen time . Watching him here , I regret that Crane ( who died young ) never had a significant acting career . ( Ironically , he died of pneumonia at a sanitarium for patients with tuberculosis : he had the wrong disease . ) I'll rate ' How Baxter Butted In ' . I might have rated it a perfect 10 if the heroine's name wasn't Beulah . Ugh !
Eggs and hamming it up	Hal Roach made several interesting attempts to create female comedy teams , most notably his pairings of Thelma Todd with ZaSu Pitts and with Patsy Kelly . Nearly as interesting is the brief teaming of Anita Garvin and Marion Byron . In " Feed ' em and Weep " , it's unfortunate that their characters are so clearly a female version of Laurel and Hardy , with Marion as the Stan-like little gormless schlemiel , and Anita as the Ollie-ish domineering schlemazel . The title card that introduces them reads : ' Anita knows everything . Marion knows nothing . That makes it even . ' At one point in this short , the Laurel and Hardy parallel is blatantly obvious . The two women are tramping along a Beckettian road when Marion stumbles and falls down . Anita tells her to watch her step . . . then confidently strides forward and falls into a roadworks . Anita Garvin was quite an attractive woman , and it's a bit jarring to see her here , her trim posterior wedged into a hole while her shapely stockinged legs are spreadeagled either side of her face . The image is funny and erotic at the same time , a difficult combination . Less funny and less appealing is Marion Byron , who makes a few impressive pratfalls but whose attempts at gamin-like winsomeness remind me of Imogene Coca . . . and that's not a compliment . One of the pleasures of the Hal Roach comedy stable was that any Roach comedian might turn up in any other comedian's film . Here , Garvin and Byron play off Max Davidson , doing his usual Yiddisher schtick . Davidson plays the proprietor of a diner at a railway whistle-stop . He receives notice that a trainful of trouser makers ( bound for a convention ) will be passing through , and they'll all want feeding during the brief interval while the train takes on water . Eager for their custom , Davidson contacts the labour exchange for some experienced waitresses . . . but gets Anita and Marion instead . Davidson is hilarious here , as usual . One of his trademark bits was an ' oy vey ' gesture of exasperation , with hand to cheek . He repeats it here , but this time it's funnier than usual , after he falls face-first into a tray of food and emerges with two fried eggs festooning his eyeballs . Hilarious ! It's a shame that the stuntman who doubles for Davidson is a bit too obvious . Elsewhere , a tracking shot through the restaurant has trouble keeping focus : future director George Stevens was still learning his craft here . More positively , there's an impressive shot from ground level of a human stampede bearing down on Davidson's diner . There are some familiar faces in small roles , notably the immense Frank Alexander as an obese diner who's so eager to be fed he gets stuck in the doorway . We also get a very early version of that familiar gag in which a long stampede of people is punctuated by one last straggler . " Feed ' em and Weep " is hilarious : a fine example of the Hal Roach comedy factory at nearly its peak . I'll rate this movie .
What a great railway engine !	' Love and the First Railway ' is what this movie's title would mean in English . This is one of those films that depicts fictional characters participating in an historic incident . The actual first railway was built in England , of course . But according to this movie , the first railway ( in Germany , at least ) was built from Berlin to Potsdam , in 1838 . I haven't the faintest idea if that's correct , but the people who made this movie do seem to take a great deal of interest in historical accuracy , so I'll take their word for it . Anyway , a title at the beginning establishes that this movie is set in 1838 . Jakob Tiedtke is a provincial postmaster who earns his main livelihood as the owner / operator of a local stagecoach . His daughter ( Karin Hardt , quite pretty ) meets a handsome young surveyor ( Hans Schlenck , not a very good actor ) who is the construction foreman for the new eisenbahn ( ' iron-road ' ) being built between Berlin and Potsdam . Karin's father is positive that the new-fangled steam engines will never replace time-tested reliable horse-drawn transit . Karin and her mother ( Ida Wüst ) are enthusiastic about the railway , because it will bring new business and development to their village . But if the railway succeeds , then Karin's father's stagecoach business will become obsolete . . . Although ' Love and the First Railway ' is basically a period romance , there is some slapstick humour ( mostly from Fritz Kampers ) which is more effective than I expected it to be . Most impressive of all is the vintage railway engine that appears in this film . I know a fair amount about early 19th-century British railway engines , but very little about their German counterparts . The fully functional choo-choo in this movie is either an actual railway engine circa 1838 ( still in good nick , 100 years on ! ) , or else a painstakingly accurate modern re-creation . Either way , I'm extremely impressed . If that train engine had remained offscreen , I might have rated this movie . The presence of the engine hikes this movie's rating up to a near-perfect 9 , and it also makes this movie required viewing for anybody interested in 19th-century railways . All aboard !
I'll chime in : this mystery has a peal .	" Nine tailors make a man " , which explains why Adolphe Menjou ( Hollywood's best-dressed actor ) titled his memoir " It Took Nine Tailors " . In Dorothy Sayers's novel ( and this adaptation ) , the title refers to a Church of England tradition : the parish bell chimes nine " tailors " ( tolls ) to mark the death of a man , six for a woman , three for a child . Here we have a splendid example of authorial obsession : Sayers was deeply interested in change-ringing , a rarefied activity even in her day . . . and nowadays downright obscure . I would need several thousand words to explain change-ringing properly . Basically , a peal begins with all the ringers tolling in an agreed sequence . In each successive change , any given ringer will chime at either the same point in the sequence as last time round , or one position before or after that position . . . never altering by more than one in a single change . Ideally ( though not always in real life ) , the peal continues until every possible mathematical combination has been rung ONCE only . ( The number of changes in a full peal depends on how many bells are used . ) Unfortunately , Sayers assumes that all her readers ( and now her viewers ) are as fascinated by this subject as she was . Throughout " The Nine Tailors " , campanological terms like " Treble Bob " and " Tailor Paul " are tossed about with no explanation . Ian Carmichael always had the advantage of being able to choose his projects , and he only ever worked in quality productions . All his Lord Peter Wimsey miniseries are excellent , but " The Nine Tailors " is the one I recommend for viewing first , as this one establishes the relationship between Lord Peter and his invaluable valet Bunter ( the excellent Glyn Houston ) . A prologue shows them meeting in the Great War , with Bunter saving his subaltern and becoming Lord Peter's batman . SLIGHT SPOILERS AHEAD . I agree with IMDb reviewer " hgallon " that the identity of a corpse in this mystery is too easy to guess . ( This reflects one of the teleplay's few deviations from the original novel . ) The villain has cut off the dead man's hands and head , hoping to nobble identification : nowadays , of course , DNA would reveal all . IMDb's reviewer Fisher Forrest is technically correct about an error in change-ringing protocol , but change-ringing hobbyists ( such as Miss Sayers herself ) would overlook this . Come to that , the " rules " require all change-ringers to be male , but Dorothy Sayers was an enthusiastic pealer herself . In the last chapter of this miniseries is a detail that I disliked . Lord Peter needs to access Church of England records , so he casually rings up his friend the Archbishop of Canterbury . There's an old film cliché stating that , when a real person is briefly portrayed by an actor , the actor is photographed in three-quarter rear view to avoid the aggro of finding a lookalike . See for instance the depiction of Franklin D . Roosevelt in " Yankee Doodle Dandy " or of Walt Disney in " Once Upon a Time " . Here in " The Nine Tailors " , the actor briefly portraying the Archbishop is shown from that same angle . . . but , really , how many viewers in 1974 ( or later ) had any notion of what the Archbishop looked like forty years earlier ? The production design throughout this miniseries is a delight - - plenty of campanology , very little camp - - as is the ripe British dialogue . One crusty Englishman , confronting a French letter ( quiet , you ! ) , confesses : " I never could parley-voo . " I'm slightly annoyed by Carmichael's attempts at Bertie Wooster diction , clipping his words and saying " ain't " . Admittedly , Sayers deserves some of the blame . SPOILER . The climactic scene of " The Nine Tailors " places Lord Peter in a deadly situation , but some viewers may be sceptical as to its fatal dimensions . This is something that Sayers got very right indeed , and Lord Peter is in genuine peril . My rating for these nine tailors is nine points out of 10 . Well done , m'lord !
Hyde-de-high hilarity !	Stan Laurel ( pre-Hardy ) appeared in several short comedies that were parodies of big-budget Hollywood dramas . Although most of these are quite funny , all ( with one exception ) are seriously weakened by extremely low budgets . ' Dr Pyckle and Mr Pryde ' is the exception ; not only is this movie hilarious , but it benefits from some elaborate exterior and interior sets evoking Victorian London . In the early 1980s , when I interviewed Joe Rock ( this movie's producer ) , he recalled that he had obtained access to sets on the Universal Pictures lot , and costumes from Universal's wardrobe department . By 1925 , there had already been several film versions of ' Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde ' , including the bootleg ' Der Januskopf ' and at least one parody . Modern audiences , who know Jekyll and Hyde from films rather than from literature , usually miss an important point : in Stevenson's original novel , Mr Hyde is clearly much shorter and much younger than Dr Jekyll , making it truly a shock when we learn that they are the same man . In film adaptations , Jekyll is usually played as a comparatively youthful man , and nearly always portrayed by the same actor who also plays Hyde . . . so we find it implausible that the other characters fail to guess they're the same person . Although Stan Laurel is playing for comedy here , his performance as Mr Pryde is a revelation . Rather than wearing elaborate make-up , he merely puffs out his expressive face , dons a wig and hunches his head into his shoulders . There's also some extremely subtle padding under Laurel's coat , making Mr Pryde a slightly bulkier man than Dr Pyckle . At this point in his pre-Hardy career , Laurel was learning that he'd get bigger laughs by underplaying rather than by chewing the scenery . Here , though , he still has a couple of hand-to-brow moments . . . acceptable because he's guying a serious story . There's a dog here cried Pete the Pup , who may or mayn't be the same canine who appeared as Pete the Dog in some Our Gang comedies . I've never understood why it's allegedly so funny that a dog in the movies has a ring painted round one eye . . . did any real dog ever have such a mark ? Still , I was intrigued here to see a packet labelled ' Dog Cakes ' , a phrase one doesn't see very often these days . I was delighted to spot the London-born Syd Crossley in this film , under Victorian side-whiskers . Two decades later , Crossley would be back in his native England and working with George Formby and Cicely Courtneidge . Joe Rock told me that Crossley had been his assistant in Los Angeles , and supplied entree to British film circles when he accompanied Rock to England in the 1930s . ' Dr Pyckle and Mr Pryde ' is hilarious from start to finish . If all of Stan Laurel's early comedies had been this good , he would never have needed to team up with Oliver Hardy . I'm certainly glad it happened , though . My rating for this one : . I wonder if this hilarious movie influenced the classic Two Ronnies sketch ' The Phantom Raspberry Blower of Old London Town ' .
Heckle's schnozzola	' Taming the Cat ' is an above-average Heckle and Jeckle offering . The opening sequence is a bit odd . We see a house cat next to an unoccupied birdcage as he pulls a canary feather out of his mouth . Hmm , I wonder what happened ? Now he hangs up a sign : ' Songbirds Wanted ' . I never knew that magpies were songbirds , but Heckle and Jeckle apply for the job . Now , here's the most delightful part of the cartoon . With Jeckle playing the piano , Heckle distorts his own beak into a parody of Jimmy Durante's schnozzola , and ( in a splendid imitation of Durante's voice ) he sings a sprightly ditty called ' A Couple of Songbirds Today ' . Unfortunately , the ensuing mayhem is just a bit too by-the-numbers , and some of this material ( with a cat getting clobbered indoors ) seemed more appropriate for Tom and Jerry . However , Jeckle does an amusing variant on the " lady getting dressed " gag which he performed in several previous cartoons . My rating for this one is , but mostly for that delightful song . . . which Heckle reprises at the finish .
Excellent chamber musical , with the " rape " scene downplayed .	I viewed a kinescope of this TV special in the Museum of TV & Radio . This production of ' The Fantasticks ' is a Hallmark special , so - - like all of that breed - - it's impeccably well-done family viewing , and squeaky-clean . One problem with ' The Fantasticks ' ( adapted from an Edmond Rostand play ) is that the fathers of the young lovers conspire with another man to have one father's daughter raped . Even though the libretto takes care to establish that the word " rape " is being used in its more obscure sense of abduction rather than non-consensual sex . . . still , when modern viewers hear the word " rape " , they're going to interpret it in the sexual way . Appropriately , this production revises and downplays that difficult part of the plot . This production's staging is note-perfect : on a spacious indoor set that convincingly depicts a rural outdoor setting in autumn . ( As the beautiful opening song notes , this is September . ) I was surprised by the elimination here of the top-hatted character known in the stage play as the Mute , somewhat equivalent to the Property Man in Chinese drama . Two other minor roles have been incorporated into the roles of the fathers , Hucklebee and Bellomy . A press release issued at the time this special was broadcast on American TV stated that this was " to make the fathers ' roles fatter and funnier " . And , oh , those fathers ! The boy's father Hucklebee is played by the great Bert Lahr , whilst the girl's father ( a slightly more difficult role ) is tackled by the great Stanley Holloway . Lahr and Holloway had never worked together before , yet here they convince us that they've been cronies for years ( despite their wildly diverse accents ) . Their harmonising on the comic duet " Never Say ' No ' " is hilarious . Also , Ricardo Montalban is splendid and quietly dignified as El Gallo , the pimp of the rape that's not a rape . As for the young lovers . . . as the boy , John Davidson is , well , squeaky-clean . I was much more interested in seeing the performance of Susan Watson as the girl . It's amazing that Susan Watson is today so obscure . In the early 1960s , Watson was a vitally important Broadway performer : the bridge between Barbara Cook ( before her ) and Bernadette Peters ( after her ) . Watson was the generic ingenue , starring in several Broadway musicals : among others , she played the Ann-Margret role in the stage version of ' Bye Bye Birdie ' . Seeing her vivacious performance here , I'm surprised that she never translated her stage stardom into screen stardom . I'll rate this excellent chamber musical .
Fascinating Egyptian epic	I viewed an incomplete print of ' The Wife of the Pharaoh ' that was reconstructed ( from several sources ) by Stephan Droessler of the Film Museum in Munich . Even in remnant form , this is a phenomenal film : an epic piece of film-making , with 6 , 000 extras and elaborate sets . ' The Wife of the Pharaoh ' is the nearest Ernst Lubitsch came to making a film like ' Metropolis ' . ' The Wife of the Pharaoh ' was released in 1922 , the same year that Englishman Howard Carter unsealed Tutankhamen's tomb . . . but at this time , much of the most important work in Egyptology was being done by Germans , and German interest in ancient Egypt was high indeed . This film is set in dynastic Egypt ( Middle Kingdom , by the look of it ) . . . and the sets , costumes and props are vastly more convincing than anything done by Hollywood in this same era in films such as ' King of Kings ' , " Noah's Ark " and the Babylonian sequences of ' Intolerance ' . There are of course a few errors in this movie : the elaborate Double Crown symbolising the two kingdoms of Egypt is the proper size and shape , yet the actors heft it about so easily that it's clearly a prop made from some improbably light substance . The pharaoh receives papyrus scrolls bearing messages written in hieroglyphics ; this is wrong ( the messages would have been written in hieratic , and the king would probably require a scribe to read them on his behalf ) , yet somebody made a commendable effort to use the proper hieroglyphics . . . which is more than Universal Studios bothered to do in any of those 1930s mummy flicks . Emil Jannings gives an operatic performance as the ( fictional ) king Amenes . The king of the Ethiopians ( Paul Wegener ) , hoping to make peace with Egypt , offers his daughter Theonis to become the wife of Amenes . But Theonis falls in love with Ramphis , the handsome son of the king's advisor Sothis . ( Ramphis wears a hairdo stolen from Prince Valiant : one of the few really ludicrous errors in this film . ) Amenes sentences the lovers to death , then offers to spare Ramphis from execution ( sentencing him to hard labour for life ) if Theonis will consent to love only Amenes . There are some truly spectacular scenes in this film , very impressive even in the partial form which I viewed . Paul Wegener gives a fine performance as Samlak , king of the Ethiopians , but he looks like he escaped from a minstrel show : to portray an Ethiopian , Wegener wears blackface and body make-up , and a truly terrible Afro wig . Also , since his daughter Theonis is presumably also an Ethiopian , why is she white ? There are fine performances by Lyda Salmonova as a ( white ) Ethiopian slave-girl ( the nearest equivalent to Aida in this operatic story ) and by Albert Bassermann as the advisor who is spitefully blinded at the pharaoh's order . Theodor Sparkuhl's camera work is superlative , as always , and the art direction is brilliant . Although I viewed only an incomplete version of this film , I've read a surviving screenplay ; the script ( with some lapses in logic ) is definitely the most ludicrous part of this film . But the favourable aspects of this movie very definitely outweigh its flaws . I'll rate ' The Wife of the Pharaoh ' .
Excellent teen character study	One of the greatest movies ever made is ' A Place in the Sun ' . Based on a true murder case , this story features a protagonist who takes his pregnant ex-girlfriend on a boating trip with the intention of drowning her so he won't have to marry her . At the last moment , he has a pang of conscience ( or did he just lose his nerve ? ) and he confesses his intentions to her . . . but then the boat capsizes by accident , and she drowns anyway . The film refuses to let the protagonist off the hook , asserting that - - if he felt relieved by her death - - then he is morally guilty of murdering her . SPOILERS COMING . ' Mean Creek ' raises similar moral questions , in a plot line that evokes not only ' A Place in the Sun ' , but also ' River's Edge ' , ' Stand by Me ' and ' Deliverance ' , the latter film even quoted in the dialogue . Four adolescent boys lure teenage George on a boating trip , intending to play a cruel prank on him . A girl comes along too , unaware of their intentions . When she learns what's planned , she persuades the conspirators to call off their plot . But then tragedy intervenes , and George drowns . How culpable are the boys ? They literally dig themselves into a deeper hole by burying George's corpse , hoping to conceal the tragedy . ' Mean Creek ' features some of the most realistic adolescent dialogue I've ever heard . The boys bait each other with insults that are misogynist and homophobic . ( One boy , Clyde , has two gay fathers . ) Although the dialogue pulls no punches , the camera set-ups pull several . At one point , a boy urinates into the river : we see the stream of urine but the boy is out of frame . The most aggressive of the boys , Marty , makes several boasts about his genital endowment . Eventually , he is goaded into dropping his shorts and showing his stuff : the camera shoots this scene from behind , so we never find out what the fuss is about . Director / screenwriter Jacob Aaron Estes shows a great deal of talent , but makes a few strange decisions . At several points , the camera shows us printed words on a sign or a bumper sticker . . . but then the camera pulls away , or the object recedes from the camera , before we can read what's written . The script is nearly as good as the dialogue , with splendid exposition and only a few pacing problems . MORE SPOILERS . Very early in the film , we learn that Marty owns a handgun . Chekhov's rules of drama stipulate that if a gun shows up in the story , it must eventually be fired . The payoff for this weapon shows up very late in the film , in an unexpected way ( and the gun is never fired ) . In this case , it would have been better if the gun had never been mentioned nor shown until Marty decided to use it . Throughout this film there is a running directorial conceit , with sequences shown from the P . O . V . of George's video camera , but there turns out to be a valid payoff for this . Every performance in this movie is splendid . I was especially impressed with Rory Culkin ( Macaulay's more talented brother ) , Carly Schroeder as the well-intentioned girl , and Josh Peck as fat unpopular George , who clearly wants to be popular yet can't help being unpleasant . I'll rate ' Mean Creek ' , and I look forward to more films from Jacob Aaron Estes .
Heads will roll in this bizarre bazaar	' Le Bourreau Turc ' is one of the ' stunt ' films of Georges Melies , although with more of a plot than usual . My late wife Diane owned an 8mm acetate print of this movie , which she bought in the 1970s from Blackhawk Films . Whenever she showed this short movie for guests , they invariably cheered during the decapitation , and they always asked her to rewind the film and show this bit over . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . A huge Turkish executioner , wearing a turban and cummerbund , and clutching an enormous scimitar , mans his stall in the bazaar . A gaoler arrives with a chain-gang of four prisoners . The Turk aims his scimitar , and . . . WHAP ! . . . all four heads are cut off in a stroke , and the four headless men collapse onto four stools . No worries , parents : this violence is done cartoonishly , with no bloodshed . It's all down to trick photography . The Turk casually picks up the heads and flings them into a dustbin . Then he goes to sleep . ( No conscience problems for our lad Abdullah . ) While the executioner sleeps , the four bodiless heads climb out of the dustbin and torment him . Ghoulish ? No ; as it's staged here , the sequence is funny and bizarre but not especially frightening . My only complaint is that the trick photography is a trifle too obvious . Yes , I realise that this movie was made a hundred years ago . . . but several of Melies's other trick films from this period didn't show the joins quite so obviously . Georges Melies was a brilliant showman but a terrible businessman . He generally sold outright the exhibition prints of his films , rather than licencing them for hire . Consequently , an entrepreneur would buy one of Melies's movies , dupe it off as many times as needed , and make huge profits whilst Melies made only his fee for the original sale . Sadly , Melies spent his last years in poverty . More than a decade after making his last film , Melies had a chance reunion with one of his former actresses who was now scrimping out a tiny income selling toys in a railway kiosk . Melies married her , and helped run this pathetic little business . Belatedly , a tiny pension from the French government made his life slightly more comfortable . One more neglected genius , alas . I'll rate ' Le Bourreau Turc ' .
Wiene is good , but Veidt is brilliant .	I saw ' Furcht ' in July 1996 at the Cinema Ritrovato festival in Bologna . They screened a print with the original German intertitles , loaned by the Deutsches Institut für Filmkunde . One of my all-time favourite films is ' The Cabinet of Dr Caligari ' , which is by far the most famous movie directed by Robert Wiene . However , that film was in pre-production with Fritz Lang intended as the director ; Wiene stepped in only at the last moment , and much of the movie's appeal is due to the remarkable production design ( by Hermann Warm ) or other factors for which Wiene cannot take credit . ' Furcht ' is a more accurate representation of Wiene's directorial talents : it's not nearly so good as ' Caligari ' ( few films are ! ) , but Wiene proves himself able to create an eerie dream-like mood which suits this story admirably . Whereas the events in ' Caligari ' are clearly a madman's nightmare , the nightmarish story of ' Furcht ' seems to be more firmly rooted in reality and sanity , and only gradually do we begin to feel that the events on the screen may be the protagonist's nightmare rather than his reality . . . or perhaps they are both , in which case he has no escape . Bruno Decarli plays a European aristocrat in Java . He takes a fancy to a weird-looking statue of a local pagan god , which is protected by an even weirder-looking priest ( played by Conrad Veidt , who is apparently portraying a Hindu ) . Decarli decides to steal the statue ; in order to achieve this , he murders the priest . However , the priest's ghost haunts Decarli , warning him that he will die in seven days ' time . . . Conrad Veidt was one of the best actors in silent films . He seemed rather less successful in talkies , possibly down to having aged a few years and lost the knife-edge of his virility . In ' Furcht ' , Veidt is astonishingly thin and absolutely compelling as a wraith . I've seen hundreds of actors portray ghosts , but Veidt's performance here is one of the very few which convinced me that the character was actually speaking from the realm of the dead . Veidt's gaunt appearance and his expressive hands skilfully convey the incessant hunger of the dead and their resentment of the living . I'll rate this movie , and I wish that Weine's films came up to this standard more often .
Delft blue meets Pearl White ; or , Yoo-hoo blue-hue boo-hoo .	One more ' lost ' film returned from oblivion ! Although popular at the time of its release , ' The Mystery of Delft ' vanished soon afterward . A nitrate print was found in October 1994 and loaned to Nederlands Filmmuseum for restoration . I attended a screening of the restored version in July 1996 , at the Cinema Ritrovato festival in Bologna . This intriguing film - - similar in spirit to American cliff-hanger serials - - stars Annie Bos , who was the most popular Dutch film actor of the time . At the climax of this movie , she performs several highly physical feats which border on the acrobatic , and the photography makes it absolutely clear that Bos herself ( not a double ) is performing these . The film's title and premise refer to a genuine secret . The town of Delft , in Holland , is home to a major porcelain industry , producing chinaware with a distinctive colour known as Delft blue . From this background , the film spins a highly entertaining fictional story . Middle-aged Jan Vogel acquires a job in the Van Haaften china factory , with the specific intent of learning the secret of manufacturing the beautiful Delft porcelain . He does indeed learn the secret . . . but shortly afterwards the Van Haaften patriarch ( Louis Chrispijn ) commits suicide . The authorities mistake this for murder , and arrest Jan Vogel as the killer . Jan's evil nephew Willem takes over Jan's job at the factory , claiming that he too knows the secret . In fact , Williem doesn't know the secret but he tries to persuade the falsely-accused Jan to reveal it . SPOILERS COMING : Fortunately , Jan's pretty daughters Annie ( Annie Bos ) and Lilly save the day , proving their father's innocence while exposing Willem and protecting the precious secret . As the heroine , Annie Bos gives a Delft performance . . . I mean a deft performance , not only in the rousingly physical climax but also in her emotional scenes . In her portrayal of the brave daughter risking her own safety to clear her father , I was reminded of the American serial queen Pearl White , and that's no coincidence . Modern viewers of this movie , familiar with Hitchcock's film theory , will realise that the Van Haaften china formula ( which is so very important to the characters in this movie ) is what Hitchcock defined as a ' McGuffin ' : an object or piece of information which is meaningless to the audience yet which propels the characters through the story's motivations . In fact , the concept of the McGuffin existed before Hitchcock articulated it , and the credit goes to Pearl White : in ' The Perils of Pauline ' and other films , White and her supporting cast were constantly risking each other's lives and limbs in order to acquire a roll of photographs or some other crucial prop ; Pearl White herself referred to the relevant object in each of her serials as ' the weenie ' . ' The Mystery of Delft ' feels very much like an old-time serial , only better : because this movie is all of a piece , rather than a serialised chapter play , the rhythm and continuity are superior to those of a serial . I'll rate this somewhat implausible but highly enjoyable movie .
Chicken delight	" Pass the Gravy " is one of Max Davidson's funniest comedies , with less emphasis on the Jewish stereotypes which render so many of Davidson's films taboo today . The credits list Fred Guiol as director , and Leo McCarey merely as ' supervising director ' ( who he ? ) . . . but McCarey's distinctive brand of humour is evident throughout , so I suspect that he deserves much of the credit for the direction . . . whilst Guiol ( an experienced gagman ) deserves credit for the story . George Stevens , later a great director , does first-rate camerawork here . There's one surprising sexual gag in this movie that would probably go right over the heads of most modern viewers . Max's neighbour Schultz ( Bert Sprotte ) raises chickens , and the roost is ruled by his prize cock named Brigham , who has his pick of all the hens . In 1928 , audiences recognised this as a clear reference to Brigham Young , the polygamous Mormon leader who had wives in double figures . Max's daughter ( Martha Sleeper ) is engaged to Schultz's son ( Gene Morgan ) . To celebrate their engagement , Max gives his own son Ignatz ( Spec O'Donnell ) $2 to buy a roasting chicken . ( In 1928 , that was a fair price . ) Ignatz pockets the $2 and snatches one of Schultz's chickens instead , not realising he's taken Brigham the prize rooster . A stereotypical black-mammy cook ( smacking her lips ) roasts the rooster , which turns out to have a surprisingly generous amount of meat on its bones . . . more as if it were a capon , rather than a rooster . Schultz is the guest of honour , so Max carves the chicken and generously gives Schultz a drumstick . But then Ignatz notices the ' First Prize ' metal band on the ankle of the drumstick that Schultz is eating . O'Donnell does some clever pantomime ( worthy of Keaton ) as he signals his sister , draws her attention to the tag , and tries to recruit her into his efforts to get the drumstick away from Schultz . Martha uses signals to notify George , and the three of them try to notify Max . . . who of course is utterly oblivious to their efforts . There's some hilarious pantomime here . Martha Sleeper ( nice looks , unpleasant name ) was one of those rare actresses who could do slapstick without becoming vulgar or undignified . At one point , trying to tip the wink to Max , she pantomimes a hen while Gene Morgan pantomimes a rooster . Nearby is an ivory sphere of no obvious purpose : it looks vaguely like a billiard ball , except it's too large . Without her knowledge , this egg-like object conveniently ends up under Martha's rump while she's doing her hen imitation . When she finishes playing hen and discovers that she has laid an ' egg ' , the look on Martha Sleeper's face is hilarious . Gene Morgan is good too . . . why didn't his career take off ? In time-honoured Hal Roach fashion , the last shot of the film ends up with a desperate figure fleeing into the distance in long shot . ' Pass the Gravy ' is hilarious . I'll rate it , and I might have rated it a perfect 10 if they'd left out that Aunt Jemima cook .
Now hear this !	The very first talking picture has returned from oblivion , and now you can hear it and see it ! In autumn of 1894 , at the Edison lab complex in West Orange , New Jersey , Thomas Edison's associate William Dickson tried to combine two existing technologies ( the phonograph and the kinetoscope ) to record sound and image together . In the event , Dickson was unable to synchronise the playback of sound and image , so this experimental film was never released to paying audiences . . . and consequently ( unlike many silent films which Dickson made for Edison at this time ) it has no official title . The silent image ( recorded at 40 fps ) has been in the Library of Congress for years , known to film historians as a mute curiosity . It was also known that the ' soundtrack ' had been recorded on one of the crude wax cylinders languishing at the Edison National Historic Site . . . although nobody knew which one . But now that's changed . Recently , curators located the wax cylinder , which had broken into several pieces . These were reassembled : a playback was obtained , and the sound was digitised . Hollywood's veteran soundtrack editor Walter Murch cleaned up the background noise and tweaked the digitisation to make it synch with the film image , which Murch had digitally compressed to 30 fps . Sound and image are synchronised at last ! The film begins with an offscreen man's voice calling : ' The rest of you fellows ready ? Go ahead ! ' ( The unseen speaker remains unidentified , but was probably Dickson's assistant Fred Ott . ) On screen , Dickson plays a violin into an immense funnel mounted on a tripod ( one of Edison's sound-recording devices ) while alongside him , in full view of the camera , two male lab assistants embrace each other for some quick ballroom dancing to the tempo of Dickson's music . The film lasts barely 17 seconds : just long enough for us to marvel at this crude technology before being provoked to laughter at the sight of two men waltzing in each other's arms . Speaking of which , here's a WARNING : a well-known but extremely inaccurate reference book ( ' The Celluloid Closet ' , by the late Vito Russo ) includes a frame enlargement from this movie and identifies it as ' The Gay Brothers ' . That's incorrect . ' The Gay Brothers ' is an entirely different movie , made by Dickson at the Edison lab during this same period . ' The Gay Brothers ' never had a soundtrack : it's a brief fiction film about two brothers who are NOT ' gay ' in the sense Russo meant it . The deceased Mr Russo , for his own reasons , wanted us to perceive Dickson's experimental sound film ( arguably the first movie musical ! ) as an artefact of 19th-century homoeroticism . ( Hmm , what is it about gay men and musicals ? ) Sorry , but there's just no such content here . This vitally important film deserves a rating of . I've often maintained that no ' lost ' movie should ever be considered irretrievable unless it was deliberately destroyed : I'm delighted to report that this film is finally available to audiences as its producer intended it , more than a century after it was filmed !
Brilliant use of locations .	SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . ' The Nine-Mile Walk ' , a 1947 story by Harry Kemelman , is rightly considered one of the greatest mystery stories of all time . Its plot is ingenious . A language professor named Nick Welt , trying to persuade a colleague that words have meanings which transcend their definitions , asks for a random statement as an example . The colleague obliges with this seemingly random sentence : " A nine-mile walk is no joke , especially in the rain . " Through a fascinatingly logical series of deductions , the professor builds a strong case that the person most likely to have uttered that statement has just committed a murder . How did the colleague ever chance to come up with this particular sentence ? The story's solution is surprising and satisfying . Alvaro Brechner's film is a fascinating adaptation of Kemelman's classic story . The original tale is not very cinematic : it's basically just a conversation between two men walking along a road . Working on an extremely low budget , Brechner has imaginatively illustrated Kemelman's story , adding a powerful Spanish inflection . Brechner , born in Uruguay , is now based in Madrid . For this short film ( just under 20 minutes ) , he brilliantly uses the mediaeval city of Toledo as a backdrop , with the city very nearly becoming a fully-fleshed character in the story . In this film version , Nick Welt is a trial lawyer who has come to the modern city of Toledo to attend a lawyers ' convention . Also attending the convention is Nick's colleague Carlos . Nick has a professional respect for Carlos , but feels that Carlos has a tendency to jump to illogical conclusions in his jury summations . The two men discuss this as they leave the convention and stroll through the Toledano streets . Nick offers to prove his point , challenging Carlos to make a random statement which Nick will then deconstruct . As in the original story , Carlos offers " A nine-mile walk is no joke , especially in the rain . " What makes Brechner's film very much more than a mere illustration of Kemelman's dialogue is his brilliant use of Toledo locations . As the two men stroll along , they become so enrapt in Nick's chain of logic that they fail to keep track of where they're going . Suddenly they discover that they're inside the labyrinthine streets of Toledo's inner mediaeval city . . . and they can't find their way out . As Nick continues to deconstruct Carlos's statement , they carry on walking . . . but are they moving deeper into the labyrinth , or not ? Eventually , as Nick's chain of logic reaches its deadly conclusion , the two men encounter a cab driver ( taxista ) . The ending is stunning , and unexpected even for those who have read Kemelman's story . Brechner is a talented and intuitive director , and his adaptation of Kemelman's story is excellent . He's even more fortunate here to have such good actors . Gary Piquer , as Nick , is a Glaswegian Catalan ( ! ) with unusual features and a distinctive accent , who handles his dialogue well and easily conveys the intelligence of his role . Alex O'Dogherty , as Carlos , doesn't look like my notion of a trial lawyer . . . but I've met very few Spanish trial lawyers . O'Dogherty brings a conviction and a dogged tenacity to his role , as the two men find themselves enmeshed in two different labyrinths : the streets of Toledo , and Nick's remorseless logic . I'll rate this brilliant short film a perfect . I eagerly await more film work by Brechner , Piquer and O'Dogherty , separately or in collaboration .
Cunning stunts !	I attended a press screening of ' Double Dare ' , so I got to meet this film's director and editor as well as the documentary's main subjects - - Jeannie Epper and Zoë Bell - - and to participate in Q & A . I sceptically asked if any of this material was staged : specifically , the sequence in which the documentary camera crew just happen to be present ( with camera rolling ) when Zoë Bell gets the ' phone call informing her that she's been hired to stunt-double for Uma Thurman in ' Kill Bill ' , and the stunt coordinator's voice down the ' phone line sounds perfectly clear . Director Amanda Micheli assured me that this scene was dinkum , saying : ' I staked her out for ten days , with a ' phone tap , until she got that call . ' Then Micheli admitted that one thing in this movie was faked : Bell had got a haircut while this documentary was in production , so in some of the documentary footage ( shown out of chronological sequence ) , she wears a wig so that the shots will match . The title of ' Double Dare ' is a pun : these women double for actresses in stunt sequences . My only complaint about this very moving documentary is that it tells us nearly nothing about the history of stunt women . We see a brief clip of Pearl White doing her own stunts in a silent serial . ( Helen Gibson would have been a better choice for inclusion here : she did her own stunts in ' The Hazards of Helen ' , and also stunt-doubled for Helen Holmes . ) There was a long period in which Hollywood actresses were always doubled by males , usually small-statured men such as Dave Sharpe . All we get about that here is a rostrum shot of TV actress Irene Ryan in costume and make-up with her ( very unconvincing ) male double . I wish that Micheli had included film clips such as the fight between Edna May Oliver and Blanche Yurka in ' Tale of Two Cities ' ( both of them blatantly doubled by brawny men in 18th-century frocks and poke bonnets ) , or Betty Hutton's leap off a bridge into a moving jeep in ' Star Spangled Rhythm ' ( doubled by a stuntman in a wig and skirt that don't conceal his linebacker physique ) . The opening sequence of ' Double Dare ' shows a stunt woman preparing for a fire stunt , in full body harness : ironically , the burning woman whizzes by so rapidly , she could just as well have been a dummy . Every scene in ' Double Dare ' is fascinating , but the real eye-opener is a conference between male and female stunters ( they have different trade guilds ) , in which the stunt men make it clear that they don't respect stunt women as equals . Some of this is down to the fact that men tend to get much more dangerous stunt work than women , yet some of the hostility towards these women is just macho arrogance . The female stunters expect equality and respect ( fair enough ) , yet in this footage they refer to each other as ' girls ' . Jeannie Epper , ageing gracefully from stunt woman to stunt coordinator , points out that a stuntman can wear padding under his costume , but stunt women are usually dressed in skimpy outfits with no such option . . . and stunt women must often run in heels ! Having briefly done stunt work myself , I can testify that stunt men have one disadvantage that women don't : when doing a long rolling fall downstairs as a double for a male actor , I had to keep track of when my face was towards the camera , and I periodically had to raise my arm ( while falling ) to conceal my face , which didn't resemble the actor's face . Stunt women , using make-up and long wigs , can hide their faces more easily than stunt men . Speaking of padding , in one sequence of ' Double Dare ' we see stunt women squealing in girlish glee as they try on the falsies they'll need for body-doubling a busty actress . We see Jeannie Epper ( a grandmother , but still a working stunt woman ! ) pricing the plastic surgery she'll need if she hopes to carry on doubling for young actresses . And there's one bizarre sequence , in which a stunt woman proudly shows off her new breast implants to her colleagues . . . who admire her new breasts while ignoring her enormous facial mole . I'm often sceptical when showbiz people trot out their ' spiritual ' beliefs , but I was intrigued when Epper and Bell separately discussed their deep belief in Jesus . Epper asserts that God is protecting her . Stunt people , whether male or female , must trust the stunt riggers and support crew , placing their own safety entirely in these people's hands . It had never occurred to me that this situation parallels the sincere faith that some people place in a deity . Amanda Micheli's direction and camera work are excellent , most notably in a sequence where Bell practises dives from a high ladder into an air bag : Micheli and her camera are above Bell on this lofty perch . If you've got vertigo , you might want to skip this scene . We get sound bites from Lynda Carter ( for whom Epper doubled ) and from Lucy Lawless , for whom Bell doubled . . . although Bell wittily notes : ' She's my acting double . ' Even the end credits are fascinating . During the documentary , we meet Jeannie Epper's daughter Eurlyne , who followed her mother into stunt work but now has an injury that may end her career . As the film ends , Zoë Bell is riding high as Thurman's stunt double . Then the end credits tell us the aftermath : Eurlyne Epper has recovered and is stunting again . . . but Bell injured herself during ' Kill Bill ' and will require surgery . ( Yet she'd recovered in time for the screening I attended . You go , Zoë ! ) I found every frame of ' Double Dare ' fascinating . . . and there are even a few scenes that convey a girls'-locker-room camaraderie , without ever diminishing the dignity of these craftswomen . The stunt women are rigged , but my vote isn't : I rate this movie .
An actor is kept in suspense .	This is one of the very best of Georges Melies's many ' trick ' films . Interestingly , the English-language prints of this film render its title as ' The Black Imp ' rather than the more accurate ' The Black Devil ' . . . probably because English-language audiences would interpret the word ' devil ' to mean THE Devil , and presumably His Satanic Majesty has got more important things to do than just fool about with furniture . The major item in Melies's cinematic bag of tricks was the jump cut - - in which the camera's motion is stopped while an object or person is moved to a new position , then the camera is restarted - - so that something or somebody suddenly appears , disappears , changes position , or switches place with something else . More than fifty years after Melies , this same camera trick was still being used in such sophisticated fare as ' Bewitched ' and ' Lost in Space ' . One problem with the jump cut is that the actors on screen who aren't part of the transformation often have difficulty staying absolutely motionless during the transition . . . so , the effect of the jump cut is often diluted because somebody who wasn't supposed to move has unintentionally ' jumped ' to another position , impairing the illusion . This happened far too often in Melies's films . Even if all the actors behave themselves , there's often a shift in the lighting or some other unintended change which calls attention to the jump in the film . SLIGHT SPOILERS . One reason why ' The Black Devil ' delights me is because the jump cuts are unusually seamless . There are none of those lurching transitions which ruin so many jump cuts . Also , Melies has used the gimmick much more imaginatively here than in several of his other films . It's simple enough to use the jump cut to make one object appear , disappear or move by itself . In ' The Black Devil ' , very amusingly , Melies uses camera sorcery to make a long series of identical chairs appear in rapid-fire succession from the same point in midair . Unexpected and hilarious ! I was especially impressed by one particular jump cut , due to the physical difficulties for the actor involved . We see a bearded man attempt to put his coat in a drawer while the Black Devil keeps magically rearranging the furniture . At one point , the bureau materialises on top of the table , forcing the poor bearded bloke to climb onto the table to open a bureau drawer . Instantly , the bureau and the table both move to other locations . . . leaving the man in midair for just a fraction of an instant before gravity claims him . Now , think about what was involved in that shot . In order to get the effect , the actor had to suspend himself several feet above the floor while the camera operator checked his lighting , and so forth . The man must remain suspended until the camera starts , then he must fall immediately . If he dangles in midair for even a second , we'll have time to see how the trick is done . Thanks to the miracle of Rewind , I was able to replay this section of the film several times , until at last I saw how the actor was able to keep himself suspended till the crucial moment . Elsewhere in this same short film , we see part of the scenery put on fire , deliberately . I was quite surprised by this , as stage sets ( and inexpensive film sets ) are often highly flammable , and an intentional flame can rapidly get out of control . But Melies shows a sure hand here , and nothing happens which isn't in the script . Although Georges Melies's films are typically charming and funny , modern viewers will often easily spot the joins and junctures where his stage tricks are trundled into place . ' The Black Devil ' , refreshingly , is a seamless piece of screen magic , and it's still quite funny after all these years . My rating : .
Hilarious McKimson cartoon	' Rebel Rabbit ' is one of the funnier Bugs Bunny cartoons , with an exciting and unusual climax . This toon is a splendid example of the work of Robert McKimson , the most underrated figure in American animation . McKimson's cartoons are always bright , visually attractive and ( oh , yeah ) funny . . . far more so than the repetitive , predictable and pretentious offerings of the grossly overrated Chuck Jones . Some of McKimson's best cartoons , including ' Rebel Rabbit ' , are downright hilarious . SLIGHT SPOILERS . In this toon , Bugs decides he's been taken for granted when a wildlife commissioner tells him that ' rabbits are timorous creatures ' . Bugs straight away becomes a public enemy , launching a one-rabbit crime wave . The climax is very funny and also visually distinctive , as live-action combat footage is intercut with animation to show the human race putting aside its petty squabbles to exterminate Bugs Bunny . The fadeout line is hilarious . Many of the old Warners cartoons had topical references that are now incomprehensible to the kids who watch these things on television . In ' Rebel Rabbit ' , Bugs has an encounter with a blowhard Southern politician who is clearly meant to be Senator Claghorn , the character from Fred Allen's radio show . During Bugs's crime wave , he saws off the entire state of Florida from the U . S . coast line , and then - - as the state floats out to sea - - Bugs cheerily urges ' South America , take it away . ' In 1949 , when this cartoon was made , that line was the title of a hit song performed by Betty Garrett in the musical ' Call Me Mister ' . Most blatantly topical is the cartoon's one unfunny sequence , when Bugs vandalises a park bench that bears the peculiar sign ' Reserved for Barney Baruch ' . Why would a park bench be reserved for one particular person ? In fact , this refers to Bernard Baruch , Franklin Roosevelt's financial adviser who gave press conferences in the park while he sat on a bench and fed pigeons . This unfunny gag could be scissored from the cartoon with no loss . I'll rate ' Rebel Rabbit ' . Hurrah for Robert McKimson ! What a shame that he didn't live long enough to correct some of the ( shall we say ) erroneous statements made by Chuck Jones .
Delightful low-budget musical	The 1967 TV production of the Broadway musical " Damn Yankees ! " is not as well-known as the 1958 Warner Brothers film version . But the TV version has some merits which the movie version lacks : it's an excellent alternative version of the same story , told on a much smaller budget . One of the best songs in the Broadway show " Damn Yankees " was " The Game " , a slam-bang up-tempo number for male trio , with hilarious lyrics . For some reason , this song was left out of the film version ( except as background music during the opening credits and montages ) . The TV version of " Damn Yankees ! " restores this hilarious song " The Game " , and it's a highlight of the show . Lacking the glitz of the movie version , the TV version of " Damn Yankees ! " makes a virtue of its low budget . Only three members of the Washington Senators baseball team are played by live actors : the rest of the team are " played " by plywood cut-outs painted to look like baseball players . This sounds like a dumb idea , but it's actually handled well . . . especially during the victory scene in the locker room , when one of the flesh-and-blood athletes shares a handshake and some shaving cream with one of his plywood team-mates . Throughout this TV show , there are clever ways of distracting us from the low budget . During the famous song " Heart " , when the three ballplayers sing the line " It's nice to be a genius , of course " , we see cut-outs of their heads moving back and forth in front of crude animation of some meshing gears . When they sing " Keep that old horse before the cart " , we see some silent-film stock footage of a horse rearing up in front of a cart . The lead role of Mr . Applegate ( alias the Devil ) is played here by Phil Silvers , and he's at the top of his form in a performance that owes nothing to Ray Walston's portrayal of this role in the film version . Phil Silvers gives his own unique interpretation of the Devil . Try to imagine Sergeant Bilko as Lucifer , and that's what you'll see here . Hilarious ! Fran Allison ( of " Kukla , Fran and Ollie " ) gives an excellent performance as Meg Boyd , and it's a pleasure to see her interacting with humans instead of puppets . During the scene in the baseball commissioner's office , there's supposed to be a crowd of reporters . . . but the production budget can't afford a crowd of actors , so Fran Allison speaks directly to the camera and she reacts as if she's speaking to a hostile crowd of reporters . She handles an awkward role extremely well . Linda Lavin ( making her TV debut ) is superb in her role as Gloria the sportswriter . She does splendid work in her big number ( " Shoeless Joe from Hannibal , Mo . " ) and her " Shifty McCoy " scene with Phil Silvers is the funniest in the whole show . There are some minuses here , notably Lee Remick's limp performance as Lola the temptress . Lola is supposed to start out unsympathetic , then become heroic as she risks the Devil's wrath in order to save Joe Hardy's soul . This is how Gwen Verdon played the role ( on Broadway and in the film ) , but Remick wants to have our sympathy from the beginning . She's awful . Ray Middleton is badly cast as Joe Boyd , the ageing man who sells his soul for one last chance to recapture his youth . Even when this role is played well , it's hard for us to sympathise with Boyd : he abandons his wife for selfish reasons , and gives her no explanation . Middleton spent most of his career playing villains , and his basic coldness makes Joe Boyd even more unsympathetic than usual . Jerry Lanning plays Joe Hardy , the younger " improved " version of Joe Boyd . Lanning sings very well , but he lacks the physique for this role . Joe Hardy is meant to be a physical paragon , literally superhuman . Lanning can't compare to Tab Hunter , who played Joe Hardy in the movie version . Tab Hunter ( with his gimmicky name ) always looked just too good to be true , which turned out to be an asset when he played super-athlete Joe Hardy in the movie " Damn Yankees ! " . Lanning is too " normal " for this superman role . The TV version of " Damn Yankees ! " , with its plodding camera-work , can't match Bob Fosse's brilliant staging of the dance numbers in the film version , but it tries to come up with imaginative visual substitutes . During the song " Two Lost Souls " , while Lanning and Lee Remick do an uninteresting dance , weird splotches of multi-coloured ink are superimposed on the screen in slow motion . This isn't as interesting as a Bob Fosse dance number , but it's an honest attempt to do something original and different . The 1958 " Damn Yankees ! " was the first movie musical with a racially integrated chorus line ; unfortunately , this great idea wasn't repeated in the TV remake . But the movie version also suffers from the presence of Jean Stapleton doing her annoying " dingbat " routine . Stapleton is completely absent from this TV remake , which is one of the reasons why you'll enjoy it . The TV version of " Damn Yankees ! " tries very hard , and much of it succeeds . Some of it is even better than the 1958 film version . I strongly recommend this TV special as an alternative to the enjoyable film version ; each has its own flaws , and each has its merits . And I enjoyed hearing " The Game " , with its hilarious lyrics . Why was this song left out of the movie ?
Delightful musical comedy short	A previous IMDB reviewer has said that " Dora's Dunking Doughnuts " is about a boy who's afraid of dogs . That reviewer is thinking of a different movie , called " Pardon My Pups " . Both are short comedies which feature Shirley Temple before her stardom . Both of these films have been released on video as part of a compendium of Shirley Temple shorts , which explains why the reviewer has got them switched . " Dora's Dunking Doughnuts " is often packaged as a Shirley Temple film ; she's prominently featured in a supporting role , but she is certainly not the central character here . " Dora's Dunking Doughnuts " was made at Al Christie's low-budget Educational studio , which ( despite its name ) specialised in short comedies . ( Educational started out making educational films , then producer Christie discovered that slapstick was more profitable . ) The star of this film is silent-film comedian Andy Clyde , cast here as a bashful schoolmaster and speaking his dialogue in a soft Perthshire accent . Andy is sweet on Dora , who runs a small roadside diner which isn't getting much custom . But her food is good , especially her doughnuts : if only she could afford to advertise , and attract more customers ! Andy maintains order ( just barely ) over a classroom of students , ranging widely in age . They're all good kids , but very mischievous . Little Shirley is the prize pupil . Andy organises his students into an orchestra and chorus , then he uses his savings to buy some air time on the local radio station . This is quite realistic : in the golden age of radio , many shows were " on sustaining " , meaning that the performers had no sponsor and they paid for their own air time . We see some very unrealistic yet amusing shenanigans at the radio station , including a performance by a matronly singer ( Florence Gill ) who clucks her song as if she were a chicken . Andy leads his schoolkids in a rendition of an advertising jingle , " Dora's Dunking Doughnuts " , which is actually quite enjoyable . But of course a few things go wrong during the live broadcast . . . Special attention should be paid to Bud Jamison , unfortunately misspelt in the credits of this film as ' Jamieson ' . Bud Jamison was the greatest straight man in the history of film comedy ! He worked with most of the greatest comedians in the first 50 years of American films , including Chaplin , Keaton , WC Fields and the Three Stooges . In the Stooges classic ' Disorder in the Court ' , Jamison is the defence attorney who hands Curly a revolver while speaking the immortal line " Never fear , it's not loaded . " Bud Jamison gave sterling service in many of the greatest comedies of the 1920s through ' 40s ( and in a lot of obscure comedies too ) , yet he remains utterly unknown to old-movie fans . . . probably because Jamison specialised in making other comedians seem funnier than they were . Here in " Dora's Dunking Doughnuts " , Jamison is quite funny as the put-upon manager of the small-time radio station . I'll rate this nice comedy-musical short . You'll probably watch it to see Shirley Temple , and Andy Clyde is excellent in the lead role . ( Ethel Sykes is quite good too , as the titular Dora . ) But please rewind it and watch it again , this time concentrating on Bud Jamison's expert comedy timing .
Hollywood's greatest film ever !	CONTAINS SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . ' A Place in the Sun ' is , for my quids , the greatest movie ever made in Hollywood . The film is a reworking of Dreiser's novel ' An American Tragedy ' ( filmed previously ) , which in turn is based on a real murder case . In 1905 , a young man named Chester Gillette , a supervisor in a skirt factory in upstate New York , began an affair with Grace Brown , an ill-paid employee in the factory . The affair led to Brown becoming pregnant , presumably by Gillette . He strung her along for a while , assuring her that he intended to marry her but insisting that she not tell anyone else . In the summer of 1906 , Gillette lured Brown to a remote lake , where he killed her . Overwhelming evidence showed that the murder was premeditated and planned in detail . Gillette was convicted and executed . Although the real-life case is well-known , chroniclers continue to get it wrong by turning the ill-fated relationship into a triangle . Dreiser's novel introduced a wealthy society girl who became attracted to the Gillette character : seeing a chance to enter high society by marrying her , Gillette supposedly perceived Grace Brown as an obstacle to his entree to wealth . This is simply not true ; there was no ' other woman ' in the original case , although tabloid reporters tried to link Gillette romantically with several local debutantes . Montgomery Clift gives the best performance of his career as the Griffiths character , here named George . Shelley Winters , whom I usually dislike , is deeply impressive and sympathetic here as Alice , the simple working girl who's been seduced and traduced . Winters has a deeply moving scene when the pregnant Alice desperately asks a doctor to help her ' take care of ' ( abort ) her unborn child . Less impressive is Angela the society girl , played by Elizabeth Taylor . We're meant to like her , yet she behaves irresponsibly . When a highway cop gives Angela the latest in a long series of speeding tickets , she laughingly declares that her rich daddy will pay the fine , as usual . I can't respect anybody with that attitude . While this film was in production , Taylor was married to Nicky Hilton , her first husband and the frivolous playboy scion of the Hilton hotel fortune . There's now ( as I write this ) another frivolous Hilton heir who's making headlines for irresponsible behaviour , and I don't see why I'm supposed to admire people whose bank balances exceed their IQs . Another thing that baffles me about ' A Place in the Sun ' is Taylor's famous line to Clift : ' Tell mama . Tell mama all . ' For some reason , this keeps showing up on lists of all-time great movie lines . Yet the line doesn't excite me , and the camera isn't even on Taylor's face for most of the line . But , ah , that camera ! Director George Stevens and his brilliant cinematographer William C . Mellor use multiple lap dissolves here . How many films can you name in which a shot begins AND finishes with two separate lap dissolves ? How many films can you name in which this effect WORKS , rather than just being an attention-getting device ? The photography is excellent throughout , aided by Bill Hornbeck's taut editing . I was deeply impressed by an overhead shot of a marsh bird , during the murder sequence . There are many great things in ' A Place in the Sun ' , but the greatest is its moral complexity . At the climax , George lures Alice to the remote lake ; we know he's intending to kill her . But now , unexpectedly , he tells her his intentions and declares he's changed his mind . ( This was also done in the previous film version . ) What's happening here ? Has George really reclaimed his conscience , or has he merely lost his nerve ? We never learn which it is . And now the boat capsizes , and Alice drowns . . . exactly as if George had murdered her deliberately . The courtroom sequences are harrowing . Ted de Corsia , who usually played coarse thugs , is a brave casting choice as the judge . Also an interesting choice is Fred Clark - - an actor usually associated with comedy roles - - as the defence attorney . The moral complexity comes home to roost in a quiet , powerful scene between convicted murderer George and the prison chaplain . ( Another surprising casting choice : the chaplain is played by Paul Frees , best known for voicing cartoon characters . ) Reverend Morrison asks George what his emotions were at the moment when Alice died , then explains the situation . If George felt relief at Alice's death , or any positive reaction , then - - from a moral standpoint - - he is just as guilty of murdering her as if he had actually done the deed . Wow ! It's not often that Hollywood movies address the morality of a situation , especially one as complex as murder . In a typical Hollywood movie , the nearest they get to a moral debate is a gunfight . The last scene , with George walking to his execution , is deeply haunting . . . although I was sceptical that , in 1951 , an American murderer would be on an all-white Death Row . What a powerful film . I'll rate ' A Place in the Sun ' , only because the scale doesn't go any higher .
Entertaining and ( mostly ) accurate	The excellent scriptwriter Wolf Mankowitz has surpassed himself in ' Dickens of London ' , a miniseries recounting the life of Charles Dickens from early boyhood till his death . One of the clichés of biographical drama is the tendency to tell the story in flashback , with the central figure looking back on his or her life from the vantage of old age . . . or even narrating from beyond the grave . There is a sound practical reason for this particular device : the actor or actress cast in the central role is usually too old to portray the biographical subject in early youth . So , we start out with a scene depicting the character in middle age or older , to get the audience accepting that James Cagney is really George M . Cohan , or Julie Andrews is really Gertrude Lawrence . Once that linkage is made , the flashback can begin . Each episode of ' Dickens of London ' is a separate flashback , with the same framing device every time . We see Roy Dotrice , pale and drawn , as Dickens lying in his deathbed . In real life , Dickens's death was precipitated by his exertions during a stage tour , in which he strenuously acted out the murder of Nancy Sikes in ' Oliver Twist ' . As Dickens languishes in bed , he speaks to Mr . Dolby , the manager of his final tour , prompting memories of earlier phases in Dickens's life . ( Cue the flashback . ) There are occasional interruptions , as when Dickens is visited by a masked intruder , claiming to be the original of Dickens's creation Mr Pickwick , and demanding compensation . Wolf Mankowitz's research is impeccable , and this series is extremely accurate , but inevitably there is some invention and fictionalising . Charles Dickens stated that the character of Wilkins Micawber in ' David Copperfield ' was inspired by his own father John Dickens , a failed civil servant who went to debtors ' prison during Charles's childhood . Here , we see John Dickens speaking epigrams that will eventually become dialogue spoken by Micawber in Charles Dickens's novel . I seriously doubt that such material was actually handed to Dickens in a manner like this , but it's very entertaining . Regrettably , but perhaps out of necessity , the central role of Charles Dickens is played by three different actors : a boy in the first episode , when young Charles is forced to work in a blacking factory so that his pampered sister can have dancing lessons . Gene Foad is a dullish Charles in the next two episodes , when Dickens as a stagestruck young man endeavours to become a playwright and actor . Roy Dotrice plays Charles Dickens ( very well ) for most of the series , ageing as the episodes progress . Dotrice also plays Dickens's impecunious father John , and there are some unintentionally bizarre moments in the fourth episode when Roy Dotrice plays long sequences opposite himself , portraying father and son in long dialogue scenes ! Possibly for budgetary reasons , this production does not plump for double-exposure , so the camera must dizzyingly cut back and forth between two separate Roy Dotrices , never getting them both in the same shot . Diana Coupland is excellent as Charles Dickens's mother , but I'm so used to seeing her as Jean Abbott that I kept expecting her to shout ' Sid ! ' . The supporting cast are excellent as well , including Ben Kingsley pre-Oscar . ' Dickens of London ' is probably the best ? most entertaining and most accurate ? dramatisation of Charles Dickens's life that will ever be made . Inevitably , some important things have been left out . . . such as Dickens's long relationship with his mistress , who once helped him tend to the wounded when they were caught in a railway accident . Despite some flaws , I'll rate ' Dickens of London ' a full .
Lewis Carroll would have loved it .	There have been many adaptations of ' Alice in Wonderland ' . I've enjoyed most of the versions I've seen ( even an X-rated version ) , although I found Czech filmmaker Jan Svankmajer's semi-animated version ' Neco z Alenky ' ( 1988 ) deeply alienating . Many of the dramatisations - - including the best-known version , Paramount's 1933 film - - make the mistake of including scenes and characters from the sequel ' Through the Looking-Glass ' . This seldom works , as each of the two novels has its own very linear plot line , and combining the two of them results in arbitrary lurches from one plot to the other . This production of ' Alice in Wonderland ' , made for American public television , has a fascinating pedigree . It is officially a filmed version of the 1982 Broadway production , with Kate Burton repeating her performance in the title role . ( Having seen that production at the Virginia Theatre with my wife , I can state that there are significant changes here . ) That stage production , adapted by Florida Friebus and the legendary Eva Le Gallienne , was originally performed on Broadway in 1932 , with Le Gallienne as the White Queen . . . spectacularly making her second-act entrance on wires , flying in from stage left ! Half a century on , Le Gallienne repeated her role ( and that astonishing entrance ) at age 83 , for the 1982 Broadway production . When I saw her in that play , it was astonishing for me to realise that I was watching an actress who had made her Broadway debut in 1916 ! This tele-version does not use any camera tricks , remaining faithful to its stage pedigree . Alice begins the play by entering Wonderland through her looking-glass , this being an easier transition to perform onstage than having her fall down a rabbit-hole . Once inside the looking-glass , the first act is a fairly faithful ( abridged ) adaptation of ' Alice's Adventures in Wonderland ' , ending with Alice's denunciation of the pack of cards . But rather than awakening from a dream , this propels her into the second act , which is an equally faithful adaptation of ' Through the Looking-Glass ' . I found this a far more effective way to combine the two Alice novels than was done in the Paramount film version . The ' Drink Me ' sequence , in which Alice abruptly dwindles to miniature size , is executed effectively by having Kate Burton stand next to a telescoping table on an otherwise bare stage : the table grows larger while Burton pretends to diminish . As many of the characters in this story are only semi-human ( at best ) , most of the actors wear heavy makeup appliances and elaborate disguises . As the cast is well stocked with big-name actors , veteran director Kirk Browning is understandably eager to let us know who's underneath that makeup . A visual device is used repeatedly throughout this telefilm , and it works very well . Each time Alice meets a new character , the action stops for a moment , and an oval inset frame is blue-screened over the tableau . In this frame , we see a head shot of the actor who has just entered , without disguise . Then the action resumes . Daringly - - and perhaps out of necessity - - several of the characterisations here look little or nothing like the familiar images in Sir John Tenniel's illustrations . The departure is most notable for Tweedledum and Tweedledee . As drawn by Tenniel , these twins were immense fat schoolboys in skeleton suits . Here , they're performed by Andre De Shields and Alan Weeks , two lithe tap-dancers who take every opportunity to show off their agility . Making their exit in a rapid dance routine , De Shields and Weeks perform together as if they actually are identical twins , dancing in brisk unison . Elsewhere , I was pleasantly surprised to discover Swen Swenson as the agile Gryphon , capering to the mournful soup-song of the Mock Turtle . Swenson was formerly a handsome hoofer who played several leading dance roles on Broadway in the early 1960s , but very little of his work has been captured on film . IMDb's cast list includes two puppeteers : these are the unseen artists who guide immense bunraku-sized marionettes of the Walrus and the Carpenter . I was disappointed that Eva Le Gallienne does not repeat her airborne triumph here as the White Queen . She is replaced by Maureen Stapleton : a performer whom I strongly dislike as both an actress and as a person . Stapleton has made no secret of her fear of flying - - she has actually boasted that she once forced an airliner to make an emergency landing so that she could get off - - and as such I found Stapleton an ironic choice to play the windswept Queen who makes her entrance flying through the air . In the central role as Alice - - the only character who interacts with all the others - - Kate Burton is excellent , although ( as is usual for most live-action ' Alice ' productions ) she's clearly an adult woman impersonating a little girl . In a cast filled with big names , perhaps the biggest name here - - and one of the best performances - - is that of Richard Burton , Kate Burton's father . Raised by her mother , she spent very little time with her famous father , and she had never performed with him apart from a brief role in his film ' Anne of the Thousand Days ' . Here , in one of his last roles , Richard Burton is splendidly cast as the White Knight . . . the only character in Alice's two journeys who is entirely sympathetic and who actually tries to help her . When Richard Burton died a few months after filming this performance , Kate Burton spoke very movingly about how thankful she was for finally having a chance to perform with him . This version of ' Alice in Wonderland ' is an absolute delight , appropriate for both adults and children . . . although some of the action might be slightly difficult to follow for someone who has never read the Alice books , or had those books read to them . But is there actually anyone who has NOT read those classics ? I'll rate this delightful tele-film a full .
. . . and he did it all with only one eye .	In 1972 and ' 73 , film critic Richard Schickel made an 8-part series for American public television : ' The Men Who Made the Movies ' . Each episode featured a prominent Hollywood director discussing his career in an on-camera monologue ( actually an interview , with Schickel's questions edited out ) , interspersed with generous clips from his most famous films , accompanied by somewhat overwrought narration ( written by Schickel and spoken by Cliff Robertson ) . It's regrettable that Schickel did not include Fritz Lang , William Wyler and John Ford in this series : all three were alive at the time , although Ford was quite ill . The Raoul Walsh episode begins with some discussion of Walsh's early film career as an actor ; we see a clip from D . W . Griffith's ' Birth of a Nation ' , in which Walsh ( as John Wilkes Booth ) assassinates Lincoln ( played by Joseph Henabery ) . According to Walsh's self-deprecating commentary , he became a movie actor when a director approvingly noticed the distinctive way Walsh picked his nose ! Regrettably , this documentary does not include any footage from ' Sadie Thompson ' , in which the handsome and athletic young Walsh reached his peak as a self-directed leading man : when Schickel made this series , the ' Sadie Thompson ' negative ( owned by Gloria Swanson ) was partially damaged and not legally available . Walsh discusses the incident that ended his acting career : while starring in and directing ' In Old Arizona ' on location , Walsh drove his jeep towards a jackrabbit that jumped through his windscreen , shattering it . A sherd of glass destroyed Walsh's eye . Walsh wore an eyepatch for the rest of his career ; tragically , he went blind in his remaining eye a few years before he died . This documentary doesn't mention the notorious confrontation between Walsh and John Ford . The one-eyed and eyepatched Walsh resented Ford , who had two eyes but affected an eyepatch to conceal the bloodshot condition of one eye . In the footage here , Walsh describes an incident from his pre-Hollywood life , when ( as an assistant to a French dentist ) he accidentally killed a patient by giving him too much gas . Let me offer a theory here . The 1933 film ' One Sunday Afternoon ' is about a dentist who has a chance to murder his despised rival by ' accidentally ' ( on purpose ) giving him too much gas . Raoul Walsh did not direct the ' 33 ' One Sunday Afternoon ' , but he remade it as ' The Strawberry Blonde ' and then he re-remade it under its original title , as a musical ! Why was Walsh so attracted to this particular story ? My theory is that he felt a need to expiate some self-imposed guilt for his own unintended act of dental manslaughter . Among many other clips from Walsh films , we see a brief clip of Marguerite Churchill and John Wayne in ' The Big Trail ' . This big-budget Western was supposed to be John Wayne's breakthrough film , before Ford starred him in ' Stagecoach ' . . . yet it flopped , and no reason is given here for the failure . In fact , ' The Big Trail ' was filmed in a very unusual aspect ratio , and most cinema managers didn't want to refit their screens to accommodate it . All eight episodes of ' The Men Who Made the Movies ' are well-made , highly entertaining and informative , although they tend to concentrate on the most well-known films of their respective subjects . The Raoul Walsh segment is especially useful , due to the fact that Walsh gave so few interviews . Towards the end of his life , in failing health and nearly blind , Walsh wrote an autobiography called ' Each Man in His Time ' : a poorly-written book . Unfortunately , while he was writing his memoir , Walsh refused to grant interviews to other authors , as he wanted to conserve for his own book all his best anecdotes about his life and career . And what a life and career this man had ! Despite a few flaws , I'll rate all eight episodes of ' The Men Who Made the Movies ' a perfect .
Firewatch with Mother	Will Hay started his performing career in the music halls , as a comedy schoolmaster who is ( of course ) outsmarted by his schoolboys . Well before Abbott and Costello wondered Who's on First , Will Hay was doing a routine about a schoolboy named Howe in Wye from Ware . In his film career , Will Hay - - no relation to the American film censor Will Hays - - usually played minor authority figures ( a schoolmaster , a stationmaster , a fire chief ) who were incompetent , stupid and usually crooked with it . In real life , Will Hay was something of an intellectual . An amateur astronomer of some real significance , he discovered the White Spot on Saturn and a few other items . Hay was the perfect choice to star in ' Go to Blazes ' , an extremely interesting oddity from the dark days of the Blitz . This film cleverly manages to be a genuinely funny comedy , an instructional film , and a propaganda piece ( assuring Britons to stay brave and calm ) all at the same go . Hay plays a harried husband who comes home to discover his daughter ( Thora Hird , a bit too big for her gymslip ) studying conic sections . As there's a firewatch in progress , he boasts of his prowess in extinguishing incendiary bombs . We see Hay in action , in flashback : of course , he's bang incompetent . I laughed heartily as an incendiary on Hay's roof proceeds to burn its way down through each storey of his house , eventually settling in the cellar . It's no surprise , of course , that a genuine incendiary arrives . . . and it's also no surprise that Hay's wife and daughter are cool and confident as they extinguish it , while Hay has no idea of what to do . There's a very British closing gag . I found this short film absolutely fascinating , not merely for its content but also its context : civilians in wartime Britain were being killed in their own homes by German bombs . ' Go to Blazes ' , in addition to instructing the public on how to protect themselves , also serves as propaganda to assure them that the situation isn't so hopeless after all . This very funny film is black comedy in the true sense of that term , as audiences were encouraged to laugh at a truly lethal situation which could kill them at any moment . Shortly after ' Go to Blazes ' was released , most cinemas and theatres in wartime London were shut down : the Home Office wanted to avoid the danger to homefront morale that would result if a doodlebug hit a theatre with hundreds of people in it . ' Go to Blazes ' rates a full . It's hilarious , and it's more relevant than ever in this post - age .
Calling all corset-lovers !	Anna Held was the first wife of legendary showman Flo Ziegfeld , and also the star of many of his productions . By all accounts , she had some talent as an actress and a singer and a dancer , but her greatest appeal for audiences was undoubtedly her physical beauty , most notably her astonishing figure . Tightly corseted from early girlhood , she had an extremely narrow waist and wide voluptuous hips , making Held one of the most splendid exemplars of an hourglass figure . Ziegfeld's real genius was for publicity , and some of his best publicity stunts were concocted for Anna Held . Ziegfeld realised that fashionable ladies would want to emulate Held's appearance , but he knew that her most distinctive feature - - her wasp-waisted physique - - was unattainable , so ( in an era when only working-class people had sun tans ) he publicised her creamy-white complexion . Ziegfeld issued press releases claiming ( untruthfully ) that Held bathed in milk , and he had gallons of milk conspicuously portaged to her hotel suite for the benefit of the press . Reportedly , dairy sales to upper-class neighbourhoods skyrocketed . This 1901 film is ostensibly an excerpt from Anna Held's starring performance in ' Papa's Bride ' , a musical with songs by Reginald De Koven . I viewed the Library of Congress print after consulting some materials loaned to me by Reginald De Koven IV , a midwestern businessman who is a direct descendant of the composer . Without that supplementary information , it would have been difficult for me to figure out what's going on in this brief movie . In ' Papa's Bride ' , Anna Held is a naive convent girl who has been pressured into marrying Baron Florestan , a wealthy elderly lecher . The baron's strait-laced son Aristide is concerned that the baron will squander his wealth on actresses , so he has arranged for the baron to wed pretty young Anna in the hope that the baron will settle down . But Aristide wants to be sure of his own inheritance , so he contrives that Anna's marriage isn't actually legal . Baron Florestan invites several pretty actresses to his wedding feast . Young Anna is both innocent and demure : she has never tasted alcohol . Now she sips champagne for the first time , and proceeds to get progressively more giddy ( the libretto prefers the adjective ' gay ' ) , until eventually she dances and sings boisterously , to the merriment of the actresses . At this point Aristide enters , and is scandalised by what he sees . In the film - - which is very brief - - Anna Held merely takes repeated sups of champagne , but she does so in character . . . first taking a hesitant sip , then taking progressively larger draughts while her behaviour becomes more expansive . She displays a range of facial expressions here , pretending to become intoxicated yet retaining her basic dignity and composure . At this point in the stage version of ' Papa's Bride ' , Anna Held burst into song . Here , as there's no soundtrack , she doesn't even pretend to be singing . This brief glimpse of a Belle Epoque superstar conveys enough of Anna Held's charming stage presence and sex appeal to make me regret that she never starred in a feature-length sound film . There's very little to see here , but all of it is delightful : for that reason , and for its historic value , I'll rate this movie .
Johnny LaRue meets Doctor Zhivago	Each year since 1973 , the American Film Institute have given their Lifetime Achievement Award to a prominent film star or director . The choice of whom to honour has been motivated by various factors . . . such as whose name will sell the most tickets . The guest of honour must be alive , and must be willing to attend in person and give an acceptance speech . The first four annual awards were given to male recipients : in 1977 , the AFI decided it was time to honour a woman , but their committee's first choice ( Katharine Hepburn ) refused to accept the award in person , so they gave it to Bette Davis ( who apparently didn't mind being second choice for an award based on gender ) . Cary Grant had a standing offer to receive the AFI award , but he was never willing to make an acceptance speech and so he was never chosen . In 1990 , the Lifetime Achievement Award went to Sir David Lean : a faintly surprising choice , as Lean did not work within the Hollywood studio system and is therefore an ' outsider ' . Yet he has rightly been respected by Hollywood's movie industry as a master filmmaker . William Goldman's book ' Adventures in the Screen Trade ' contains an amusing anecdote about how , at any given moment , there are only two hot directors in Hollywood , and one of them is always David Lean . We get here , as usual , the clips from the guest of honour's films . In Lean's case , the offerings are mostly from his later international epics , rather than his early British films which are not so well-known Stateside . A further weakness here is that this AFI tribute , more so than most , features testimonials from people who are outside the Hollywood system . One thing which I dislike about the AFI tributes in general is that they tend to include testimonials from current box-office names who have nothing to do with the guest of honour , but who will bring in ratings points from young viewers who aren't familiar with the old-timer who's getting the award . An especially egregious example of this was the Billy Wilder tribute , which featured comments by Whoopi Goldberg and Jessica Lange . . . neither of whom ever worked with Wilder . Here , that sort of thing is kept to a minimum during the Lean tribute . . . until a very funny payoff , near the climax of this event . When the guest of honour finally rises to make an acceptance speech , appropriate music is played . At the AFI tribute for Alfred Hitchcock , it was ' Funeral March for a Marionette ' . For James Cagney , it was ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' . Here , as David Lean strides triumphantly to the dais , the house band plays ' The Colonel Bogey March ' , which was used so effectively in Lean's film ' Bridge on the River Kwai ' . And now comes the payoff . For a few seconds , the camera cuts away from Lean to show John Candy applauding him . Candy never worked for Lean . . . but as I saw him here , I suddenly realised that the Colonel Bogey March has figured prominently in Candy's career . It was the theme tune for his Johnny LaRue sketches on ' SCTV ' . He performed it in his film ' Volunteers ' , and it shows up in a couple of other Candy films too . Whoever had the bright idea of giving John Candy a prominent seat at the AFI tribute to David Lean was very clever indeed , and I'll rate this tribute full marks of 10 in 10 .
Notorious Norwich , streets ahead of the rest .	I missed ' On the Margin ' when it was originally transmitted on BBC2 in ' 66 , but I saw the repeats ( Jan-Feb ' 67 ) , which attracted so much attention that just about every adult in Britain ( including me ) saw the BBC1 transmissions ( May-July ) that same year . ' On the Margin ' was a fascinating hotch-potch of cutting-edge comedy , leavened with serious interludes of original music . . . and poetry by John Bejeman . ( Although Betjeman's famous poem about your mum and dad , and what they do to you , was conspicuous by its absence . ) I'm embarrassed to confess that my own favourite portions of ' On the Margin ' were the vintage film clips of old-time music-hall comedians . . . including Max Miller , Arthur Askey , Jewel & Warriss and Flanagan & Allen . Over the decades , I've been able to track down most of those music-hall clips ( from their original sources ) and savour them again , but it now appears that most of the original footage from ' On the Margin ' no longer exists . Fortunately , the scripts survive in Auntie Beeb's archives , and we can live in hope that they will one day be re-enacted , in the same way that Paul Merton has ' remade ' some classic Tony Hancock sketches . Head writer Alan Bennett , fresh off his success with ' Beyond the Fringe ' , was also the principal performer here , ably abetted by an excellent repertory cast , plus guest appearances by ' Fringe'-mate Jonathan Miller , John Fortune and ( in serious mode ) Michael Hordern . Director Sydney Lotterby ( mocked in the BBC's corridors as ' The Man with a Million ' ) directed this series skilfully with his usual economic efficiency . One recurring serial sketch , ' Streets Ahead ' , dealt with two competitive couples in NW1 . Other sketches lampooned trendy figures of the moment , such as Angry Young Man playwrights . ' On the Margin ' hugely anticipated Monty Python with a surprising tendency to inject gay humour into its sketches . Bennett was hilarious ( and hilariously credible ) as a series of camp antiques dealers and swishy window-dressers . This was , of course , decades before Bennett came out in real life . ' On the Margin ' occurred roughly halfway through Britain's renaissance of satiric comedy , which Bennett had helped to start in ' Beyond the Fringe ' . It's notable that most of this comedy was extremely hostile towards Britain , the British people , the British government and the British way of life . ' On the Margin ' , intriguingly , managed to score its satirical points while still expressing a deep sense of patriotism and a love of British traditions . Bennett and his comedic cohorts seemed to be proposing ways in which Britain might improve , whilst other satirists of this era were merely slagging the nation and its government . As it appears that only a few scraps of footage survive from this milestone series , the best chance seems to be a re-staging of the scripts . In the 1970s , Bennett re-worked his notorious ' Norwich ' sketch from this series for the ' Pleasure at Her Majesty's ' benefit . Let's have more , please ! I'll rate ' On the Margin ' , and I don't believe that nostalgia is colouring my opinion .
The greatest 3D movie ever !	' Inferno ' was originally filmed in 3D , but this film avoids the stupid gimmicks that plagued so many films in that brief genre . . . such as the paddleballs that utterly ruined ' House of Wax ' for me . In far too many 3D films , the actors are constantly chucking objects at the audience . We get none of that here , except for one medium close-up of Henry Hull flinging a burning paraffin lamp at the camera . ' Inferno ' is shown on television in flat 2D format . Good news : even in 2D , ' Inferno ' is a taut thriller that's well worth your attention . Robert Ryan usually fails to impress me , but he gives a riveting performance here as a millionaire who's had everything given to him his entire life , but who now must learn self-reliance in order to survive . Ryan is cast as millionaire Donald Carson III . . . and the roman numeral is an obvious tip-off that Carson's wealth is inherited . Carson's sluttish wife Geraldine ( a fine performance by the sexy and underrated Rhonda Fleming ) has been openly carrying on an affair with Carson's overseer Duncan . The three of them go on a trip into the desert together , where Carson breaks his leg . It's never established how this happened : did Carson break his leg in a genuine accident , or did Duncan ' accidentally ' break it for him ? Anyway , Geraldine and Duncan have decided to maroon her husband in the desert , dooming him to slow death by exposure while Geraldine inherits his millions . SLIGHT SPOILERS COMING . Carson must learn to fend for himself , in a situation where his money is useless . In a sterling perfomance , Robert Ryan gradually earns our sympathy . There's a suspenseful scene in which Carson , crippled and starving , tries to snare a jackrabbit . When he finally succeeds , we cheer for him . But then a raptor snatches away the rabbit that Carson earned . During another tense sequence , Carson must lower himself down a desert cliffside without damaging his broken leg . Henry Hull is an actor whom I've always found very mannered . Hull was a good actor when he played highly stylised roles ( such as the title role in ' Werewolf of London ' , or ' Miracles for Sale ' in which he played a conjuror ) , but Hull tended to give overripe performances when he was cast as a realistic human being . In ' Inferno ' , he gives a histrionic turn as a Gabby Hayes-type old coot of a hermit who lives in the desert . Hull's performance here is probably similar to his Broadway turn as Jeeter Lester in ' Tobacco Road ' . In September 2003 , I attended a 3D movie festival at the Egyptian Theatre in Los Angeles , where I saw ' Inferno ' in its original format ( with those silly cardboard glasses ) . As good as ' Inferno ' is in flat format , it's even better in 3D . I'll go out on a limb and say that ' Inferno ' is the greatest 3D movie ever . Underrated director Roy Ward Baker resists the urge to throw things at the 3D stereopticon cameras . Instead , he draws us into the frame , shooting the desert vistas in deep-focus tableaux that impress us with the vast width and length and depth of the desert in which Robert Ryan's crippled protagonist is trapped . There are several suspense films that effectively invoke claustrophobia , the fear of being trapped in an enclosed space . ' Inferno ' is one of the very few films - - and the only 3D film - - to successfully instil in us a sense of the opposite fear : agoraphobia , the terror of being trapped in an open space , with no comforting walls or corners . I have never seen any other film that uses the 3D process so effectively - - and with as much originality - - as it's used here . The fact that the 3D is used in the service of an excellent script and some fine performances - - instead of paddleball gimmicks - - makes this movie even more impressive , and more entertaining . I'll rate ' Inferno ' . You'll enjoy it in 2D , but make every effort to see it in 3D .
Two men with three lordships between them .	Many early films which purport to show major public figures are actually staged enactments , featuring impersonators on mostly unconvincing stage mock-ups . Just occasionally , a film might contain authentic footage of the person it claimed to depict , in an authentic setting but in a staged situation . A good example of this is ' McKinley at Home ' ( 1896 ) , by British film pioneer William Dickson , which purports to show William McKinley at his Ohio residence at the moment when he receives the telegram announcing that he is the Republican Party's candidate for President . Although this short film actually depicts McKinley on the lawn of his home , the action is a staged re-enactment of an event that had already occurred : McKinley had already been notified of his nomination before the ( staged ) film was made . Two years after that newsreel , Dickson made ' Pope Leo XIII and Count Pecci ' : another short film which ( unlike the previous one ) is absolutely free of fakery . Although Dickson's camera is static , the photography is clear and detailed . We can make out specific aspects of the landscaping of the Vatican Gardens , and the architecture of the nearby buildings . I was not able to identify these details , but that's purely down to my lack of knowledge about the Vatican , and not in any way a fault of Dickson's photography . Pope Leo the Thirteenth , looking remarkably like American character actor Paul Stewart , is seen here with his older brother Giuseppe , who ( as Count Pecci ) was a member of the Italian peerage and a priest in his own right ( thus being a lord temporal as well as a lord spiritual ) . The affection between the two elderly brothers is quite evident in this impressively photographed tableau . There's a strong physical resemblance between them , as well . So far as I know , this film doesn't represent any specific historic incident : the count is merely paying a call upon his younger brother , who happens to be the Pope . Still , for its undeniable historic value - - as well as for the fact that it marks an ongoing maturity of newsreel photography , progressing away from faked stagings - - I'll rate this brief newsreel points .
Conrad Veidt's expressive hands	This film's German title would translate as " Journey in the Night " , but that " night " is metaphoric : it refers to blindness , rather than anything nocturnal . The film's most notable merits are its photography ( by Max Lutze ) , the direction by F . W . Murnau ( a bit lighter than usual from this director ) and a remarkable performance by Conrad Veidt . . . an actor who never fails to impress me , yet who surpasses his own high standards in this drama . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . The first reel of this film plays almost like a comedy . Doctor Eigil Börne is engaged to Lily , until a fateful evening when he attends the music-hall performance of Helene , a vamp who sets her cap for the wealthy and respected physician . Helene performs an erotic dance in a bizarre costume resembling a giant rosebud that conceals the entire upper half of her body . As she dances , the petals fall away to reveal the dancer within . Helene fakes an injury on stage , knowing that the doctor in the audience will come to her aid . Helene seduces the doctor while he examines her feet . ( Sounds good to me . ) Before long , poor Lily is left neglected . The doctor marries Helene and whisks her off to the countryside , where he opens a surgery for the local peasants . So far , the film still has the feel of a comedy . There's a weird sequence in which Helene disguises herself as a peasant woman , then shows up at her husband's surgery . . . pretending to need treatment for an injured foot , and waiting to see how long it takes for him to recognise her . Even though Murnau establishes that this " peasant " woman is really the doctor's wife in disguise , he doesn't seem to trust us to follow the action . While the doctor is examining Helene's foot , Murnau cuts to a big close-up of actress Erna Morena smirking out from within her disguise , to remind us who this woman really is . But now , in a starkly beautiful sequence , we see a dinghy rowing toward the shore , with a tall gaunt figure standing upright between the gunwales . Even in extreme long shot , the silhouette of Conrad Veidt is unmistakable , and even from this great distance he radiates tremendous presence . Still , it makes no sense for him to stand up in the boat . . . and even less sense when we learn that Veidt is playing a blind man . I assumed that Murnau told Veidt to stand up in this shot , so as to give more emphasis to the arrival of his character . . . but later in the film , we see the much less dramatic form of Olaf Fønss ( as Dr . Börne ) standing up in the same boat . Veidt plays a painter ( apparently of landscapes ; we never see his work ) who has gone blind , and who has come to the famous doctor for treatment . Börne performs some unspecified surgery . Veidt recovers his eyesight , with tragic results . . . and then goes blind again . I knew that Veidt was a great actor , yet his performance in this film is a revelation . He stalks through his early scenes without a cane or a guide , yet is entirely believable as a sightless man . The scene in which his sight is restored is a tour de force . Later , the scene in which his blindness returns is another tour de force . Conrad Veidt had the most expressive hands in the history of film acting , and he uses them exquisitely here : probing sightlessly , gesticulating . Although most of " Journey into the Night " is brilliant , there is one unnecessarily ludicrous touch at the end of the film . The very last shot is a close-up of a handwritten letter , authored by the blind artist AFTER his blindness has returned ! How did he manage to write it ? Murnau should have inserted a brief shot of Veidt's blind artist dictating this letter to another person , and then shown us this amanuensis writing down Veidt's words . Despite a few minor flaws , I'll rate " Journey in the Night " a full . It's a splendid example of Murnau's skills , and one of Conrad Veidt's most electrifying performances .
Brilliant drama of ideas	I saw Michael Frayn's stage play ' Copenhagen ' in London . . . in fact , I was technically IN the play , as Peter Davison's set design seated some of the audience members onstage directly above the actors , like a tribunal sitting in judgment , and I chose to watch the play from one of these onstage seats . ( I also saw the play on Broadway in the same circumstances , so technically I was onstage during both productions . ) This brilliant drama is basically an interplay of ideas between three highly intelligent minds : a concept which works better onstage than in a film or a teleplay . So , when ' Copenhagen ' was adapted for television by the BBC , I was eager to see how they would ' open up ' this story . . . and whether or not the transition would work . It works astonishingly well . During the Second World War , brilliant young physicist Werner Heisenberg was in Germany , working towards the Nazi government's efforts to develop a nuclear bomb . Meanwhile , Heisenberg's older mentor and friend , Niels Bohr , was working quietly in his native Denmark ( a nation under Nazi occupation at the time ) along with his wife Margrethe . Bohr's wife was not a trained physicist , but many people who knew the Bohrs stated that she was an active partner in his work , and that Mrs Bohr deserves to share credit for Bohr's achievements . In 1941 , Heisenberg journeyed to Copenhagen to visit his old friends the Bohrs , although their disparate allegiances during the war had strained the friendship . To this day , historians debate why Heisenberg visited the Bohrs at this time . Also debated is Heisenberg's loyalty to the Nazi cause . Did Heisenberg actively try ( and fail ) to develop an atomic bomb for the Third Reich ? Or was Heisenberg secretly an anti-Nazi who covertly harmed the German war effort by pretending to work on the bomb whilst sabotaging his labmates ' efforts ? As with the assassination of JFK , there are many different theories as to what ' really ' happened here . Heisenberg devised the Uncertainty Principle of quantum physics , so it's ironic that we can never be certain about what really occurred in Copenhagen . The tv version of ' Copenhagen ' is brilliant . The action is opened up by having Heisenberg journey to Copenhagen ( on a vintage 1940s railway train ) while an internal monologue plays on the soundtrack . When he meets the Bohrs , the three of them stroll through various ( extremely beautiful ) buildings and landmarks in Copenhagen , with an occasional Nazi soldier walking past to remind us that Denmark is effectively part of the Third Reich . The period detail is impeccable throughout , and the locations are a delight to look at . The script of this teleplay is actually superior to the stage version . In the stage play , after Bohr is identified as ' the pope of quantum physics ' , his wife replies : ' yes , you were the pope . . . but Einstein was God ' . This is a cheap joke , meant to raise a laugh from audience members who recognise Einstein yet who feel uncomfortable with their lack of knowledge about Bohr's achievements . With all due respect to Einstein , the historical fact is that Niels Bohr achieved far more in the field of quantum physics than any other three scientists combined , including Einstein . . . so I was grateful that the Einstein joke was removed . Another , much better line is retained , when Heisenberg contemplates the concept of ' quantum morality ' . . . in other words , the journey from Good to Evil ( or vice versa ) can only be made in a single quantum leap , with no gradual transition from one state to the other . Intriguing ! I wish that the script of ' Copenhagen ' ( stage or screen version ) had included a crucial irony which was mentioned in the playbill of the London production : namely , that most of the important work in the development of the atomic bomb was achieved by Jewish scientists , precisely because of policies implemented by the Nazi government . In Nazi Germany , applied physics was considered a much more prestigious field of research than theoretical physics , so Jewish scientists were shut out of employment opportunities in the former , and they concentrated their research efforts in the latter . . . which was the field that developed the atomic bomb . The excellent actor Stephen Rea does fine work as Bohr , and his castmates are splendid too . If you're looking for car chases or action sequences , ' Copenhagen ' is not for you . But if you want to experience brilliant acting , sumptuous locales and an exchange of provoking ideas , then I recommend ' Copenhagen ' . . . and I rate this tv movie . This fascinating drama won't Bohr you . ( Sorry , I couldn't resist ! )
Streets ahead of Pepper's Ghost .	I viewed the British Film Institute print of this early movie by Robert W Paul . Like his better-known contemporary Georges Melies in France , Britain's Paul was an early film-maker who experimented with the camera's possibilities to produce ' trick ' films . While these very early movies must have baffled and delighted their audiences , I tend to dislike ' trick ' films because what we're seeing is not any sort of stagecraft nor prestidigitation by a skilled conjuror : it's basically just jump cuts , the same device still being used sixty years onward to enable Samantha off ' Bewitched ' to appear and disappear . While Paul and Melies deserve credit for innovation , from our modern jaded viewpoint the device has long since palled . ( No pun intended on ' Paul ' . ) ' The Magic Sword ' , unlike so many Paul films but like quite a few of Melies's more ambitious productions , is lifted out of the genre of ' trick ' films - - and is much more entertaining - - because it uses its camera effects in the service of telling an actual story , rather than merely showing objects appearing and vanishing . The IMDb synopsis of this film is accurate enough . Basically , this movie tells us the story of a ' mediaeval ' knight and his fair lady . When the damsel is nobbled by hobgoblins , the knight must use a magical sword to help him rescue her . All of the supernatural events which we witness in this film are in the service of the story , rather than merely for the sake of " Hey presto ! " . I'm impressed that these very early film-makers realised that the story is more important than the special effects . I can think of a few modern film-makers who need to learn that lesson . The ' mediaeval ' settings and costumes in ' The Magic Sword ' are not remotely convincing , and not for one instant do we forget that these are actors performing on a proscenium stage . However , the story's a fantasy , so it doesn't need to be convincing . ' The Magic Sword ' is a very charming film , which even modern audiences ( jaded by CGI F / X ) can appreciate . My rating : a full .
Zoo-zoo's pedals !	After the scandal that drove him off the screen , Roscoe Arbuckle continued to work behind the camera as a director and gag constructor under the pseudonym William Goodrich . By coincidence , he directed two unrelated movies - - a short and a feature - - both called ' Special Delivery ' . This is the first , and it's hilarious . Al St John is a bicycle courier for the Swiftfoot Messenger Company . He is given an envelope containing a valuable postal order , to deliver to a fair damsel . Off he goes on his bicycle . But a gang of thieves are determined to steal the postal order , and they place every conceivable obstacle in his way . SPOILING SOME GAGS . St John ( a former Keystone Cop , and Arbuckle's nephew ) had perfected his trick bicycle act in vaudeville . Here , he performs a dazzling repertory of tricks aboard his velocipede . Just occasionally in this short film , there is some camera trickery that enables St John to perform an impossible gag . When he whistles for his bike , it gets up and comes to him all by itself ( courtesy of stop motion ) . Although this gag is well-photographed , I resented its presence : when camera tricks are inserted , the audience naturally begin to wonder if any of St John's daredevil stunts were faked too . ( They weren't . ) Later in the film , we get another camera trick that genuinely impressed me , when the leader of the thieves coshes St John . The rest of the screen image continues to move normally while St John and his bike remain stock-still in freeze-frame , heeled over at an angle that St John couldn't possibly maintain without trickery . The join between the freeze-frame and the moving image is seamless . There's also a clever streetcar sequence , anticipating the climax of Harold Lloyd's ' Girl Shy ' . Eventually , St John careens into a packing case outside a shopfront called the Lion Cleaners , which I assumed was a laundry . ( ' For cleaning lions ' , I muttered to myself . ) Got it in one ! There are three freshly-cleaned LIVE lions inside the case with St John , and his frenzied reaction is a sight to behold . There are several gags involving a lion's tail or a lion's paw : it's quite obvious that these are really props manipulated by a stagehand , but the gags are funny anyway . This movie rates a . Why can't modern comedians do this sort of thing ?
Unflinchingly honest . Brilliant !	I saw ' Crainquebille ' in October 2005 at the Cinema Muto festival in northern Italy . . . at which was also screened the film's original ' suppressed ' ending . This movie has previously been reviewed for IMDb by a self-appointed count ( who gave himself one vowel too many ) . He has managed to get several details wrong ? Crainquebille's barrow is a pushcart , not an oxcart ? and has avoided some major aspects of the story . I viewed the same print ( restored by Lobster Films ) which the so-called count claims to have seen . Let's try again , shall we ? ' Crainquebille ' was originally a novel by Anatole France , the pseudonymous French author who was obsessed with justice , law and the rights of the poor . IMDb incorrectly classifies this movie as a fantasy ; the movie is a faithful rendering of the novel , which has no fantasy elements apart from a nightmare sequence . Jerome Crainquebille is an elderly costermonger , just barely making a living off the fruit and vegetables he sells from his barrow . He unintentionally offends a constable , who hauls him off to gaol . Although Crainquebille serves only a brief sentence , this interruption is enough to ruin his barely stable existence . He is soon evicted from his garret and sleeping rough in the street . The real power of this very powerful film is its unflinchingly honest depiction of the underside of Paris . We see prostitutes who are weather-beaten , sore and ragged . ( I'm well weary of movies in which the streetwalkers wear expensive clothes , and have perfect coiffures and makeup . ) There are some fascinating shots of Les Halles , the central market . When the pauper Crainquebille is in prison , he discovers that his standard of living has actually got better , not worse : his prison cell has running water , a clean floor , and other conveniences he never knew before . The only unrealistic scene is Crainquebille's trial , which is surrealistically shown from the hapless defendant's perspective . A prosecution witness turns into a giant , whilst a defence witness dwindles to the size of an insect . The statue of Justice comes to life and rebukes the defendant . The prosecuting advocate is asleep , whilst the defence advocate is filling out his betting slips . Although Anatole France had a deep contempt for his nation's judicial system , he does at least depict the prison governors as honest . Here , when a sympathetic witness tries to give 100 francs to the imprisoned Crainquebille through intermediaries , the money actually does reach him . The camera-work is impressive throughout this film , not least in the surrealistic trial sequence . Also impressive is Doctor Mathieu's nightmare . . . much of which is shown in negative print , so that black and white are reversed . There is a stark climactic sequence , in which Crainquebille leans over the Seine and contemplates suicide . . . only to change his mind when an object plunges into the water ahead of him . This sequence strongly reminded me of the famous scene in ' It's a Wonderful Life ' when George Bailey considers drowning himself . I wonder if Frank Capra saw this movie ? Elswhere , there is comedy that's very funny indeed . . . but it's the bitter comedy of real life . SPOILING ALTERNATE ENDING . Also screened at Cinema Muto was the director's original ( unedited ) ending for this film , which was ultimately scrapped in favour of a more upbeat ending . In this version , we see Crainquebille and his boy assistant outside a posh restaurant . Along comes Madame Laure , the respectable shopwoman who caused so much trouble for Crainquebille earlier . . . but now she's a rouged prostitute , with a wealthy customer ! The man gives Crainquebille a 100-franc note , which Crainquebille disdainfully tosses into the gutter . . . but , as soon as the couple have strolled onward , he discreetly retrieves it . I'll rate ' Crainquebille ' a perfect . Stay in Heidelberg , count !
Bitter Buster , beaten Keaton	SPOILERS SPOILERS " Day Dreams " is the bitterest and most disenchanted Buster Keaton film . . . which is saying a great deal about this most embittered and darkest of all comedians . " Day Dreams " climaxes with one of the most famous gags in the Keaton canon , and fades out on a final image of stark futility worthy of Samuel Beckett . It's also hilarious . " Day Dreams " is a nightmare in three-quarter time , with a plot line employing a three-beat structure . Small-town Buster has gone to seek his fame and fortune in New York City , from where he sends letters home to his girlfriend ( Renée Adorée ) . Most of the film relies on this three-beat cycle : # 1 ) We read an extract of a letter from Buster to his girlfriend . # 2 ) We see the girlfriend's visualisation of how well Buster is doing in the city . # 3 ) The bitter payoff shows the grim reality of Buster's ill fortunes . Then the cycle starts again with the next letter . For instance , Buster writes to Renée that he's " cleaning up on Wall Street " . We see how she visualises him as a high-powered stockbroker , wrangling yards of tickertape and making million-dollar deals . Then we see the darker reality : Buster is actually a street sweeper in the financial district . . . yes , he's cleaning up on Wall Street . Buster's next letter tells his girl that he's taken up a medical career . She imagines him in a gleaming operating theatre , performing life-and-death surgery . In fact , Buster is a vet's assistant , tending sick animals . Next , Buster writes to his girl that he's become an actor . Here we see a truly impressive sequence , as Renee visualises Buster onstage as Hamlet , clutching Yorick's skull and emoting to a packed house in a swank theatre . Now the reality shows us a much more downmarket theatre , where a Roman epic is onstage : Buster is an anonymous spear-carrier in a long row of spear-carriers . He stands out only because he's the shortest in the line , and he manages to wreck the production with his own incompetence . SPOILERS COMING . At the climax of the film , the cops are after Buster . He flees to the waterfront . . . where a ferry is under way , several feet from the wharf . With the police on his heels , Buster takes a mighty leap . He hurdles the gap , lands safely on the deck of the outgoing ferry , and turns round to thumb his nose at the cops on the dock . . . only to discover that the ferry is actually heading INTO the harbour ! The fade-out gag is brilliant . Fleeing from the police , Buster ends up inside the paddlewheel of a steamer . When the ship gets under way , the wheel starts to revolve . . . with Buster inside it , like a hamster in an exercise wheel . Buster stoically keeps pace with the wheel , striding forward clockwise while the wheel churns anti-clockwise . But now the wheel moves faster and faster , and Buster is forced to keep running while revolving like a modern Ixion in Hades . Finally he trips and falls , sinking below the surface . . . but the spinning wheel has caught him now , and Buster is lifted and dunked , lifted and dunked , into the water and out again , over and over . Big wheel keeps on turning . It's a truly Beckettian fate , leaving Buster in a water-logged limbo : constantly moving yet never getting anywhere . Frightening and yet hilarious . " Day Dreams " deserves to be in the top 10 list of Keaton's greatest films . My rating : .
One more trip across the ottoman .	' The Dick Van Dyke Show ' was one of the greatest sitcoms of all time . A comedy show that was actually about comedy , this series brilliantly combined slapstick , low banter , high wit and sophisticated cultural references . Three episodes addressed the changing nature of race relations in America during the early 1960s . Oddly and regrettably , while many other ( vastly inferior ) sitcoms of later vintage engendered ' reunion ' episodes , for many years Dick Van Dyke refused all offers to take one more trip across the ottoman as Rob Petrie of New Rochelle . It was not until several members of the supporting cast had died that Van Dyke finally agreed to do this reunion special . The good news is : it was worth the wait ! ' The Dick Van Dyke Show Revisited ' does full justice to the original classic series . Annoyingly , the special is introduced by Ray Romano , an actor I don't care about who stars in a series I don't watch . But I recognise the realities of modern television ; the producers of this special were eager to bring in a current ' name ' actor as insurance for all these old-time names . ( Anybody whose stardom peaked more than five years ago is a has-been for today's amnesiac audience . ) The show opens in that familiar New Rochelle living room . . . but the person living here now is Richie Petrie , all grown up and still played by the same untalented ( former ) child actor who was the biggest drawback to the original series . After this painful opening scene , we cut to Rob and Laura Petrie , who must be the only couple who moved to Manhattan to retire . Rob is now dabbling in computer animation . ( In real life , Van Dyke is a talented caricaturist : here , we see a pointless piece of animation in which a badly-animated cartoon Dick Van Dyke dances alongside a video clip of the real one . The impressive dancing of the real Van Dyke - still supple at nearly 80 - merely emphasises the crudeness of the animation . ) Rob's wife Laura teaches ballet classes in their Manhattan home , but yearns to open her own dance studio . We briefly see several little girls in leotards and tights , one of whom addresses Laura as ' grandma ' even though Richie Petrie looks like he never had sex with anybody . Along comes a voice from the past : Rob's old boss Alan Brady , who wants to pay him and Sally Rogers ( Rose Marie ) a lot of money to write his eulogy so that Brady can hear it while he's still alive . The dialogue cleverly establishes that Buddy Sorrell , Mel Cooley and the Petries ' neighbour Jerry Helper are all dead ( the actors who played them are now deceased ) . Laura is still friends with her former neighbour Millie Helper , who is now dating Rob's somnambulist brother Stacy . ( Dick Van Dyke's real brother Jerry played Rob's brother Stacy in a few episodes of the original series , but here he seems to be reprising his annoying character Luther from ' Coach ' . ) The perennial spinster Sally Rogers is now in a dull boring marriage with Herman Glimcher , the mama's boy she dated back in the early 1960s ( and played by the same boring actor , minus his hair ) . Sadly , no mention whatever is made of Buddy Sorrell's wife Pickles . The real delight of this reunion special is the barrage of clips from the original show , although I wish the clips had been selected with more emphasis on comedy rather than music . It's a shame that there isn't even a brief clip of Van Dyke and Henry Calvin doing their Laurel & Hardy routine in the episode ' The Sam Pomerantz Scandals ' . One clip included here may baffle viewers unfamiliar with the original show . In that classic series , Rob's boss Alan Brady was played by Carl Reiner , but he made his arrival gradually . Brady was only an offstage presence in the early episodes , making his first few appearances with his back to the camera and his face concealed . During the transition period before Alan Brady's face was shown , Reiner occasionally guest-starred in other roles in this series . This reunion special includes a long clip from the episode ' October Eve ' , featuring Reiner as eccentric portrait artist Serge Carpetna . Reiner is very funny in this role , but - - since Reiner as Carpetna looks exactly like Reiner as Brady - - modern viewers may wonder why Alan Brady is speaking with a European accent . ( By the way , I savoured Reiner's guest appearance as Alan Brady on an episode of ' Mad About You ' . ) ' The Dick Van Dyke Show Revisited ' should have been done ten years sooner , but it's a pleasure to be reunited with these beloved characters one more time . Mary Tyler Moore is still trim , and clearly delighted to show off her lithe figure in dance clothes . Despite a few minor flaws and some odd production decisions , I'll rate this delightful special .
Headbanger's music	' The Melody Maniac ' is one of the ' stunt ' films of Georges Melies , in which the action is centred upon trick photography . This is one of his best efforts . It's a shame that thie movie was shot silent , as music is central to this film's action . . . and it would have been amusing to learn if the actors onscreen ( portraying band musicians ) were actually able to play music competently . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . This entire short film consists of a single camera set-up . Melies himself , in a magnificent uniform , plays the leader of a marching band . We see five parallel wires strung across the top half of the frame , forming a musical staff . With great fanfare , Melies goose-steps in from the left side of the frame , accompanied by his musicians . . . all of them tootling furiously . The musicians take their positions . Standing directly under the musical staff , Melies pulls off his own head and throws it upwards so that it catches on the overhead wires . As soon as he loses his head , an identical head conveniently materialises at the end of his neck . ( This effect is like one of those boxes of tissues : pull out the top tissue , and another one is conveniently sticking up to take its place . ) Melies repeatedly pulls off his own head ( a whole series of heads ) and tosses them upwards to hang on the music staff . When the staff is full , his musicians play the notes . At this point , all the ' notes ' ( heads ) vanish , and Melies continues the process to fill the staff again . Interestingly , the notes which Melies places on the staff are the opening bars of a real piece of music : namely , the British anthem ' God Save the King ' . . . or the American melody ' My Country , ' Tis of Thee ' ( same music , different words ) . The fact that Melies chose an Anglo-American melody , rather than a French one , suggests that he was actively courting the international market for his films . ' The Melody Maniac ' is a delight , and I'll rate it .
Ground-breaking and amusing .	I'm always fascinated by film's ability to convey two or more contrasting viewpoints at once . In sound films , this is usually done by having the image on screen contradict the narration on the soundtrack . An excellent example of this is in the first reel of " Singin ' in the Rain " , when Don Lockwood ( Gene Kelly ) narrates his illustrious life story while we see a much less glamorous flashback : we're meant to understand that the image , not the text , is the truth . ' What the Curate Really Did ' is an extremely early film which is notable for two reasons : it features one image superimposed within another ( as opposed to a split-screen : two images side by side ) , and - - relying purely on images , without any intertitles - - it presents two contradictory narratives , crediting the audience with enough wit to rumble which one really happened . The film begins conventionally , in an ' exterior ' set which is clearly within an indoor studio , yet which still looks realistic . A curate ( in dog collar ) meets a little girl ( barely more than a toddler , in smock and poke bonnet ) in the street , and he briefly speaks to her while a nearby woman observes . All quite innocent . . . but now we see that woman relating this news to another woman , who relates it to another , and so forth . This occurs in a series of indoor tableaux , while - - in a rectangular inset in the upper portion of the frame - - we see the gradually escalating tale which each gossip passes to the next . Like a game of Chinese Whispers , the story gets farther from the truth with each retelling . We see the girl maturing from toddler to teen to flirtatious young lady , while the curate's exchange with her becomes increasingly more intimate . SPOILER : Eventually , of course , the story comes full circle . . . with the curate hearing ( and the audience seeing ) the scandalous tale of how he openly embraced a young flirt in the street . I was reminded of Norman Rockwell's famous painting ' Gossip ' , in which a story is passed from person to person until it returns to its originator . In fact , I wonder if Norman Rockwell ever saw ' What the Curate Really Did ' . I'll rate this ground-breaking - - and amusing - - film a full .
Pity the poor projectionist !	This afternoon at the Barbican , I attended the UK premiere of the digitally restored ' The Story of the Kelly Gang ' , with excellent piano accompaniment by John Sweeney , as part of the opening day's programme for the Silent Film & Live Music Series running through June . It's also part of the London Australian Film Festival , likewise at the Barbican . . . so , I actually ended up attending two film festivals simultaneously ! The restored film is a double-bill with ' The Life Story of John Lee : The Man They Could Not Hang ' . ' The Story of the Kelly Gang ' is generally believed to be ( and most likely WAS ) the first feature-length movie ever made , produced in 1906 . Sadly , the past tense is appropriate here , as the film is now not known to survive except in fragments . . . and some of those do indeed appear to be out-takes , as a previous IMDb'er has noted . Actually , I've also seen ( in Australia ) another reel of this film : not a projection of the movie's image onto a screen , but rather I've seen ( and touched ) a mouldering reel of nitrate footage from the movie itself , now deteriorated beyond hope of restoration . As a part-time Australian ( born in Scotland , expatriated Down Under as a ' child migrant ' ) , I ought to feel proud that Australia produced the first feature movie . However , quite enough films pre-dating 1906 survive ( from various nations ) to make it clear that a substantial amount of film technique - - the close-up , the dissolve , the cross-cut - - had already evolved before this movie was made . Watching this restoration at the Barbican , it occurred to me that credit for the single biggest innovation in ' The Story of the Kelly Gang ' belongs not to the photographer , director , editor or scenarist , but rather to that most unsung of film figures . . . old Smokey , the projectionist . Prior to ' The Story of the Kelly Gang ' , films were so short that it was possible to store two or more separate movies on one projection reel . And , each reel being a separate story , the breaks between reels were natural breaks in the narrative . Many early cinemas had only one projector , with live entertainment provided during the longeur while the previous reel was rewound before the next reel could be shown . However , when ' The Story of the Kelly Gang ' was exhibited in its original form in Australia ( and later in other countries ) , the projectionist had to maintain two sets of apparatus at the same go , so as to achieve a seamless transition between reels . I wonder how soon film editors began using a reel marker ( traditionally in the frame's upper right-hand corner ) to indicate that a reel was about to end . Despite being largely missing in action , the original ' Story of the Kelly Gang ' is of incalculable historic importance . As for the digital version which I enjoyed today , accompanied by Mr Sweeney's impressive performance on the keyboard , I'll rate it a full . Bonzer , cobbers !
Gorgeous specimens	What a great idea for a movie ! ' Search for Beauty ' assembles some dazzling young specimens of physical perfection ( both female and male ) and places them in a smart-aleck comedy that's downright hilarious ! Real-life Olympic swimming champion Buster Crabbe plays an Olympic swimming champion ( but gets almost no swimming footage ) , and Ida Lupino plays an Olympic high-diving champion . . . who emerges from the pool with her lipstick intact . I'm pleased to see Crabbe exhibiting real acting ability in a role that doesn't involve rayguns or loincloths . This movie parodies the career of Bernarr MacFadden , a crackpot who made a fortune publishing ' health ' magazines that were full of fad diets , copper bracelets and plenty of photographs of scantily-clad women and men . Robert Armstrong plays a confidence trickster , partnered by Gertrude Michael as his Jean Dixon-ish wise-cracking moll . By the way , I really dislike the movie cliché of the female companion who is constantly insulting her male partner . If she really has so little respect for him , why does she stick with him ? James Gleason is on hand here too , as another swindler . Surprisingly , Gleason's character is completely subordinate to Armstrong's . Gleason nearly always played the brains of the outfit , but here his character is largely Armstrong's yes-man . Still , Gleason gets off some splendid wise-cracking dialogue , including the word ' gazype ' . . . whatever that means . There's an excellent montage sequence featuring actual footage from the 1932 Olympics in Los Angeles , and there are a couple of production numbers with lissome female athletes clambering on top of beefcake specimens . The comely Gwenllian Gill shows great appeal in her brief role . Silent-film comedian Leo White does one very funny slapstick bit , and Gleason's performance is more physical than usual . For one long sequence , we see the runty Gleason stripped down to a pair of gym trunks . Gleason gets the last gag in the picture , a cheeky joke that seems more typical of Lou Costello . ' Search for Beauty ' is hilarious from start to finish ( except for Toby Wing ) , and this film is definitely a pleasure to look at . I'll rate it a perfect .
Astonishing near-future drama	' Men Must Fight ' is one of the most astonishing and audacious films I've ever seen . This 1933 drama boldly predicted a second world war ( in 1940 ! ) at a time when many Americans were actively planning to sit out such an event . This film depicts an aerial attack upon Manhattan , in a sequence that seems startlingly precognitive for viewers watching after the WTC attack . Even more bizarrely , this movie prefigures the real-life deaths of two of the leading actors in its cast . Diana Wynyard stars as Laura Mattson , a Red Cross nurse in the Great War . She has a brief fling with a handsome aviator who then conveniently dies . Rising diplomat Edward Seward ( the excellent Lewis Stone ) realises that Laura is pregnant by the pilot but unmarried ; he proposes to her and offers to raise the child as his own son . Laura doesn't love Seward , but knows this is the best option for herself and her child . Lap-dissolve to the future year 1940 . . . seven years after this movie was released . There is some astonishing art direction here , with the female characters wearing slightly Jetson-ised fashions , and picturephones in every home . Seward's fortunes have risen , and he's now the Secretary of State . Laura has raised her son Bob to adulthood whilst allowing him to believe that Seward is his biological father . Meanwhile , a foreign alliance called the Eurasian States are gearing up for war against America . Having seen the toll of war , Laura organises a women's pacifist league to prevent World War Two . In a ' Lysistrata ' gambit , she persuades the mothers of America to refuse to donate their sons to the juggernaut of war . The film's title has an unspoken counterpoint : men must fight . . . and women must make peace . Bob joins his mother in her pacifist campaign . This proves an embarrassment for Secretary of State Seward , especially when a mob of protesters show up to fling stones at his house while haranguing Laura and Bob as ' yellow-bellies ' . SPOILERS COMING . Eventually , the Eurasian States ' warplanes attack New York City , destroying the brand-new Empire State Building and other landmarks . The special effects in this sequence are marginally better than in ' Deluge ' ( another film of this period in which Manhattan was destroyed ) . Despite the technical flaws , for post - audiences these scenes are absolutely riveting , and it's impossible to sit through this sequence without being reminded of Osama bin Laden's terrorist attack . Eventually , Bob learns that his actual father was a war hero . This and the assault on Manhattan are enough to persuade him to change his ways . He joins the army and becomes a fighter pilot , willing to die to keep America free . War is inevitable , and therefore men MUST fight . ' Men Must Fight ' sets out to be unnerving , and succeeds . Yet it's more unnerving than it meant to be , due to its distressing precognition . The assault on Manhattan eerily prefigures the events of 2001 . Even eerier are the real-life fates of this film's two lead male actors . During the sequence in which hooligans stone the house of Lewis Stone's character , I recalled how Lewis Stone would die 20 years after this film was made : some boys threw stones at his house , and he dropped dead of a heart attack in the street while chasing them . ( Way back in 1920 , in the silent film ' Milestones ' , Lewis Stone played yet another character whose house is stoned by hooligans ! ) Even more unnerving is the ending of ' Men Must Fight ' , in which Bob Seward ( Phillips Holmes ) renounces his pacifist ways to become an aviator . In real life , Holmes gave up his movie career early in WW2 to join the Canadian Air Force as a fighter pilot , and he died during a flight exercise . The spectre of Holmes's real-life death hangs over his fictional character in this film , giving it a powerful undertone of morbidity . I usually dislike Phillips Holmes , who tended to play neurasthenic weaklings . His role in ' Men Must Fight ' forces me to recall that this actor died a hero's death in real life , and that he should be remembered accordingly . ' Men Must Fight ' is an astonishing and audacious near-future drama , made even more powerful by the real-world events which have overtaken it . I'll rate this movie . God bless America and keep her people safe .
' Ten Canoes ' rates a 10 !	SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . I saw ' Ten Canoes ' at Cannes , and I was absolutely awestruck . Even now , almost precisely a year later , I've difficulty writing about this film without being emotionally overcome . Yes , damn it , the movie's that good , that wonderful , that miraculous . I feel a deep attachment to this film and its subject matter . As you might guess from my email address - - Borroloola ( an aboriginal settlement in the Northern Territory ) - - I spent several of my formative years in Australia's outback , notably the Red Centre , Arunta and the Northern Territory , not far from where ' Ten Canoes ' was filmed . Although I'm white , I've been privileged to meet ( and live with ) members of several of the indigenous tribes from that part of Australia . The people in ' Ten Canoes ' ( both the actors and the roles they portray ) are of the Yolngu and Gunwinggu tribes , whereas most of my own friendships in that region are with members of the Nunggubuyu and Gunbalanya groups . All of these tribes are centred in the Arnhem Land region , so I recognised much of the land ( and language ) in this wonderful movie . I was surprised that this film's English title has a number in it , because the Arnhem Land natives did not use number words until recently . They quantify an object by naming it as many times as needed . For instance , the Nunggubuyu word for ' day ' is ' jami ' , so ' three days ' would be ' jami jami jami ' . This system works well enough for quantities of as many as five ( a hand's worth ) : for more than five of anything , they use a word for ' many ' . It turns out that the title ' Ten Canoes ' is largely irrelevant and mostly symbolic . Ten Yolngu warriors are on an expedition to steal goose eggs from their nests ( insert ' poached eggs ' joke here ) . To travel by water , the warriors must construct one canoe for each man . But in fact the title refers to the ten men themselves , or their physical bodies : vessels ( canoes ) in which their souls travel the ( river ) current of existence . ( The press kit at Cannes said that this film's title was inspired by a photograph : but that photo is never seen in this film . My own explanation fits the circumstances just as well . ) The film's narration by David Gulpilil is perfect . He speaks his lines in an accent containing just enough Strine to link the action to modern Australia without evoking Mick Dundee or any Ocker stereotypes . Several supernatural events occur during this film , but they're conveyed in native Australian terms , not Hollywood clichés . . . so , don't expect any CGI f / x mucking up this wonderful story . The beautiful photography is entirely at the service of native Australian story-telling techniques . Even the subtle manipulation of colour , which could have been just one more gimmick , adds a dimension to the narrative . The aboriginal actors , with their distinctive Dravidian facial structures , photograph astonishingly . Unfortunately for the film , one or two of them have modern dentition , spoiling the effect that we're witnessing events occurring thousands of years before white men's arrival in Australia . The main Gunwinggu character has a moustache just a bit too neatly trimmed . More favourably , I was delighted by a scene which shows ( accurately ) how these ancient men , who have no metal , are able to shave their beards . Very credibly , their preoccupations are much as we might expect : flatulence , sex , physical urges . Because I've done continuity work on several films , I compulsively check every movie I view ( and its soundtrack ) for continuity errors or anachronisms . As I watched and enjoyed ' Ten Canoes ' and the beautiful footage of Arnhem Land flora and fauna , I kept checking for jet contrails , rabbit fences , bird calls by imported species , or any other signs of modern life in this movie's depiction of dawntime Australia . The flawless teeth of a couple of the actors were the only flaws in this film . I wept with joy and delight at the beauty and narrative power of this unique and precious film . A rating of isn't good enough , but it'll have to do . If you have any passion at all for anything outside the usual Hollywood clichés , you must see ' Ten Canoes ' .
Gentlemen , stand up and take a bow !	I watched a videotape of ' Minstrel Man ' in the archives at the Museum of Television & Radio . This brilliant musical drama is not ' lost ' ; Viacom have the home-viewing rights , and it's a shame that they choose not to release ' Minstrel Man ' on video or DVD . Viacom are probably concerned that this movie will be criticised as racist : in fact , ' Minstrel Man ' is a thoughtful and intelligent film AGAINST racism . We're aware that old-time white performers often ' blacked up ' in burnt cork to portray caricatures of ( to use the old term ) Negroes . Few people today are aware that - - in the days of segregation - - black performers were ALSO required to wear blackface when performing for white audiences ; most theatre managers refused to hire black acts that didn't look like ridiculous self-caricatures . ' Minstrel Man ' is fiction but ( mostly ) sticks close to the historical record , featuring characters who are based on real people . The press kit for ' Minstrel Man ' states that the fictional Rennie Brown seen here is meant to be a composite of several early ragtime composers . In the late 19th and early 20th century , there was an entire genre of popular songs performed by white singers in blackface and by blacks who were willing to demean themselves . Sad to say , these tunes were known as ' coon songs ' , and some typical titles included ' Two New Coons in Town ' , ' Bon-Bon Bennie , the Chocolate Drop ' and ' If the Man in the Moon Was a Coon ' . The lyrics may be left to your imagination . I was faintly astounded that the lead actors in ' Minstrel Man ' perform authentic excerpts from several of these notorious ' coon songs ' . It's a brave gambit - - and very likely the single biggest reason why this TV movie has been kept in video limbo ever since - - but it's exactly the right decision , showing modern audiences precisely what sort of material black performers were required to offer to white audiences , if they wanted to work at all . One detail which ' Minstrel Man ' gets wrong : we see the Negro performers putting on their make-up , applying huge white rings around their eyes as well as whitening their lips . They also tie their nappy hair into weird clumps and horns , poking above their heads like the demented corn-rows of so many Topsies in ' Uncle Tom's Cabin ' . I've seen literally hundreds of African-American performers ' photos from that period ; the hair business seen here was very uncommon , and none of those performers whitened their eye sockets like the ones shown here . The blackface performers did , though , give themselves huge white lips of the type we now associate with Al Jolson . Glynn Turman and Stanley Bennett Clay are cast as Harry and Rennie Brown , two African-American brothers with showbiz in their hearts but the misfortune to live in segregation days : shortly before World War One . I'm familiar with Glynn Turman's acting career , but Stanley Bennett Clay is a revelation to me : he gives a brilliant multi-toned performance here , so why hasn't he become better known ? Rennie ( Clay ) is resentful of the stereotyping which bigoted white audiences inflict on black performers . The more easy-going Harry ( Turman ) resents it too , but feels they have no option except to ' go along to get along ' . Maybe if enough audiences like them , they can gradually make the audiences accept something more dignified . The Brown brothers ' act struggles at first . Then the troupe is joined by Charlie Bates ( a stand-out performance by Ted Ross ) , and things start to happen . Turman and Ross give excellent ( and authentic ) renditions of ' Two New Coons in Town ' and other material from the period . The all-black minstrel troupe develops into a full-scale minstrel show , with Bones and Tambo as the end men , and Harry as interlocutor . A tremendous asset of ' Minstrel Man ' is the authentic period score . . . although , again , it's probably those ' coon songs ' which have kept this movie unavailable for home-video . The single biggest defect of this same TV movie is one modern ballad written by Fred Karlin for this production , sung by the character portrayed by Saundra Sharp . Somebody tried to slip this ringer in among the earlier compositions , but it's a dead giveaway : Sharp performs this ballad with all the modern pop-music tricks ( melisma and swooping gospel flourishes ) that audiences in the 1910s and 1920s would never have tolerated . As the minstrel troupe become more successful , Rennie wants to uplift their material . . . abandoning the blackface , and offering more sophisticated music . Rennie has been experimenting with a new syncopated rhythm : something called ragtime . Harry isn't sure if white audiences will like it . To give his brother a chance , Harry leads the troupe in one performance without the blackface , with the new music and without Bones and Tambo . The result is a disaster . SPOILERS . Stanley Bennett Clay's brilliant performance becomes electrifying as Rennie starts to lose his sanity : an understandable plight for any black person in a segregated world . When Harry orders the troupe back into ' traditional ' ( blackface ) mode , Rennie responds by showing up onstage in whiteface . . . and telling a riddle about ' rednecks ' which sounds faintly anachronistic . There is tragedy here - - the last shot of Rennie is unforgettable - - but there is ultimately some triumph too , in a realistic ending with hope of better things ahead for blacks and for all Americans . I usually dislike the cliché of ending a movie with a freeze-frame , but the final shot here - - of Glynn Turman triumphantly performing a flying forward split , WITHOUT blackface - - is an absolute rouser . The traditional opening line in a minstrel show ( after the walk-around ) was ' Gentlemen , be seated . ' Instead , I'll say to the people who made this TV movie : ' Ladies and gentlemen , stand up and take a bow ! ' My rating for ' Minstrel Man ' : a perfect . Now , let's lobby Viacom to release this for home viewing .
Rapture and rupture .	Winsor McCay was a newspaper cartoonist in the glorious days when cartoonists were given an entire over-sized Sunday newspaper page on which to give their artwork free rein . An absolute master of perspective , McCay was best at dream-like and nightmarish scenarios , which explains why his two most successful projects were ' Little Nemo in Slumberland ' ( dreams ) and ' Dreams of the Rarebit Fiend ' ( nightmares ) . This is a good place to explain the origin of that weird word ' rarebit ' . A dish of toasted cheese and bread , with seasoning , is known in Britain as ' Welsh rabbit ' . This was meant as an English joke : supposedly , the Welsh are so incompetent that toasted cheese is the nearest they can come to cooking a game dish ( rabbit ) . In American restaurants , Welsh rabbit was often the least expensive dish on the menu ( because of its cheap ingredients ) but uninformed customers would often mistakenly assume that Welsh ' rabbit ' must be a meat dish , significantly cheaper than the other meat dishes on the bill of fare . To avoid this misunderstanding , some American host changed the spelling to ' rarebit ' , and it caught on . In McCay's comic strip ' Dreams of the Rarebit Fiend ' , a man or woman would go to bed after a dinner of Welsh rarebit , and would experience a bizarre nightmare . This popular newspaper strip fostered at least one live-action silent film ( by Edwin S Porter ) , and several animations by McCay himself . ' The Flying House ' ( an instalment in McCay's ' Rarebit ' series ) is the most lyrical of his cartoons , and only slightly nightmarish . A woman joins her husband Bert in bed after eating a rarebit . But she awakens to discover that Bert has gone up to the attic to tinker with some odd machinery . It develops that Bert has changed the house into an aeroplane , which he takes into the stratosphere , and then to outer space . SPOILERS COMING . McCay's visuals are impressive , the more so since he drew them all himself without the help of ' in-betweeners ' . During the outer-space climax , I was intrigued that he drew Earth from an oblique angle . . . rather than the usual cliché of putting it ' right-side up ' with the Antarctic lowermost . The flight of the house is lyrical , rapturous , and - - unlike McCay's other ' Rarebit ' adventures - - not remotely nightmarish . . . until the very ending , when the house explodes and the husband and wife plummet to Earth . I'll rate this delightful cartoon a full : it isn't very funny , but McCay is striving here for thrills and visual splendour rather than laughs . Sadly , almost none of McCay's original artwork survives . In 1982 , I interviewed American comic-book artist Leonard B Cole , who worked alongside artist Robert McCay ( Winsor's son ) in the 1940s . Cole told me that McCay once brought a large quantity of his father's artwork to the studio where they worked , and offered to give it away to any artist who would take it . There were no takers , so McCay simply threw out the lot ! Today , those illustration boards would be priceless . ( Long before I met him , Cole regretted his decision to pass up the offer . ) Now , if I only knew the precise date when Robert McCay threw away those art boards , I could power up the time machine and . . .
Kosher courtroom capers	The hilarious silent-film comedy ' Jewish Prudence ' is fairly easy to obtain in film libraries , but all known English-language prints of this movie have the original title card ' Jewish Prudence ' removed and a new title card spliced in , so that this film is now renamed ' Prudence ' . If you can't locate this very funny movie under its original title , try looking for it under the less offensive ( and less funny ) name ' Prudence ' . The title ' Jewish Prudence ' is of course a pun on ' jurisprudence ' , but it also refers to the character played by silent-movie comedian Max Davidson in his starring films . Davidson , who was indeed Jewish ( and with strongly Semitic features ) , tended to play a stereotypical Jewish character on-screen . This can be unpleasant for modern viewers , but Davidson usually steered clear of the more vicious aspects of a Jewish caricature . His on-screen character tended to be resourceful rather than cunning , frugal rather than an outright money-grubber . Max Davidson reminds me of the English actor Ron Moody , whom he physically resembles : Moody has proudly used his Jewish heritage as a basis for most of his acting roles , yet his portrayals never become offensive . In ' Jewish Prudence ' , written by Stan Laurel and directed by Leo McCarey , Max is a father saddled with three grown children who will never amount to anything . His daughter ( Martha Sleeper ) is bone-idle . Max's older son ( Jesse De Vorska ) is an incompetent schlemiehl whom Max pressures into taking a job as a lorry driver . The younger son ( Johnny Fox ) is an idiot who wants to be a professional Charleston dancer . ( Fair enough : that's how Lord Grade got started . ) A handsome young lawyer ( Gaston Glass ) , newly admitted to the bar , wants to marry Max's daughter , but Max refuses to consent until lawyer Gaston wins his first court case . When Max and his dancing son witness a road accident , Max sees a chance to make some money by persuading Johnny to fake a leg injury . There's an uproariously funny sequence in which Johnny feigns injuries by displaying a false leg while concealing his real leg inside a hollowed-out cushion . Of course , several things go wrong . ( At one point , Johnny's got three legs showing . ) When Max gets a visit from two men who seem to be insurance claims adjusters , Johnny plays his scam for all it's worth . This scene has a very funny payoff . Johnny Fox , who gave an amazing performance as the supernatural visitor in ' One Glorious Day ' , gives a splendidly physical performance here as Max's son . Eugene Palllette , hefting only a fraction of his later girth , is impressive as one of the visitors . Spec O'Donnell , who played Davidson's son in so many of his films , is absent from these proceedings . SPOILERS COMING . Meanwhile , Max brings suit against the driver who supposedly injured Johnny . The lawyer for the defence is none other than Gaston , who humiliates Max and Johnny in court by exposing them ( hilariously ) as liars and frauds . Gaston wins his case and then smoothly claims the right to marry Max's daughter . Max drives away in disgust , but his car is immediately hit by a truck . Gaston eagerly offers to represent Max in a lawsuit against the truckdriver , but the driver turns out to be ( of course ) Max's other son ! ' Jewish Prudence ' is extremely funny ; even more so because ( unlike many other Hal Roach comedies of this period ) it actually has a believable plot . Director Leo McCarey's comic pacing is brisk and excellent . The climactic trial scene in this film must have been good experience for McCarey when he directed Chico Marx's trial in ' Duck Soup ' . However , I was annoyed by one ' impossible ' gag in ' Jewish Prudence ' during the courtroom sequence , when a solemn portrait of George Washington is seen to burst out laughing at Max's pathetic testimony . This sort of gag is acceptable for a totally unrealistic comedian such as Harpo Marx , but it drastically conflicts with the comedic style of Max Davidson , who tended to play very plausible and realistic characters . It's only due to fears of Political Incorrectness that Max Davidson's ( Jewish ) screen characterisation is so seldom available to modern filmgoers . I'll rate this very funny movie .
Eggs McGuffin	In 1972 and ' 73 , film critic Richard Schickel made an 8-part series for American public television : ' The Men Who Made the Movies ' . Each episode featured a prominent Hollywood director discussing his career in an on-camera monologue ( actually an interview , with Schickel's questions edited out ) , interspersed with generous clips from his most famous films , accompanied by somewhat overwrought narration ( written by Schickel and spoken by Cliff Robertson ) . A coffee-table book was published as a companion volume to this series . Of the eight directors in this series , Alfred Hitchcock is the one best known ( and most iconic ) to the general film-going public . This documentary deals entirely with Hitchcock's suspense films , with scant attention to ' Rich and Strange ' , ' Mr and Mrs Smith ' or any other non-suspense films in Hitchcock's canon . Regrettably , this documentary gives short shrift to Hitchcock's silent films , although we do see one tantalisingly brief clip of Ivor Novello in ' The Lodger ' . Over his long career , Hitchcock was interviewed far more frequently and deeply than any of the other directors in Schickel's series , so inevitably some of the interview footage in this documentary has a feeling of déjà entendu ( already heard ) . We get one more recounting of Hitchcock's McGuffin concept , and Hitchcock retells yet again the music-hall joke that provided the McGuffin's name . We get one more repeat of Hitchcock's baseball story : Imagine two men in a room , talking about baseball . Suddenly a bomb goes off under the table . We get a few seconds of surprise . Now imagine the same scene , but this time the audience are aware of the bomb under the table , about to go off . The same idle conversation about baseball is now charged with suspense , because we know something that the on screen characters don't . In the footage here , Hitchcock also tells an anecdote about his childhood which ( to my knowledge ) was never revealed in any of his previous interviews . As a boy in England , Hitchcock attended a strict Catholic seminary where students who misbehaved were ordered to ' go for three ' ; i . e . , report to the headmaster for three strokes from a leather razor-strop . Invariably , all the students delayed this ordeal until the last possible moment . Apparently this taught Hitchcock a profound lesson about the nature of suspense . ( In my own early life , I was in a similar situation - not Catholic - and I learnt that it was always best to get the punishment over as soon as possible . Maybe that explains why Hitchcock was a master of suspense and I'm not . ) Some of the clips shown here work better than others . We see the climax from ' Saboteur ' , in which Norman Lloyd ( the baddie ) dangles from the Statue of Liberty whilst Robert Cummings ( the goodie ) tries to save him . " I'll clear ya , " says Lloyd desperately to Cummings , while Robertson's narration explains that Cummings has been accused of Lloyd's crimes , and Cummings must save Lloyd in order to clear himself . If Lloyd falls to his death ( which he does ) , Cummings will remain a fugitive . That's inaccurate and misleading : at this point in the movie , the authorities are already convinced of Cummings's innocence . I wish that Schickel had explained this scene properly . You won't know it from what's said here , but Hitchcock eventually decided that the climax of ' Saboteur ' was an error - it put the villain in jeopardy , rather than the hero - so he attempted some damage control by implying ( falsely ) that the hero could not clear himself if the villain was killed . The brilliant climax of ' North by Northwest ' - with Cary Grant and Eva Marie Saint dangling from Mount Rushmore , at the villains ' mercy - was conceived by Hitchcock as his chance to correct his previous error in ' Saboteur ' . A pity that Schickel doesn't mention it . This superb documentary ends with the virtuoso scene from ' Frenzy ' in which the camera retreats down the stairs and into the street near Covent Garden while , upstairs , the rapist strangles his latest victim . I wish that Schickel or Hitchcock had explained how this remarkable sequence was filmed : Hitchcock shot two separate set-ups ( one in a ' wild ' interior set , one in an actual street ) , using the same man walking past the camera twice ( at the end of the first set-up , and the beginning of the second ) to mask the transition and make them appear to be one seamless camera movement . Of all the great movie directors , Alfred Hitchcock was by far the one most familiar with the camera , lighting , lenses , filters and all the technical aspects of film-making . All eight episodes of ' The Men Who Made the Movies ' are well-made , highly entertaining and informative , although they tend to concentrate on the most well-known ( and most typical ) films of their respective subjects . Despite a few flaws , I'll rate all eight episodes of ' The Men Who Made the Movies ' a perfect .
A masterpiece , no strings attached !	' I Am Suzanne ' is an astonishing film , one of the most original movies I've ever seen . . . and yet it reminds me of several others . Director Rowland V . Lee and his co-scenarist Edwin Justus Mayer are both severely underrated ; their careers are overdue for reappraisal , and this movie is a good place to start . ' I Am Suzanne ' was apparently meant as a star vehicle for Lillian Harvey , an actress who seems highly artificial . Her accent is slightly too cut-glass , her performance ( in this film , at least ) too mannered . She is blonde and pretty , but not quite beautiful : her eyebrows have been plucked to within a millimetre of their lives , and her nose is slightly bulbous . The best performance in the film is by that excellent and underrated character actor Leslie Banks : he manages to invest some subtlety into a highly theatrical role which gives him legitimate reasons to chew the scenery . ' I Am Suzanne ' has strong overtones of the later and better-known ' Lili ' , Edgar Ulmer's ' Bluebeard ' , ' Pinocchio ' , ' Laugh Clown Laugh ' , and also the weird semi-fantasy ' Zoo in Budapest ' ( starring Gene Raymond in a role similar to the one he plays here ) . The dream sequence in this movie reminds me of the trial scene in ' Alice in Wonderland ' and also of ' Attack of the Puppet People ' . . . specifically , that science-fiction film's bizarre scene in which a woman , shrunk to doll size , is forced to co-star opposite a marionette in a puppet-show performance of ' Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde ' . CONTAINS SPOILERS . Suzanne is a beautiful young orphan who dances for coins in the street , and who is dominated by her Svengali-like guardian , who calls himself the Baron , It's clear that the Baron's interest in Suzanne is entirely exploitative : he makes money off her , and he lusts for her . The only implausible thing about this arrangement is that he hasn't tried to rape her yet . Handsome young Tony ( Raymond ) is a puppet-master who becomes so enamoured of Suzanne's beauty that he asks her consent to make a marionette in her likeness , so that ' Suzanne ' ( the puppet , not the woman ) can star in Tony's shows . There are several very impressive set-pieces , in which the marionettes perform enjoyable routines . The only flaw in these delightful sequences is that Tony is ostensibly manipulating the marionettes , yet it's clear that actor Gene Raymond is being ' doubled ' by some experienced puppeteers . Comedic actress Florence Desmond , well known in England at this time for her deft impersonations of film actresses and celebrities , provides the voices for several of Tony's marionettes . The Baron hopes to make more money off Suzanne : the woman , not the puppet . . . although Suzanne symbolically is a puppet under his domination : it's this sort of layered symbolism that makes this story so fascinating . The Baron bullies Suzanne into performing a tightrope act . She falls and injures herself . Now her dancing days are over , and she might not even walk again . Lillian Harvey convincingly depicts Suzanne's confusion and immaturity , even though the actress is slightly too old for this ' Lill'-like role . She feels attracted to Tony . . . yet she also feels jealousy towards the puppet-version of herself , as Tony seems to be more interested in the marionette Suzanne than in the real version . Eventually , she shoots the puppet version of herself ! This prompts the film's most remarkable set piece , a nightmare sequence that reminded me of ' Puppet People ' . In her nightmare , Suzanne dreams that she has been put on trial for murder : the murder of her puppet-self ! She finds herself in the dock at a Kafka-like trial , with a puppet jury , presided over by the King and Queen of Puppet Land ! It would have been easy for this sequence to slide into absurdity , and I had a whole flotilla of wisecracks ready for the King and Queen of Puppet Land : Do they run a puppet government ? Can they pull a few strings ? If the marionettes find Suzanne guilty of murder , will they string her up ? Remarkably , this film expertly maintains its balance between fantasy and reality , between imagination and delusion . Is it possible to rate a movie ? No ? Then I'll have to rate ' I Am Suzanne ' a lowly . Why didn't Lee and Mayer follow this triumph with another great film ?
High-flying entertainment	' Air Hawks ' is a rousing good adventure story , starring Ralph Bellamy in one of his rare outings as a two-fisted action hero . ( Bellamy was more typically cast in romantic comedies , as the guy who lost the girl to a better man . ) Here , he plays a former Army pilot who sets up his own low-budget air-courier service . Bellamy hopes to get a lucrative federal contract , flying bags of mail cross-country . A previous air service lost the contract because their ' planes kept mysteriously crashing . Veteran movie villain Douglass Dumbrille is in this movie , cast as a ' respectable businessman ' , so it's obvious who's behind the air crashes . . . and that's not a spoiler . The action cuts back and forth between Bellamy's good-guy flyboys and Dumbrille's secret hideout , so the audience know the reason for those ' plane crashes well ahead of Bellamy . Hoping to get the mail contract for himself , Dumbrille has engaged the services of an eccentric professor named Schulter . . . who has invented an ' electrical ray ' : a gigantic unwieldy device that he points into the air , which conveniently bollixes any electrical motor that passes overhead . I would have thought that most 1930s aircraft were powered primarily by internal combustion , with electricity being only secondary . But Schulter's gizmo works a treat , and pretty soon the pretty aeroplanes are dropping like stones . Professor Schulter ( a very brief role ) is played by Edward Van Sloan , who famously played the ethically-responsible scientist in several monster movies , so it's very interesting to see him here as a scientist who uses his knowledge for evil purposes . The presence of Schulter's electrical ray makes ' Air Hawks ' technically a science-fiction movie , but the whole film has the feel of a Saturday-morning adventure serial , with the emphasis on thrills rather than gadgetry . The most interesting name in this cast list is that of Wiley Post , who is now remembered only as the pilot in the fatal ' plane crash that killed Will Rogers . ( Matters were not helped by the Broadway musical ' The Will Rogers Follies ' , which reduced Wiley Post's entire life to a cheap plot device . ) It's unfortunate that Post is so poorly remembered . In the 1930s , most Americans knew of Post for his record-setting exploits as a pioneer of high-altitude flight . He invented a pressure suit designed to keep an aviator alive at high altitudes . Post was also the first pilot to fly around the Earth , and the first person to experience jet lag . Many 1930s films ( especially those made at Warner Bros ) featured a useful cinematic device , in which brief clips of the principal actors are shown during the opening credits , with the actors ' names ( and the names of their roles in the film ) superimposed on these images . This very helpful practice enabled filmgoers to match an actor's name to a face . That device is used in the opening credits of ' Air Hawks ' , with Wiley Post prominently listed as playing himself . After that brief clip , however , we see no more of the great aviator until more than halfway through this film , when Wiley Post ambles onto the screen very briefly to offer a few words of encouragement to Bellamy's beleaguered pilot . It's clear that the filmmakers worship Post , and rightly so . Except for newsreel footage , ' Air Hawks ' is Wiley Post's only film appearance , so it's regrettable that his participation is so brief . ( Maybe he had to catch a flight . ) I also enjoyed a brief appearance by Elise Cavanna , the tall and gawky ( yet attractive ) comic actress who performed so memorably in a couple of WC Fields movies at this time . ' Air Hawks ' is a delight from start to finish , one of those movies that nostalgia enthusiasts talk about when they say that Hollywood " doesn't make ' em like that any more " . I'll rate this movie .
Brilliant , distinctive , utterly original !	Guy Maddin is the most brilliant film-maker working today ! If there's somebody better , that person must be labouring in obscurity . Maddin is strongly influenced by the disciplines of silent film , but his vision is unique , distinctive , and utterly original . ' The Heart of the World ' could easily have been a throwaway film , given the circumstance of its origin . The Toronto Film Festival commissioned Maddin to make a brief film to fill a gap in their programming schedule . A mere time-passer . What Maddin gave them was utterly unexpected . Maddin uses large-grain film stock and Klieg-style lighting techniques to replicate the look of silent film . Maddin's production design ( costumes , makeup , hairstyling ) impeccably recreates the images of that period . It's easy to believe that ' Heart of the World ' is actually compiled from old UFA out-takes , circa 1925 . Only just occasionally does Maddin's grasp on the 1920s show the joins , and then those lapses are probably intentional . ' The Hearts of the World ' depicts the rivalry of two brothers . Nikolai is an idealist engineer . Osip is playing Jesus Christ in a passion play , and seems to have developed a genuine messiah complex . Amusingly , Osip does his Jesus routine whilst toting a cross made from metal girders . . . an Art Deco crucifixion ! The brothers vie for the love of Anna , a beautiful scientist who has built a device which enables her to gaze into the Earth's core , literally the heart of the world . Meanwhile , a bloated plutocrat named Akmatov lusts for Anna . All of this is explained in silent-film titles , in a 1920s typeface that looks vaguely Cyrillic . The actors employ authentic silent-film acting techniques while resisting the temptation to ' guy ' those methods or exaggerate them . The only lapse occurs when Anna suddenly vibrates her eyes back and forth while attempting to choose between the two brothers . This seems to be Maddin's intentional parody of silent-film acting . For the rest of the film , his homage to the past is sincere . I spent a delightful six minutes trying to spot all the references and influences in this movie . Maddin is clearly influenced by ' Metropolis ' ( my favourite film ) , but I also spotted the influences of ' Aelita ' , ' Vampyr ' , ' Potemkin ' and ' Haxan ' in this frenzied melange . This is not to accuse Maddin of plagiarism . He displays his influences openly , using them as a foundation for a vision uniquely his own . It's refreshing to see a 21st-century filmmaker who acknowledges a debt to silent films , in an industry filled with Tarantino wanna-bes and counterfeit Hitchcocks . ' The Heart of the World ' is one of the most distinctive , exciting and exhilarating movies I have ever seen . No doubt of it : I rate this movie , and I look forward to more work by this filmmaker whose work is at once utterly alien yet enticingly accessible .
Brilliantly anarchic hilarity .	I was delighted to view this tele-recording for two reasons . Firstly , it's well and truly hilarious . Secondly , the recovery of this long-lost recording vindicates for television something I've long maintained for cinema films : no movie or TV programme should be considered ' lost ' unless it was deliberately destroyed . Sadly , the BBC are notorious for wiping their own programmes and taping over them . . . and so , far too many great moments of British television history are indeed gone forever . Unless the transmission patterns are still bouncing off Alpha Centauri . Another IMDb contributor , Elena-48 , has already reviewed this recording . Elena's review is perceptive but contains one niggling error : Alan Bennett's sermon is ostensibly about Esau and Jacob , not Ezra . Bennett's sermon is hilarious , as he piously and pretentiously draws metaphors between sardine tins and human existence . ( ' I wonder : is there a little bit you can't reach under the sardine tin of your life ? I know there is under mine . ' ) Here's something which this recording doesn't mention : an audiotape of Bennett's hilariously pretentious sermon is now used as a training tape in the Anglican church , warning newly ordained priests of the sort of claptrap they must avoid . The opening sketch , with its references to the Cold War and Harold Macmillan , is necessarily dated but still funny . . . especially when Peter Cook warns the gaunt Jonathan Miller to ' try to look well-fed ' . Elsewhere , we have Miller as a prisoner in a death cell : Cook bookends this routine , setting the scene and then returning for the punchline . Cook and Dudley Moore perform their brilliant ' One Leg Too Few ' sketch , with Moore as the one-legged ' unidexter ' auditioning for the role of Tarzan . Over the decades , Cook and Moore performed this routine hundreds of times , forcing Moore to spend many cumulative hours hopping on one foot . As Moore actually had a clubfoot ( only partially corrected ) , the effect on him was not pleasant . But the routine is uproarious . At intervals throughout , Moore performs his brilliant piano solos . The entire cast perform ' So That's the Way You Like It ' , skewering Shakespeare hilariously . Less effective is a routine in which all four portray camp homosexuals . A high point is Jonathan Miller's bizarre monologue , ' The Heat-Death of the Universe ' , pondering the fate of trousers that are abandoned on British Railway trains . My own favourite here - - a quietly hilarious set-piece - - is Cook's solo turn , as a demented monologist sitting on a bench , explaining why he could have been a judge but ended up being a coal miner . Although the character is never named here , Cook privately named this creation E . L . Wisty , and depicted him many times over the decades . Cook's E . L . Wisty routine changed significantly at each performance , as Cook introduced new improvisations . Periodically throughout this taped performance , the camera cuts away to show the audience . I felt this was a mistake , as the laughter on the soundtrack makes it clear that there's a live audience . Much more effective are the close-in shots , enabling us to see the expressions on the faces of the cast as the sadistic Cook ad-libs , trying to ' corpse ' his castmates ( especially Moore ) and make them break character as they burst out laughing . With Cuddly Dudley and ' Cookie ' now both dead , and Bennett and Miller having largely forsaken performance in favour of their other talents , it's a delight to be able to see this crucial record of these four comedic geniuses at their peak . And this show is pretty damned funny , too . I'll rate it absolutely .
Three men get wood : Vaudeville's funniest comedy act !	There is correctly a comma in ' Willie , West and McGinty ' . . . because Willie and West were two different people . Possibly more so than any other comedy act , this trio defined vaudeville and the vaudeville methods of performance . Billed as ' The House Wreckers ' ( and with various other bill matter ) , Willie , West & McGinty spent literally decades perfecting and honing their knockabout slapstick routine , only just occasionally changing the material . ' Plastered ' , a Paramount comedy short , preserves this hilarious vaude turn on film . In this , too , Willie , West & McGinty are representative of many vaudeville acts . . . not only the comedy performers . Typically , a vaudeville act toured the circuit , never playing the same theatre twice ( until the following season ) . Because the audience constantly changed , most vaudeville acts felt little or no incentive to change their material . When talking pictures arrived , many vaude acts welcomed the chance to film their performance and get paid more money than they received in a week of performances on the circuit . But movies sealed vaudeville's doom : as soon as an act was on film , the movie could play in hundreds of cinemas all over the country . . . for audiences who no longer needed to see the performers in person . I raised an eyebrow when I saw veteran comedy director Norman Taurog's name in this film's credits . Willie , West & McGinty had spent years honing this act on the vaude circuit , so why did they need Taurog to direct them ? In the event , Taurog does an excellent job tailoring this vaudeville material to the movies . When McGinty ( the one without a moustache ) is temporarily busy setting up something for a slapstick pay-off later , Taurog frames the shot so that McGinty is off-screen , concentrating our attention on Willie and West . When Willie lands on his back with a square of planed timber covering his face , West stands on the timber ( placing all his own weight on Willie's face ) while he grips the same wood and tries to lift it : Taurog's camera angle hilariously emphasises Willie's plight . The House Wreckers were what vaudeville booking agents called ' a dumb act ' . This is not a reference to their lowbrow comedy . A ' dumb act ' was any vaudeville turn which didn't speak or sing onstage : theatre managers usually wanted a dumb act to open the bill , when late arrivals in the audience were still finding their seats , unwrapping their sweets , taking their coats off and unwilling to concentrate on dialogue or lyrics emanating from the stage . The House Wreckers performed their act ' in full ' ( on the entire stage ) and produced a large amount of wreckage during their mayhem . . . so the deuce spot ( the second act on the bill ) had to be somebody who performed ' in one ' , standing in front of a drop curtain at the extreme front of the stage , while stagehands behind the curtain cleaned up the damage wreaked by Willie , West & McGinty and got the stage ready for the next act . ( George Burns & Gracie Allen , standing in front of a curtain to do their routine about Gracie's brother , are a perfect example of an act ' in one ' . ) During ' Plastered ' , we occasionally hear groans or shouts of dismay from the house-builders . . . but this remains technically a dumb act because their words have no substance , merely adding to the comedy . Some of Paramount's stock music adds spice to the soundtrack . ' Plastered ' is hilarious . It has the feel of improvisation , but it's clear that these pros have carefully and expertly rehearsed their genuinely dangerous violence . I can't think of any other film - - comedy , musical or dramatic - - to which I would rather point while trying to explain the phenomenon that was vaudeville . This extremely funny movie rates .
Inspiration and respiration	Here's a cute , clever , enjoyable quickie cartoon that marks the screen debut of Jimmy Murakami , the co-founder of Murakami-Wolf Productions . ' The Breath ' is a weird cartoon : it doesn't look like nor sound like any other cartoon I've ever encountered , including Murakami's later work . The general appearance of this brief ( 4-minute ) toon is bizarre , but enjoyably so . Mind you , if it went on to feature length , I might have gone berko . Against a neutral background , a weird creature arrives , happily murmuring to itself in a kazoo-like voice . This creature proceeds to create an entire universe for itself from inflatable objects , which it fills with its own breath . The creature is not remotely human but seems at least vaguely male , so I expected that the payoff would be that this creature would inflate a she-version of itself . I was wrong . The ending is delightful , and unexpected . ' The Breath ' isn't the funniest cartoon you'll ever see , but it's unique , distinctive , and clever . As it's so short , you'll enjoy its eccentricity . I'll rate ' The Breath ' .
A strait-laced comedy .	I saw this short comedy at the 1998 Cinema Muto festival in Pordenone ; they screened a print from the Library of Congress with the original intertitles missing . What a cheeky little comedy . . . and impressively well-made , too ! We first see Mr and Mrs Jones at home as he prepares to leave for the office . Griffith establishes Mrs Jones as the jealous type ; she spots a hair on her husband's lapel , too long to belong to Mr Jones . . . and he allays her suspicions by pointing out that it's HERS . At the office , Mr Jones is visited by a saleswoman . She is played by Flora Finch , a tiny bird-like actress ( Finch by name , and finch by nature ) who was usually cast in shrewish roles , most notably opposite John Bunny . I've always found Finch to be personable and attractive on the screen , but while watching this movie I understood that ( as usual ) the male characters find her unpleasant . Jones sends Miss Finch on her way without buying anything from her . . . but when she returns for her umbrella , she overhears him ridiculing her . With surprising ease , Miss Finch slips out of her corset-stays , and substitutes these for the lady's gloves in a gift-wrapping that Jones had purchased for his wife . She also slips an incriminating note into his pocket , implying she and Jones are lovers . SPOILERS COMING . The trick works . . . but there's a happy ending . This being a 1909 movie , I was not surprised that even such a thin woman as Flora Finch would be wearing corsets . I was , however , surprised that she was ready , willing and able to take them off in a semi-public place with such alacrity . ( A stouter woman , taking off her outer garments to remove her corsets , might be unable to get back into her outer clothes without them ! ) In 1909 , few women would be willing to be seen in public WITHOUT wearing corsets , even though these were undergarments , so I was surprised that Flora would give them up in the service of a prank . The actress cast as Mrs Jones ( Florence Lawrence ) is several sizes larger than Flora Finch . . . so , when she finds the corset-stays , she knows instantly that her husband cannot have bought them to fit her . I well and truly enjoyed ' Jones and the Lady Book Agent ' , not least for Flora Finch's cunning smile and a glimpse of ( what may be genuinely ) her own personal corsets . My rating for this one : .
A voice that just won't quit .	Short , sweet and funny ! The title of this early Edison film - - ' The Extra Turn ' - - uses the word ' turn ' in its British ( and 19th-century American ) sense of a ' stage turn ' : one of several acts on a variety bill . In the days of American vaudeville and the British variety halls , a theatre would post its bill of acts , listing each act ( in order of appearance ) by name , with a single line of ' bill matter ' describing the turn . An ' extra turn ' was the bonus appearance of an unbilled act for this one performance only : usually something pretty dire - - a vaudeville act that got stranded , and needs to raise money to get out of town - - but just occasionally a welcome surprise . . . such as a big-name act appearing on the bill at a minor theatre without fanfare , in order to try out new material . ' The Extra Turn ' begins with a pretty girl dancer doing high kicks , to the enthusiastic response of some customers in a box at stage right . The girl's easel card identifies her as Dolly Lightfoot . Her dance steps are simple and monotonous , but any vaudeville turn which featured a pretty girl ( especially as seen here , in a short skirt and flashing her shapely legs in black stockings ) was almost certain to get a favourable audience response . Dolly Lightfoot launches one high kick directly towards the spectators in the box , thus offering a flash of her petticoats to them ( but not us , alas ) and earning herself some more applause and a bouquet . She finishes her act , curtseys prettily , and a page enters from the wings to reveal the next easel card : this one simply says ' Extra ' , identifying an unscheduled performance . The extra turn is a male singer , in tailcoat and a realistic moustache : the Edison catalogue's synopsis for this movie identifies him as an ' Italian ' singer . . . but of course we don't hear his voice , and he creditably avoids the exaggerated gestures of a stage Italian . Despite this , his act clearly stinks : the spectators in the box promptly chuck their hats at him , and more hats come flying at him from the unseen stalls . Undeterred , the singer goes offstage and promptly returns with an umbrella . . . which he conveniently kept handy ! He opens his umbrella to protect himself from the onslaught of chapeaux , which continues while he tries to carry on singing . Two stagehands come onstage and drag him off into the wings . End of movie . I laughed precisely once , when the singer - - who has already been dragged offstage - - manages to break free and get onstage one more time , to sing a few more notes , defiant to the last . The rest of this short film was entertaining ( especially Miss Dolly Lightfoot's high kicks ) but not especially funny . I well and truly wanted this movie to be a genuine recording of real vaudeville performances in an actual theatre . Although the stage , backdrop and audience box look realistic enough , I suspect that ' The Extra Turn ' was actually filmed on a set in Edison's New Jersey studio . For one thing , it would be easier to fake the lot in front of Edison's camera than to set up Edison's cumbersome ( and noisy ) 1903 camera in an actual vaudeville house . More conclusively , this one-shot film is framed to show only the extreme stage-right of the stage apron , and the adjacent box : if this were an actual vaudeville bill , Dolly Lightfoot and the singer would both have performed their turns downstage centre , which would be out of the frame in this set-up . And there are many documented cases ( especially in the less prestigious theatres ) of vaudeville audiences chucking food at the performers ( sometimes bringing eggs and spoilt greengroceries into the theatre for that express purpose ) , but did any audience ever actually throw their HATS at the stage , as they do here ? Surely they wouldn't want to lose a piece of perfectly good headgear , and wouldn't want to throw it if they'd need to retrieve it . Many vaudeville theatres really DID have an enormous hook for dragging unpopular performers offstage , as shown in old cartoons and comedy movies . Yet here we see two hookless stagehands ejecting the singer . ( IMDb's cross-reference keyword ' hook ' is incorrect . ) Maybe Edison's production manager just didn't want to spend the time or money to obtain an appropriate hook . I almost laughed during the headgear barrage when I noticed that the actor playing the singer was careful to hold the open umbrella BEHIND his head , so that it did nothing to protect him from the trilbies being thrown at him . It would have made more sense to tip the umbrella FORWARD . . . but then it would have hidden his face from the camera . Aye , this man is a real actor , right enough ! I've never yet encountered a movie actor who wouldn't submit to any form of abuse . . . providing the camera can see his precious face . I'll rate ' The Extra Turn ' , as a highly amusing ( though fake ) enactment of 1903 American vaudeville . Next act !
Ossi Oswalda is a beautiful doll ( sexy , too ! )	' The Doll ' , directed by Ernst Lubitsch , is a charming fantasy , a splendidly original film inspired by one of the Tales of Hoffmann . . . and a movie which also captures the mood of English holiday pantomimes and Hans Christian Andersen . As a bonus , this film features an extremely kinky performance ( very funny and sexy at the same go ) by the delightful actress Ossi Oswalda . In the opening shot we see the great Lubitsch himself , setting up a doll's house against a stylised backdrop . A close-up of this model then dissolves into a full-sized version of the same stylised setting , from which emerge actors dressed as dolls . From this point onward , the entire film is staged on highly stylised sets . . . much like ' The Cabinet of Dr Caligari ' , except that these sets are bright and airy . Old Baron Chanterelle has no family except for his gormless nephew Lancelot . To continue the line , the Baron offers his nephew a dowry of 300 , 000 francs to get married . But Lancelot is afraid of women . The local prior shows him an advertisement from the dollmaker Hilarius , who offers a special service ' for bachelors , widowers and misogynists ' : a life-size clockwork girl ! Lancelot decides to marry the mechanical bride , collect the dowry , then stash the doll in the attic . Hilarius , for some reason , has made his clockwork doll an exact duplicate of his pretty daughter Ossi ( anticipating a similar plot device in the 1949 film ' The Perfect Woman ' ) . The clockwork girl has a control panel on her back ( like Julie Newmar in ' My Living Doll ' ) and a crank to wind her up . The real Ossi decides to do some winding up herself : playing a joke on Lancelot , she attaches the control panel and the handcrank to her own back and pretends to be the doll . Of course there are problems when the ' doll ' sneezes or coughs , and eventually Ossi gets hungry and thirsty because nobody offers the doll any refreshments . ( How does she handle toilet breaks ? ) In a frilly outfit with a short skirt , Ossi is very pretty as both the mechanical girl and the real one . There is some surprisingly good double-exposure in a couple of camera set-ups when the real Ossi and the mechanical one are onscreen simultaneously . Brilliant camerawork throughout by the great Theodor Sparkuhl . Remarkably , Lancelot goes from the wedding banquet to the bridal chamber without ever twigging that his clockwork bride is the genuine article . ( We don't see the wedding itself ; perhaps Lubitsch feared that audiences would be offended by the idea of a man exchanging wedding vows with an inhuman object . . . and in fact , an insert shot of a wedding certificate establishes that the wedding was a civil ceremony , not a religious one . ) The great charm of this film is its mood of fairy-tale unreality . The coachman's horses are played by men in pantomime-horse costumes . A cat and a rooster are played by cut-out figures . The moon has a human face , looking rather too much like Oscar Levant ! I enjoyed a bizarre scene in which an entire roomful of mechanical girls dance for Lancelot . There's also a remarkable early example of pixilation ( stop-action animation using actors rather than mannequins ) in a gag sequence in which Hilarius's hair stands on end , then turns white . The sequences of Ossi ( the real one ) dancing stiffly while pretending to be a clockwork girl remind me of the sequence in ' Metropolis ' when the female robot takes her first awkward steps . ( Could this film have influenced ' Metropolis ' ? ) A comedy sequence in this film prefigures a similar sequence in Buster Keaton's ' Seven Chances ' , when forty women bent on matrimony pursue Lancelot through the streets . ' The Doll ' is an absolute delight from beginning to end , a film that the entire family will enjoy . I regret only that the German intertitles were set in a Fraktur typeface which made them very difficult to read . I'll rate this delightful movie .
Magpie mayhem	' House Busters ' is the all-time funniest of the Heckle and Jeckle cartoons . For once , the two magpies indulge their penchant for violence in a productive ( and hilarious ) fashion . This cartoon short even features a delightful and peppy song . The magpie twins ( with mismatched accents ) have an honest job for once , as house-wreckers . They merrily tootle off to their next gig with a lorry-load of destructive implements , while singing a song with a catchy tune and clever lyrics : ' Give us a house to wreck ! We'll tear it down , by heck ! We'll pull out the pipes and tear out the walls , we'll chop the chimney till it falls . . . ' Meanwhile , a bank-robbing dog is on the lam from the cops . He needs a place to hide , so he holes up in a slanty shanty . . . which of course is the house that our heroes have been sent to wreck . They immediately start demolishing the joint ( with some cleverly surrealistic animation ) . As his hiding place starts vanishing from under him , the dog comes out from hiding and tries to intimidate the magpies into going away . Heckle immediately recognises the dog as ' a desperate character ' , and from here on he's fair game for the magpies ' mayhem . The climactic violence is very funny indeed . . . but NOT the sort of violence that your kids are liable to imitate . I'm delighted to recommend ' House Busters ' for kids and adults , and I rate this very funny cartoon a perfect .
Heckle & Jeckle put on the dog .	' The Intruders ' is an absolute top-notch Heckle and Jeckle cartoon . It actually looks TOO good to be one of their toons . The Paul Terry animation studio was never noted for large budgets nor high production values , and the strength of the Heckle & Jeckle toons was always that they were funny despite their cheapjack appearance . And yet here , surprisingly , there are some elaborately detailed and coloured backgrounds and layouts . The two magpies are once again looking for a place to live . They fly over a swank estate , and decide to move in . But the poolside cabana is also the kennel of the resident security guard : a gruff bulldog . Naturally , he wants to chase the birds out . Mayhem ensues . . . but it's quite funny , and it looks better than usual . One animation sequence in this toon - - of Heckle and Jeckle coming out of a bath-house in swimming cozzies - - was recycled in their later ( and much less impressive ) offering ' Hula Hula Land ' . ' The Intruders ' is funny throughout , but the final gag is absolutely outrageous and hilarious . My rating : .
Stanelli honks while Lorenzi harps .	' Radio Parade ' has no plot at all : it's merely a series of music-hall turns . But this film is fascinating as an example of what a trip to a 1930s music hall must have been like . Some of the acts in ' Radio Parade ' are delightful , while others are wretched : this too conveys the true flavour of music-hall entertainment in the days of the Moss Empire . The title of this film reflects the fact that several of these artistes ( particularly Jeanne De Casalis ) were better known for their radio performances than for stage appearances . Indeed , De Casalis's turn in ' Radio Parade ' fails to take advantage of the visual medium , and would have worked better as a radio monologue . Several of the other performers in this pick ' n ' mix make much better use of the visual possibilities . In the early ' 30s , De Casalis was quite popular on the British airwaves as Mrs Feather , a featherbrained character similar to Billie Burke , or Gracie Allen without George Burns's steadying influence . Here , Mrs Feather performs a monologue in the form of a ' phone conversation : an annoying conceit , as she often repeats what the ( unheard ) person at the other end of the line has said so that we'll understand her response . Much more successful here is Florence Desmond , an attractive blonde comedienne whose radio speciality had already become a successful gramophone recording : ' Hollywood Party ' , in which Miss Desmond gave vocal impersonations of several Hollywood ( and British ) film stars . She repeats that skit here , with the movie camera demonstrating her ability to mimic the physical quirks of the actors as well as their vocal crotchets . Miss Desmond is much funnier than Miss De Casalis . Reginald Gardiner supplies an imitation of wallpaper patterns . Mario Lorenzi is a harpist who plays ragtime and jazz : given his choice of instrument , the results are poor . Tex McLeod , a sort of second-team Will Rogers , performs lariat tricks while telling a few jokes . Judging from his accent , he's either a genuine Texan or a very good imitation . Presumably his cowboy routine was a bigger novelty in Britain than it would have been in American vaudeville . The sisters Doris and Elsie Waters are here in their popular radio roles of Gert and Daisy , the two working-class housewives with a penchant for cheeky gossip . The two most unusual turns in ' Radio Parade ' rejoice in the names Stanelli and Stainless Stephen . The single-named Stanelli is a thin crinkle-haired man who trundles onto the stage his ' Hornchestra ' . ( A more accurate name would have been ' Honkestra ' . ) This is an immense juggernaut contraption sprouting a quantity of klaxon horns , each tuned to a different pitch . Stanelli rapidly and loudly honks a melody which is far more coherent ( and funnier ) than anything provided by Mario Lorenzi's harp . Stainless Stephen hailed from Sheffield , the centre of Britain's steel industry , and accordingly he kits himself out in a cozzy that looks suspiciously like fetish gear : a gleaming stainless-steel waistcoat , white bow tie and a bowler with a steel hatband . The stainless one's speciality consists of a monologue in which he speaks the punctuation marks : ' This is Stainless Stephen comma comedian question mark . ' For a wow finish , his waistcoat buttons light up and his bow tie revolves ! As seen here , Stainless Stephen had a slight physical resemblance to Ed Wynn . Off the stage , he worked full-time as a schoolteacher , and so he could only perform during school holidays . It's precisely because several of the acts in ' Radio Parade ' are ludicrous or inept that the entire film captures the flavour of pre-war music-hall so perfectly . ' Radio Parade ' is a vital record of England's equivalent to American vaudeville , and I'll rate this movie . Kindly leave the stage !
Compelling and fascinating .	' The Short Life of Anne Frank ' tells , briefly and concisely , the remarkable story of the young diarist . Since this is a documentary with only one talking-head sequence ( a clip of Otto Frank on television in the 1960s , speaking in English ) , the format consists of narration over visuals . . . so it was easy for the Dutch filmmakers to re-dub this Dutch-language telefilm into English , with new narration . I felt that Nicky Marks Morris , the English girl who provides the voice of Anne Frank in the English-language version , was absolutely perfect for the role . . . although her accent is just a bit more prole than the real Anne's probably was . This very worthy documentary seems to be intended for young schoolchildren who have never learnt about the Holocaust . . . so , without condescending to us , the filmmakers assume we know nothing about the subject . The narrator tells us that the people who controlled Germany during the Second World War were called Nazis . Then he informs us that the leader of the Nazis was named Adolf Hitler . Then he tells us that Hitler didn't like Jews . Fortunately , this sequence ends before it becomes risible . One might assume that every single aspect of Anne Frank's life has been deconstructed by now , but these filmmakers have done an astonishing job of tracking down visuals never seen before . They include here the only known cine-footage of Anne and her older sister : when a neighbour got married , someone with a silent home-movie camera filmed the wedding couple leaving on their honeymoon . The two Frank sisters mischievously intrude on this idyl , very briefly . Various sources have claimed that Otto Frank operated a jam factory in Amsterdam . That's not true . The factory actually manufactured a brand-name form of pectin , an ingredient of jam and jelly that was often purchased by housewives in a time when home-made preserves were common . Here , we see clips from an industrial film in which the preparation of Otto Frank's product is demonstrated . . . by no less than Miep Gies , the Dutch woman who helped hide the Frank family from the Nazis . We also see a brief clip from a film produced by the Dutch government under Nazi occupation : an indoctrination film for fire-watch officers . The makers of this documentary have selected a clip from that film which shows a bird's-eye view of Amsterdam . . . and they have spotlighted the roof of the building in which Anne and her family hid for so many desperate months . We get a few glimpses of the actual diary , and pages in Anne's handwriting . Unfortunately , this documentary's narration manages to perpetuate a myth that was started by the stage dramatisation ' The Diary of Anne Frank ' : namely , it implies that the last sentence Anne wrote in her diary , before the Nazis broke in , was ' In spite of everything , I still believe that people are basically good at heart . ' Actually , Anne wrote several more pages after that ironic line . But this is an excellent documentary for schoolchildren , and adults will be fascinated by some visual material of Anne's life which is unavailable elsewhere . I rate this fine documentary a perfect .
Lobsters and mobsters , but Roscoe is un-shellfish .	Several of Roscoe Arbuckle's films have titles which became cruelly ironic in the hindsight of his 1921 trial for manslaughter : notably ' The Life of the Party ' and this two-reeler , ' He Did and He Didn't ' . There's a famous photograph of Arbuckle in evening dress , gaping in horror as he drops Mabel Normand down a staircase . That photo is a publicity still from ' He Did and He Didn't ' , though it doesn't actually correspond to any scene in the film as it now exists . Arbuckle rose to film stardom playing boobs , rubes and bumpkins . By 1916 , he had autonomy over his own films and was able to impose some tastefulness . Here , he plays a dignified and wealthy suburban doctor , in a loving marriage to Normand . But then Jack , her handsome beau from high-school days , arrives . There are no ' fat boy ' jokes here . Instead , Arbuckle uses underplayed and sensitive acting to compare himself unfavourably to the leaner and manlier Jack . It's clear that Arbuckle's character loves his wife deeply but is ( in some unspoken manner ) unable to satisfy her , possibly down to sexual impotence . When Jack arrives to stay the weekend , the three of them sit down to a dinner of lobsters - - allegedly a male aphrodisiac - - prompting Mabel to comment that they'll all likely have nightmares . SPOILERS COMING . Arbuckle ( in a car with right-hand drive ) is lured to a remote location on a ruse , so that he'll be away when burglars invade his house . It's up to Jack to defend the fair Mabel . Arbuckle returns home , distraught , and then - - believing that his wife has cuckolded him - - he calmly strangles her . This scene is immensely disturbing in its own right , and even more disturbing in the light of Arbuckle's real-life tragedy a few years later . The payoff : remember those lobsters ? Sure enough , it WAS all a nightmare . . . and Mabel has remained faithful to her husband . There's a good performance by Rube Miller as Arbuckle's saturnine butler , and Al St John's tumbling skills get a protracted showcase here . ' He Did and He Didn't ' is an astonishing film : quite removed from the lowbrow slapstick of Arbuckle's early Keystone efforts , yet still extremely funny . Watching this movie , I deeply regret that Arbuckle's career was so tragically and unfairly terminated just as he was nearing the heights of his talents . I'll rate this fine funny movie .
Cantor at a gallop : Eddie goes postal .	After the scandal that drove him off the screen , Roscoe Arbuckle continued to work behind the camera as a director and gag constructor under the pseudonym William Goodrich . By coincidence , he directed two unrelated movies - - a short and a feature - - that were both called ' Special Delivery ' . The second is a starring vehicle for the great Broadway performer Eddie Cantor . Perhaps also coincidentally , the script of the latter film is largely by one John F Goodrich , apparently not related to Arbuckle . Despite Cantor's deft performance , a fine script and excellent direction , ' Special Delivery ' made only a modest profit at the time of its original release ( Cantor claimed it was a flop ) , and the film has lain in neglect ever since . I'm pleased to report that Cantor's grandson Brian Gari has carefully preserved a print of the film and is now ( as I write this ) about to release it on DVD . See it as soon as you can ! ( Full disclosure : I've worked with Mr Gari ; I was on the staff of his press agent Henry Luhrman during the Broadway run of Brian Gari's musical ' Late Nite Comic ' . ) Cantor had previously starred in a film version of his Broadway hit ' Kid Boots ' , but that film ( while enjoyable ) featured an unlikely climactic sequence that radically differed from the stage version . According to Cantor's ghost-written autobiography ' My Life Is in Your Hands ' , he attempted to insert some pathos and gentle humour into the script of ' Special Delivery ' , but was overruled by studio executives who wanted slapstick comedy . Somewhat more plausible is Cantor's other claim about this film : that its plot line originally involved a mail robbery , but the federal government insisted that this be removed so as not to encourage real robberies . In mid-production , much of the film had to be scrapped and re-shot to accommodate this major plot change . Cantor's character here is named Eddie , as usual . Less predictably , his character's full name is Eddie Beagle : an odd decision by the scriptwriter , since Cantor's comical face doesn't remotely resemble a beagle's . Eddie's father John Beagle ( a fine performance by Louis Stern ) has had a long successful career as a postal inspector and Secret Service agent , but Eddie shows little chance of success . His father gets him a job as a lowly mail carrier . Eddie takes a personal interest in everyone on his postal route , especially pretty Madge , whose waitress job - - at a diner called the Dutch Lunch - - requires her to dress up in a Dutch-girl cozzie . ( Actress Jobyna Ralston looks very fetching indeed in this outfit . ) But Madge has two other admirers who are regular customers at her lunch counter : policeman Flanagan and fireman Hannigan . Madge ends up getting involved with Harold Jones , a suave and successful stockbroker ( the excellent William Powell ) . We soon learn something that she doesn't know : Harold Jones is actually Blackie Morgan , convicted stock swindler . There's a $20 , 000 reward for his capture . When Eddie learns the truth , we see an exciting fight scene between Cantor's stunt double and Powell's stunt double : the only flaw here is that the doubling is so very obvious . Since this is a silent film , depriving Cantor of his distinctive voice and vocal tricks , it's interesting that he so successfully portrays the same gormless naff character he played so well in Goldwyn's musicals of the early 1930s . Fans of Cantor's talkies will have no difficulty ' hearing ' his voice in this silent comedy . When Powell asks him ' What are you doing here ? ' , Cantor blithely replies ' I might be mountain climbing , but I'm not . ' There are good gags throughout the film . Watch for a brief performance by midget actress Baby Doll ( sister of midget actor Harry Earle ) as a baby on Eddie's postal route . The climax of the film - - in which Flanagan and Hannigan join forces with Eddie ( and lend their official vehicles ) to rescue Madge from Morgan's clutches - - is exciting , funny , and well-staged by director Arbuckle with some impressive deep-field photography . I have a few theories as to why ' Special Delivery ' flopped in its original release , but that's ultimately irrelevant . What matters is that this film is an utter delight , and it will soon be widely available . See it ! My rating for ' Special Delivery ' is .
Mostly accurate , completely fascinating .	I'm a major fan of the wonderful series of Oz novels written by L . Frank Baum ( and the sequels by other authors ) , so I'm sometimes irritated that so many people know Oz only through a certain MGM musical . Here , intriguingly , we get a documentary which attempts to give an overview of the entire Oz phenomenon . It's not widely known that there were at least FOUR film versions of ' The Wizard of Oz ' before that MGM movie . We see here a brief clip of a live-action silent version from 1925 , featuring Oliver Hardy as the Tin Woodman . I wish that this documentary had mentioned a crucial fact about that silent film : two of the farmhands on Dorothy's Kansas farm accompany her to Oz , where they disguise themselves as a scarecrow and a tin man . Many of the plot points that are supposedly original to the 1939 movie ( such as the farmhands reappearing in Oz as fantasy figures ) actually came from earlier film versions of the same story . A 1910 ' Wizard of Oz ' movie features talking trees with faces : again , anticipating the MGM film . This documentary doesn't mention the 1910 film , but does include a brief clip from a 1933 colour animated adaptation of ' The Wizard of Oz ' . The talking heads here are an interesting bunch . Ray Bradbury and Erica Jong are merely commenting as Oz fans , without having contributed to the series . Fairuza Balk starred as Dorothy in ' Return to Oz ' , a 1985 sequel that was deeply disturbing and intelligent . . . so , of course it failed at the box office . A couple of Baum's relations are here , including his granddaughter Ozma ( named for Oz's fairy princess ) . Diana Ross , star of ' The Wiz ' , weighs in , as do Jack Haley Jnr and Liza Minnelli ( standing in for guess who ) . Ray Bolger gives a brief interview here : due to his declining health , he is filmed lying in bed with the camera pointing straight down at him . He claims that his contract with MGM guaranteed him the role of the Scarecrow ( in that ' 39 movie ) . In fact , it's now well-known that Buddy Ebsen was originally cast as the Scarecrow ( he would have been perfect ! ) and Bolger was cast as the Tin Woodman , but when Bolger saw the costume he was expected to wear ( a bunch of stiff cylinders , with diapers so he wouldn't have to take the cozzy off for bathroom breaks ! ) , he bullied Ebsen into swapping roles with him . Ebsen nearly died when he inhaled the metallic make-up designed for the Tin Woodman's role . The most intriguing participant in this documentary is an elderly lady who rejoiced in the name Romola Remus ; as a child actress in 1908 , she actually worked with L . Frank Baum in his own film studio dedicated to producing silent films of his fantasy stories . Ms Remus also holds the record for greatest gap between her IMDb credits . ( One in 1908 , one in 1985 ; that's the lot . ) Also , we get a fascinating clip from the Walt Disney vault . In the mid-1950s , Disney and the Mouseketeers attempted to film an original musical - - ' The Rainbow Road to Oz ' - - loosely based on the Oz novels . We see two production numbers , clearly filmed on a soundstage . Singing and dancing as Dorothy Gale , Darlene Gillespie - - with her blonde hair and Canadian accent , and dressed in a fetching pinafore - - looks and sounds more like Alice in Wonderland . ' The Rainbow Road to Oz ' was never completed , due to legal tangles . At one point , we're told that Baum's mother-in-law allegedly urged him to write down and publish the Oz tales that he told to his sons . That story is indeed a Baum family legend , but it's not true : Baum had written and published several other children's books ( including a couple illustrated by the great artist Maxfield Parrish ) before he wrote ' The Wonderful Wizard of Oz ' . TRIVIA NOTES : L . Frank Baum's wife was an ardent feminist who campaigned for women's suffrage , with her husband's full support . When Baum died in 1919 , his last words were " Now we can cross the Deadly Desert " . . . a reference to the barrier surrounding the Land of Oz ( in his novels , but not in that 1939 movie ) . I heartily enjoyed ' The Whimsical World of Oz ' ( except perhaps for its wince-worthy title ) . Not only is this documentary full of ( mostly ) accurate information about the Oz universe , it's also very entertaining for children and adults . I rate this a full . Most importantly , this documentary is a vital corrective for anyone who thinks that a certain MGM movie is the main embodiment of Oz .
Astonishing tumbles , and one minor fumble .	Richard Risley Carlisle ( 1814-1874 ) was a circus performer from New Jersey who developed a type of acrobatic act which was such a clear innovation that , ever since , performers of similar acts have been known - - in arenas as diverse as circuses , American vaudeville and the British music-halls - - as ' Risley acrobats ' or ' a risley act ' ( not always upper-cased ) . Risley assembled a troupe billed as the Risley Family Acrobats , although it's likely that most ( or even all ) of his troupers were no relation to him . At least three of his apprentices went on to form their own risley troupes , each of them claiming the surname ' Risley ' as his own name . Professor Risley ( as he billed himself ) apparently achieved the peak of his fame in the early 1860s when he performed for Queen Victoria at Windsor Castle . However , in 1864 he and his troupe performed in Yokohama , to great acclaim and the intense interest of his Japanese audiences . I've known about Professor Risley for decades . . . but , until I saw this film ' Japanese Acrobats ' , I'd no idea of precisely how great Risley's success in Japan was . Basically , a risley act - - I'm sure you've seen them - - begins with one man lying on his back with his legs upright . At appropriate moments , his arms are also upright . A smaller performer ( often a child ) performs various acrobatic manoeuvres while balancing on one or more of the ' anchor ' man's upraised feet and palms . It looks as if the tumbler up top is doing all the hard work : however , the man underneath is taking considerable risk ( if the tumbler falls on him ) , and - - more importantly - - the man underneath is expending quite a lot of energy himself , using the strength of his legs at strategic moments to propel the tumbler into the next handspring or aerial . In Frank Capra's film ' Rain or Shine ' , Joe Cook's dazzling display of circus skills includes a brief sample of risley acrobatics . I've seen several risley acts with a woman or a girl as the ' flyer ' ( up top ) , but the anchor beneath is traditionally a man . ' Japanese Acrobats ' is a 1904 Edison film preserved in the Library of Congress . I'm hugely interested in circus acts in general , and not least in ' foreign ' acts from cultures outside my own experience . I was expecting to see these acrobats performing some ancient Oriental balancing routine , utterly alien to my Occidental eyes . I was astounded to discover that this Edison film records a risley act , of precisely the sort which American and British acrobats of this same period were also performing . I was pleasantly surprised to discover that the risley act in this 1904 movie is a very , VERY good risley act : one of the best I've ever seen . Professor Risley must have made a very big impression in Japan indeed . In front of an elaborately painted backdrop , two performers enter and bow . The man looks about 20 years old , the boy about 12 . The man lies supine , and raises his legs . . . atop which the boy then performs some dazzling acrobatics . The man is not merely providing a platform for the boy : on several occasions their movements are carefully co-ordinated , such as when the boy lies flat on his back while the man pedals his feet rapidly to spin the boy horizontally . The boy is not passive here ; he must constantly shift his centre of gravity at the same speed as the man's foot movements . At another point , while the boy is still airborne , the man suddenly lowers one leg . . . forcing the boy to use only one of his own feet to land ( perfectly ! ) on the man's sole remaining sole , and to balance one-footed before springing into the next manoeuvre . I shudder to think of how many hours these two must have rehearsed together . I spotted only one slip-up , a minor one . Early in the film , the boy briefly shifts off balance , and the man instantly raises his arms to adjust him . This is done so swiftly and gracefully that most audiences would assume it was part of the act . At the successful conclusion , the two acrobats stand , bow and exit . . . then return to steal one more bow . Further proof that people are alike all over : Japanese vaudevillains are just as eager to steal a bow as their western counterparts . It was fairly common in vaudeville and in British and American circuses for Occidental ( white ) artistes to perform under Oriental names in exotic costumes : this was especially true for magicians and acrobats , so I would normally be suspicious if an allegedly Oriental act consisted solely of the very American risley repertory of acrobatics . . . even more so because there's an entire tradition of Chinese and Japanese acrobatics which owes nothing to western techniques . However , the two performers in this film do seem to be genuine Issei , or maybe Japanese-Americans . Sadly , acrobats have short careers . One advantage of risley acrobatics over the other techniques is that the performers tend to have longer careers . A boy starts out as the tumbler up top ; as he grows older and heavier , and attains more muscle mass , he moves down to the lower position , taking advantage of his increasing strength while using his experience to train a new ' flyer ' up top . ' Japanese Acrobats ' is a fascinating record of a classic circus technique ; ironically , these Oriental performers are documenting their discipline and skill in a circus art that was born and raised in America . My rating for this one : a perfect .
Spoot is a hoot when his pillow goes toot !	' Barnaby Spoot and the Exploding Whoopee Cushion ' ( what a great title ! ) was transmitted 28 May 1965 on BBC1 . This one-off playlet is a perfect example of the sort of comedy that British television does so brilliantly , but which American TV doesn't even attempt to create . A story like this would never get production approval from American TV executives unless it were a pilot for a continuing series . . . and the scriptwriters of ' Barnaby Spoot ' would have had difficulty spinning this idea into a continuing series , as it's about a man who attempts to murder his boss . ' Barnaby Spoot ' was written by the veteran comedy team of Barry Took and Marty Feldman . This was during the period before Feldman became a successful on screen performer . ( BBC producers were reluctant to put Feldman in front of a TV camera , due to his bizarre appearance . ) In hindsight , the role of Barnaby Spoot seems tailored for Feldman's distinctive persona . . . but the role was actually played by John Bird , a popular comedic actor ( as opposed to a comedian ) who played a wide range of roles in British television comedy during this period . The entire cast are first-rate , and well served by producer Dick Clement ( a brilliant comedy scripter in his own right ) who also served as uncredited director of this playlet . SYNOPSIS : Barnaby Spoot ( John Bird ) is the lowly assistant in a novelty shop managed by short-tempered Mr Bostock ( John Le Mesurier , another comedy veteran ) . Spoot is a mere shopclerk . . . but he keeps trying to make his mark in the novelties trade ( and augment his income ) by inventing new gags and novelties , in the hope that Bostock will add them to the shop's stock-in-trade . Unfortunately , all of Spoot's novelty inventions are terrible . His latest failure is the " chatty Cheddar " . . . a talking cheese that nobody would possibly want . Dismayed by Bostock's rejection of his cheesy brainchild , Spoot decides to wreak revenge by assassinating the entire board of directors of the conglomerate that owns the novelty shop . How does he plan to do this foul deed ? By smuggling into the boardroom an exploding whoopee cushion ! Of course , Spoot's grim plot takes an unexpected turn . . . Also prominent in the cast are Ronald Lacey as Justin Fribble , and ( short of height but long on talent ) the deft South African comedienne Sheila Steafel as Narcissus Font . ( Great name , that ! ) Trust Feldman and Took to get great comedy out of the theme of a downtrodden little man who turns homidical . John Bird turns in a fine performance as Spoot , but I regret that Feldman didn't play this role himself . Still , I rate this hilarious show . Well done all round !
A really first-rate series	Frank Buxton is a man of many talents : in addition to his credits as an actor and director , he compiled the book ' The Big Broadcast ' , which is required reading for anyone interested in the golden age of American radio . He also was involved in the writing and production of ' Discovery ' , besides serving as co-host . The general perception is that ' educational ' television has to be boring . ' Discovery ' is the show that broke this rule . ' Discovery ' was aimed at pre-teen children ; this series was genuinely informative yet also consistently entertaining . Buxton's co-host was Virginia Gibson , a pretty actress with no great presence nor talent . They were abetted by a slowpoke bloodhound named Corpuscle ( geddit ? ) who exhibited so little movement on-camera , he might as well have been a stuffed dog from the Props department . One episode of ' Discovery ' took a serious look at witchcraft , examining mediaeval superstitions and the Salem witch trials . Guest actress Margaret Hamilton showed up at the beginning of this episode wearing a witch disguise ; later in the same episode , she appeared as herself and explained to Buxton how the special effects were achieved for her role as the Wicked Witch in a certain movie . ( Amazingly , Hamilton admitted on-camera that she didn't know how one of the tricks was achieved . ) Another episode of ' Discovery ' dealt entertainingly with elections and the democratic process , scrupulously finding time to inform the young viewers that women in 19th-century America weren't allowed to vote . One delightful episode of ' Discovery ' spotlighted the early history of movies , and showed a film clip from an unidentified slapstick silent film ( it's actually ' The Hobo ' , 1917 ) in which a baggy-pants comedian in a familiar tramp costume , with a bowler hat and a Hitler moustache , manhandles Oliver Hardy . Over this silent footage , Buxton's voice-over challenges Virginia Gibson to identify the comedian playing the tramp . ' Charlie Chaplin , of course , ' she replies . Buxton then informs her ( and the children at home ) that this is actually Billy West , a silent-film comedian who made a speciality of impersonating Chaplin . I'm pleasantly astounded that a children's TV series would devote any attention to a silent-film comedian as obscure as Billy West . In this same episode , Buxton conducted a telephone interview with none other than Stan Laurel , in a hook-up to Laurel's residence at the Oceana Apartment Hotel in Santa Monica : Stan Laurel's voice is heard but he remains unseen . ( Probably for the best , considering how ill Laurel was at this time . ) The only unfortunate aspect of ' Discovery ' was the on screen relationship between Buxton and Gibson . Their dialogue was written so that he was invariably the font of all wisdom , spewing facts and figures while she expressed admiration for his brilliance . Blame it on gender roles in the early 1960s . Speaking of dates : when this show premiered in 1962 , somebody at ABC had the dumb idea of calling it " Discovery ' 62 " . At the end of the last 1962 episode , Buxton solemnly informed the viewers ( and Gibson ) that " Discovery ' 62 " would not return in the following year . After Gibson expressed pre-scripted concern , Buxton then divulged that this was because the show would now be called " Discovery ' 63 " . This chronology gimmick was a dumb idea . But overall , ' Discovery ' was a superlative series : intelligent , informative , and so entertaining that adults and kids can enjoy it . My rating : !
Heckle's homage to Groucho .	' Out Again , in Again ' is one of the funniest Heckle & Jeckle cartoons . This toon begins in a surprising way . A few weeks before this epic was released , the two magpies had starred in ' Free Enterprise ' , a cartoon that ended with them both in prison . ' Out Again , in Again ' begins like the latest chapter of a serial in progress , with a nasal-voiced narrator informing the audience that " in our last episode " Heckle and Jeckle were in prison , and then picking up the action from there . So ' Out Again , in Again ' is explicitly a sequel to ' Free Enterprise ' . The magpies were strongly influenced by the Marx Brothers , and they just occasionally acknowledged that debt . . . as in their cartoon ' King Tut's Tomb ' , which features a brief appearance by a cartoon version of Harpo Marx . Here in ' Out Again , in Again ' , when the two boids break out of bird , they hide out aboard a moving train , on which they disguise themselves as Groucho and Harpo . Heckle does a devastating vocal impression of Groucho , getting off a couple of wisecracks that are worthy of Groucho himself . It's a shame that the voice artist who did this impersonation is uncredited . The gags are fast , funny and unexpected in ' Out Again , in Again ' . My only complaint is that the toon's title gives away the ending . My rating : .
High kicks and high jinks . Delightful !	" The Artist's Dilemma " is an early American ' trick ' film , clearly imitative of similar films by the French showman Georges Melies . Modern audiences , jaded by high-tech special effects , tend to laugh at ( rather than laugh WITH ) the early trick-photography films . However , " The Artist's Dilemma " will still impress modern audiences by virtue of its cleverness , its comparatively elaborate trickery , and the graceful beauty of its two dancers . As in Melies's films , we see here an elaborately painted backdrop : this one features a clock , which is an unfortunate choice since the hands on the ( painted ) clock never move . A rather stereotypical-looking artist is asleep in his surprisingly spacious ( and clean ) studio when a beautiful young lady in a frilly costume enters through the grandfather clock . He straight away poses her inside a black frame . I was expecting some sort of " black art " trick to be performed here , and perhaps that was the filmmakers ' original intention , but it doesn't happen . The artist attempts to paint her likeness on his canvas , which for some reason is already entirely black . A clown in an elaborate Auguste costume enters through the same clock . Edison's synopsis for this film describes the clown as carrying a bucket of whitewash . In fact , he has a bucket of BLACK paint , and he proceeds to slather this across the artist's canvas . . . rapidly producing a likeness of the artist's model ! From a modern standpoint , it's easy to figure out how this was done : the film is actually being run backward , and the clown is slathering black paint OVER an existing image . Yet I found this sequence extremely impressive for two reasons : the jump cuts at the beginning and end of the sequence are nearly imperceptible , and the actors ' movements are cleverly staged so that they appear to be moving FORWARD in time , making it difficult for the audience to realise that we're watching footage projected BACKWARD . No sooner has the clown finished the painting of the model , than he escorts the image off the canvas and into the studio : a real live girl ! ( The jump cut here is rather more obvious . ) If I were the artist's model , I should be terrified to be confronted by a living duplicate of myself . . . yet the model in this film is quite charmed to meet her lookalike . And this sequence is very effective because the two girls DO look alike ; I wonder if they were twins . Now the two identical girls perform a spirited high-kicking dance which must have seemed quite sexy in its day , and made more impressive because they dance precisely in unison . The dance ends with both girls performing a hitch kick , neatly aimed at the respective chins of the artist and the clown . For a finish , the clown lines up the two girls precisely facing the camera so that one eclipses the other . . . the second girl has vanished ! The artist rushes forward to embrace the remaining girl . . . but she too has vanished , replaced by the clown ! I found this movie charming and funny , with trick effects more sophisticated than were usual for this period . ( Give the credit to J . Stuart Blackton , this film's producer . ) I'll rate " The Artist's Dilemma " .
Naughty bawdy shocking stocking .	A very well-known early movie is ' The Kiss ' , filmed in 1896 . Only a few seconds long , this consists of an actor and actress re-enacting a brief moment from the stage play ' The Widow Jones ' : specifically , the man brushes back his elaborate moustaches , and then he kisses her . Early moviegoers were fascinated by this bit of intimacy , enlarged on the kinetoscope screen . Not surprisingly , some bluenoses were quick to condemn ' The Kiss ' as immoral . Here we have something similar , with a more blatantly erotic content . This film , made in 1900 , is less than a minute long . I viewed a print through the courtesy of a private collector who also possesses some publicity material from the American Mutoscope company , describing the action of this film . Apparently the stage play ' Naughty Anthony ' had one scene that scandalised audiences in 1900 . Not surprisingly , that scene is the one re-enacted here . Evidently , nickelodeon audiences in 1900 were familiar with ' Naughty Anthony ' - - if only by reputation - - and didn't need a framing context for this brief footage . There are no inter titles ; some of the following information comes from Mutoscope's publicity sheet . The location appears to be some sort of salon , although it's rather obviously a stage set . Actress Blanche Bates plays Cora , who models silk stockings . As portrayed by Bates , Cora would seem to be a bit of a trollop . She has just put on a new pair of stockings ( from Paris ! ) and is gleefully demonstrating their fit to three women in Salvation Army capes and bonnets . The Sally Amy women are absolutely scandalised as Cora lifts her skirt and petticoat above her knees , demonstrating a shapely gam . Suddenly , into the room comes Anthony Depew ( actor Frank Worthing ) , a self-appointed evangelist without dog-collar . He sees Cora baring her sinful flesh , and he is outraged . She adjusts her clothing as he begins to berate her . That's it . End of film . I can see why audiences in 1900 would get worked up by this , although by 21st-century standards it's all very coy . Blanche Bates , corseted and apparently bustled , displays a figure that would have looked good on the cover of the ' Police Gazette ' but which is a bit too zaftig for modern viewers . One might insist that the action in ' The Kiss ' is perfectly innocent , but the content of this ' Naughty Anthony ' excerpt is unquestionably meant to be sexual . Yet it's also misogynistic . The shocked reaction of the Salvation Army lassies seems to indicate that the female body is so obscene that it must remain covered at all times , never even shown to other women . Still , for its historic value , I'll rate this snippet of celluloid .
Train-wreck fascinating !	SPOILER : The Nazis lose World War Two . For my quids , Paul Joseph Goebbels was far and away the most interesting and complicated of the Nazi leaders . Goering and Himmler were motivated purely by self-interest ; so was Speer , but he was also caught up in Hitler's cult of personality . Goebbels , on the other hand , was no mere stooge . He was an accomplished playwright and poet , who was committed to the National Socialist cause even before Hitler emerged as that cult's leader . In the diary which Goebbels kept from the 1920s until shortly before his death , he frequently questioned Hitler's leadership , and wondered if the movement was travelling the wrong way . ( I'm astounded that Goebbels saved those diary entries after Hitler had consolidated his power . ) Goebbels married a beauty queen , had six children off her , and juggled simultaneous affairs with multiple mistresses . . . quite different from his boss Hitler , who was terrified of physical intimacy . If Goebbels had been the head Nazi , things might have ended very differently . The simple but riveting film ' The Goebbels Experiment ' is constructed round a brilliant idea . Silent newsreel footage ? depicting the rise of the Nazi movement , the Third Reich , its glorious zenith and then its inglorious downfall ? is shown on screen while Kenneth Branagh reads entries from Goebbels's diaries in chronological order , making no attempt to ' perform ' the text as a dramatic role . Goebbels's chilling words speak for themselves . For me , the most startling moment in this documentary occurred early on , when the Nazi party has successfully manipulated Germany's national election , becoming the duly-elected political force ruling Germany . When this happens , Goebbel openly exults ( as did Hitler ) , saying that the last time he felt this excited was when the Kaiser declared war in 1914 . I quite believe that Goebbels sincerely felt this way , but I was pulled up short by it . . . because Germany's adventure of 1914 turned out to be a huge mistake , bankrupting the nation and destroying its national currency , as well as toppling the German royal family and humiliating the nation . Did Goebbels never for one instant stop to think that the Nazi victory in the national elections might turn out to be as much of a ' victory ' as the Kaiser's war declaration . . . in other words , an utter failure ? Evidently not . We know what happened next . There are no surprises in ' The Goebbels Experiment ' , but this documentary is train-wreck fascinating , and I strongly recommend it . A full .
Bob & Ray can make shoelaces hilarious	' Saturday Night Live Presents Bob and Ray Meet Jane , Laraine & Gilda ' was ( as breathlessly announced by Don Pardo ) the unwieldy title of a one-off special that was for all practical purposes a fairly typical third-season episode of ' Saturday Night Live ' . SNL was pre-empted for one Saturday , so that this special could be broadcast in SNL's usual late-night slot . The show was staged in front of a live audience on SNL's soundstage at Rockefeller Centre , featuring SNL's house musicians and tech crew in their usual capacities . The male contingent of the Not Ready for Prime Time Players took the night off ( except for announcer Pardo ) , leaving the stage clear for the three resident female performers : delicious Laraine Newman , underrated and underused Jane Curtin , and someone whose appeal utterly baffles me : the raucous and grossly untalented Gilda Radner . The three ladies were joined by two guests whose comedic style was very much sympatico with SNL's home brand of humour : the veteran comedy team of Bob Elliott and Ray Goulding . Back in the 1950s , from a radio station in Massachusetts , Bob and Ray were doing the sort of anarchically skewed humour that ' Saturday Night Live ' allegedly invented in the 1970s . . . and doing it hilariously . Assisted by the three SNL mesdames , Bob and Ray offered some of their typical ( self-scripted ) comedy routines . One sequence filmed in advance was an extended commercial for a shoelace-repair shop . Walking down the street , Ray discovers that his shoelaces are wearing out . He hies himself to the shoelace-repair shop , where Bob ( wearing an eyeshade and a jeweller's loupe ) carefully removes the laces from Ray's shoes , painstakingly restores them to mint condition , reinserts them in Ray's shoes ( using special forceps ) and sends Ray on his way happily . . . all of this done with hilariously surrealistic narration . It doesn't sound funny as I'm describing it , but fans of Bob and Ray's humour will recognise how brilliant this skit is . The funniest sequence in this special was a musical turn featuring the three SNL ladies in sexy punk-disco outfits , strutting across the stage while snarling the lyric to a well-known Rod Stewart song . Just when we expect them to sing the chorus , the camera cuts to Bob and Ray intoning : ' Do ya want my body ? Do ya think I'm sexy ? ' The sight of these two old fat guys singing a Rod Stewart song is hilarious . All in all , this is a well-produced special , which could also be considered an above-average episode of ' Saturday Night Live ' for one of that programme's better seasons . Even Gilda Radner is less annoying than usual . As a Bob and Ray fan , it gives me pleasure to rate this showcase for their talents .
Entertaining and informative .	This entertaining and informative documentary about silent-film star Mary Pickford was produced for the PBS television series ' American Experience ' . Some appetising film clips ( and one radio interview ) of Pickford have been expertly compiled with sound bites from film scholars . I'm very impressed with how documentarian Sue Williams co-ordinated the time-lines of Pickford's life and career . I'd known that Pickford was deeply attached to her mother , but - - until I saw this documentary - - I hadn't realised that her mother's death was the incident that prompted Pickford to stop playing little-girl roles . Also , this documentary includes the first photo I've ever seen of Pickford's father , who died when she was very young . But we get the usual shenanigans for documentaries of this sort : modern actors , with their faces concealed , re-enact events in the lives of Pickford and her husband Douglas Fairbanks . A vintage photograph of a New York City street is jiggled in front of a rostrum camera while little white dots are superimposed , to counterfeit silent-film footage of a snowfall . More impressive here is a sequence during the period when Pickford was a touring stage actress : we see old movie footage from the subjective viewpoint of a speeding railway train , inter-cut with a rostrum camera panning across early 20th-century maps of U . S . cities . There are delightful clips from several Pickford films , in superb condition , but the clips are uncaptioned , and only a few are identified in Laura Linney's narration . And there are some peculiar omissions . We are told quite a bit about Pickford's siblings Lottie and Jack , yet this documentary never mentions that they both had screen careers of their own . ( Admittedly , neither became a star , and their film careers were purely dependent on Mary's : still , this should have been mentioned . ) The makers of this documentary tracked down a copy of the playbill for Mary Pickford's Broadway debut . . . yet , oddly , the narration never identifies the play , and the rostrum camera pans obliquely across the playbill so that we can't see the entire title . ( It's ' The Warrens of Virginia ' , but I knew that from other sources . You won't learn it from this documentary . ) Future director Cecil B . DeMille was in the cast of this play , written by his brother William : how odd that the documentary doesn't mention this . Another thing I hadn't known ( until this documentary told me ) was that Pickford had a recurring nightmare in which she performed on the stage of a theatre with no audience . We see that re-enacted here : I would have preferred to see some sourcing for this information . Did Pickford ever confide her nightmare to anyone ? Also , we're told that the phrase ' by the clock ' was an intimate code message between Pickford and Fairbanks : again , what's the source for information that Pickford was unlikely to confide to anyone ? An odd oversight here : the transition to talking films is discussed with no mention of the fact that Pickford's last silent film was ' My Best Girl ' , in which her leading man was Charles ' Buddy ' Rogers ( whom I met once ) . Later , after Pickford's divorce from Fairbanks in the talkie period , the narration retroactively mentions ' My Best Girl ' and Rogers for the first time , while informing us that Rogers became Pickford's final husband . In this documentary's favour , the talking heads are ( for once ) actual authorities on their subject rather than merely people with opinions . One commentator is Eileen Whitfield , author of an excellent biography of Pickford . Ms Whitfield - - a Goldie Hawn lookalike with a distinctive hairstyle - - is apparently an actress wanna-be : she oddly acts out several of Pickford's conversations , rather than just telling us about them . Some of the talking heads make portentous statements that are inaccurate . We're told that Mary Pickford ' invented film acting ' . This would come as a surprise to Lillian Gish . We're also told that Pickford ' lost everything ' . Wrong again : she kept her mansion and her vast real-estate holdings , retaining the devotion of fans while she faded from public view . . . and she remained in a loving and stable marriage with Rogers until her death . Very few silent-era film stars had as much fulfilment ( and wealth ) in their post-career lives as Mary Pickford had in hers . Late in this documentary , there's a brief sequence that made me cringe but which was probably a necessary inclusion : the notorious film clip of Pickford from the 1975 Academy Awards broadcast . At this point she was a deluded recluse , isolated in her mansion . In hindsight , the Academy realised it was a mistake to show this frail old woman on television , but - - since the footage exists - - this documentary was probably justified in including it . I wish this documentary had mentioned a bizarre fact : when Billy Wilder was casting the role of deluded has-been silent-film star Norma Desmond in ' Sunset Boulevard ' , he visited Mary Pickford at Pickfair to offer her the part . . . then he made the eerie realisation that Pickford had very largely become that person herself . I also wish that this documentary had quoted film historian David Shipman's observation : if popularity is the measure of stardom , then Mary Pickford remains the single greatest movie star who ever lived . Despite its flaws , I'll rate this excellent documentary .
A show-stopper ! Bravo !	' Broadway : The American Musical ' is a six-part series that's just what it claims to be : a documentary history of the American musical ( although it doesn't start anywhere near the beginning : ' The Black Crook ' in the 1860s ) . The basic structure is chronological , though there are a few odd deviations : ' Bye Bye Birdie ' comes before ' My Fair Lady ' , ' The Pyjama Game ' doesn't show up until the 1980s , and flamboyant showman David Merrick isn't mentioned until the 1990s . Of course , the real fun of a show like this is the chance to see rare clips of performers and obscure shows . Necessarily , documentarian Michael Kantor is limited by the fact that most stage performances were not preserved . We see silent-film footage of Bert Williams while the soundtrack plays one of his gramophone recordings ; the image and soundtrack don't match , because Williams never made a talking movie . Yet , within the available material , Kantor makes some bizarre choices . We see silent footage ( taken with a home-movie camera ) of George M Cohan singing and dancing on Broadway in ' I'd Rather Be Right ' . After a brief tantalising glimpse of this rare footage , Kantor cuts to a long excerpt of James Cagney in the movie ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' , which we can get at any video shop . We see a brief clip of Bill ' Bojangles ' Robinson doing his famous stair dance . . . but after a few delightful seconds , the documentary cuts to footage of a generic jazz band . We see clips from a couple of MGM movie musicals ( not film versions of stage musicals ) containing songs ABOUT Broadway . I was delighted by one clever sequence : an audio recording of Fred and Adele Astaire singing ' Fascinating Rhythm ' is played over animated cut-outs of the dancing Astaire siblings . Also delightful is new footage of former Ziegfeld chorus girl Doris Eaton , singing and dancing one of her old songs from memory , shortly before her 100th birthday ! We also see rare kinescope footage of some major Broadway musical performances : Gertrude Lawrence from ' The King and I ' , Jill Haworth from the original Broadway cast of ' Cabaret ' , Alfred Drake and Patricia Morison from ' Kiss Me Kate ' . What pleasures ! One non-Broadway clip that I welcomed was a brief sequence of Michael Bennett and Donna McKechnie dancing on a 1964 TV show , long before they collaborated on ' A Chorus Line ' . I was also pleased by home-movie footage of the original staging of ' Porgy and Bess ' , along with new interviews of the performers who played the title roles in that production . Various talking heads weigh in with their opinions . Oddly , this documentary makes no attempt to offer the credentials of these people . John Lahr states that his mother was a Ziegfeld chorus girl , yet never mentions that his father was a major Broadway comedian . George C Wolfe comments on the 1944 production of ' On the Town ' ( which closed long before Wolfe was born ) , yet never mentions that he directed an acclaimed revival of this same show . Betty Comden and Adolph Green were in that original 1944 cast of ' On the Town ' ( in addition to writing the book and lyrics ) , so I was amused here when they sing one of that show's songs . . . and get the words wrong ! Other errors here are less happy . Cole Porter's Broadway musical for Fred Astaire was titled ' The Gay Divorce ' , NOT ' The Gay Divorcée ' ( that was the movie version ) . A narrator mispronounces the name of Cole Porter's home town . Mary Rodgers gets the title wrong for one of her father's songs . ( Maybe because he only wrote the tune , not the words . ) Regrettably , much of this documentary caters for what audiences will find familiar rather than trying to interest them in the unfamilar . We get a clip of the Marx Brothers in the movie version of ' Animal Crackers ' . The Marxes were giants of film comedy , but their importance to Broadway's history is negligible . We are told absolutely nothing about Busby Berkeley's work on Broadway , but we get a clip from one of his Warner Brothers movies about a ' Broadway ' musical that couldn't possibly be staged in a Broadway theatre . And did we need to be told for the 21 , 937th time that Mary Martin was from Weatherford , Texas ? This documentary intelligently reveals how the musical theatre was affected by the arrival of the subway in 1904 , by Prohibition , by World War Two , by the terrorist attacks , and by the arrival of Aids . The most moving sequence here is a tribute to Broadway figures who died of Aids . . . not the obvious big names , but those whom one talking head calls ' the guys in the trenches ' : the talented minor figures who never got their chance at stardom . Less inspiring is a film clip of Gerald Schoenfeld of the Shubert Organisation : his two sound bites about the Times Square district seem to be addressed solely to its viability as real estate . A long tribute to the Disney corporation's efforts on Broadway seems to be intended more as corporate back-scratching than anything else . Fittingly , the series ends with an elaborate tribute to Al Hirschfeld , the caricaturist who documented Broadway's best for more than seven decades ! Despite some nitpicks , I deeply enjoyed this documentary and I learnt quite a bit from it . Anyone who wants to learn about the Great White Way will get a solid grounding in the American theatre's history from these six episodes . And anyone who just wants a good time watching some enjoyable musical numbers will get plenty of that pleasure here . I rate ' Broadway : The American Musical ' a full . Bravo !
WARNING : Very catchy song !	The American animator Gene Deitch really deserves to be better known : his toons are funny and accessible , with a physical appearance and character movements that are uniquely Deitch's work . His cartoons don't remind me of anyone else's . Due to the labour-intensive cost of cel animation , much of Deitch's work has been done in eastern Europe , where non-union animators could do the tedious in-between work more cheaply than it would have been done Stateside . Regrettably , this cheapness sometimes brings an overall shoddiness to Deitch's toons . ' The Frozen Logger ' is a delight . There's no dialogue ; we hear folksinger Lee Hayes singing a tune in time that narrates the action . This song's waltz-time melody is extremely catchy , and the simple lyric is quite funny . WARNING : After you view this cartoon , the song will be stuck in your head for days afterward . Basically , this is the story of a hardy lumberjack up in the Klondike , who's minding his business one day in the local saloon and stirring his coffee with his thumb ( don't ask ) when an attractive woman comes up to him , relating her tale of woe . ( Male singer Hayes incorporates the woman's narration into his lyric . ) As in all of Deitch's best work , the character animation is a delight . Much of the action takes place outdoors during a snowfall , and the snow is well-animated . Throughout the toon , there are two macho guys slugging it out in the street like a couple of rejects from Rex Beach's ' The Spoilers ' . It's amusing how their punches rock each other : one guy oscillates vertically , the other horizontally . The main character of the logger is animated differently from these two lumber-jerks , so when all three of them appear in the same set-up it looks very funny . And the payoff to the story is good , too . I'll rate this toon . Now , if I could just get that song out of my head . . .
Brilliant show-business epic	The mini-series ' Lost Empires ' is a brilliant adaptation of J . B . Priestley's novel , extremely faithful to the original text ( even using much of Priestley's dialogue ) yet opening up the material to heighten the contrast between the false world of the British music-hall ( where this story's leading characters spend much of their time ) and the grim reality of life in working-class England in the months leading into the Great War . The opening scene of the first episode sets up the mood perfectly , with a chorus girl in military drag as Tommy Atkins , singing the recruitment song ' We Don't Want to Lose You , But We Think You Ought to Go ' . The title of ' Lost Empires ' is a pun . Explicitly , it refers to the fact that the events of the First World War triggered the deterioration of the British Empire and the decline of Britain's clout as a global power . More subtly , the title refers to the fact that the leading chain of variety theatres in Britain's major cities during the early twentieth century were known as the Empires ( the Bristol Empire , the Glasgow Empire , and so forth ) . Even more subtly , the decline of Britain's variety halls ( paralleling the death of vaudeville in America ) happened at roughly the same time as the decline of Britain as a world power . There are many levels of meaning in Priestley's novel , and this mini-series cleverly depicts them all . Colin Firth is splendid as the callow young Richard Herncastle . It's 1913 : Herncastle has left school and is now seeking a career . Unexpectedly , he gets a job offer from his uncle Nick ( played by the brilliant John Castle ) . Nick is a stage magician who tours the variety halls with an elaborate stage act involving all manner of trick apparatus and stage effects . Nick offers Richard a job , in charge of maintaining the act's equipment and arranging its transport from one theatre to the next . Also , Richard will appear onstage as Richard's assistant , wearing an elaborate Arabian Nights costume and riding a bicycle during a vanishing-trick . As the plot progresses into the events of 1914 , Britain is plunged headlong into the war . . . and Richard must contemplate a vanishing-trick of another sort . Laurence Olivier is prominently featured in ( only ) the first episode of this series as Harry Burrard , a comedian who isn't funny . . . and whose deathly-bad performances are harming the success of every other act on the bill . This series depicts the routine of variety-hall performers with keen accuracy . Because Nick and Richard are on the same bill as Harry , they more or less have to live with him round the clock : he travels with them aboard the same trains from one engagement to the next , and stays in the same theatrical hotels with them . Olivier gives a stand-out performance , as Burrard gradually reveals his paranoia and his increasing mental disturbances . I recall that when ' Lost Empires ' first premiered on television in Britain , several critics made glib comparisons between Olivier's role here and his performance as Archie Rice , the untalented pierside comedian in ' The Entertainer ' . These are two entirely different roles , and Olivier gives one of his finest performances in ' Lost Empires ' . My only complaint about this excellent mini-series is that Olivier's abrupt departure in the first episode skews the dramatic emphasis towards the beginning of this series rather than its final episode . ' Lost Empires ' is a triumph : well-written , well-directed , brilliantly paced and well-acted all round . No question : I rate this series .
Cop , chops , a flatfoot " flic " flick	' The Run of the Village Constables ' is very funny in its own right , and also historically significant as the earliest known example of the ' chase ' comedy , later developed at Mack Sennett's Keystone studio . The fact that the pursuers in this film are small-town constables ( anticipating Sennett's Keystone Cops ) makes it extremely likely that Sennett , or at least someone in his employ , was directly influenced by this movie . Buster Keaton's short film ' Cops ' also appears to have been influenced by this very funny film . Essentially , ' The Run of the Village Constables ' is a Keystone Cops movie , made in France before Mack Sennett's earliest known film credit . Because this is a French movie , instead of the constable helmets worn by Keystone's cops , these French " flics " wear the sort of cylindrical visored cap known as a kepi . A mongrel dog rushes into a butcher's shop and emerges with a pork chop in his jaws . Two gendarmes , who evidently have run out of murders and rapists to pursue , rush after the dog . More cops join in . ( Must be a slow day for the French crime rate . ) There are some interesting exterior shots as the cops chase the dog along a cobblestoned street , across a tram line , and through some obviously staged set-ups ( such as through a man's bedroom ) . There's a highly imaginative trick shot , in which the cops chase the dog up the side of a building . From our more cinematically sophisticated viewpoint , it's obvious that the wall of the house is really a canvas ' flat ' laid out on the studio floor , and the cops and the dog are actually running across a horizontal plane instead of up a vertical one . But for audiences in 1907 , this trick shot probably produced a very startling ' How'd they do that ? ' effect . And it's still funny in its outright audacity . Eventually the cops chase the dog back into its kennel . . . whereupon the dog emerges to chase the gendarmes along a different route ( some more interesting exteriors ) and back into their own cop-shop . VOICI LE SPOILEUR : The last shot shows the dog gnashing the chop while wearing a policeman's kepi ! This shot reminds me of the gag end-title in Keaton's ' Cops ' : after Buster is pulled into the police station by a hoard of policemen , the end-title shows Keaton's distinctive porkpie hat perched on a gravestone . Since I've mentioned the Keystone Cops , this is a good place to settle the spelling once for all . The comedy constables at Keystone were Cops , not Kops . I own copies of several Keystone trade adverts and press releases which contain phrases such as ' another Cop comedy ' , with this word spelt correctly . I challenge anyone to locate the ' Kop ' misspelling in any document or film footage issued by Keystone . Mack Sennett was very sensitive about his lack of education ; I seriously doubt that he would have sanctioned any deliberate misspelling , for fear he'd be accused that he didn't know the proper spelling . ' The Run of the Village Constables ' is an hilarious glimpse of the early French cinema , historically fascinating as well as uproarious . I rate this movie 10 in 10 .
Skip the message , savour the performances	' Carol for Another Christmas ' features a teleplay by Rod Serling at his most dead-earnest . As often happened with this controversial writer , Serling's script ran afoul of network censors who insisted on major changes . . . inevitably making the material much more innocuous . Astonishingly , ' Carol for Another Christmas ' manages to be an entertaining drama anyway , well-directed ( by old pro Joe Mankiewicz ) with a first-rate cast . The story is a blatant reworking of Dickens's ' A Christmas Carol ' , modernised and addressing the concerns of Americans in the 1960s . Serling may well have been the first writer to ' borrow ' the plot of Dickens's novel , but in the years from 1964 to the present there have been dozens of rip-offs of Dickens's plot line ( such as the wretched movie ' Scrooged ' ) . From a 21st-century viewpoint , ' Carol for Another Christmas ' suffers because it's now one of many , many , MANY reworkings of Dickens's source material . Fortunately , Serling manages sporadically to improve upon the original . For example , this story has no annoying little Tiny Tim character . In Serling's original script , the main character in ' Carol for Another Christmas ' was an embittered industrialist named Barnaby Grudge . This is clearly a Dickensian pun , but Serling also meant it as a pun on ' B . Grudge ' . . . because Grudge begrudges charity to people less fortunate than himself . Television executives insisted that Serling must change this character's name ; they were certain that ' Barnaby Grudge ' would be perceived as a thinly-disguised attack on Presidential candidate Barry Goldwater ( same initials ) . Serling changed the character's name to Daniel Grudge , and Sterling Hayden gives a standout performance in the lead role as Grudge , the surrogate Scrooge . After some surly dialogue with his black servants Charles and Ruby , and an argument with his nephew ( Ben Gazzara , giving the worst performance hereabouts ) , Grudge gets some unwanted advice from a surrogate Marley , and then the story proper begins . . . with Grudge getting a look at the state of humanity in Christmases past , present and future . ( Rod Serling's birthday was 25th December , and he had a traumatic experience on Christmas Day during his wartime hitch as a paratrooper . . . I wonder if either of those facts helped inspire this story . I also wonder if the title of this script was a pun on the name of Rod Serling's wife : Carol . ) Grudge's escort to the past is a World War One doughboy , extremely well-played by Steve Lawrence . . . yes , the singer who married Eydie Gorme . Steve Lawrence was a very talented actor who seldom got material worthy of his talents : he gives a fine performance here , with some of the best dialogue Rod Serling ever wrote . ( I'm a Serling fan , but plausible dialogue was always thin on the ground in Rod Serling's universe . ) Lawrence brings Grudge to Japan on Christmas Day 1945 , where a Japanese doctor and a U . S . WAVE are trying to help Japanese children who were caught in an American bombing raid . ( There does seem to be an unfortunate ' blame America ' tone here . ) The Ghost of Christmas Present is well-played by the excellent Pat Hingle , an actor who never achieved the stardom he deserved . Grudge finds the stocky Hingle gorging himself on food at a banquet table , while nearby Third World children starve behind a fence . Hingle invites Grudge to join him : Grudge is willing to eat , but not with those starving children watching him . The fact that those children ARE starving does not particularly disturb him . Next stop , the future : with the flash of an atomic bomb , Grudge finds himself in the darkness and rubble which are all that remains after World War Three . These are ( intentionally ) the most disturbing scenes in the drama . What sort of war was this , Grudge wonders ? ' A dandy ' , replies Robert Shaw in a lacklustre performance as the Ghost of Christmas Future . Civilisation was destroyed in the nuclear war , but now one man is trying to inspire the survivors to rebuild the world . . . namely , as a dictatorship with himself as the leader . Peter Sellers gives a fascinating performance ( with an American accent , better than the one he used in ' Strangelove ' ) as a dictator named Imperial Me . Unfortunately , Sellers seems to be acting in a completely different movie from everyone else . ( Which sums up much of his life and career . ) SPOILERS NOW . The character arc of ' Carol for Another Christmas ' follows Dickens's novel very closely , so it's no surprise that Grudge / Scrooge ultimately returns to his mansion in the present , where he now sees the error of his ways and he repents . But I found the last scene very annoying and simplistic . As proof that Grudge has reformed , we see him humbling himself by eating breakfast in the kitchen with his black servants . Surely it would be more honest and more ennobling to show Grudge inviting his servants to join him for breakfast in his posh dining room . And the three of them could do the washing-up together . Like so many other liberals , Serling seems more interested in bringing down the mighty rather than uplifting the lowly . ' Carol for Another Christmas ' occasionally sinks into knee-jerk liberalism or America-bashing , but this TV movie's good points very much outweigh and outnumber its bad points . I'll rate this story . God bless us , every one .
Fascinating re-enactment of early stage musical	In some ways , I found this 1910 silent version of ' The Wonderful Wizard of Oz ' more entertaining than the big-budget MGM remake . And in some ways , this silent version ( made while L Frank Baum was still alive and writing more Oz novels ) is more faithful to Baum's source novel ( and its sequels ) than the MGM movie was . More significantly for historical purposes , this silent film preserves some aspects of the hugely popular 1903 stage musical based on ' The Wonderful Wizard of Oz ' , which deviated significantly from both the novel and the later MGM movie . In the novel , Toto's single most important function is to be a sounding-board for Dorothy , so that she can express her thoughts aloud without talking to herself . In the stage musical ( unlike MGM's version ) , it was impractical to have a trained dog performing various cues , so Toto was written out . Instead , for the stage musical , Dorothy's companion in the cyclone ride from her Kansas farm to Oz was Imogene the cow , played by two panto-style actors in a cow costume . In this movie , we see several ' animals ' ( including Imogene , and the Cowardly Lion ) which are very obviously played by actors in costumes . Toto appears very briefly as a real dog , to be transformed almost immediately by Glinda into an actor in a dog cozzie , courtesy of a Melies-style jump cut . Refreshingly , Dorothy is actually played here by an age-appropriate little girl ( more about her later ) , rather than a too-old teenage Judy Garland in a bust-suppressor . In the stage musical based on ' The Wonderful Wizard of Oz ' , the star performers were the comedy team of Fred Stone and David C Montgomery as the Scarecrow and Tin Woodman ; they sang comic songs such as " Hurrah for Baffin's Bay " and performed specialities , notably a ' black art ' routine in which Stone assembled the various pieces of Montgomery's disconnected Tin Woodman . ( After starring in this stage musical , Montgomery died young ; Fred Stone went on to play Katharine Hepburn's father in ' Alice Adams ' . ) Here in this silent film of the stage musical , there's not much singing , but we do see the Scarecrow and Tin Woodman performing a comical dance . The Scarecrow does a very impressive back handspring , made even more impressive because he immediately segues from this into a weird crawling dance with the animal actors . I was astounded to learn that this acrobatic Scarecrow was Robert Z Leonard , a vaudeville performer who'd worked with Lon Chaney , and who later had a long successful career as a film director , well into the talkies era . ( He directed Judy Garland and Liza Minnelli in ' In the Good Old Summertime ' , among other credits . ) One tableau sequence in this silent movie puts Dorothy and the Scarecrow in a forest where the trees have sinister faces ; I wonder if this sequence inspired the talking-tree sequence in the MGM film . Elsewhere in this 1910 film , we see that Oz has some black residents . . . in loincloths , escorting camels . The charming and delightful Dorothy in this silent film , as I was pleased to discover , is Bebe Daniels , who later did much to inspire British radio audiences during the Blitz . Here , she performs a delightful dance . The nimble Tin Woodman is played by Alvin Wyckoff , who later became a movie cameraman . There are a couple of very impressive stage sets with ensembles of chorus girls in pageboy outfits , and the Melies-like entrance to the Emerald City looks like an enormous human face . I was hugely impressed with the flying effect used here for the villainous Momba the Witch ( no , not Mombi from the Oz books : this is Momba with an ' a ' ) and also used here for Glinda ; the Glinda in this movie looks vastly more impressive than Billie Burke did as Glinda with that wastebasket on her head . In this silent version , when Dorothy uses a bucket of water to dissolve the wicked witch , I found the results more impressive than what happened in the MGM version . I'll rate this 1910 movie ' The Wonderful Wizard of Oz ' a full . I wish they had filmed the complete stage musical , even without sound .
A nice pair of jugheads	" Buzzin ' Around " is the funniest ( and most action-packed ) of the six Vitaphone shorts which comprise Roscoe " Fatty " Arbuckle's entire talking-picture career . ( Of the other five , " Close Relations " and " In the Dough " are only a whisker less funny than " Buzzin ' Around " . ) More significantly , " Buzzin ' Around " features the ONLY team-up of Roscoe Arbuckle and Al St John in a sound film . St John was Arbuckle's nephew , who got into films ( at Keystone ) with Arbuckle's help . A natural athlete and acrobat , St John did some virtuoso pratfalls and daredevil stuntwork in many silent films for Keystone and other studios . . . usually in support of other comedians , but also ( with less success ) in his own starring series . When Arbuckle starred in his own series of silent comedies at the Comique studio , Al St John came along and did dazzling work as Arbuckle's third banana ( seconded by Buster Keaton ) . Throughout their silent-film collaborations , Al St John nearly always played Arbuckle's rival . . . usually for the affections of the girl . The first time I saw " Buzzin ' Around " , I expected them to play rivals or enemies here . To my delight , I was wrong . In this movie , Arbuckle and St John are working towards a mutual goal , although mostly in separate scenes . Roscoe plays Cornelius , a hayseed who has invented a varnish which renders pottery unbreakable . He goes off to the big city to demonstrate his invention to some investors , but the varnish has vanished and he accidentally brings along the family's moonshine jug instead of the jug containing his varnish . When St John discovers this , he grabs the proper jug and goes off to rescue Roscoe . But then the two jugs ( and the two jugheads ) get mixed up with a hive full of bees . Oh , beehive yourself ! The precise relationship between the characters played by Roscoe and Al in this film is never explained ; they live together in a hillbilly shanty and are apparently brothers , or possibly cousins . Cue the theme from " Deliverance " . It's a joy to see Arbuckle and St John playing allies for once , in their last appearance together . They both do dazzling pratfalls during the climax of this movie , although they appear separately in most of the footage . After this film , alas , Al St John's career dwindled into supporting roles in cheap westerns , and Arbuckle died tragically young . The " bees " in this movie are actually animation , but they are extremely well drawn and animated , and look quite realistic . Silent-film veteran Arbuckle uses sound quite effectively , especially in a sequence in which Cornelius has swallowed a bee , and weird buzzing sounds replace Arbuckle's voice . One footnote , or paw-note : In this film , Arbuckle and St John appear alongside a dog named Pete who is a dead ringer for Pete the dog in the ' Our Gang ' comedies , including the ring round his left eye . I'm positive that this is NOT the same dog , though he has clearly been made up to look like the original . IMDb reviewer Ron Oliver has called this film Arbuckle's final curtain call . Not quite . " Buzzin ' Around " was the second of Arbuckle's six Vitaphone shorts : it was , however , the last of his films released during Arbuckle's lifetime . The third ( " How've You Bean ? " ) was released less than a week after Arbuckle's sudden death . The sixth and last , " Tomalio " , is by far the least funny . " Buzzin ' Around " benefits from some interesting location work in a semi-rural section of Brooklyn near Coney Island . " Buzzin ' Around " is required viewing for anyone who cares about American film comedy . Rate it : no ; let's cheat and rate it an eleven . Make every possible effort to see this hilarious short movie .
Alexander Cohen's greatest hits	For part of the 1970s and the early 1980s , I ( all too briefly ) had the honour of working for Broadway producer Alexander H . Cohen , one of the greatest showmen of all time . Mr Cohen ( ' Alex ' to his thousands of friends ) was the only producer to maintain permanent production offices both on Broadway and in London's West End . In addition to mounting many intelligent dramas and comedies , Alexander Cohen also invented the " nine o'clock musical " : an intimate , plot less revue featuring one piano and a minimal cast . Ironically , the only form of theatre production in which Alexander Cohen never had significant success was the book musical : the type of stage musical that has a plot as well as a score . For many years , Mr Cohen was ably abetted by his wife ( former actress Hildy Parks ) , their two sons , and his associate Roy Somlyo . Alexander Cohen's greatest achievement ( among many ) was his long stint as producer of the Tony Awards : an annual special presentation on CBS-TV , in which the American Theatre Wing presented awards to the best plays and musicals of each theatre season . Regrettably , Mr Cohen was pressured into stepping down as presenter of the Tonys when he publicly made a disparaging remark about one ( extremely unpopular ) theatre critic , and implied that he spoke for the American Theatre Wing as well as himself when he made this remark . " Broadway's Lost Treasures " is a compilation of 17 musical numbers from several annual editions of the Tony Awards , all produced under Alexander Cohen's aegis . A disproportionate percentage of these numbers are from the 1971 Tony Awards ceremony . The 1971 Broadway theatre season was less distinguished than usual , and the American Theatre Wing expected that year's edition of the Tony Awards to be thin pickings . With one of his legendary bursts of inspiration , Alex Cohen realised that this year ( 1971 ) was the 25th anniversary of the Tony Awards . He decided to celebrate the occasion by having several of Broadway's most legendary performers reprise their most famous musical numbers . " Broadway's Lost Treasures " contains several of those re-enactments . Unfortunately , some of the re-enactments in " Broadway's Lost Treasures " are less than first-rate . From the 1971 Tony special , we see Vivian Blaine doing an abbreviated version of " Adelaide's Lament " from ' Guys and Dolls ' , plus Robert Preston doing ' Trouble ' from ' The Music Man ' , Yul Brynner doing ' Shall We Dance ? ' from ' The King and I ' and John Raitt singing ' Hey There ' from ' The Pyjama Game ' . But all of these performers did these songs much more brilliantly in the respective film versions of these musicals , which are now ( although not in 1971 ) readily available on video . The John Raitt number is especially disappointing : why didn't he reprise for the Tony Awards his greatest number of all , ' Soliloquy ' from ' Carousel ' ? This is especially regrettable , since - - unlike ' The Pyjama Game ' - - Raitt didn't get a chance to repeat his performance in the film version of ' Carousel ' . Also on offer here , Zero Mostel repeats his biddy-biddy-boom routine from ' Fiddler ' . I've always thought of this grossly overrated and undisciplined performer as Less-than-Zero Mostel , and his performance here does nothing to convince me otherwise . On the plus side , we get Joel Grey's brilliant performance of ' Wilkommen ' from ' Cabaret ' . Here too is a number which the Broadway performer has repeated in the movie version . . . but Grey's characterisation here , as the German cabaret's compere , is astonishingly different from his Oscar-winning performance of this same role in the film . I was thrilled to see this . ( Intriguingly , Joel Grey is backed here by an interracial chorus . . . a surprising decision , as this show takes place in 1930s Berlin . ) The great Gwen Verdon and Chita Rivera are slinky and sexy in their Bob Fosse duet from ' Chicago ' : it's intriguing to see their different dance styles side by side . ( Ms Verdon's legwork had much more amplitude than Ms Rivera's , even before Chita Rivera's taxi accident . ) Also extremely enjoyable here are ' Kickin ' the Clouds Away ' from ' My One and Only ' , performed in sprightly fashion by Twiggy , Tommy Tune and some tap-dancing bridesmaids , and ' Hello , Argentina ' from ' Evita ' . I found the ' Lullaby of Broadway ' number from ' 42nd Street ' much too overblown , but some people will like it . Angela Lansbury performs a rapid-fire patter song ( with tongue-twisting Sondheim lyrics ) from ' Sweeney Todd ' . A close-up reveals that she's lip-synching to her own pre-recorded voice . Since the Tony Awards were broadcast live , I can't blame Alexander Cohen's decision to take this precaution . The most pleasant surprise here is Julie Andrews warbling ' Send in the Clowns ' from ' A Little Night Music ' . Ms Andrews was one of those rare singers who actually emoted a song rather than merely performing it : her rendition here is warm and enchanting . At one point during this live performance , she glances offstage to check the lyrics on a cue card . . . but her performance is so deft that you'll barely notice this . The finest vocal performance here is by the young Andrea McArdle , singing ' Tomorrow ' from ' Annie ' . This is one of the greatest examples I've ever heard of the ' Broadway belt ' voice : the fact that it's emerging from a child performer makes it even more astonishing . How regrettable that Ms McArdle has never had equal success during her adult career as an actress . Despite its flaws , " Broadway's Lost Treasures " is required viewing for anyone interested in the American musical theatre . I'll rate this TV special . Alex Cohen , you are missed and loved by your legions of friends and theatre audiences in New York and London .
Omiyo , oh-my-oh ! Action-packed railway drama !	I saw a 101-minute version of this Japanese silent film in October 2005 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Sacile , Italy ; the print was restored ( from a nitrate original ) in 2004 by Professor Yoneo Ota of Osaka's University of Visual Arts . At Sacile , the film was screened with its original Japanese intertitles , but individual attendees had the option of hiring headphones , enabling us to hear real-time English translations spoken by a native Japanese at the rear of the auditorium . I plumped for this option , but I found the headphones uncomfortable and the translator's voice unpleasant , so I only sporadically used the headphones . . . and I can't vouch for the accuracy of the translations . If this review contains any errors , I'm sure my Internet detractors will speak up loud and clear . Shigeru Mori is a handsome young engine-driver , assigned to one of Japan's most important railway lines . While driving an express train packed with commuters , he encounters an unmanned runaway locomotive on the line . Collision is imminent , but Mori has time to dive out of the engine cab and save his own life . Instead , he courageously endangers himself to stop the runaway locomotive . . . thus saving the lives of his hundreds of passengers . Among the grateful passengers is the beautiful Omiyo , who performs with a circus troupe . Time passes , during which Mori receives an award for his valour from the minister of railways ( Takaichi Yamamoto ) . The heroic Mori remains humble , living in a modest flat and remaining on good terms with his landlord ( Shiro Osaki ) and the landlord's young son Shoichi ( Masatoshi Nakamura ) . One dark night , Mori encounters Omiyo again : this time she is at the brink of despair , and on the verge of suicide . Mori invites the destitute woman to move in with him , and one thing leads to another . The hot-tempered manager of the circus has been lusting for Omiyo , even though he's married ; she fled the circus in order to avoid his advances . While Mori is working his shift as an engine-driver , the circus showman arrives at Mori's lodgings and tries to force himself upon Omiyo . Young Shoichi manages to warn Mori . ( Why doesn't the kid call the police ? ) SPOILERS COMING . The film has deftly established that Mori's sense of duty outweighs all his other priorities : he is committed to completing his train run , and cannot desert his post to rescue Omiyo ! If Mori's train does not keep to its schedule , it will conflict with the run of the express train bound for Tokyo . However , during the engine's run , Mori has a strange premonition : the Tokyo express has been caught in a storm . Rounding a curve , Mori discovers that this has happened : the Tokyo express was caught in a landslide ; the passengers are safe , but the rubble is impassable and Mori cannot be expected to complete his run . Abandoning his train , he rushes home . . . to discover the circus manager lying dead , stabbed by Omiyo . Wow ! What a movie ! I had difficulty imagining any other nation's culture coming up with this story . Japanese audiences of the 1920s would absolutely accept that Mori's duty to his employers ( and to the train's passengers ) outranks all his other concerns , and therefore they would respect his decision to remain at his post rather than saving Omiyo . If this movie had been made for American or European audiences , the viewers would naturally expect the engine-driver to desert his post - - jeopardising and inconveniencing thousands of people - - to save the damsel in distress . I normally dislike it when a seemingly paranormal or psychic event occurs late in a movie , as it does here . If the movie hasn't established itself early on as a fantasy or science-fiction story , then the sudden arrival of the supernatural at the story's climax seems too convenient , too contrived . Here again , though , this film works because it's a product of Japan's culture , meant for Japanese audiences : ghosts and other psychic phenomena are more broadly accepted in Japan than in most other cultures , so it's accepted as plausible that Mori ( who hasn't been established as psychic ) would experience a prophetic vision during a moment of stress . Also , the landslide doesn't seem contrived either : Japan had suffered a serious earthquake in 1923 , only a few years before this film's release . The footage of the 1920s Japanese railways utterly fascinated me , and I wish that this movie could be programmed as a double-feature with the similarly-themed Lon Chaney movie ' Thunder ' . ( No , I haven't got a print of that one handy . ) In the central role here as the dutiful Mori , Koji Shima gives a virile and athletic performance . Through most of the film , Hisako Takihara depicts Omiyo as a weak and needful maiden , pliant and submissive , so it's intriguing ( and unexpected ) that she manages to fend off her would-be rapist by herself , with fatal results . I'll rate this thrilling and breath-taking movie . Arigato !
Energetic hilarious slapstick	Silent-film star Wallace Reid is ( like Roscoe Arbuckle ) unfairly remembered for a scandal which didn't accurately reflect his true life or career . Reid played clean-cut young men , until his sudden death revealed a history of morphine abuse . This was actually the fault of front-office executives at Reid's home studio , who forced him to keep working under heavy medication after he was injured in a railway accident en-route to location filming for ' Valley of the Giants ' . After Reid's death , the same studio tried to protect its own image by circulating rumours that Reid had led a double life as a secret drug addict . James Cruze was an extremely talented silent-film director whose career is now , unfairly , almost totally forgotten . " Thirty Days " is not one of his more typical films , but it's a fast-moving slapstick farce , brightly enjoyable . Logic jumps out the window during the first reel , but you won't miss it . Reid gives a delightful performance which shows us just what a fine comedy talent was lost . SPOILERS AHEAD ! Reid plays John Floyd , a handsome young playboy . He innocently flirts with Wanda Hawley ( very pretty ) , only to find out that she's engaged to marry a hot-headed Italian named Giacomo Polenta . That name is hilarious , and the actor who plays this role gives one of the funniest performances I've ever seen . ( His name is Herschell Mayall . . . I wonder if he's related to the English comedian Rik Mayall ? ) Polenta is a stereotypical comic-opera Italian , so of course he carries a huge knife . . . and he comes after Floyd with it . Floyd gets home safe and sound , where his mother tells him that the new cook from the employment agency is waiting in Floyd's kitchen . Floyd goes into the kitchen and meets the new cook : surprise ! It's Giacomo Polenta ! He snatches a cleaver off the wall and chases Floyd . Well , obviously , the only way Floyd can escape from this maniac is to get himself locked up in prison for a while . ( I told you this movie isn't logical . ) Floyd runs down to the police station , with Polenta in hot pursuit . Floyd begs the nice policemen to lock him up , but they refuse because he hasn't broken any laws . . . so Floyd starts beating up the policemen . Well , he wanted to get locked up , and now he'll get his wish . Charles Ogle ( a stalwart of several Cruze films ) gives a funny performance as the befuddled judge who sends Floyd to the hoosegow for thirty days ' worth of porridge to get away from Polenta . Finally , Floyd ends up in a nice safe comfortable gaol cell , where he can get some peace and quiet . And here comes his new cellmate . Guess who ? Yes , it's Giacomo Polenta , who has conveniently brought his entire collection of carving-knives and cleavers into the prison with him . ( Very considerate of the admissions guard to let him bring the knives into prison . ) Kalla Pasha , a big hefty actor , does some great physical comedy as the prison governor who gets caught between Floyd and Polenta . After the story's premise was set up in the first reel , I literally laughed non-stop through the rest of this utterly hilarious movie . How sad that Wallace Reid is ( inaccurately ) remembered as a drugs addict , instead of celebrated as one of the great comic actors of silent films . Somebody please put " Thirty Days " onto video , so that the whole world can enjoy this splendid comedy . My rating : .
green-cheese Danish	I saw " Heaven-Ship " ( " Himmelskibet " ) at the 2006 Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . What a great movie ! This Danish steampunk saga is the stirring tale of the first trip to Mars , in an era when wireless telegraphy hasn't been perfected . The spaceship hasn't got a radio , and the heroes are brought back from the landing field via horsecart . Even the intertitles are delightful . . . some of them written in rhymed couplets in the original Danish . The actors ' performances are laughable , largely hand-to-brow histrionics . But the sets are astonishing , easily surpassing anything done by Georges Melies a decade earlier ( or in " Die Frau im Mond " a decade later ) . Of course , the plot is simplistic . The spaceship's crew consist of seven thin guys and one fat slob . Guess which one cracks . Interestingly , everyone in this movie ( except the dubious Professor Dubius ) ardently believes in God . Even the Martians . Impressively , the scenarists have the sense to acknowledge that a trip to Mars is no doddle : the title cards establish that it takes the scientists two years to build their spaceship ( which has an airscrew ) and six months to reach Mars . During the construction sequence , there's one extremely impressive set-up which must have been choreographed : dozens of workers all hustle through the worksite in different directions , with no hesitations and no collisions . The Danish scientists christen their ship " Excelsior " ( " packing materials " ? ) and set course for Mars , even though the Moon and Venus are closer . When the ship ( which flies horizontally , not vertically ) lands on Mars , it is greeted by " Marsboerne " - - Martians - - who turn out to be Nordic blondes , all highly-developed pacifists and vegetarians . ( As a highly-developed meat-eater , I resented that part . ) Conveniently enough , Mars turns out to have an atmosphere just like Earth's , as well as equal gravity . In an exterior shot of the Martian landscape , the Sun's apparent magnitude when seen from Mars is the same as it is when viewed from Earth . I also couldn't help observing that all the wise elder Martians are male . In fact , female elders are thin on the ground here : both the Earth-born hero and the Martian maiden are motherless . The Martians speak a universal language , wear ankhs on their robes , and greet the Earth visitors with a globe of Earth . . . which of course they hold with its North Pole upward . That Martian maiden is Marya , played by an ethereally beautiful Danish actress . ( Waiter , I'll have some of that Danish ! ) We see a Martian dance of chastity which might have been twee or ludicrous but is actually quite touching and beautiful . Also , the Martian funeral scene features one shot which reminded me of a sequence in " The Seventh Seal " . I wonder if Ingmar Bergman saw this film . " Himmelskibet " has a few flaws , but its production design and its other merits very far outweigh its drawbacks . The Ole Olsen who is named in the credits ( and who appears in a brief prologue ) is no relation to Chic Johnson's vaudeville partner from " Hellzapoppin " . I would give " Himmelskibet " a 12 , but the scale tops off at 10 . . . so , a full for this delightful trip to Mars , the blonde planet !
A very dandy Yankee Doodle	' George M ! ' is a fine example of a ' chamber musical ' . . . meaning , a musical stripped down to its barest essentials : a minimal cast on a bare stage , with only the most cursory props and no special costumes . The official screen biography of George M . Cohan was the great musical ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' , starring James Cagney . But that movie wilfully contradicted the facts of Cohan's life , with Cohan's active approval . ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' contains absolutely no mention of George M . Cohan's disastrous first marriage , nor of his children , nor of the disastrous Equity strike ( in which a striker fired a bullet through the window of Cohan's home ) , and the movie asserts ( untruthfully ) that Cohan never appeared in any films . Cohan is depicted as an admirer of Franklin D . Roosevelt and ' a good Democrat ' ; in reality , Cohan was a Republican who despised FDR . ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' is a slam-bang first-rate fictional entertainment , but as a biography of Cohan it's wildly inaccurate . In 1968-69 , the dynamically talented Joel Grey starred on Broadway in ' George M ! ' . . . a musical biography of Cohan which - - unlike the Cagney movie - - made a creditable effort to tell the real life-story of George M . Cohan . Joel Grey was an excellent choice to play Cohan , who ( during his peak performing years ) was a small lithe man . ( If forced at gunpoint to choose between Joel Grey and James Cagney , I would say that Cagney is the better choice to play Cohan , but Grey is a very close second . ) Bernadette Peters co-starred in the Broadway cast of ' George M ! ' as Josie Cohan , George's sister and his partner in his stage act . When I sought out this 1970 TV special ' George M ! ' , I assumed that it was a film version of the Broadway stage show . This turns out not to be the case . This low-budget TV special is basically an excuse to perform some of George M . Cohan's most famous songs , in a chamber-musical format that offers almost no real information about Cohan's life or his work habits . Fortunately , Joel Grey is in fine form here in some splendid first-rate song-and-dance routines . Bernadette Peters is on hand too , but technically they aren't playing George and Josie Cohan . The premise of ' George M ! ' ( TV version ) is that a small group of modern-day performers have got together in a rehearsal studio to celebrate George M . Cohan's life and work . Joel Grey and Bernadette Peters and the other cast members are apparently playing themselves , with Austin Pendleton serving as a stage manager / director . The results are highly enjoyable . One scene provides an interesting comparison between this TV show , the movie ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' , and the career of the real George M . Cohan . In 1904 , Cohan starred in his self-written musical ' Little Johnny Jones ' at the Liberty Theatre in New York City . The climactic scene ( containing the hit song ' Give My Regards to Broadway ' ) takes place on the docks at Southampton , England . Cohan plays Johnny , an American jockey who has been framed for deliberately losing the Derby , and who must remain in England rather than go home to America in disgrace . As Johnny stands on the dock , he watches an ocean liner passing on the horizon . ( Remember , this is a stage play . ) Suddenly a skyrocket is fired from the ship's deck , signalling Johnny that a detective aboard the ship has found evidence clearing Johnny's name . When Cohan did this play in 1904 , a very complicated stage effect was required to create the impression of an ocean liner in the distance , firing off a skyrocket . When Cagney starred in ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' in Hollywood in the 1940s , an even more complicated movie-effect was used to re-enact this moment from Cohan's career . But in this vastly simplified chamber musical version ' George M ! ' , the whole complicated effect is omitted altogether . Instead , at the key moment , we have Austin Pendleton crossing the bare stage and shouting ' Skyrocket ! ' . . . giving Joel Grey the cue to go into his dance . And , really : Joel Grey dancing on a bare stage is far more magical and entertaining than some million-dollar pyrotechnic effect . It's regrettable that this ' George M ! ' isn't really a film version of the 1968 Broadway show . But it's an absolute delight on its own terms . I'll rate this TV special . Top marks to all !
Good performances , twist ending	I started out disliking ' A Fitting Tribute ' because the premise reminded me of one of the most uncomfortable events in my adult life . In 1975 , I was a stringer for one of the Fleet Street tabloids . An attractive young heiress named Lesley Whittle was kidnapped and held to ransom by a psychopath who eventually murdered her . My editor ordered me to go to the Whittle home and obtain a photograph of the dead heiress , even though her grieving family presumably had other priorities at the moment . As I was leaving the editor's desk , he shouted after me : ' Try to get her in a swimming cozzie . ' Fortunately , ' A Fitting Tribute ' goes off in an entirely different direction from my own experiences on that unpleasant occasion . ' A Fitting Tribute ' begins in a rural cemetery , where we meet shrewish Tammy and gormless Niall . They get into a car , and Tammy drives while she harangues Niall . There's some plot exposition here , and director Daniel Cormack handles it expertly : he shoots close-ups of Tammy's eyes in the rear-view mirror ( presumably from Niall's P . O . V . ) while her off-screen voice delivers the set-up . Apparently Niall is a cub reporter , and Tammy ( a more experienced journo ) is ordering him to the home of a young man who has recently died in a road accident , with the objective of obtaining a photograph of the deceased . We never do learn why this young man is important enough to merit so much journalistic intrigue ; perhaps Tammy and Niall are working for a regional newspaper that specialises in local events . Niall goes to the house of Mrs Wright , the deceased's mother . Surprisingly enough , she lets him in and hears him out . What happens next is utterly unexpected , bizarre , yet believable . I shan't spoil the ending for you , except to say that it reminded me of Roald Dahl's classic story ' The Landlady ' . . . but with a far more benevolent fate befalling the young protagonist in this case . There's a darkly clever pun in this film's title : ' A Fitting Tribute ' . There are only three characters in this mini-drama ( we never do see the dead son ) , but all three actors give excellent well-modulated performances . As the grieving mother , April Nicholson could have brought her characterisation into bathos but blessedly never does so . It's early days yet for director Daniel Cormack , but he has already distinguished himself as a talented director , both in manipulating actors and in positioning the camera . Throughout ' A Fitting Tribute ' , his shot set-ups are spot-on and well-framed . I'll rate this clever drama a full .
Chaney's greatest role .	' Laugh , Clown , Laugh ' was Lon Chaney's favourite of his own films , according to Robert Gordon Anderson's 1971 Chaney bio . As Tito Beppi , an Italian clown who adopts a foundling , Lon Chaney pulls the stops out : playing a wide range of emotions , even legitimately over-acting as a circus clown . He also adds an elaborate Auguste-style clown whiteface to his gallery of 1 , 000 faces . And it didn't hurt that ' Laugh , Clown , Laugh ' had a hit song in 1928 . ( Yes , silent movies sometimes had hit songs : published as song sheets to accompany the film , these were performed by pit musicians in first-run cinemas . ) I screened an acetate print of ' Laugh , Clown , Laugh ' duplicated from a nitrate vault print missing Reel Four . This explains why Chaney's clown partner ( Bernard Siegel , excellent ! ) walks out of Chaney's life in Reel Three but is back for the climax : their reconciliation is in Reel Four . Also missing is a sequence ( filmed but possibly never used ) in which teenage Loretta Young dons a pageboy's ' Buttons ' uniform . In early scenes with the infant foundling , Lon Chaney portrays a man younger than himself : here his make-up softens his features ; his hair is dyed black and his bald spot is thatched over . The action jumps ahead about 15 years : Chaney appropriately greys and thins his hair , while adding wrinkles . The action moves ahead three more years : Chaney ages more than that in the interim , but his character is under great strain . I had mixed feelings about one sequence : Chaney's character visits a doctor's surgery , complaining of depression . The doctor tells him to attend a performance of the circus clown Flik , whose sawdust antics can cure anyone's melancholy . Chaney sadly replies that this advice cannot help him : he IS Flik ! For me , coming from a background of British and European showbiz , this moment was unimpressive because I recognised its origin : this story was first told about the English clown Joseph Grimaldi ( 1778-1837 ) , and later told about Grock , a Swiss clown who was still performing when ' Laugh , Clown , Laugh ' was in production : in 1928 , Grock was the world's highest-paid circus performer . ' Laugh , Clown , Laugh ' is apparently set in the contemporary present : Loretta Young wears some cloche hats and other 1928 fashions , and Nils Asther wears a wristwatch . ( These were considered effeminate until after World War One . ) Chaney often played madmen or characters beyond the brink of madness . In ' Laugh , Clown , Laugh ' , he plays a man who questions his own sanity , yet he retains our sympathy . In one shot , Chaney's face contorts into rage . . . and for an instant I saw some of his earlier villainous roles . This is possibly Chaney's only misstep in an otherwise note-perfect role that deserved an Academy Award . Loretta Young , barely over age 14 here , is a seasoned pro : winsome in her early scenes as a girl her own age , then becoming a demure young lady in the scenes three years on . Several of Lon Chaney's MGM films ( ' The Big City ' , ' The Black Bird ' and ' While the City Sleeps ' ) cast him as a man with romantic designs on a girl young enough to be his daughter . ( Chaney had no such penchant in real life . ) Here , he raises foundling Loretta from birth , then finds himself wanting to pitch woo to her in her teen years . . . but this time the girl ( by adoption ) really IS his daughter ! This was the only aspect of Chaney's portrayal which I disliked . It's well-known that some silent-film actors ' careers were ruined by the coming of sound . Less well-known is that some directors ' careers suffered as well . Herbert Brenon ( who reportedly bullied Young during this production ) was a major silent-film director whose career plummeted rapidly in talkies . Brenon's films had a slight unreality about them , which worked well in fantasies ( his best-known film is ' Peter Pan ' ) or in dramas with a theatrical background such as ' Laugh , Clown , Laugh ' . The film benefits from MGM's top production values . Only two details rang false : a nurse in Italy wears an American nurse's uniform , and I have difficulty believing that ( even in 1928 , before mega-tort lawsuits ) a tightrope performer would perform directly above his audience without a safety net . In ' The Black Bird ' , Lon Chaney ( who never visited Britain or Europe ) expertly depicted a thief from London's Limehouse district . Chaney employed the hand gestures and body language of an authentic London costermonger ; I don't know where he observed these gestures ( from an expat in Los Angeles ? ) , but his portrayal convinced me that he was a genuine Londoner . In ' Laugh , Clown , Laugh ' , playing an Italian peasant , Chaney uses authentic Italian gestures and body language without going into ' mama mia ! ' exaggerations . Bravo , Lon ! SLIGHT SPOILERS . At the climax of ' Laugh , Clown , Laugh ' there's a brilliantly lyrical image . On the stage of an empty theatre , Chaney's demented clown hears the ( absent ) orchestra , and the audience applauding . This being a silent film , we SEE musicians ' instruments and applauding hands superimposed over Chaney's whiteface Auguste make-up . This beautiful and evocative visual device would have worked just as well in a talkie film , but I suspect that - - if Chaney had lived long enough to film this story as a sound movie - - the image would have been omitted in favour of a straightforward auditory hallucination on the soundtrack . Compare the very similar climactic sequence in ' Stage Door ' ( 1937 ) , where Andrea Leeds plays a deluded actress who imagines herself preparing to go onstage while she commits suicide : in that film , the delusion is confined to the soundtrack , and it's not nearly so effective . As usual , when a silent film and a talkie depict similar events , the silent version does it better . Film is , after all , primarily a visual medium . Despite my nitpicks , ' Laugh , Clown , Laugh ' is a masterpiece which works even with a reel missing , and Chaney's performance is a triumph : possibly his greatest role , surpassing even the Phantom of the Opera . My rating for ' Laugh , Clown , Laugh ' : a solid .
The first celebrity newsreel ?	J . Stuart Blackton was an important figure in the early history of American movies . Born in Yorkshire , he emigrated to New York City as a youth , and at age 21 he was employed by the New York ' Evening World ' as a cub reporter and sketch artist . Shortly after Thomas Edison announced his invention of the wonderful new moving-picture device the Vitascope ( actually developed by Edison's assistant W . K . L . Dickson ) , Blackton's editor sent him to New Jersey to interview the great inventor . Edison's office manager , W . E . Gilmore , did not want Blackton to interview Edison at all , but Edison granted the interview . Blackton had to bellow into Edison's right ear , as the inventor was nearly deaf . When Edison inquired about the sketchbook under Blackton's arm , Blackton opened it and drew some quick sketches for Edison . The inventor had a well-developed sense of showmanship . Sensing an opportunity for his new invention , he ordered his assistants to set up the Vitascope apparatus and take footage of himself sitting for a charcoal sketch while Blackton drew his portrait . While the camera cranked , Edison ( clearly seen to be speaking onscreen ) ordered Blackton to sign the sketch . Sensing the publicity value of this , Blackton signed his name onscreen . . . and then added the words ' Cartoonist of the NY Evening World ' . Public curiosity about Edison was rampant at the time , and Edison's Vitascope company released the film throughout America . Because thousands of people saw it , this film reaped tremendous publicity for Blackton's newspaper and for Blackton himself . . . so much so , that he was soon able to leave the Evening World and go into business for himself as a moving-picture entrepreneur . He purchased one of the very first Vitascope cameras which Edison's company made commercially available : Vitascope camera # 13 . This movie is probably the earliest cinema footage of Thomas Edison , and certainly the first footage of Blackton . . . an important motion-picture figure in his own right . For its historic significance , I'll rate this movie .
A man in Chorleywood fingers his organ .	' Metro-Land ' is John Betjeman's quiet celebration of the unique and special pleasures of life in one section of England in one segment of the twentieth century . Much of what's seen here was already on its way to extinction when Betjeman extolled it . If you're an Anglophile , or a nostalgic Briton of a certain age , you'll find ' Metro-Land ' utterly fascinating : everyone else should give it a miss . When the Metropolitan Railway constructed its tube line from Baker Street to Amersham during the period from 1910 to 1933 , it enabled the creation of a line of suburbs from land that had been largely undeveloped and underpopulated . Orchards and meadows gave way to houses . Boarding the down train , Betjeman follows the route to its outer terminus . Here are some of the locations and people he encounters along the way : In Neasden , Betjeman meets bird-watcher Eric Sims and follows him on a nature trail through Gladstone Park and the Brook Road allotments . In Wembley Park , Betjeman locates a never-completed replica of the Eiffel Tower , intended for the British Empire Exhibition of 1924 . ( Wembley Stadium is there now ! ) In Harrow-on-the-Hill , long-haired boys in boaters sing the Harrovian song . In Pinner , residents wash their cars while listening to the Osmond Brothers ( ! ) on a transistor radio . In Moor Park , Betjeman visits the links , swings at a golf ball . . . and misses . In Chorleywood , Betjeman visits a man with an immense organ : a Wurlitzer pipe organ , which he keeps in his front room and plays every day . In Amersham , Betjeman indulges his fondness for architecture by visiting the modernist house built by Amyas Connell for Bernard Ashmole . Finally , in the quaint village of Quainton , Betjeman expresses relief that the railway extends only so far , enabling nostalgists like himself to enjoy places still untouched by modern travel . Which is part of the problem : modern technology brings people closer to the old-fashioned way of life while acceleratng the decline of that same phenomenon . Much of what Betjeman celebrates in this 1973 video is already ( as I write this ) long extinct . Doctor Beeching , where are you ? I'll rate this fascinating documentary . . . for Anglophiles only , though .
Bit o ' bovver in Bethnal .	Googie Withers was England's equivalent of Joan Blondell ( although better-looking and more talented ) : both actresses played similar types , alternating their performances between dramas and comedies . In ' It Always Rains on Sunday ' , Withers gives possibly the best performance of her career . She's skilfully abetted by a universally excellent cast . This is a taut thriller , very much in the Hitchcock vein , based on a novel by Arthur La Bern . ( His novel ' Goodbye Piccadilly , Farewell Leicester Square ' , set in Covent Garden in this same time period , was updated by Hitchcock as the basis for ' Frenzy ' . ) The lives ( and a death ) of several people in London's East End are deftly interwoven . A real strength of this drama is its perfect encapsulation of a distinctive time and place in one London neighbourhood : Bethnal Green and its environs . The dialogue is note-perfect , although Americans will want subtitles for such terms as " have a butcher's " ( take a look ) , " sweet Fannie Adams " ( not a bloody thing ) , " Bob's your uncle " ( you're all set ) , " shopped " ( informed upon ) , " clothes " ( blankets ) and " the Anderson " ( a mass-produced prefabricated outdoor shelter during the Blitz , employed as garden sheds after the war ) . I was even impressed that the scriptwriters caught the East Enders ' subtle distinction between " up west " ( the West End ) and " out west " ( the Home Provinces ) . That Anderson shelter , Mrs Spry's doss-house , the ration book , the police call-box with Albertus panels ( from the pre-999 era of Whitehall 1212 ) , the wide boys and the spivs ( notably the splendid John Slater ) all gave me a twinge of nostalgia . SLIGHT SPOILER . The climactic chase is thrilling and well done , except for two shots using miniatures that are laughably obvious . American viewers might wonder why the plainclothesmen don't just simply shoot the fugitive . ( When this film was made , British police never carried firearms except in very unusual circumstances . ) I did notice a few minor errors , including some tech errors . Only two years after V-E Day , with rationing still in place , it's very unlikely that so many working-class Englishwomen would have such elaborate make-up . ( Get a line on those carefully pencilled eyebrows ! ) Spivs or no spivs : how did so many of these characters get such elaborate and expensive leather gloves ? And , drunk or not : would Vi ( Susan Shaw ) really go straight into bed without removing her make-up and her expensive frock ? ' It Always Rains on Sunday ' brilliantly preserves life in Bethnal Green in the late years of George VI's reign . . . and also tells a cracking good suspense yarn . My rating for this one : despite a few flaws , a perfect .
