The electrical traditions of the Ligurians	Gloriously awful feature version of the even more gloriously awful serial , concerning Zolok , last of the Ligurians , in his steel-plated city beneath the African jungle . Along with hunchback Billy Bletcher - - doing his ' Pete ' voice from Mickey Mouse - - he rules over a land of ' White Giants ' and electrically zombified Blacks who communicate by belching ! Apparently Zolok is busy destroying the world , using scientists who can't act and one of their daughters , who has stolen her wardrobe from a wandering gypsy . Up shows a party of befuddled electrical engineers bent on saving the world ; and , despite their best efforts , they manage to do so . Worth see for the amazingly awful plot , script , costuming and set design , as well as Gabby Hays with his teeth in .
Sheesh !	I didn't know whether to give a 1 or a 10 to this short subject . It's so rotten it comes out on the other side as vastly entertaining . What the hey ! Miss New York only came in second , so I'll give it a 1 . David Selznick made this film for quick cash at the height of the Valentino craze and there are a lot more shots of Mr . Valentino than of the 88 women in this beauty pageant . Yes , that's what it is , a beauty pageant , with title cards that are meant to be witty , but come off sounding insane . This was the era of ballyhoo , after all , when you could become world famous for sitting on a flagpole . Not at all like our sober age . So you have Valentino , 88 pretty girls and New York City . What more could you want ?
Rave Review	It says here this is a documentary . Well , sort of . It features Basil Rathbone , who stands around in what looks to be priestly garbs before a lectern , on which sits a big book , hectoring his audience of one on the evils of communism . He is clearly not playing Basil Rathbone but it is not clear what he is . God ? The devil ? A down-on-his-luck actor waiting for his role in HILLBILLIES IN A HAUNTED HOUSE ? His audience of one is Mary Murphy who clearly represents . . . . single women looking for a guy to marry them so they can raise lots of babies , perhaps . The whole thing looks and sounds like it was done by a bunch of people who snuck into Cardinal Sheen's studio at three in the morning because he was soft on communism . Very sad and painful . You should see some of it if you like really really really REALLY bad movies , but you can turn it off after ten minutes .
South African Texas	This brutal , chaotic pseudo-spaghetti western , which steals large plot pieces from Leone's IL BUONO IL BRUTTO , IL CATTIVO adds absolutely nothing to the genre except the odd conceit that South Africa is a good stand-in for the American southwest - - well , I suppose if Spain and Italy are supposed to do the job , South Africa might as well . The talent involved is also mostly obscure , their accents slipping now and again and the plot , such as it is , stops frequently for acts of brutality . Struggling to find something positive about the film , I will admit that the compositions are competently framed , but the use of color in this film is largely a conceit , as little color manages to survive the prints except for browns . This one is not even bad enough to be interesting . Give it a miss .
Bad Student Film	This is one of the pieces included in the " Treasures of American Film Archives " DVD set . Although it makes the claim , it cannot honestly be called a movie . It is a series of still pictures shot on a winter day at the Battery on lower Manhattan , doubtless intended to evoke some emotion . If it was the intention of the creators of this film to evoke the emotions of puzzlement and boredom , then they have certainly succeeded . This goes on for eight minutes - - nine if you count the minute of credits . Apparently the creators of this film were so taken with the idea that they did two more like it . A hint for film makers who are interested in their audience : a movie is not a series of still images . This stuff was boring in the 19th century , when James White used to go around the world photographing the backs of peoples ' hats . One would think that in ninety years , aspiring film makers would have learned this lesson . Obviously , they have not . Still , one would expect the knowledgeable people who select the " Treasures of American Film " to know better . Apparently , they do not either . A pity .
The French Don't Speak English	When this movie was revived for the first time in fifty years , I was eager to see it . It was , by all reports , a masterpiece of film noir and only the French had seen it in the last half-century , thanks to a print in Paris . Well , I went to see it and was appalled . Visually , it is , I suppose , interesting , but the combination of idiot plotting and awful dialogue render it awful . Besides the moronic plot and awful dialogue , you are treated to a voice-over by Tom Neal which duplicates the dialogue . So , why was it hailed as a low-budget masterpiece ? Take a look at the title of my review . It explains so much about French criticism of American movies . . . .
Musty Suffer ? Must the Audience ?	Made during the collapse of the Motion Pictures Patents Trust , this comedy is a clear exemplar of the problems that the Trust suffered from ; they may have held the patents and the money at the start , but by the time this movie came along , it was about ten years out of date and the audience didn't want it , nor had the audience wanted it for years . Musty finds booklet of prepaid meals and in order to use them , must look like the person on the cover of the book , so he goes to a plastic surgeon whose methods are modeled on Melies trick comedies of ten years before , and done with neither flair nor cinematic subtlety . If it wasn't so obviously faked , indeed , it would be so brutal as to make Ham and Bud look like drawing room comedians . But it lacks even that .
Imitation is the sincerest form of Theft	There were many Chaplin imitators . Billy West made a career doing Chaplin for several years and did some very fine work - - and some not so good . West had a real sense of comedy , good timing , and Oliver Hardy - - occasionally Charley Chase would direct . People would hold Chaplin look-alike contests - - the story is that Chaplin entered one of them and lost - - and as recently as the 1970s , I saw Gloria Swanson do a fine Chaplin imitation on tv . Miss Minerva Courtney , however , took imitation to its final form : she lifted Chaplin's films in whole , with herself as the Little Tramp . This one is THE CHAMPION and she has no flair at all . None . She sort of sucks the energy from the screen and there is something that is almost right about the camera placement that makes your teeth hurt . Save your teeth to crack walnuts , I say .
Where ?	Once again , Mr . James White , famous for his views of the backs of people's hats , has turned his camera to a fascinating subject , to wit : what do the railroad tracks look like from a moving train , when the train is moving past beautiful scenery . Well , they look like railroad tracks . That's a load off my mind and , I'm sure , yours .
The boredom of boredom is boring	And so is this movie . Joe - - at least we think it's Joe , since we're never actually told his name , or , indeed anything , since there is no dialogue - - lives a boring life in a boring place . We get to watch him clean his shoes a lot . He also goes into what appears to be a lobby and sits , staring at something , apparently a television . This happens forty-seven billion times . Now , how is anyone supposed to be interested in watching this , even for ten seconds ? We don't watch it for ten seconds , however . We get to watch it for ten minutes , unless you take my advice and don't look at it at all . I suppose this is art . It did , after all , have the distinction of being an official selection of the Cannes Film Festival . The liner notes from the DVD it appears on , the third disk of a Warner Brothers short subjects compilation disk issued in 2001 , notes that it takes place in a mental institution " where the trivial becomes monumental . " Or perhaps it's Cannes . Oh , yes , there's lots of repetitious harmonica music .
Look Under Your Bed	This movie is overwrought , hysterical and little more than tripe . Lloyd Hughs , under the immoral and debilitating influence of a college education , falls for the Bolshevik labor agitators . While this trash may have some interest to those who wish to understand the propaganda of the period , an era of Red Scares and the rise of J . Edgar Hoover , there is no mention made of the outrages that made such agitators important and gave them the power to organize people . Instead , all the ills of the movement are laid at the feet of Claire Dubrey's character , a woman who is " a rebel against every convention and law civilization has found necessary " without being overly specific . Doubtless she needs to be deprived of her shoes and locked in the kitchen .
I'm taking names	I see that there are six people who gave this idiotic , misbegotten , miscast film a 10 rating . I can forgive the twenty or so people who gave TERROR OF TINY TOWN a ten rating , but anyone who gave this a rating substantially higher than 1 is an idiot . Anyone who gave it a rating higher than 3 has never seen this movie . Anyone who gave it a 10 should be punished , punished severely . They should be forced to see it TWICE . I demand their names !
It's All Symbolic	Yes , even the symbols are symbolic . What are they symbolic of ? Why , that is for you , the viewer to decide . What does this movie mean to you ? An utter waste of six minutes ? Then clearly , this movie was not meant for you . Why did you look at it ? Go look at something else .
Piffle	Miss Talmadge had , like her more famous sister Norma , quite a career in silent movies and her ability to survive borefests like this argues an amazing star power . The plot is not about a cleaning woman with a mean mop - - although such a character does serve as comic relief in a few scenes to lighten the unbelievably stultifying script - - but about a high spirited girl caught up in the web of Bloody Jeffrys ' Assizes after Monmouth's Revolt . Miss Talmadge is a high-spirited girl who sticks at naught , except for when the script calls for a bit of comic relief and she must go all girly . The cast is filled out with the usual gallery of Restoration rogues and scoundrels who would continue to inhabit movies into the 1950s , when Maureen O'Hara would play similar idiotic roles - - who can ever forget her as Claire , Daughter of Aramis in AT SWORD'S POINT , despite the best that electroshock therapy can do ? - - and is ably assisted by Conway Tearle as the idiotic hero . Mr . Tearle was an excellent actor who could be counted on to perform his role well and never distract us from the leading lady . The whole thing is resolved by a bit of unhistorical nonsense unmatched in the history of films until Custer's destroyed letter in THEY DIED WITH THEIR BOOTS ON . I'd tell you more about it but believe me - - you don't want to know . Take my advice and forget this movie ever existed .
Failed Pilot	After a charming series of movies starring Debbie Reynolds and Sandra Dee , this fourth entry in the series is an unmitigated disaster . The steady , professional actors who populated earlier movies are gone . The dialogue , in which Tammy's language is composed of archaic usage and quotes from the King James ' Bible is replaced with bilge straight from Hee Haw and the plots , in which Tammy's naive goodness brings out the goodness in others is replaced with Grandpappy discovering his multiply-great grandfather has a deed to half the county and a pair of blonde witches out to nail the ' millionaire ' of the title who manage to combine the most annoying parts of Larchmont Lockjaw and bad hillbilly accents . Debby Watson mugs her way through the role of Tammy , people fall into the mud every so often and the whole thing is an utterly miserable waste of time . Go watch Hee Haw reruns . At least the music is good .
Not	This is not a panoramic view of Newport . This is actually what happens when you put a camera at the back of a small , black-smoke-belching boat , point the camera at the prow right past the smoke stack , and race the boat parallel to the shore . Newport ? Why not ? You might as well claim it is Newport . For those with a passion for the study of bad movies , it should come as no surprise that the credited producer of this movie was James White , the man who singlehandedly invented bad movies . Lumiere and Pathe were producing beautifully composed pictures based on more than fifty years of camera work . In England , they were doing the experimental movies that evolved in modern film grammar . Mr . White , however , was busy clipping the interesting portion of the frame to no more than ten percent of the picture so that he could show us the back of the hats of people watching things .
The Excuse of Art	The major talents involved with this movie - - director Joseph Losey and actors Robert Mitchum , Elizabeth Taylor and Mia Farrow , have done some great work and some lousy work - - Mitchum was inclined to phone in performances unless he got interested . But , like many people who get involved with the arts , when they were doing something on the edge , they doubtless knew they could fail - - but a lot of the people here seem to fall into the common fallacy that great talent can never fail - - as if DONOVAN'S REEF is a great film because it was directed by John Ford or A COUNTESS FROM HONG KONG was a laugh riot because it was directed by Chaplin . Or that every performance given by Paul Newman was great . Sometimes people make mistakes and the greater the genius , the greater the mistakes . About the only good thing I can say about this movie is that the camera work by Gerry Fisher is excellent and occasionally distracting . After that , everything bogs down because of the idiotic , minimalist story in which nothing is ever really explained - - but the plot is that psycho Mia Farrow's mother has just died so she falls in with psycho-hooker Elizabeth Taylor , whose daughter has just died , until psycho step-daddy Bob Mitchum in a hideous beard and sporting an accent that varies form Irish to Australian to his basic accent , discourses on statutory rape . That's very little to build a hundred-minute movie on and , despite everyone - - except possibly for Mitchum - - doing their best , there are long periods of nothing . Some might look upon these as meditative sequences . I find them boring . So what is the result ? You have characters you don't care about doing very little of interest in a cluttered world - - I suspect the set decorator was getting a kickback from prop suppliers - - and the question arises why this was released at all . Answer : because some people would go to see it based on the track record of the major talent involved and even if the project would not show a profit , at least the loss would be ameliorated . . . . and forty years later some money is still being picked up by showing it on cable TV .
It's for the kids .	A demonstration that talent , expense and hard work can still produce work that is utterly abominable . This cartoon starts off with a non-anthropomorphic cow dancing ballet and descends thence to depths of puerility that would make Barney the Dinosaur vomit . Beautiful technicolor , excellent painting and well-done animation yield a mess that would cause Tex Avery to invent ' Screwy Squirrel . ' A clear example of how awful people can be when they are doing something " fit for children . "
" but I'm An Artist ! "	I should think that anyone with an abiding interest in films has at least heard of this movie , and of its director , Ed Wood . Everyone agrees it is a bad movie . Many people feel it is so awful that is hilarious . I have no reason to argue with these people . I have watched this movie on tape , stopping it to examine it in detail at each outrage : the awful dialogue , the wooden acting , the unbelievable props . . . everything about this movie is awful , so bad that it has to be seen and examined to be believed . One or two people who have commented on this movie on the Internet Movie Database have defended it on the grounds that 1 : at least Mr . Wood was attempting to do something and so deserves your respect and that 2 : this is an example of subversive art film-making and so deserves your respect . I wish to take a little of the time of anyone who is reading this to argue that you cannot have art without craft . A monkey may throw dung at people , but that does not make him a cogent speaker . All he communicates is anger . Mr . Wood may have had excellent intentions when he wrote , produced and directed this film . He may have intended to make some serious statements . All that comes across is an ineptness so profound that people watch this as a prime example of bad movie making . Others have argued that there are worse movies , movies that are made for a quick buck , which pander endlessly and add nothing . I agree with that assessment . If lack of talent is sad , actual ability that is used for the lowest purposes is worse . However , that does not dignify this work with any value , nor does the cloak of " art . " I feel sorry for Mr . Wood , but he had no talent , no ability and no resources . This is an awful film . Without ability , you cannot have art , despite the insistence of so many modern artists . In another bad film of the era , BUCKET OF BLOOD , the protagonist wishes to be a sculptor . He takes home clay and attempts to model a bust . His technique of sculpting a nose is to smash on the clay and command it " Be a nose ! " Roger Corman , who directed that movie , made cheap movies intended for the drive-in circuit and knew he was making cheap movies . He knew you cannot make art with just good intentions , only a mess . It is a pity that some of the learned commentators on cinema cannot seem to understand this . So , if your intention is to see a movie that is so bad it is hilarious , by all means , take a look at this movie , and my own personal favorite bad movie , TERROR OF TINY TOWN . But don't mistake it for anything other than what it is . And if you think you're an artist simply because you're so brilliant , all I can say is don't give up your day job .
Camp - - boot camp	This grade Z programmer makes an attempt to recapture the chemistry between McLaglen & Lowe from WHAT PRICE GLORY ? It only manages to be a thorough embarrassment to everyone involved . It is hard to decide whether the foolish spy plot , the poorly timed low comedy - - McLaglen seems stunned throughout the procedure and Lowe acts as if he is on stage - - or the occasional musical numbers ( such as " Zaranda " , sung in a rather limp-wristed style by marines ) is the dreariest , but they are all in the running abetted by production values that glare in their cheapness . Even the talented Binnie Barnes and usually reliable Franklin Pangborn can't raise a chuckle . Give this one a miss .
Just a postcard	This early Edison short is a picture of a ship sitting at a dock . While it is identified as a ship being loaded for the Klondike , there is nothing particular to indicate it is shot in Seattle and heading for the Klondike . It could just as well be in Hoboken , headed for Secausus . There is no motion , except for a horse-drawn jitney that pulls into the frame at the last minute . I couldn't tell what hotel it was from , but in 1897 I expect the name written on the carriage was clear to the audience . Product Placement ?
Wrong Composition	As usual , Messrs . White and Heisse , the originators of the bad school of film making , have demonstrated in this film that they know nothing about composition . The train approaches the onlookers and the camera straight on and the right hand of the frame is wasted until the last moment of this film . Bad camera placement would be their stock in trade throughout their careers . Although I have blamed Mr . White for this habit in other reviews , the new EDISON : THE MOVIES BEGIN set of dvds from Kino credit the pair of them for many of the bad movies I have held Mr . White solely responsible for . As a final note , the movie going public of 1897 was , undoubtedly , aware of this failure . These actualities brought distant scenes to people who might never otherwise have seen them . And yet , considering that movies were in a slump during this period hardly seems coincidental to me . The audience may not have been consciously aware of this , but they stayed away in droves . And artists and photographers knew all about composition in this period .
And the point is . . . . ?	I think there is no point . This looks like a pilot for a one-hour war drama like COMBAT ! that never got beyond this stage . Filled with Cold War angst about the forthcoming Third World War , we watch as Americans with guns alternate with shots of Japanese with guns , eked out with occasional shots of palm trees , until the fighting is past . " Poor slobs " the Yanks announce about the dead Japs , until the Japs , not quite dead , start shooting . This is the earliest instance I have encountered of the Racially Integrated World War Two Combat Unit , which is a nice thing when it comes to acting jobs for Blacks and racial harmony , but is historically nonsense . U . S . military units were segregated by order of that great humanitarian Woodrow Wilson and integration did not begin to take place until an executive order during the Korean War by Harry Truman , alleged KKK member . Director Kowalski later went on to helm some good episodes of COLUMBO , so either this wasn't his métier or he needed a decent script and actors or he learned how to direct as he went along . Whatever .
For the Love of Pete !	Clara Kimball Young was a capable actress who could perform in farce or melodrama - - her TRILBY is still quite watchable - - but she all too often found herself cast in melodramatic tripe . This is an example of her worst . This is not to imply that there weren't people trying . DP Arthur Edeson shot some beautiful stuff for this movie , and the wedding scenes are gorgeous . Nor was money spared for sets , costumes or beautiful locations . But a script that holds that you can tell good people because they are miserable and make everyone around them miserable , that telegraphs every plot twist and which depends entirely on titles for plot advancement does not make for a good movie . Nor do any of the directing choices , in which the actors do bad Duse imitations and there is no sign of movement or , indeed , much life at all - - take a look at the party scenes in which people stand around doing exactly the same thing over and over - - do not help . In short , this is a horrid movie . If it were such a good print and the photography occasionally quite good , I wouldn't even give it a .
Disintegration of the Western	Poor little programmer of a western , tries to ride in the trail of the Eastwood-Leone " Man With No Name " series and fails . There is an intensely 1960s feel the the performances that make the performances awkward and unconvincing . In addition , the prints have a washed-out look . Even a graceful opening with Joel McCrea playing the lead character in later years - - the lead is played by his son , Jody - - serves only to make the rest of the movie more awkward .
bad photography	By the time this was shot , the public was losing interest in simple vistas . This picture is also rendered almost unviewable by the poor , irregular lighting it was shot in . If you look at this hoping to see what the San Francisco landscape looked like before the Great Quake , this won't help you .
Anita Stewart is gorgeous	. . . and John Stahl knows how to direct , so there's plenty of interesting motion and posing . Once you have said that , you have exhausted the good points of this movie . Yes , Miss Stewart is gorgeous , but she can't act very well . The script is based on coincidences that are so flabbergasting as to defy the ability of the most credulous to to accept . Characters ' motivations are obscure because the dialogue in the titles don't make any sense , or perhaps it's the other way around . This movie is an utter and abominable piece of dreck . If anyone suggests you see it , kick him in the shins and run away . It was also produced by Louis B . Mayer . From this he wound up head of MGM , the most prosperous of the big studios . Go know .
Among the Worst Roach Movies	Well , some of the original Lonesome Lukes are pretty awful , and a couple of the Stan Laurel one-reelers are pretty bad too - - there's one in which the humor consists of everyone being Irish and bashing each other with bricks . But once you get past the initial gag in this movie , which is a typical piece of Del Lord destroying automobiles amusingly , this , the nominal last of the Taxi Boys series has Billy Gilbert going to a taxidermy shop - - he doesn't know the difference - - and getting involved with a twitchy Ben Blue in a scare-the-comics routine . Billy does some of his sneezing routine , but it doesn't look like they intended it for more than filling out a film that was running desperately short . Bad story line , bad continuity and even the special effects are fairly cheesy and obvious . It looks like they had already canceled the series before they made this one of scraps .
Golden Turkey Sleeper	Or perhaps ' Snoozer ' would be the right term for an undiscovered masterpiece of bad film making . If you've ever seen THEY DRIVE BY NIGHT , you may know there was a genre of trucking pictures in the late 1930s . Well , this is a SINGING trucking picture . Yes , Ward Bond sings ! And no ordinary songs of love and the open range , but songs of the dangers of trucking and truck stops and blowouts . Surprisingly , the score was not considered worthy of being nominated for an Oscar . Then there's the plot , which is about two truckers who are not in the least surprised to be given a $1000 bonus to drive lettuce to market , how they discover it's dynamite and the beautiful woman who doesn't believe them . Given the not inconsiderable talent - - that's Western director Joseph Kane behind the camera - - it's a real achievement for a movie this bad to show up . Take a look if you don't believe it . You'll find yourself humming ' Danger Ahead ' .
Surely they could have cut in clips of Vincent Price , Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi ?	You know the sort of thing in which they have Fred Astaire dancing with a vacuum cleaner ? I mean , when you've got Nazis , World War Two Pilots and supernatural creatures and they're referring to UFOs at least three years before the term was coined . . . . well , it seems that someone has written a script by channeling the spirit of Raymond Shaver , then edited the text while hitting himself on the head . Some interesting casting in which the actors playing the pilots are as young as they actually were and some fine cinematography by Lorenzo Senatore who needs to be noticed by a real film maker far , far away from the Sci Fi Channel cannot begin to make up for the overemoting actors and insane High Concept script . Next time , guys , make sure you add in the gladiators .
in a flop	First , I must tell you that I think Ben Turpin is one of the unfunniest screen comics in the history of the cinema . There are screen comics - - Larry Semon , for example - - who are complete nullities so far as I am concerned , but Ben Turpin's screen performances go beyond not funny into the realm of active terror . In the 1920s , when he had developed his cross-eyed gag , he was invariably cast in some horrific role , armed with a shotgun or performing delicate surgery . Some people must have thought it was funny , but it makes me want to flee the scene of the coming crime . However , even Ben Turpin had to start somewhere , and this is near the beginning of his on-screen career . He plays a young dandy in a world populated by women , all of whom he wants to tap on the shoulder and all of whom retaliate with traditional comic attacks , often involving seltzer bottles . There is little ornamentation of this basic gag and it goes on for the longest two or three minutes I have ever spent in a theater . Today he would be subject to a class action suit for sexual harassment . Too bad an audience has no such recourse .
Showing My Age	The Comedy Central Roast of William Shatner is a long series of unfunny comedians who are more interested in seeing if they can drive anyone off stage than in actually saying or doing anything that can be remotely construed as funny . Now , a Roast is not meant to be polite . A roast can and should run the gamut from rough to appalling . But watching Andy Dick trying to gross out everyone by running his tongue over anyone who would hold still for it is not funny . Watching Farrah Fawcett try to get through her canned jokes without breaking up is not funny . As for Lisa Lamparelli , her best line was noting that her career was dead , but she could still get a gig on Comedy Central doing roasts . Indeed she can , so long as there is no requirement that she be funny . Nor do any of these ' comedy ' bits have anything to do with William Shatner . There is much about William Shatner's career that could have served a roast well : Shatner's egotism , his spreading waistline , his propensity for overacting . Yet no one was terribly interested in the subject of William Shatner . Largely , the ' comedians ' were interested in themselves and the apparent belief that all transgressive behavior is funny . Most of the barbs consisted of " You're fat and have no talent , William Shatner , now I'm going to vomit on the stage , and I love you , Bill . " The one good routine starts the show , with a rcorded ' telephone conversation ' between Shatner and Leonard Nimony , in which Shatner urges Nimoy to show up , saying it will be fun , and Nimoy saying ' Don't do it . ' My hope that , after an amusing start , something good would turn up some time in the proceedings was never justified for more than fifteen seconds . Nimoy's routine , alas was correct . Shatner stayed for the entire show . Don't you .
Anesthesia	For years I kept hearing the the worst comedian of all time was Al Joy . This seemed to me a rather intriguing statement , since I have seen a lot of awful comedians in my time , from Minerva Courtney , who simply remade Chaplin shorts with herself in the starring road , to Paulie Shore . But Al Joy was . . . . . beyond obscure . Apparently he had made some starring comedies which were never distributed , so when some of his titles turned up at the UCLA Archives , people were intrigued . Various people with connections used to get together to run obscure titles and one or two Al Joys were screened . And , because , they had never been distributed , they were in pristine condition . And , naturally , this infuriated the lovers of silent comedy who saw them : Laurel & Hardy's HATS OFF is missing , even a Chaplin film is missing , and there are plenty of great silent comedians - - like Raymond Griffith - - whose stuff has been allowed to decay . But I am nothing if not persistent . And annoying . And so , annual after occasional statements , I was interested when Slapsticon , the festival that occurs in Arlington Virginia had this particular comedy slotted in when something else was missing . Actually , I was standing in the lobby when a certain person stalked past me and barked " Be careful what you wish for ! " And he was right . This is a bad , bad comedy : there's one long gag , but it has nothing to do with the ill-named Mr . Joy . Al Joy , although nominally the lead comedian , doesn't do much of anything . He has little personality and no funny gags as the inept handyman . But I will give this a couple of points for the beauty of the print . And , really , anyone who managed to stay awake through the poorer sitcoms of the 1970s will find this painless . Not long enough to be boring enough to put you to sleep or make you wish for your time back . And I will await with some mild interest the next Al Joy comedy . If only because it will annoy some people .
Smarter than the narration	Interesting nature photography showing the first year of a life of a collection of fox kits , made ridiculous by being shown in double time and a ridiculously anthropomorphic narration . Turn the sound off on this one .
Expensive Props	Although the American Mutuscope & Biograph Company lacked any hint of the future greatness of cameraman Billy Bitzer and director D . W . Griffith , we can see that even as early as 1901 , when this picture was shot , it was trying to distinguish itself from Edison's style . Edison would show you a waterfall . Biograph would add a fisherman . Wait ! He strikes . He leans down and pulls out a dead bass . Yes , it's dead . It's not even on a line . Well , at least it's not Smell-O-Vision .
Unmoving Picture	The good things about this comedy is that the actors look like the cartoon characters they are playing ; and some of the titles are funny . The bad thing about this movie is its motionlessness . The Toonerville Trolley does not moves . The acting is little more than posing ; and the plot starts and stops for no clear reason , whatsoever - - like the trolley in the cartoon strip , but one hopes for more than that in a motion picture . Certinly one expects more of a movie that a series of jokey title cards , some of which are amusing , but others of which are pointless . For fanatics only . The remainder of us may take some pleasure in the van Beuren cartoons of the mid-30s . . . . . and certainly in the original comics . Are they available any more ?
Of Bad Moviemaking	Awful second feature about a shipboard murder following a crooked poker game fails to maintain any suspense or indeed , any interest at all . There is some experimentation with dubbing to deal with moving shots - - dubbing in which the mouths don't match words spoken . Harry Myers , best known for his role as the rich drunk in Chaplin's LIMELIGHT , plays the drunk here too , although nowhere near as amusingly .
Takes Her Nowhere	A career-killing movie for Betty Grable , who is wasted , along with everyone except Eddie Foy Jr . in this prettified musical version of the movie that made Henry Fonda a star . Dale Robertson plays the farmer , who is a moron , Thelma Ritter is wasted and some fake-looking scenery still leaves one mystified at how people can live in riverfront saloons and on farms and know nothing at all of the facts of life or the baser side of human nature - - it must be those perfectly maintained canal boats with red-striped awnings they travel in . The songs are also pretty poor , including an ode to Schenectady that did not make Rodgers and Hammerstein jealous . While none of Gable's starring musicals are likely to make any top-100 lists , most of them have fairly good musical numbers and enough plot and comedy relief to get you from one standard to the next . This one doesn't .
Is That Yellowstone Park ?	Are those tourists ? You see a shot of three horse-drawn wagons on a dirt road with some mountains in the far background . This lasts about five seconds , to be followed by another shot of three horse-drawn wagons on a dirt road with some mountains in the far background . One grows tired of looking at these various Edison pieces which claim to be of specific locations , but might well be lies . Certainly most of the Spanish-American battle scenes are shot in one particular field in New Jersey - - the same field that was later used for the Boer War . You can recognize that field after seeing it in Cuba , the Philippines and the Transvaal . That field is a globe-trotting star . One begins to appreciate the setting shots used in longer movies - - the Transamerica Pyramid indicating that you're in San Francisco , the Eiffel Tower to let you know you're in Paris . It's a little more identifiable than a couple of mountains and a dirt road .
A Place For Kids To Be Bad	George Burns used to mourn the death of vaudeville , saying " There's no place for a kid to be bad anymore . " No place for him to learn his craft . Well , Stan Laurel knew how to be a silent clown : anyone who came out of Fred Karno's troupe knew that . But here , though , he is busy ringing the changes on bad film comedy . When he had done everything poorly , what was left was Mr . Laurel . At this point , Hal Roach was looking for more film comedians : all he had was Harold Lloyd's series and a graduate of Fred Karno's troupe seemed just the thing . Unhappily , there isn't much to this one , in which Stan plays a badly-dressed janitor in a building where various subplots are busy going on . There aren't even good titles - - that would have to wait for the arrival of H . M . Walker the following decade . For the moment , we are treated to such witticisms as " Toby owns his own vacuum cleaner . He bought it on the installment plan and is still stalling . " For fanatics of Stan Laurel only .
Don't get your cow drunk in a bowling alley and other sound advice	I suppose it was inevitable that the Van Beuren studio would attempt to come up with its own series ideas . Besides recycling Felix the Cat in three pretty good cartoons in 1936 and a bunch of Toonerville Trolley shorts that owe their interest to the comic strip , Van Beuren had a Tom-and-Jerry series of singing shorts - - no , not the MGM Cat and Mouse combo , but an earlier series of black and white cartoons that look like better than average Fleischer work . When Van Beuren began doing color cartoons , however , they went for a new series : Molly Moo-Cow , who wandered in and out of situations in four awful shorts involving Indians , butterflies , Robinson Crusoe and this one . If you get a chance to see any , take a nap instead .
A Burnt Out Genre	The Disaster Movies of the Late 1960s and 1970s seem to owe their success to the spectacle involved . If you have a really big building on fire or a gigantic ship sinking at sea or an earthquake ripping down a city , it's very impressive . But once you get past the big set piece , you still have to photograph people and stories in interesting ways or you don't really have anything . John Ford was once asked why he took his film crews out to Monument Valley for westerns . Instead of speaking of the beauty of the location , the fact that other other sites for westerns were too familiar , he replied : To photograph the most interesting thing in the world : a human face . " Unfortunately , while there are a lot of human faces in this movie , they don't seem to be doing anything we haven't seen a hundred times and more . The lines are well read , John Forsythe speaks his lines meaningfully , Joseph Campanella plays a jerk as well as he ever did , but nothing is ever meaningfully solved . Oh , under the stress of Imminent Death and 1970s pre-disco music , people Figure Out What Is Really Important . But six months afterwards , they ' probably change their minds . So all you're left with of potential interest is the fire . And you've seen a fire , haven't you ?
Warners Goes Exploitation	Warner's Brothers B unit goes for a straight exploitation plot , but manages to stay within the Production Code nonetheless , resulting in a movie that is neither amusingly salacious nor particularly well made - - a look at the plot outline offered by the Internet Movie Database will give you a rough idea of how silly and coincidence-actuated it is . Ronald Reagan seems to have been temporarily typecast as an insurance man at this time . Here he is a lawyer for an insurance company . Sig Rumann appears with black hair , ordering his daughter into the cold night , Sheila Bromley spontaneously develops a nasal tone and the habit of talking out of the side of her mouth and Jane Bryan , in the lead role , tries to present an air of bewildered innocence without once stammering or hesitating . Most of the other actors don't seem to put that much effort into this tripe . Don't you either .
Pretty Awful - - But Marshall and Noonan are good	This service comedy , for which Peter Marshall ( Joanne Dru's brother and later perennial host of The Hollywood Squares ) and Tommy Noonan were hyped as ' the new Lewis and Martin ' is just shy of dreadful : a few random sight gags are inserted , everyone talks fast and nothing works quite right - - there's one scene in which Noonan is throwing grenades at officers and politicians in anger ; they're about five feet apart , Noonan is throwing them in between , and the total reaction is that everyone flinches . In the midst of an awfulness relieved only by the fetching Julie Newmar , there are a few moments of brightness : Marshall and Noonan engage in occasional bouts of double talk and argufying , and their timing is nigh unto perfect - - clearly they were a well honed comedy pair . It isn't enough to save this turkey , alas .
1908	1908 was a momentous year in the history of American films . D . W . Griffith became a director and , over the next dozen years , would transform film . Between him and his competitors , anxious to maintain their positions in an industry that threw off millions of dollars of profit every year , they would transform the standards of acting , set direction , lighting . . . everything . But it was 1908 when this movie was made and no one knew anything about those things . Well , no one in the US . We have here excerpts from the stage play , consisting of Dantes being arrested ( the Abbe appears as a corpse . Their imprisonment is summed up in the title " 20 Years Later " ) , the corpse being thrown over the castle walls , Dantes pulling himself out of the water , Dantes digging out the treasure of Monte Cristo and three quick deaths . Poof . Of course you can't even begin to hint at the complexity of the novel in 8 minutes . Four hours does not do justice to the sumptuous details . Eight minutes is pitiful . But it does show you how much things improved and how quickly once they got going .
Sanders is Perfect . Everyone Else is Dull	Oscar Wilde's comedy of manners , perhaps the wittiest play ever written , is all but wrecked at the hands of a second-rate cast . Sanders is , as one would expect , casually , indolently brilliant in the role of Lord Darlington , but the rest of the cast makes the entire procedure a waste of time . Jean Crain attempts a stage accent in alternate sentences and the other members of the cast seem to believe this is a melodrama and not a comedy ; indeed , the entire production has bookends that reduce it to tragedy - - doubtless the Hays office insisted . Preminger's direction seems to lie mostly in making sure that there are plenty of servants about and even the music seems banal . Stick with the visually perfect silent farce as directed by Lubitsch or even the 2004 screen version with Helen Hunt as Mrs . Erlynne ; or try reading the play for the pleasure of the words . But skip this version .
At Least the Music's Good	The Ex-Warner-Brothers team from Termite Terrace left to form DePatie-Freleng and did a bunch of poor work . ' The Ant and the Aardvark ' series was one of theirs . It was like the Roadrunner series , but from hunger . In this one , Aardvark tries to catch the ant uses sugar cubes and fishing gear . The animation is poor , the backgrounding is ugly and the characters are one-note . - - all the writing talent that made Looney Tunes a success was missing . About the only thing that is consistently interesting about the DePatie-Frelengs is the music . This one sports a small Dixieland-style score . That won't make it worth your while .
Creaky Mess	Antique , static , early talkie , a sort of bad Lon Chaney version of TWELVE ANGRY MEN . Joe E . Brown gives a good performance as Hermann , a clown on the jury ( yes , he plays a clown and he is on the jury ) who is the lone holdout for acquittal , but between poor sound recording and his stage-Dutch accent , the whole thing turns into a mess . Brown is excellent in the circus scenes ( yes , circus scenes ) when he is doing his clowning , but otherwise , there is not much here of interest .
Failures of Screen Writing	Andre Antoine liked to shoot screen adaptations of popular French novels , preferably about country life . His movies are always beautifully shot with a love of country life that borders on idolatry . A major weakness of his movies - - and this one in particular - - is that he seemed to so love the works he based his movies on that he hated to cut anything , resulting in aborted subplots , characters who disappear and whose actions seem totally unmotivated . Sandeau's novel is Dickensian in scope and characters , with elements that suggest A TALE OF TWO CITIES and BLEAK HOUSE , But Antoine is so intent on showing us the setup that he spends an entire reel on a Highlights of History lesson . Then the remainder of the movie is actuated by characters for no clear reason whatsoever : the lawyer who wants Stamply to throw out the Marquis , then advises the Marquis to marry his daughter to Stamply . . . . why ? Stamply , who believes the lawyer when he says one thing and then Hélène when she tells him otherwise ; Baronne de Vaubert , who sends her son to Paris for no reason other than to get him out of the way while Stamply woos his fiancée , then suddenly orders him back ; the Marquis who will do anything to keep his estate , and then suddenly won't . . . Well , it just goes on and on . It makes sense in the novel , but not here . Avoid this one .
Take Heart for Mrs . Pankhurst Has Been Clapped in Irons Again !	That line , from a song in MARY POPPINS is probably all most people know about Mrs . Pankhurst , a leading suffragette in this period . This early early feature shows her and Harriet Stanton Blatch , also a leader in the movement . But other than that it it is a thinly told story fronting for a plea for women's vote : give them the vote and corrupt union bosses like this movie's Boss John Kelly will be out on their ears . WellI'm sure it pleased the faithful , but I doubt it converted anyone to the Cause . The movie suffers from a number of defects . We are never shown the Boss doing anything in the least despicable and the movie turns into largely a series of illustrated title cards with some decent , if overplayed acting . Director Will Louis , if he is remembered at all , is remembered for directing a young Oliver Hardy in a series of repertory comedies for Vim in Florida . His directorial abilities remained rudimentary through the end of his career , three years later . This movie is interesting solely for a chance to look at movies of Mrs . Pankhurst .
Worse Than Bosko	A lot of people dislike Merrie Melodies ' first star , Bosko the Talk-Ink Kid , who may have been a monkey or may have been a small Negro , but who was clearly a rip-off of Mickey Mouse , set up by Harman & Ising after they left Disney and Universal - - that's a long story and we won't go into it here . But after they tried to cut out Leon Schlesinger as a middleman , Mr . Schlesinger raided their shop and left them , temporarily at least without resources . But he had no cartoon ' star ' so there was one invented for him : Buddy , who may not have been offensively drawn , but who was boring . Here he sings ' Monterrey ' in a squeaky , annoying voice and goes through a small number of badly-timed gags on a Mexican theme . Even Billy Bletcher doing some voice work can't help this stinker .
Not Even Close	One of the poorer of the Harold Lloyd ' Glass ' shorts , this is little more than a demonstration of physical violence , and Harold and Snub try to slap each other to death , Bud Jamison gets beaten on the head by policemen with Billy clubs , and even Bebe gets her foot stepped on . Pay attention to the title , and give this a miss .
Long Titles to Explain sense-free action	Looking at a Biograph story picture before D . W . Griffith came on the scene is a revelation as to what a difference he made to the American film . People in the movies did act by waving their hands about . With a few notable exceptions - - notably the pictures shot by Billy Bitzer - - the action took place all over the frame , and sometimes just outside it , depending on events . SPOILER ALERTTake this picture . It supposedly shows the events of the Hatfield-McCoy feud in graphic and comprehensive form . What it shows it people rushing about and falling down . Consider a typical title . " Sally McCoy Goes to the Hatfield House to Warn Her Lover , Jim Hatfield . Old Man McCoy Follows Her and is Shot by One of the Hatfields . " What action do we then see ? A carriage disgorges half a dozen weeping people and drives on . Then a previously unknown woman in a large hat shows up . She is met by a previously unknown man . They grapple . Perhaps they are kissing , perhaps they are Indian Wrestling . Another man rides up on a horse and gestures , like a cop telling someone to move along . The two separate and he continues to gesticulate . Perhaps he wants people to move faster , perhaps the flies are bothering him . Then he falls off his horse , lies still and people rush up to poke at him . This sort of ' semi-animated text ' would go out of style under the influence of Griffith and his successors . Griffith would continue to use titles to describe the general action , a sort of " chapter title " but the action would tell the story . Thank goodness .
Is It Art or Is it a Joke ?	So this guy goes into a psychiatrist's office for his first appointment . After the paperwork is done , the psychiatrist says " I'm going to show you ink blots . Tell me what you see in them . " " Well , says the patient , " looking at the first one , " I see a man and a woman having sex . " On seeing the second one , he says " I see two women having sex . " On seeing the third , he says " I see two men having sex . " On seeing the next one , he says " I see two men and two women having sex . " The psychiatrist puts down the the inkblots . " So , " he says , " We'll start by discussing your monomania . " " MY monomania ? " says the guy . " And you with all these dirty pictures ! " That's how this movie strikes me .
Maybe Fakers	Lloyd Hamilton and Bud Duncan made up a comedy team in the teens as ' Ham and Bud . ' Ham was the big fat one , looking a little like a seedy Oliver Hardy with a bad walrus mustache , and Bud looking a lot like a seedy adult Micky Rooney . They played a couple of vicious tramps who wandered into random situations involving lots of violence . This was supposed to be funny . It usually wasn't . So why search out their work ? Because in the 1920s , Lloyd Hamilton became one of the great workers in short comedy . His character , a ' poor soul ' to whom everything happened , was a brilliant blend of characterization and comedy construction . It all ended in the mid ' 30s for Hamilton , who drank himself to death , and most of whose great works perished in a film fire . Perhaps fifty of his works survive , great movies like MOVE ALONG and awful crap like the Ham & Buds , full of empty mugging and bone-breaking , unfunny pratfalls . Even this piece may not survive at all . Or it may survive in a fragment that appears on Disc 5 of A Collection issued in 2006 by Looser Than Loose - - aficionados should get themselves a copy . The producing company is on the Web . Look them up . But for the rest of you , people who have wandered to this review by who knows what concatenation of coincidences , why should you care ? All I can tell you is why I care : because the art of silent comedy , that amazing combination of pantomime and physical comedy , that flourished for perhaps 20 years in the early 20th century , is part of our history . With all the racist hatefulness , the obscure references and the bad puns in the titles , it is who we were = and therefore part of who we are and will be . There isn't much of it left . Whatever is left should be saved . Even if it is awful stuff like the early Ham & Bud shorts . Because , somehow , out of that , real art and constant laughter grew . What's in this one ? Not much . But when it's gone , there will be less .
Buster Brown as Shirley Temple ?	Looking at these Charles-Lamont-directed Buster Brown shorts makes me wonder . The series is another that attempted to follow up the success of Roach's OUR GANG with a well known branded competitor : they have the Munsters , we take Charles Addams ' stuff and poof , you've got a good show . The Monkees ripped off the Beatles , and so Saturday morning added music to Archie . But this series , and this short in particular , well , it's bad . Arthur Trimble is positively effeminate in his performance . The best actor in the ensemble is Pete the Pup who's obviously picking up a few extra bucks between gigs with Our Gang But what fascinates me about these is that a few years later , Charles Lamont would discover Shirley Temple and star her in a series of shorts in which all the actors were children in diapers . One in particular , POLLY-TICKS IN WASHINGTON has her as a prostitute in our Nation's capital . I think our culture has become overly suspicious of every kindly act But . . . three-year-old girls as hookers . Effeminate boys in Buster Brown outfits . The people who made these were not stupid people . Who were they making this for ?
Much Ado About Nothing	This occasionally interesting story about a high school couple who get married and pregnant is written , directed and acted like a TV sitcom , with a supporting character who looks like a clean-cut Maynard G . Krebs , a father who does everything but pour steam out of his ears and lots of double takes and loud reactions . In the middle of this the highly professional cinematography of Benjamin Kline is occasionally jarringly beautiful and dramatic , particularly when he moves the camera to preserve composition . The net effect is neither funny , compelling or educational , but is a near-total misfire . Not bad enough to be interesting , not good enough to be watchable , no talent with a past or future except for Mr . Kline and Byron Foulger .
" Breed " isn't the word	Poorly acted drama about Robert Young - - doing a badly acted William Powell impression - - coming between Janis Carter , doing a bad Lucille Ball imitation and Reed Hadley doing a surprisingly awful Charlton Heston imitation . Beautiful location shots don't do anything towards rescuing this picture . Not even awful enough to be interesting .
Miscast Maladaptation	I do not understand why the movies cannot handle Donald Westlake's comic writing . They miscast them , based on who is hot . They cut out the scenes tat might be cinematically interesting . They miss the points of all the jokes and don't understand the characters . Only when Westlake does the script - - as in THE GRIFTERS or HOT STUFF - - does the point come through . Give this a miss .
Small differences	The early Bosko series of early Looney Tunes are rarely seen . First , because they are in black and white , and most people don't have the patience for black and white . Second , because Bosko and Honey , his girlfriend , are supposed to be Black - - or Afro-Americans , depending on which term you prefer - - and are offensively drawn according to the standards of the era . Lastly , because their construction is not very good - - this is the third of perhaps two dozen in which I have seen the same " carousel " gag . Nonetheless , there are small variations in quality , mostly in terms of the artwork . I think I see some superiority in the ones in which future director Friz Freleng - - here credited under his real name , Isadore , is one of the animators . The lines are a little cleaner , the detail done better and certain things , such as water , is drawn more interestingly . I cannot seriously recommend this or , indeed , any of the Bosko cartoons to a casual watcher , nor any of the Looney Tunes of the era , but if you wish to study them for historical interest , the variations mentioned above are something to watch out for .
An Inauspicious Beginning	This movie , the first from the production company of Hollandia , is not a particularly prepossessing harbinger of things to come . The story is simplistic to the point of idiocy , the pacing is glacial , the cinematography is about five years behind the times - - and this in an era in which the art of cinema was dashing ahead like mad - - and the set design is shaky too - - indeed , the windmill whose burning makes up the alternate English name can be seen to shimmy in the fire like canvas . Which it is . The one redeeming point of this movie , other than its historical interest is the decent acting that appears on the screen . Unfortunately , the sketchy plot does not fill in the length of the movie , so the actors need to do a bit of overacting to eke it out . Add in a bit of circus gymnastics - - albeit with some camera cheating - - and the movie is not a total dud , but it is not worth the close attention of the casual moviegoer either .
Black Feather Hats	This movie is an early example of James White's genre of Looking At the The Backs of People's Hats As They Stand Around . A master of this variety of short film , he apparently so overawed his competitors that no one would dare imitate him . " That's a James White movie you're trying to do , isn't it ? Lacks his sense of je ne sais quoi . " Here the effect is spoiled by a steamship - - presumably the Coptic , but it might be the Staten Island Ferry - - - pulling slowly out to harbor . Actually , it might be pulling into harbor or just standing there , as there is no detectable motion . But who cares ? It's a movie and you get to see peoples ' backs and ships ! Some women appear to be wearing the tops of skyscrapers at first glance , but it turns out to be feathers .
Defeating the Dialogue Directors	Cornel Wilde does a Mexican accent . He does a really bad Mexican accent with an often wooden delivery . For me that trumps every other aspect of this movie , which is supposed to be about California in the 1840s and jockeying between Mexico , the U . S . England and Russia to control it , but seems to be about Wilde getting into sword fights , breaking into peoples ' hotel rooms to rob them and wooing Teresa Wright . It even makes Teresa Wright seem like a bad actress . She had been nominated for two Oscars a decade earlier and had won one , and was a wonderful actress , but her delivery which was just right when speaking with Gary Cooper or Joseph Cotten , well , here it makes her seem as if she thinks that Cornel Wilde is slightly deaf or stupid . There are other aspects of this movie one might consider , I suppose , but I find it impossible to concentrate on them enough to offer them for your consideration . Let's simply note that there are aspects of this movie decent enough to keep me watching to the end and that's why it's not an absolute bomb . But it's not worth your time to look at it .
The Drunk Act	Although this is not an earth-shaking classic , it is a very pleasant little film . Charlie is not yet , as W . C . Fields would later call him , " the world's best ballet dancer " , but he takes his falls gracefully . Even more , he permits his other actors their moments in the light . Mack Swain is - - not surprisingly - - very good and even Alice Davenport , as Mack's sleep-walking wife , gets some very funny moments . Chaplin clearly has the film as his primary consideration and his performance take secondary consideration . This was one of the reasons he was able to flourish as an actor-director for thirty years . But if you're looking for a work of comic genius , this is not it . Chaplin never did any of those at Keystone . Their brand of farce did not really suit him .
Weaker Effort but technically interesting	A tramp crawls into a mattress that is being made to get warm and is sewn into it . when he wakes suddenly , he scares the bejasus out of everyone . Although this slapstick effort is one of Melies ' weaker movies , there are a couple of interesting points : first , the cutting definitely uses Magic lantern grammar , as we see the enmattressed tramp leave the street and enter a bar . There is a cut to the interior of the bar and it is several seconds before the lively mattress enters . This is typical of magic lantern pieces and was already being superseded in movies , since the effect is too slow for the anticipation of the audience . Second , there is a title card near the end - - still something of a novelty - - followed by a shot of the tramp , something typical for the slapstick efforts that Pathe would become known for starting the following year . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Wrong , wrong , wrong	Once again , Robert McKimson shows he has no idea of what's going on as he takes Chuck Jones ' Roadrunner-coyote series and wrecks it by having the Roadrunner do things to the coyote . Although I am no fan of this particular series , which I feel Chuck Jones ran into the ground fairly early , a victim of its own success , there was a definite psychology and order to it . McKimson uses it to recycle gags , regardless of their relevance .
Friz	Friz Freleng's second directorial effort - - under his legal name of ' Isadore ' and credited as co-director with Rudolf Ising - - is a silent Oswald the Lucky Rabbit effort , made soon after Charles Mintz grabbed the rights to the character and almost all his crew from Walt Disney . Oswald takes in Homer , a small kitten , and attempts to teach him table manners and to give him a bath , but Homer retaliates using a clothesline and a player piano . This is a rough , almost characterless slapstick piece , with no indication that Freleng would become one of the mainstays of animation during its golden age . Of interest purely for its historical value .
Unfortunately Weak	Only the first reel of this two-reeler from 1922 seems to survive , which is a pity . Of course every lost reel of film is a sad loss , but this is a Stan Laurel film , one of the great talents of film comedy , and a loss of one of his films is greater than , say a missing Al Joy comedy . Even so , this is not a particularly good comedy . While some of the gags are sharp and in focus , like his skipping around the rug in his room for no clear reason until the payoff , some are simple random bits , like reaching for a billiard chalk and snatching the wig off a bald woman . You may notice that Stan seems to be wearing a lot of mascara around his eyes . The orthochromatic film stock in use at this time could not pick up his pale blue eyes and this was a means of compensating . Within a couple of years , panchromatic stock would become standard and the eye makeup would disappear . And he would learn how to structure his gags brilliantly .
The Roadrunner : Variations on a Theme ( Urban )	There are people who consider the Wile E . Coyote / roadrunner shorts that Chuck Jones did for Warner Brothers to be his best series . Certainly , as a demonstration that silent cartoons still had some appeal , they do work . . . . but their inherent limitation as a variation on a simple theme bores me after a while . In the middle 1960s , Chuck Jones did several Tom-and-Jerry cartoons and in this one , they play Wile E . Coyote ( Tom ) and the roadrunner ( Jerry ) . The distinction here is that the setting is urban , rather than the southwestern desert that the roadrunner lives in - - a Krazy Kat sort of environment . Most of this takes place in a department store , where the usual Acme products are available . The net result is mediocre .
Much Ado About Nothing	Frantic unfunny comedy about how Frank Morgan panicked the nation on radio - - a gloss on Orson Welles ' broadcast of WAR OF THE WORLDS - - and the lives , loves and generally unfunny situations surrounding his newfound success . Frank Morgan doubles sixteen times a second and an impossibly young Dan Dailey plays the juvenile lead . Give it a miss .
Below Par	This is a long , static mess of a crime drama . Although the cinematographer obviously worked hard to make this visually interesting we can judge it against contemporary crime dramas such as Von Sternberg's stylish UNDERWORLD , Browning's brooding WHITE TIGER and Badger's funny PATHS TO PARADISE . This was at the height of Hollywood's final burst of cinematographic innovation before sound films put it in a straitjacket for ten years . Ignoring the flair of others . Director and star McGowan managed to turn out a movie that is stagy , dull and depressingly obvious . Far too much of the story is told with title cards and the characters ' motivations are strained to the limit to justify their actions . Avoid this one .
Well Ain't That Too Damned Bad	Lots of behind the screen talent takes a whack at what seems to be an attempt to make something to compete with the success of Rodgers & Hammerstein's stage success of SOUTH PACIFIC , struggling with some unfortunately odd casting choices to produce a fitfully interesting , silly musical . We have Billy Gilbert and Mitzi Gaynor as Polynesians , William Lundigan and Jane Greer singing songs written by Harold Arlen and Ralph Blaine , and smirking Jack Paar as an army officer . It's all an attempt to keep soldiers on Rest and Recreation on a delightful Polynesian island from fraternizing with the native girls , and Edmund Goulding fighting with a script by Claude Binyon - - whose writing talents were best expended on Abbott and Costello programmers - - to produce something interesting . The photography is the only part of the movie that can't be faulted : it's typical of the Fox musical style . It looks like it was planned for a Betty Grable musical but whatever her intended role was , it was recast . If you must watch this , see if you can spot Lee Marvin in the ensemble .
Pause for a Travelogue	This well-meaning but incredibly muddled short feature - - it looks to have been about half an hour until eked out by the interpolation of a travelogue about kibbutzim in Palestine and a short silent film about two lovers , one royal , the other Jewish , who commit suicide in a variation of the story of Esther - - is about a Jewish judge who is up for a nomination for governor , but the trial he is presiding over , apparently of a Black man falsely accused of murder , is producing a lot of threats on his life . Meanwhile his father is coming back from Palestine or a visit and his daughter is being pursued by two men . It would give me great pleasure to rate this considerably higher , but the actors are clearly uncertain about how to act in front of the camera . In fact , Bud Pollard the actor seems to be watching the camera in a rather wary fashion in the early scenes , which Bud Pollard the director may not have caught . More a curio than a a worthwhile movie , it would be interesting to find out what silent movie they added in .
Why a Cartoon ?	There is no reason this had to be a cartoon . It could have easily been a live-action short , of the sort that commonly done throughout the history of films . True , there was a shortage of well-known female comics to do this sort of work , but it looks a lot like some of the gags used on I LOVE LUCY in the era .
Girl , Not Lost , But Limber	The story is that Harold Lloyd abandoned his moderately successful ' Lonesome Luke ' character and started up his familiar ' Glasses ' character in order to do something different than the Chaplin-derived baggy-pants slapstick of the era . Well , if so , he still hadn't found his way yet to his classic comedies of the following decade . In this one , he and Snub going camping up in the wilds , where they run into bears , mountain lions , a skunk , and Bebe Daniels and her gun , who falls for Harold's City Slicker ways . There isn't much beyond a few mechanically executed gags and Snub shaking in terror at the mountain lion . One of the bears gives the most amusing performance in the movie . For completists only .
Another Mess , Not Fine	Revised November 27 , 2005I would like to thank John Achorn who dropped me a note pointing out there were two versions of this short available , an eight-minute cut-down on which I based my original review , and a twenty-minute version recently reissued on DVD by Kino and Lobster . My original review read : " Once again , the principal joke here is that everyone tries to beat each other to death . This time they use bricks from Fin's brickyard . Back in 1913 , Sennet and his Keystone crew had known that a little more was needed for a comedy ; that Hal Roach could countenance this sort of production , even in a one-reeler in 1923 is shocking . " However , as it is likely that taking this sort of mess was part of the price for the brilliantly timed comedy features of Harold Lloyd and the sentimental " Our Gang " comedies that Bob McGowan was directing , it provided an invaluable opportunity for Laurel , Fin and H . M . Walker to be bad and get it out of their systems . There's no reason , however , for you to suffer through this . " And I do urge you to avoid the cut-down . The twenty-minute version has a fuller story and more variation , but still remains violent and largely uninteresting except for the pleasure of looking at leading lady Ena Gregory . She was a WAMPAS Baby Star in 1925 , but her career fizzled out , unlike others . Still , neither she nor the poorly organized gags were enough to keep me interested . At this stage in his career , Stan's best works were burlesques like THE SOILERS and ROUGHEST Africa that gave his works a better structure . It would still be a couple of years before he discovered the character of Mr . Laurel that would permit his abilities as a gag constructor to reach their fullest flower . Avoid this unless you have a mania for completism . A look at both versions might be instructive , showing how the people who did the editing had lost the basics of editing silent comedy . But surely you have better ways of spending a half hour .
The Profundity of Banality vs . the Banality of Profundity	It has been my lot in life to know - - at least to the extent of taking part in conversations with - - three and a half hit men : two definitely and three who might have been killers for hire . None of them were possessed , so far as I could judge , of any great sense of moral angst , existential anguish or philosophic underpinnings to their professions , even to the extent of the ' Get ' er Done ' attitude of Larry the Cable Guy . Instead they struck me as thugs who were at times gigglingly happy that people would pay them money for something they gladly did for any or no reason whatsoever . One of them was reputed to have killed his own mother - - perhaps not the most lovable of women - - by bashing her head repeatedly against a radiator . The others struck me as not much more entertaining . None were possessed of the ability to quote Apocrypha at length , discourse on the shmoo or hew to moral precepts at appropriate moments . Indeed , the most accurate depiction of the type may have been Alan Ladd's turn in THIS GUN FOR HIRE : when asked how he felt when he kills someone , he replies fiercely and blankly " I feel fine . " I mention this at the start because IN BRUGES accepts at face value certain assumptions that have become rampant since Quentin Tarrantino got PULP FICTION released . In this movie we have what could have been a black comedy , except that only Ralph Fiennes and Peter Dinklage seem to think it is one . Colin Farrell plays a character similar to his recent turn in CASSANDRA'S DREAM , except that he shows his range by assuming an Irish accent , and Brendan Gleeson adds some weight - - no pun intended - - and kills any comedy by his serious and excellent acting . Bruges is very photogenic in obvious ways - - the only other time I have seen this city in a movie was one of Leonce Perret's endless tableaux epics about lacemakers made about 95 years ago . The net result is a movie that you enjoy when you are watching it , until you go outside and think about it . All of them wind up dead ? Good to hear . Except that in the real world , they don't . It would be all too easy to accept this as a great picture based on its track record : a fine cast , a writer-director who just won an Oscar for best short subject , fine cinematography and so on . But looking at the heart of it , you should see its intellectual and artistic laziness , its acceptance of false assumptions because they enable the creator to gloss over its vacuity with fine words . But it does not use its assumptions to challenge us in any way , except to try to convince us that vicious , uncaring murderers are people just like you and me . Well , they aren't like me , and I know the difference . I hope that you do too .
Lost In Sherwood Forest	This early version of Robin Hood has turned up at a couple of recent shows sponsored by the Fort Lee Film Commission as one of the films shot at Fort Lee , New Jersey , one of world's major film centers in the early 20th century . The print that survives is in pretty good shape for such an orphan , aided by a lot of tinting in the process . While it survives in good shape physically and as a historical document , it does not connect to the audience well . The acting is well over the top ; the plot is frequently obscured and the compositions , given the lovely background , is at best plebeian . Worst of all , to the modern eye , is a bit of telegraphing : the morality or personalities of the characters are revealed by doing a fade into animals . The effect is laughable . Avoid this one unless you have a strong interest in film history .
Movies on a Budget	Here is yet another entry in Fox's " Jones Family " series , which ran from 1936 through 1940 . In this one , the newlyweds are fighting over money issues and fast-talking semi-con man ' Uncle Charlie ' , played by Alan Dinehart is in town making trouble . As usual for a Fox B , the camera work by Edward Snyder - - who , after series ended , went into Fox's special effects department - - is top notch , but the script is workaday and the direction by Herbert Leeds is workaday at best . The line readings seem forced . Spring Byington is , of course , perfect in her role as as the Jones Family mother , but otherwise this one is pretty much of a mechanical yawn .
Bad Acting	Jack Hoxie was one of the great cowboy stars of the silent screen , and deservedly so . This , his final starring role for Poverty Row Western Star Productions , shows very clearly why he could not make the transition : he can't speak a line of dialogue without it sounding like it's being read . Nor is the dialogue all that good . The parts of this movie that do not depend on sound are pretty good : the composition is fine and the camera-work by William Noble is excellent ; and Hoxie looks great in the shots done MOS , particularly when he is atop Dynamite the Wonder Horse . But conservative a genre as the western was , people still had to be able to speak believably , and they are few and far between in this one .
The Family's Shame	The Tucker family has fallen on hard times and is down to their dilapidated home , their last dollar and the last chicken in the yard , when home comes their hope : Roscoe Karns , who takes the last dollar to pay the cab fare , eats the last chicken and gets a job running a roulette wheel at the local dance hall . King Vidor's movies always told their stories in strong visual terms , and the cinematography by Ira Morgan in this work is beautiful and compelling : Florence Vidor is , unsurprisingly , shot lovingly in closeup . However , Mr . Vidor also had a strong streak of melodrama verging on bathos and that is also in evidence here : Roscoe Karns ' exit from the courtroom near the end is ludicrous . Also worthy of a little mockery is the performance by Charles Meredith as the juvenile . With his Harold Lloyd glasses , imposing physique , movie job as a reporter and passive manner , he suggests Clark Kent . Furthermore , although he is supposed to be in love with Florence Vidor , he seems to spend most of his time gazing at Roscoe Karns , and shows a most peculiar agitation when it appears that Karns will be hanged for murder . Well , even Jove nods and you need to see Vidor's excesses to appreciate how sometimes they can work brilliantly . Certainly the movie is beautiful and while I cannot recommend the story , the pictures are worth the price of admission .
Zip Zip Zip	Although the IMDb listing would have you believe this movie is 11 minutes in length , the DVD version of it as issued by the British Film Institute in 2006 times in at about three minutes - - - and there isn't time enough to tell the story in any meaningful way unless you know it - - stick with the 1951 version starring Alastair Sim is my advice . Nonetheless , this movie is interesting , because it may be the earliest use of titles I have ever seen in the movies . Although in coming decades movie titles would expand into dialogue , and the writing of concise and witty titles into a fine art , at this stage , the titles are actually just that : L brief chapter titles , describing the scene you are about to see . There are four of them .
We Didn't Go to this movie	This mild little comedy of how Walter Abel goes to his college homecoming in order to secure a contract for his company might have made a nifty little movie a few years earlier , especially as Una Merkel appears in it and few were better in sexy pre-code comedies than she . But , alas , the enforcement of the Code was embraced enthusiastically by Metro , and this comes through as contrived and a little desperate . Some amusement is added by a trio of good lead comics doing their shticks : Charles Butterworth does his blank-faced moron and has the most amusing lines ; Hugh Herbert plays his amiable ditherer to usual good effect ; and most of Walter Catlett's role seems to have wound up on the cutting room floor . Joseph Santley's direction is , as always , competent but unable to produce anything surprising and the other behind-the-camera talent is from Metro's B company . Not really worth your time .
Be Friendly to Casper - - He will be voting in the New York City Elections	How many Casper the Friendly Ghost cartoons are there ? One , really , since they all have exactly the same plot : Casper shows up , the adults are terrified , but the children don't know to be frightened . Eventually Casper saves someone's life and the adults decide they like him . Here it's Indians . There are some lovely cartoon drawings of Noble Savages . But as with just about all the cartoons from Famous Studios - - which is what became of Fleischer after the brothers couldn't deal with each other anymore and Paramount repossessed the studio - - there's very little in the way of writing . These cartoons were made for the kiddies and , except for a sense of nostalgia and some technical artwork issues , have almost no value for adults . Give them all a miss .
No , it's the 33-year-old Semon	A Semon comedy that reveals most of the problems with his work : the gags are well executed , but without much flair and with no logic in their set-up . Semon works backstage in a theater where open jars of nitroglycerin are left sitting about for animals in a magician's acts to drink from ; where open barrels of lamp black are stored so that wind machines , turned on for no particular reason , can spew their contents onto the audience , who continue to watch the show , unconcernedly wearing blackface ; where stage managers carry about guns so they can rob performers of their jewels - - which performers , of course , bring with them to the theater , seemingly for that very purpose . The whole thing develops into a fair but derivative Max Sennet cops-and-railroad chase in which excellent stuntwork is executed , until the train runs into a rail car full of dynamite , which is left standing , as rail cars full of dynamite always are , on the main track ; and the whole thing is " explained " by reducing the chase to a dream sequence . Semon performs his pratfalls and daredevil feats competently , and Oliver Hardy is stuck with his usual thankless role of heavy . The movie , however , is not about Hardy , as its other reviewer would have us believe , but Semon . Oh . I said that this movie shows most of the problems with Semon's work . The other problem seems to be that he repeated the same gags from movie to movie . Not too awful an experience if you've never seen one before , but to an audience that sees the same gags executed by the same comic in the same sense-free environment every two months . . . . well , if you're seen one , you've seen ' em all , I suppose .
It gets better	A musical variety short from Universal Pictures , the quality of the singers and dancers , while excellent , are often hampered by what they are called on to perform . The Pied Pipers , for example , a close-harmony singing octet , get to perform a Hawaian number and " Polly Wolly Doodle All the Day " which sound as ludicrous as they sound .
Nay Nay	Bosko is given the MGM treatment , which means color . . . . not Technicolar , but Cinecolor , and not used to any particularly good effect . Harman & Ising appear to have been overwhelmed by a slightly better budget and had no clear idea of what to do with it , except to produce a New Deal sort of movie in which Bosko incites all the characters out of Mother Goose - - who are now penniless - - to go work on the farm , which they do to great success - - nice work if you're a cartoon character , I suppose . It's given a dream-sequence framework which renders it doubly meaningless . The following year MGM sprang for three-strip Technicolor and , although the stories did not improve until the much-hated Fred Quimby became MGM's cartoon producer and hired people who knew how to produce cartoon , the pictures became more interesting .
Tight budget	Walt Disney was having some problems getting paid by his distributor in this period . Eventually he would leave United Artists and settle in for the next twenty years at RKO . In the meantime , however , he would cut corners on his movies by having a lot of repetitive movements in some of his shorts . Here he tries to make use of the fact that many musical phrases repeat and that the supporting action could logically repeat . Still , the sharp-eyed viewer will notice it . In the midst of this , Pinto Colvig's voicing of the early Goofy ( who had been introduced , in slightly different form in MICKEY'S REVUE the previous year ) is a welcome touch . His manic laugh never quite repeats itself and adds a touch of novelty to every shot .
Uneven	William Rearden Sr , who built the steel mill dies on the job and leaves the mill to his son , a painter in Paris , if he works in the mill for a year . In the meantime , it is in the hands of ' Tons Walker ' . It's an interesting idea for the story , and the steel mill sequences are shot with care and verve . Grant Withers as Tons is excellent , and Beatrice Roberts as the love interest is fine , but the rest of the cast is , at best , uneven and some are bad . Ranny Weeks as Bill Jr . is nasal and annoying . But he's not a patch on William Newell , playing his raccoon-coat-wearing , ukulele-strumming buddy , ' Porky ' in an awful Jack Oakie imitation . There are some potentially interesting plot complications added , but they are played by stiffs . If I were you , I wouldn't bother .
Bitzer Before Griffith	This short subject shows the excavation under way for Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan , for more than half a century one of the great pieces of Public architecture in New York . Then they tore it down to put up what Russell Baker called ' a bus station with trains . ' After that they put up photos of the old station . What were they saying ? " We were dopes to tear this down " or possibly " If we tore down this , think what we'll do to you . " Well , that was the 1960s , for you . In the meantime , there is this picture from 1905 . It's not exciting today , but it was ambition at the time , being done , as it was , as a 180 degree pan shot . Quite an accomplishment
Annoying	A great director , a wonderful cast , a skilled director of photography and lots of studio gloss results in a stinker of a movie , redeemed only by Clifton Webb's mugging and one medium-sized interaction by Evelyn Varden and Margalo Gillmore as they discuss small children . Otherwise this script is too studio bound , with the more interesting players stuffed into a car and Anne Francis - - looking gorgeous as always and particularly and appropriately vivacious , is stuck with William Lundigan , one of the more uninteresting leading men of the era . This is a great pity as I went in hoping and expecting to like this movie . But the script is pretty much of a stinker .
Past Prime Time	Miss Horne is one of the greatest singers of 20th Century Standards . She ranks up with Frank Sinatra and Ella Fitzgerald . Anyone who loves the jazz-influenced style of songwriting that flourished from 1905-1970 who does not think that her range of performances of " Stormy Weather " is as great an artistic achievement as any in popular culture is an idiot . Unhappily , by the time Miss Horne starred in this TV special , her voice was giving way to old age . Her phrasing is perfect ; the emotional content is impeccable - - I've never heard Cole Porter's " One of Those Things " sung with such anger - - but her voice in her 70s was no match for her voice fifty years before . Miss Horne is ably backed up by the Ellington Band , but that is no reason to see this . There are many records of Miss Horne available , on film , disk and tape from her prime . Appreciate her as she should be and for so long was .
Stumblin ' All Around In A Wheelchair	MGM's Dr . Kildare second feature series continues without Dr . Kildare - - Lew Ayres was in the doghouse because of his antiwar stance since starring in 1930s ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT and was serving as a medic . In the meantime , the series carried on with Lionel Barrymore as the crusty Dr . Gillespie , with newcomers Van Johnson and Keye Luke competing for his favor as his interns . Keye Luke gets the silliest lines , as a partisan of Brooklyn . Van Johnson is interested in anatomy : female anatomy . Unhappily , much of the feature is taken up with shtick like that , expertly delivered , but absolutely trivial and of little interest . Of more interest might be spotting other budding MGM talent including series regular Nat Pendleton , Donna Reed as a man-hungry temptress for Van Johnson , and Margeret O'Brien at her most waiflike . There is no subtlety in this movie . Director Goldbeck never got out of the Bs and this movie shows why . Unless you want to see the actors far below their best , you may want to look at this . Most people will want to give this a miss .
Mechanical Gags	After ten years of working for Hal Roach , first as a supporting comedian for Harold Lloyd and then in his own series of shorts , Snub Pollard was let go . His style of comedy had not kept up with the new , more realistic , character-based comedy that had emerged , first under Lloyd , then Eddie Boland and now with Charley Chase . Snub had remained a clown with a strange mustache whose sharply executed gags determined the story , rather than the other way around . So he went out on his own and , with a distribution deal from the Weiss Brothers , started his own series . Unfortunately , while his gag construction remained sharp - - there's a very nicely executed , if standard split-screen gag that kicks off this short - - neither his story construction nor titles - - some of which are wince-inducing in their attempts to be funny had advanced . Snub would go back into vaudeville , make some more shorts for the Weiss Brothers and continue to fade : into B western comedy short - - where he could be spotted , looking rather bizarre in the same urban costumes he had worn in 1916 and finally into uncredited bits . He can be glimpsed briefly in 1961's TWIST AROUND THE CLOCK , still wearing his mustache , doing the twist on a mountain in the Alps . The story is a standard one : Snub comes to town with his pet duck where people think that he has struck oil at home , and so is briefly pursued by the young women , before settling on Thelma Davis . The gags , as I have , are well designed and executed , but they are not novel in execution . Snub himself remains a cipher . It's not really worth your time as everything in it has been done better elsewhere .
Technical Failures	I came in expecting to get some pleasure out of this picture ; between the Mal St . Clair direction , the George Abbott script and some interesting talent in front of the camera , it looked pretty good on paper . However , although the script still looks good - - the corruption of an honest boxer - - there are far too many issues to make it enjoyable . Stagey Acting : a frequent problem of 1929 an issue of the relatively primitive sound equipment and non-naturalistic stage technique , this would be corrected in a couple of years . None of which excuses the fact that people at a party just stand around doing nothing . Leaden Camera : It's about ten minutes into the film before the camera moves at all , and then it's moved very slightly to maintain composition , but in an incredibly clumsy fashion , like one man trying to move a sofa . Otherwise it's just cut and cut and cut , two shot , reaction shot , two shot , reaction shot . Compare the vast majority of these shots with the boxing sequence , which is shot MOS with very mobile camera and a lot of undercranking . Mal St . Clair , after working with Chaplin , developed a reputation as a great director with a light touch - - certainly his Rin-Tin-Tin features are good . But he shows absolutely nothing here . Still it's an interesting story and that stops it from being unwatchable . It's just that you have a lot better things do with your time .
the ouevre of cineaste Jules White	Somewhere there is a doctorate waiting for someone who wishes to go over the entire output of director-producer Jules White : or , if not a doctorate , the extreme sympathy of anyone who enjoys good movie comedy . Mr . White is known today as the producer-director of the Three Stooges shorts , which he produced when he was in charge of short subjects for Columbia . Earlier , he had done the " Dogville " series for MGM , in which dogs were wired into costumes and used as the subjects of travesties of popular features . Earlier , he directed silent comedies . Throughout all of these , Mr . White showed a taste which did not appeal to the lowest common denominator , but actually sank beneath it . Violence , bad acting and bad scripts were his stock in trade . If you think the Three Stooges are great comedy - - and there are a surprising number of people who do - - then you might enjoy this silent comedy about a schnook victimized by his shrewish wife and plate-juggling brother-in-law . I didn't .
Good Story Gone Bad	This should be an excellent weeper , but it doesn't come off . Too much of the story is told by narration and the performances are flat and , in the case of lead Zita Johann , far too frequently leaden - - as often happens with a good actor , an apparently deliberate but boring choice . The cinematography is excellent , although the ' talking heads ' finale is a bizarre choice .
The answer to the question not asked	Van Beueren was experimenting with lead cartoon characters at this stage . They had a pretty good musical series with their ' Tom & Jerry ' , which had nothing to do with cats and mice , but were two barfly-ish looking individuals who appeared in a number of good black and white cartoons - - check out PENCIL MANIA if you have this chance . This one was intended as a direct response to Fleischer's Betty Boop - - instead of being a dog , she's a cat , but it's still the Helen Kane style of singing . She does ' Some of These Days ' and ' How You Gonna Keep ' Em Down on the Farm ' and for my money , you can leave them there . For completists only .
Plowing the Same Ground	I look for anything in this early Lonesome Luke comedy for some sign of the brilliance that Harold Lloyd would attain in the next decade , but it's like looking for the Lloyd Hamilton of the mid-twenties in his Ham & Bud comedies . LLoyd and Roach were just starting out at this stage and anxious to produce something , anything that would get the exhibitors to take the comedies - - and that meant comedies like those at Keystone . But they didn't have the editing that Sennet did and they didn't have the budgets , so there's no discernible plot - - everything happens around a flophouse as cops chase bums and bums fight - - but the comedy falls are even more bone-breaking than Sennet used . Lloyd would continue this rougher set of pratfalls into his Glasses character . For fanatics only .
A Sam Katzman Production	Before Roger Corman there were the B movie departments . At Warner Brothers they had Bryan Foy , at Paramount they had the Dollar Bills and at Columbia , which was a B movie Studio for 90 % of their productions anyway , they had Sam Katzman . This means , for this flick , occasional A movie intellectual support Paul Henreid , looking as depressed as he did in NOW VOYAGER or CASABLANCA , as an action hero , horror lead Lon Chaney Jr . in support for marquee value . . . . and the rest of the movie , for some reason , strikes me as having been cast out of a Brooklyn burlesque house : girls from the stage , extras from the audience . Director Will Jason came out of short subjects and directs the whole thing with not too serious an air . The set design looks like the designer went into the prop storehouse , had everyone grab everything they could carry and heaped it all together . The net effect is ridiculous rather than funny , depressing rather than dramatic . Unless you want to see the hordes of the Middle East riding over landscape like American cowboys - - I've no idea who was directing the second unit , but it's clearly cowboys in those pointed helmets , wielding scimitars - - give this one a miss .
Martyrs of the Northwest	Heavy-handed but well-mounted , this early King Vidor film would have us believe that all that is needed to bring Christianity to cattle rustlers is to win their respect . Vidor mixes sentimentality and excitement a little ham-handedly , as when Colleen Moore regains the use of her legs so she can drag the unconscious John Bowers from the burning church . On the other hand , some of the scenes - - as when John Bowers stands off a herd of stampeding cattle so they won't trample the obvious dummy standing in for Colleen Moore stand up very well . David Butler , later to be a major director of musical comedies , has the second lead and Miss Moore never looked lovelier .
No Jokes	If you're a fan of cartoons - - or ' animation ' as those who attempt to give it great dignity call it - - you have undoubtedly seen A CORNY CONCERTO . Well , this is the Blue Danube section . . . . . but with no redeeming jokes . A great pity .
Watch Out There !	As much as I adore Melies ' work , the fantasy , the joy of performance , the sheer thought that had not Griffith come along and made such a strong show of Englishman George Smith's film grammar that we might today be looking at movies based on Melies ' work . . . . well , when he wasn't playing to his strengths he was fairly weak . This is one of his weaker efforts directed without the loving precision and vivacity of his own performances : when one of the performers leans against a backdrop , you see it shimmy like the cardboard it is . Gaumont and Pathe were moving in on him in France and this was the year Griffith wold begin to turn the entire industry upside down . Soon that cardboard would rip . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Close But No Cigar	This 1929 mystery-tearjerker suffers from all the stereotypical problems of talkies in this year - - a very few works like Mamoulian's APPLAUSE aside - - immobile camera and actors who seem unable to read a line with any naturalism - - the sound track sounds poor , too , but that might will be an artifact of a worn print . Director Phil Rosen makes a good stab by using short cuts to fake a mobile camera , and it's a pleasure to watch old pros Henry Walthall and Ricardo Cortez exhibit their physical naturalness , but the many poor performances and , by modern standards , pretty pinheaded plot keep this from being worthwhile as more than a curiosity .
Mabel , look pretty	It is difficult to comment on Mabel's performance in this movie , as surviving prints don't have that much of her in them . The result is not a farce so much as a story of Mabel caught up between sneaky lovers in Mexico . Mabel is called upon to look pretty and realistic in her scenes , and she does this with the flair of the old trouper that she is .
Ill-Humored Comedy	Slick , fast-paced unfunny romantic comedy as rich Peter Lawford and research doctor Gig Young don't exactly romance Jane Greer , but more accurately bid on her for her affections . Young seems grouchy at being in the picture , Lawford tries to get through his lines as fast as possible and Jane Greer seems to just want to leave the scene .
End of the Line	Veteran MGM B director Roy Rowland ended his career with three cheap westerns co-produced with MGM and shot in Spain . In some ways this looks like one of the gritty westerns that were being turned out by Italy , but while the body count is adequate , Rowland was too steeped in the MGM mystique - - this movie is too visually polite , the music score a tad too lush and the actors too clean to compare with Sergio Leone's ' Man With No Name ' , so the result is nothing particular : too pretty for grit , too gritty for a traditional B and even a script co-written by Borden Chase can't do much . The actors try to do something with their performances , particularly Alex Nicol , but his character lacks enough definition to be particularly interesting . Director Rowland's son , Steve has a featured role as ' The Kid ' . One wonders how he felt about that during the shoot .
Unsuitable	Weak Jackie Chan vehicle , shot without his physical charm and cobbled together with short takes and an improbable , special-effects-laden plot . Jennifer Love Hewitt shows comedic talent and there is a quick look at James Brown for fans of soul music , but there only one good joke in the entire thing .
As Thrilling as his name	The silent one-panel cartoon Henry comes to Fleischer Studios , billed as " The world's funniest human " in this dull little cartoon . Betty , long past her prime , thanks to the Production Code , is running a pet shop and leaves Henry in charge for far too long - - five minutes . A bore .
the evolution of Mr . Laurel	It's a gag comedy from 1923 that makes fun of the French Foreign Legion Stories of P . C . Wren . . . . or at least uses them as a jumping-off point . Stan shows up at a Foreign Legion post in a high-crowned hat , jacket and heavy mascara blotches under the eyes . He enlists , and then has a series of short comic takes which are executed with vigor , but not too much interest . He can't march in line with other legionaires , he squirts everyone with ten gallons of champagne from a bottle , he is sentenced to be shot and uses his blindfold to blow his nose . All of them are good gags , and were they strung together with plot or characterization , this would be a nice little comedy . Unhappily , they are not : things just happen . Perhaps it is because this print lacks most of its title cards . Mr . Laurel was still learning how to construct a film comedy at this point and it shows . Look at BEAU HUNKS instead .
No Time For Second Takes	Cheap Thin Man ripoff from PRC attempts to use Neil Hamilton and June Storey in the roles of sophisticated detectives , and they are good . The rest of the cast , alas , isn't up to their acting ability and make a mess of the story . Some interesting early film-noir photography and the leads make this watchable .
Primitive for 1913	This trick slapstick comedy - - surviving in a print in the Dutch film archives under a title that translates as ' The Slapstick Police Agent ' is primitive by the standards of 1913 , as objects appear , disappear and change into other objects in a very simple fashion , although the mail box that follows the cop is amusing . The lead character , a short , tubby fellow who reminds me of Lew Costello in ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET THE KEYSTONE COPS takes his falls competently , including one extreme neck roll that has him standing on his head for an instant . But slapstick had already moved beyond this stage elsewhere , into bone-breaking stuff in Italy and Keystone antics in the US . Worth seeing once , perhaps , for completists .
But Don't Sing !	The first credited Merrie Melody is a poor effort . The animation is repetitive , the gags poor - - one involves a character's dentures coming out on an armature and acting like a castanet - - and the songs - - " Lady , Play Your Mandolin " and " I Am A Gay Caballero " are sung in annoying cartoon voices .
A silent speech	Can there be anything more pointless than a silent movie of someone giving a speech ? Interspersed with title cards - - titles written by Robert Benchley , one would hope - - it might make some sense . There might be some technical interest in looking at such a picture ( Fiorello Laguardia , it is reported from observing silent movies , had different ' body language ' depending on which of his two native languages - - Yiddish and Italian - - he was speaking in ) , but there can be little more interest in a silent movie of McKinley giving a speech than there can be in a simple photograph . Come to think of it , some of Andy Warhol's ' movies ' would qualify . . . .
Silents are awful	If you think silent movies are awful pieces of soundless overacting accompanied by bad piano playing , then this is the movie for you . A compilation of excerpts from three unidentified silent pictures , this piece is embarrassing . All I can say is that silent movies are not like that . Really .
Never Gels	The photography in this movie is beautiful . That is the first thing you notice . Paul Vogel lights this in high contrast shadows , so much so that you think you're looking at a film noir as shot by Hurrell . The actors are all deep in character : even Guy Kibbee is restrained and excellent . But there are so many odd decisions here - - Dan Dailey equipped with a fake Norwegian accent , William Lundigan , as stiff as a washboard , Jean Rogers predatory and whiny , plus Rags Ragland and Leo Gorcey as comedy relief - - that is to say intended comic relief . The issue is that this is an effort to do STAGE DOOR at a boxing gym , and someone - - probably the producer - - insisted on adding gloss to every shot . And whoever did the final screenplay seems to have been working from a novel from which he hated to cut any character . Director Millar had a long and spottily distinguished career . His last effort was a TV Movie titled GOLDIE AND THE BOXER GO TO Hollywood in 1981 . Sounds a lot like this one .
Mr . & Mrs . Reagan	When he wasn't busy making the world safe for democracy by making training films during the Second World War , Reagan took the time out to appear in this movie with then-wife Jane Wyman , each playing themselves , in which they get impromptu golf lessons from a couple of golf experts : he gets his lesson from Jimmy Thomson , ' the World's Longest Driver ' who drones on and on . . . . this looks like a color version of the series that George Marshall directed of Bobby Jones ten years before , but not so amusing . Jane gets her lesson from Jack Redmond , who is a bit of a tummeler , one of the pratfall comedians who used to inhabit the Catskills , making some amusing jokes along the way . In sum , the effect is not particularly interesting , although golfers might care .
End of the Line	The last Chilly Willy release has him and the polar bear in an environmentalist fight between a man on an icebreaker who wants to drill an oil well in the arctic . The point of the movie is admirable , although , understandably in a short cartoon aimed at children , hardly balanced ; certainly few adults make serious efforts to be balanced in their positions . The animation is , for the era fairly good , although the story is limited to a few relatively unadorned efforts at mutual destruction . Although Chilly Willy was never a great cartoon character , this was the end of the line for Lantz and a weak , although serious coda to a long and happy career .
The Deuce you Say !	An unintentionally hilarious comedy-mystery-western of how Hoxie's family is being murdered by the evil MacGill family in a range war : Hoxie is trying to figure out who is killing off his relatives and pinning a playing card to the corpses with , apparently , never a thought as to motivation . Of course Hoxie and the chief MacGill's pretty niece fall in love with each other . The deliberate humor in this one involves a small white dog biting people , and the niece whacking people on the head with a frying pan . Hoxie's horse seems to have a bored expression on his face during the medium shots . Perhaps I'm projecting .
All dressed up and nowhere to go	Harman and Ising had a long and checkered career producing cartoons . They started out with Disney , spent the middle part of their career creating Warner's Merry Melodies and Loony Tunes , then wound up at MGM in charge of their cartoon department until they gradually . . . . stopped in the mid forties . This is a fairly typical production of theirs from thirties : beautifully drawn , in lavish Technicolor , the full use of the MGM symphony orchestra , and they turned out cartoons with bad gags that would offend no one , adorning puerile adaptations of banal stories " fit for children . " It wasn't until the mid-forties , when the pair of them went off to do war work , that Hanna & Barbera invented Tom & Jerry , with their elaborate violence , and Tex Avery showed up to spread mayhem that MGM's cartoon department took off . If you have a technical interest in the history of cartoons , you might want to see this . Otherwise , give it a miss .
Climbing Mountains With Syd Chaplin	Another of the fast and furious slapstick comedies produced for Keystone that is long on speed and mugging and short on jokes . Gussle and his wife decide to go mountain climbing and shoot at each other in a not very interesting effort . Syd does not even manage his usual graceful surprise movements in this , but spends , like most of the cast , a lot of time falling down .
Cats Rattled By Home Brew	Despite the elevated view held by many of all the works of Walt Disney , this early production has numerous flaws . SPOILERSFirst , the " ground-breaking " mixed live-and-animated work consists of " Alice " standing to one side and her cat - - looking and behaving very much like Felix the Cat - - on the other side , having a conversation . Then the cat changes his tail into a rifle ( a typical Felix trick , converting his black tail into some other black object ) and goes into the house , where he falls into a vat of Alice's home brew . Yes , that's right , this little girl is a bootlegger . After that , the cat has other problems , which it continues to solve in Felix-like methods , until he finally blows up Alice and himself . All in all , rather dull . The gags are interpolated with no regard to character or style . True , it lacks some of the barnyard humor that Iwerks put into early Mickey Mouse cartoons , but that vat of hootch disturbs me . . . .
Aptly Named	This is not one of the high points of Buster's career . He seems to be used for his remaining marquee value here . Even the two falls from the car near the beginning of the movie do not seem to be performed by him - - when Buster fell , his entire body moved and reacted , like a a trout struggling to not be drawn in by the universe . No , that's a stuntman taking the fall , competently but with no flair , and that makes this a waste of time . Far better to watch him doing little comic bits in big movies . This is , in short , far more of a Jules White comedy than a Buster Keaton comedy . Although the print on the new Keaton at Columbia set is far better than any more generally available , this is a short only for completists .
Quoi ?	This is a poorly scripted but prettily photographed whodunnit . It starts out with a locked room mystery but bogs down until the murderer turns up , unprefigured , along with method and motive in the last minute . Structurally it is unsound and the occasional interesting image cannot save it . Perret tries , though . He starts off with some of his exquisite formal compositions , but those soon become lost in his need to push the story along . There are some interesting sights along the way , like a tailor's dummy that can be set to the exact body image of anyone the tailor is cutting clothes for provides some interest . But as the story is so poorly plotted , it isn't enough .
Lah dee Dah	Tex Avery was not a series creator . He preferred to seek out new ideas and new situations , so much so that he ended his last Screwy Squirrel short with Screwy dead . Yet if there was one Tex Avery character made for a Tex Avery series , it was Droopy . Droopy was the straight man to Avery's insane world . While Avery's other characters would compete to see who could have the most impossible reaction to a situation - - his wolves were subject to eyeballs that bulged out six feet - - Droopy was small , stoic and slightly depressed . To watch him wandering around Ireland under the direction of Michael Lah , without any cartoonish reaction around him is a waste of time . Avoid this one .
Found	Although the trivia for this film indicates it is supposed lost , it does turn up in a perfectly serviceable print in under of the Thanhouser dvds issued in 2007 , credited with thanks to the Library of Congress . Now that we've got that out of the way , is this any good ? Alas , not much as a stand alone piece . Like many adaptations of classics in this era , this assumes familiarity with the work itself and is largely bound into the proscenium arch in its production . Plus about half of it is taken up by a prologue . Finally , it is a silent and so you miss all of Shakespeare's language . What you have is largely broad stage gestures eked out with a few explanatory titles . I'd give it a miss except for some historical interest .
Pandering to Children	" Mimsy Were the Borogroves " , Kuttner & Moore's terrifying parable about the loss of innocence and the ending of childhood , is chopped up , its dark meat bleached until , like a chicken leg , it is converted into a breaded chicken nugget , suitable for a children's audience which holds that the only thing wrong with the world is that kids aren't in charge . Toss in a liberal amount of Nepalese mysticism and CGI and add in a paranoid government that locks up four-year-olds under the Patriot Act and you have this mandala-shaped piece of mystery meat . Director Robert Shaye does show a dab hand at directing children , and I suppose I shouldn't have expected more than this , but I am terribly disappointed . I only hope his next project isn't Ted Sturgeon's " The Professor's Teddy Bear . " Stupidest moment : the exit of the Homeland Security force .
The secret is it's a poor movie	Poor little second feature has Grant Withers and Fay Wray wandering around the city trying to track down who wants an envelope carrying navy secrets - - only they think it's collectible stamps . Withers and Wray try to carry this one along on their charm , but they aren't up to it , although there is one good scene in a park and a small , annoying boy on a bicycle .
Visitors Will Leave the Train Before Departing	This last gasp effort to resurrect Jon Hall's career has him as an American diplomat in India caught up in the usual web of intrigue and overwrought screen music . The script itself is a bit of a hodge podge of spy movies , ranging from KIM to SABOTEUR , filled with hearty Irish spies , Indians who wear turbans and so forth : very primitive visual clues , because this movie was not going to play the big houses in major cities . Director Fred Sears can't really do that much with the entire proceedings . DP Henry Freulich takes a shot at doing something by shooting the exterior scenes to obtain a documentary movie look , but the result is frequently blurry , rather than immediate . All in all , a waste of everyone's time .
The Art that is French Cinema	Imagine you are looking at one of those awful Matt Helm movies that Dean Martin made in the late 1960s . Now imagine there are no production values . That's what this movie is like . This is , of course , French cinema ; and this is a Lemmy Caution movie and the New Wave was so enamored of this series that Goddard made one of the movies : ALPHAVILLE . Imagine , if you will , that Spielberg wanted to make a Little Rascals movie . . . . wait . He did . It was THE GOONIES . Well , imagine , then , that Tarrantino wanted to make a Blaxploitation movie . Wait , he did . That was Jackie Brown . Well then imagine that Coppola wanted to make a Hammer Horror film . . . . . Well , I'm not getting far with this . I was about to suggest that Ang Lee wanted to make kung fu movies and that John Ford wanted to make westerns . You can , I suppose , turn almost anything into art with talent and resources , but this movie is not one of those pieces of art . It is the sort of mindless entertainment that we all want occasionally , junk food of the cinema . The problem with critics is that , like us , they bring their own personal aesthetics to a movie . Unlike us , they cannot admit to liking a couple of hours off from Great Cinema and so invent endless excuses for why their own personal preference in junk is superior to your personal preference in junk . They focus on the incidental details and make them the point . They can't see the forest for the trees . My advice : if you enjoy this awful crap , enjoy it . Have some Necco Wafers or Twiglets while you're watching it . But don't tell yourself it is art .
He's Fallen into the Water !	Harry Edwards was a new director when he turned out this Keystone in the house style - - fast , furious and not making much sense . It takes place in the space between a swimming pool and the ocean and the three plots - - Poppa wants a drink , Raymond Griffith wants Julia Faye - - which certainly makes sense - - and the fat guy , who I think is Albert Gillespie , but I wouldn't take a Bible oath on it , wants to jump into the swimming pool , which , of course , pushes everyone else out . People keep falling into the ocean , and even the Keystone Kops show up here , but other than a lot of splashing and Julia and Raymond standing out as human-looking among the grotesques , it's all confusing . For once , the editing , which was always topnotch at the studio , fails , as it runs the three stories concurrently , like Griffith's INTOLERANCE . That's D . W . Griffith , not Raymond . I'd give this one a miss , unless you're pining for a view of everything Keystone .
Not When it's good animation	Early Merrie Melodie is primarily of interest for its use of Gus Arnheim's Band to perform the title song . The gags and animation are pretty awful , looking like third = rate Disney animation . You'd be better off finding a good copy of the original Brunswick record .
The Buccaneer Act Three	What we have here is Demille's THE BUCCANEER showing just the highlights of the Battle of New Orleans and the celebratory party afterwards , with some fine color photography and no story . In 1939 this was a mildly interesting short subject of the American History as Hagiography type , but little else . Most of the story is told in pompous voice-over , with lines like " Only his deep loyalty to the American people " and " Andrew Jackson was the first president sprung from the common people and his door was always open to his friends . " I would suggest that you read a good book on the subject instead of wasting ten minutes on this effort .
Disingenuity	As I write these comments , the repercussions from the O . J . Simpson book / TV show / media blitz over his " If I Did It " book are still rumbling through the news . This movie is based on a ' work of fiction ' by the widow of Arnold Rothstein , the notorious gambler who may have fixed the 1919 World Series - - the infamous ' Black Sox Scandal . ' Of course , the wife of the gambler is portrayed as open , loving and entirely unaware of the slimy side of her husband's dealings . Watching this movie , thoughts of self-serving bits of keyhole fictions kept popping up , making me generally disgusted with it , its chipper moron of a heroine and annoyed at Spencer Tracy's , as usual , straightforward and excellent portrayal of a bad guy . While it can work , here , with the general sense of disingenuity that beclouds the entire proceedings , the effect is disgusting . This is a shame , because Tracy is surrounded by actors and actresses who actually can get in a scene with him and inhabit the same universe - - all too often in this period , Tracy seemed to be the only genuine human being in these productions . Henry O'Neill is fine as the old friend of Tracy's who is now an honest cop and is intent on putting him in jail , and who will not even accept a toy for his daughter , played by Shirley Temple . It's also fun to watch Alice Faye , who is in her platinum blonde phase , playing a voracious gold digger . After the Code began to be enforced , she would turn into a sweet-tempered lady on the screen . But they can't save this smarmy whitewash job .
Sum Sap	Unhappily , the surviving prints of this movie have substituted the title cards ( originally written by future director Tay Garnett ) with clock cuckoos , chiming gongs , rimshots , the occasional slide whistle , as well as a voice-over by an unspecified narrator who insists of punctuating each joke with a comment . " Look , " he tells us . " Stan's hair stands on end ! " he says of one gag . " Get it ? " He asks of another . Yes , we get it . Now , please be quiet . Although Stan's gags in this picture - - he plays a Chinese laundryman - - are better timed than in some of the awful vehicles he was in at the time - - SHORT KILTS , for example , or SCORCHING SANDS - - and he displays some good physical slapstick reminiscent of his days with the Karno troupe in England - - his character remains moronic , without any redeeming features whatsoever . Avoid this .
Dull	This rather dull Monogram programmer is a remake of a picture from the early 1930s . Despite some interesting antecedents - - including being based on a story by Dore Schary - - it rarely shows much in the way of flair , with the exception of the scenes with Armida , who looks interested in being the new Lupe Velez . But the photography is workaday , the acting rarely more than adequate and the jokes are too low-key to be worth much . Even Luis Alberni can't put much into a rather straightforward performance made between gigs with Preston Sturges . Maxie Rosenbloom is amusing , but he is on for just a couple of minutes . Most of this can be laid at the feet of director William Beaudine , a veteran of the silent days who worked for another three decades . His nickname was ' One-Shot ' and , so long as there was film in the camera and the lens cap off , he rarely bothered with a second take ; and of Eddie Quillan , the lead , who was often good playing small comedy bits , but seems to have taken this rare lead too seriously .
Attack of the Teeny-Bopper Suffragette Doctors	The eighth of Janette Oke's novels to be translated to a Hallmark TV movie is full of peculiar choices . First is the casting of Annalise Basso and Haylie Duff as nineteenth-century graduates of Harvard medical . Each is younger than 25 and could play 15 if they wish . This makes for a very unprepossessing start to the movie that it never quite overcomes . Director Lou Diamond Phillips makes some interesting choices among his supporting cast , including Cloris Leachman as the orphanage matron , Patrick Duffy as the out-of-his-depth mayor and himself as the local bigot . These characters are presented early on , along with with a cholera epic , leading to a story that by now is fairly cut-and-dried .
Hitchcock Manqué	A man found guilty of a murder he didn't commit , a daring escape by leaping off a train crossing a bridge , a shooting in a café and a scrap of paper that leads to a denouement in Monte Carlo - - - these are the plot points that tell you you're watching a great Hitchcockian thriller . Only it isn't a Hitchcock picture , it's directed by William Nigh for Monogram and it is pretty poor - - especially as we've seen Hitchcock do it right , starting a year later with THE 39 STEPS . Really , the main reason to see this movie is to serve as counterpoint to Hitchcock . Even the sound system seems off . Everyone speaks their lines with great emphasis as if every article is of great importance . There are some good actors lurking here , including gorgeous Mary Bryan , Astrid Allwyn and George ' Gabby ' Hayes , clean-shaven , hair neatly combed and his teeth in . But really , you'd do yourself a favor by giving this one a miss .
Insight ?	Some good clips are present in this tv biography of Elizabeth Taylor , but the people who speak about her are frequently a bit ridiculous . Peter Lawford , who hosts the show , sounds like he is reading the overblown dialogue off cue cards while half sloshed . Miss Taylor's mother tells long rambling stories about her daughter that could be any mother rambling on about her daughter when the guests are about . The one good sequence shows director Richard Brooks speaking about the death of her husband , Mike Todd and the making of CAT ON A HOT TIN ROOF . - - parts of his comments are bleeped out . The rest of it consists of macho guests like Roddy McDowall and Rock Hudson speak of how beautiful she is .
Not Good , But Good Enough	Even by the standards of the era , this was not a particularly good cartoon . The drawings are poor , the animation is limited , the characters are ill-defined and the story is not particularly amusing . But there is one thing you can say about Paul Terry's cartoons : he was able to make them on a small enough budget to be able to continue chunking them out for forty years , something that his bigger , better financed competitors in the field couldn't manage . Bray eventually went out of cartoon production , made industrial films and lived off the Bray-Hurd patents . LeCava and the others at International were there as part of Hearst's attempt at what is called , nowadays , brand extension : take the comic strips , which are popular and make movies out of ' em . Barre went out of business entirely . It took Koko the Clown and Felix the Cat to show what cartoons could actually do : show us a universe entirely different from our . But should you look at this one ? Maybe . Terry , just by his survival , is an important figure in the field . It might help you understand the economics of animation , which like other branches of film , is commercial art . Or you can just skip it .
Awwwww . . .	A barefoot orphan and his faithful basset hound meet up with a folksy Harry Davenport in this manipulative short from Leroy Prinz , who should have stuck to dance numbers . Not recommended to anyone who doesn't have a good supply of insulin on hand .
The Talking Blues War	Edward Dmytryk returned from the McCarthy hearings to direct this slightly expanded stage show of eight World War Two soldiers , sitting around in a wrecked basement , waiting for their chance to go on furlough . . . . but the sergeant - - - played by a Lee Marvin so young that he still has dark hair - - wants to go out and find a missing man . The endless talk talk talk is alleviated occasionally as Marvin goes out to see the company's captain , who also lives in a wrecked basement . Dmytryk and the screenwriters have done very little to expand this for the screen . You may , if you like , interpret this as a failure of nerve of Dmytryk's part : he had originally refused to testify as to who was a Communist before the House Unamerican Activities Committee . A few months in jail broke his resolve , and he spent the remainder of his career directing ever larger , ever glossier and ever emptier films .
Not good movies , mind you	Fat , lazy , petulant Hughie Mack is in danger of losing Lucille Lee Stewart because he keeps falling out of trees while trying to pick apples for her , so he takes boxing lessons and beats his opponents into the ground to win her heart - - or perhaps to indicate what he'll do to her if she doesn't marry him . Oh , you wacky comedian ! Although the best known comedies of this era are the fast paced slapsticks of Keystone , most other studios , Vitagraph among them , cultivated a slower , more ' situational comedy ' style of comedy . Vitagraph had the leading fat comic of the era , the incredibly popular George Bunny . Hughie Mack was their answer to Roscoe Arbuckle . Unfortunately for Hughie Mack , Arbuckle was possessed of enormous talent and Mack did not turn out particularly funny comedies . He did turn out to be a fine actor , working under von Stroheim in that director's dramas . This might be of interest for historical connections , but I doubt it . Give it a miss .
Nightmare Inducing	I have nightmares about this one . It's not enough that I walk about , my head pounding with a headache because I can't get Carmen Miranda singing " Paducah " out of my brain , but I keep seeing these bizarre Busby Berkley images in my mind , retreaded musical numbers from SUNNY SIDE UP . Avoid this one if you possibly can !
Work : when you don't need it , it's great	Andre Carel ( with accent marks ) is the son of a rich father . He never has had to work and he hasn't and as a consequence has gone literally mad with boredom , so mad that his old tutor , played by the wonderful Michael Simon near the beginning of his career , has been recalled to service as a warden . Andre takes a fancy to a girl of the petite bourgeoisie , and decides to see if she would like him without his money . He gets a job working on the barge owned by her father , transporting stones across Lake Lucerne and not only wins the girl , but discovers health , happiness and usefulness . We get to see sailboats and the scenery around Lake Lucerne . Very pretty . Michel Simon works hard at producing one of his amazing cinematic grotesques . Other than these two features , the film is a flat failure : the script is humorless , there is almost no tension and , indeed , very little movement . As the film finished its first seventy minutes , I became convinced it was shot by a portrait photographer . In the final section there are signs of movement , but it looks as if it was done by lifting bits from the movies of Louis Lumiere : ' Lancement d'un navire à la Ciotat ' , say . Look at Louis Lumiere's works . . . . and Michel Simon's later stuff . Avoid this one .
Men are Such Clowns	This is an example of one of the most unusual techniques in film making , the silhouette play . The best known examples are the animations of Lotte Reininger , whose feature - - arguably the first animated feature , DIE ABENTUR DIE PRINZ ACHMED - - is available on DVD for those interesting . Although the technique often gives a great sense of intimacy it does not work very well here for my taste . One reason is the broad bawdiness of the subject as Pierrette cuckolds Pierrot with another clown . The other is the reduction of the characters to classical types of ballet , which is largely foreign to my sensibilities . The air of unreality imposed by these factors make the intimacy of the silhouette technique incongruous .
Full of Ridiculous Moments	Given the movies ' fascination with Arabia - - one need only consider Valentino as THE SHEIK , the frequent remakes of BEAU GESTE , UNDER TWO FLAGS , THE FOUR FEATHERS , and David Lean's LAWRENCE OF ARABIA , this should have been an interesting movie . Unhappily , it isn't . I have seen about half a dozen of Miss Talmadge's starring films and they are typical industry superstar productions : lots of money spent on production values - - the sets , particularly the interiors , are gorgeous and the compositions great , but what happened to the script ? Particularly when it was written by Frances Marion ? I think too many of the choices were directed towards what was hot at the moment . Imagine Oscar winner Joseph Schildkraut made up to look like Valentino , including spit curls , depending on which shot you're looking at , and you will understand some of the issues . Others include : Miscasting : Miss Talmadge is the most Irish-looking Arab you'll ever see . Yes , I know the name ' Talmadge ' is Welsh . She still looks Irish . She also looks as if she has recently lost a lot of weight . Did she and Joe Schenck have children and were any born a few months before this went into production ? Plot Holes : a character is caught by the Tuareg army , shot , left for dead and still beats the army into town by half an hour . Silly Details : Miss Talmadge's character is named Normahal . Does this mean she is normal , actually Norma Halmaj or the first cousin on her father's side to the Taj Mahal ? It is said that Mary Pickford seriously considered having her films destroyed at her death . That would have been a pity , as Miss Pickford's films are always honest in their emotional and story-telling bases . Miss Talmadge's movies , in this period , however , would seem to be the sort of over-produced tripe that is better forgotten , no matter how popular it was at the time .
Ah , For Our Gang !	Bizarre little novelty short about a wagon train crossing the Plains , being stopped by the Indians . . . . and all the actors are little children in diapers ! One of a series directed by Charles Lamont before he hit it big at Universal . Notable for a young Shirley Temple as the girl tied to the stake by the Indians .
Napoleonic Zenda	The senior Dumas ' novel is turned into a knockoff of THE PRISONER OF ZENDA - - although as I have never read this Dumas novel , it may simply be returning the compliment . Director Karlson is not able to raise much of a performance from anyone except from Anthony Quinn , who plays his slimily villainous role with the appropriate cool aplomb . Still and all , besides the pleasures of Anthony-Quinn-watching , Karlson does manage to shoot the entire procedure with a goodly amount of visual beauty , with an MGM-style sumptuousness well displayed . Aside from these two point , however , this one is pretty much a washout .
Groundhog Christmas	Take the plot of GROUNDHOG DAY , in which Bill Murray has to do the same day over and over again until he finally gets it right , remaking himself , in the process , from a surly lout into a genuinely caring individual . Change the setting from a real Punxatawney , Pennsylvania to a stand-in-for-everywhere , ill-defined location . Replace brilliant comic lead Bill Murray will talented Jay Mohr and some good supporting actors like Daphne Zuniga and Ruta Lee . Sprinkle liberally with many of the identical incidents from the original movie , changed slightly to fit the different holiday and avoid lawsuits and replace top comedy director Harold Ramis with someone I've never heard of before and you get a dull TV movie . Don't bother with this one , folks .
Talk Loud ! Louder !	This turgid screen version of Somerset Maugham's " The Circle " suffers not only from the dated story , but from performances by seasoned silent performers who seem absolutely overwhelmed by the sound equipment . The first scene suffers as the juveniles insist of making sure their emotions can be read in the second balcony . Even Lewis Stone seems ill at ease , until Ernest Torrence and Alison Skipworth come on . Torrence is a delight , complaining about his dentures , and Skipworth is wonderful . The camera is not quite immobile , but it does move leadenly - - quite appropriately in following Torrence , but it does move rapidly when needed to maintain composition - - something that modern film makers don't seem to think important But Lewis Stone's register runs all over the place , overacting in antique style even for 1930 with the youngsters , and fairly natural with Torrence and Skipworth . The total effect is bad .
Conflicts	There seem to be two sets of film makers at work on this short : one is Harry Langdon and Harry Edwards , one of his lead collaborators from his Mack Sennett days . The two of them manage a few real Harry Langdon moments , when the pixilated Harry - - actually , here he seems permanently soused - - is befuddled by the modern world , in the form of a telephone hooked up to the electricity line and the toaster on the telephone jack . If you are a fan of Harry Langdon's style of comedy - - and I am - - then you will enjoy this movie for those moments . And therefore you will hate it for its loud , cheap , painful Jules White setting of random violence and Elsie Ames - - a talented contortionist who worked well with Buster Keaton in a couple of his Columbia shorts , because she could take a fall very well , but here she's just annoying . So should you see this ? If you're a Harry Langdon fanatic , yes , for those few brief moments . But otherwise , no .
Rotten	Bad sound , poor script and Al St . John making faces : what less could you ask for ? St . John and Jimmy Aubrey waste their time dropping dishes in a restaurant with two patrons , one boss and a floor show of eight . There's singing , but the sound makes it impossible to follow . There's dancing , but it isn't terribly well choreographed . And , as said before , there's Al St . John , who can take a fall , but that's the limit of his talents . Give it a miss .
Automatic Sausage Machine	Lloyd Hamilon and Bud Duncan , at this stage in their careers , formed a comedy team of ' Ham and Bud ' . They played two vicious tramps who wandered into situations , engaged in some not too funny torture and left . Later Lloyd Hamilton became an accomplished and inventive screen comedian who drank himself to death and Bud Duncan continued working for thirty years . This is one of their less chaotic vehicles , which may be due to the fact it is directed by Marshall Neilan or due to the fact that it happens to survive in better shape than most of their films . It begins with them starving , but instead of letting the audience enjoy their deaths , they get a job converting canine dogs to sausage dogs - - the ' Automatic Sausage Machine ' is an old vaudeville routine , one version of which was filmed by Edison in the 1890s - - put a dog in the hopper , turn a crank and a string of sausages comes out . Ham operates the machine , Bud steals dogs . Variations on that are the gags in this movie , except for when Ham sticks a carving knife into Bud . Fun for psychopaths everywhere .
One of the Weaker Tashlins	Until the rise of Daffy Duck and Bugs Bunny at the very end of the 1930s , Porky Pig was Termite Terrace's biggest star , but he was largely a straight man . In this one he is a farmer doing his spring planting , beset by a lazy watch dog ( " I must be a watch dog - - I'm full of ticks " ) and raiding chickens . Part of my lack of enjoyment may be due to the poor coloring imposed on the print I saw . Tashlin tries his best , using some of his interesting compositions In the beginning scenes , while Porky is harrowing the ground before planting , he is shown in a tight shot from a very low angle - - almost a worm's-eye view . Tash would go from directing cartoons with very live-action compositions to live-action movies with very cartoonish set-ups . but this is not , alas , one of his better efforts .
" Will No One Understand That I am a man of Dignity ? "	Those words might have summed up Fin's screen personna . Here , as a stuffy college dean , he accidentally sits on a youth-restoring plaster invented by Ted Healy - - the man who founded the Three Stooges - - and quicker than you can say " 23 Skidoo " He's off chasing the young ladies and serenading sorority houses in this pretty good comedy directed by Stan Laurel .
Cooling	This Cameo Comedy from 1929 - - the Cameos were produced by Jack White , one of the leading comedy shorts producers of the 1920 , and the cameos were single-reelers , as opposed to the ones that used his name - - was produced in the last year that producers turns out silent comedies and there is a certain poverty to it Because of the shortness of this one , there is little in the way of structure or elaboration . This is typical of of the length . But it's not particularly interesting , because you can see the payoff even as the set-up for the gag begins . There is nothing to distract the experienced silent-comedy fan . This comedy stars Cliff , Bowes , a man who parlayed his abilities as a trick diver into a comedy lead career int he late 1920s . He does a particular fall twice in this movie , falling over a satchel that comes up to his shins that I do not recall . How Mr . Bowes ' career might have prospered or failed in the sound era is something that no one can say , for he died five months after this movie was released .
But no more	This late Mabel Normand short - - she would make two more in that year , 1927 , then retire , dying in early 1930 - - and it shows that she is pretty near the end of the line . She looks tired and , despite a topnotch supporting cast - - Jimmy Finlayson and Max Davidson included - - and Richard Jones directing , this has no more than occasional chuckles . A sad end for the queen of comedy .
A Bad Trip On A Hash Pipe	Carefully conceived and generally well-executed visually , this movie fails because it fails to take advantage of the story's structure , which is just hinted at in this movie and because of the over-the-top performance of the pudgy Stacia Napierkowska as Queen Antinea of the remnants of Atlantis which , as we all know , is in the middle of the Sahara Desert . Spoilers : the first half of the movie uses itself up in getting to the Hidden City - - which 19th century popular fiction would have us believe , are scattered across Africa like wads of chewing gum on the bottom of school desks . Mostly it works like the revelations of story within story of the Arabian Nights , However , the inmost story is of a different order . It is preceded by the two male leads ' smoking Hashish - - accidentally - - and ended by the survivor heading back to the Hidden City like an addict . It should possess the air of a fever dream . Instead we are confronted with a relatively straightforward story interspersed by the hefty Miss Napierkowa throwing hissy fits and very much in need of a hairbrush . Kudos to a beautifully designed and shot production and to excellent and restrained performances by the rest of the cast , particularly Georges Melchior . But Miss Napierkowska pretty much made the audience laugh in embarrassment .
Lust ! Betrayal ! Fudge !	One of the several dozen short comedies that Sennett directed for Biograph , before he went off to Keystone to work on his own , wilder farces . Here he not only directs , but stars as the jilted lover . Although not as wild as some of his own comedies , this stands up better than much of the work he did at Keystone . People are recognizable , their motives are clearer and the jokes , in that context , a lot sharper .
Crusading Reporters	Every Poverty Row producer's favorite lead actor , Regis Toomey , is the world's most clueless cub reporter in this comedy-action newspaper romp about the events around a crusading District Attorney killed by Boris Karloff , two days before the election on the orders of his corrupt machine boss - - although the laughs are few and weak , alas . Toomey , as always , is up to his role , plenty of energy . Female lead , Sue Carol , however , cannot manage much in the way of an emotional register . This is the sort of movie that has been done better before and afterward , but director Christy Cabanne plays with some interesting traveling shots . They must have been expensive as anything to achieve in this poverty row second feature , but Christy was not giving up a moving camera just because it was difficult . Unfortunately , he was not much of a dialogue director at this point , and Sue Carol's performance suffers . Also , I was rather taken aback by a flight of stairs into a cabin on board a yacht - - no handrails and the stairs are open . I wouldn't want to be going belowdecks that way on a rough sea . On net , this is not a movie to seek out unless you are a Karloff fan , a Regis Toomey fan - - there may be one or two of those around - - or so mad for Sue Carol that you don't care it's in black and white . Her career didn't go much further - - a few years later , she became an agent , married Alan Ladd and promoted him into a major star .
Escalation	This early Keystone , about the rivalry between two goonish suitors over goonish Alice Howell , starts out with with the suitors attacking each other with spiders and quickly escalates with attacks by rocks , water and soon , a civil war cannon . It lacks any subtlety in its humor but all it lacks is a mushroom cloud at the end . There is quite a lot of comedy talent on display , including Charley Chase , the forgotten - - and very funny - - Alice Howell , Chester Conklin and , to round out the pack , Al St . John . It won't make any fans , but if you enjoy the early Keystones or want to see these players in their earlier , rawer phases , will be worth your time .
The Old Wot For	The usual Popeye-versus-Bluto fight of almost all the post-Fleischer era . This one has them as knights jousting for the hand of Sleeping Beauty - - Olive Oyl in a long blonde wig . Good backgrounds , good animation and the usual poor scripts with unfunny gags makes this pretty much like all the others of this era . If you've seen one , you've seen them all .
A Talent Too Big for the Movies	Bert Lahr , alas , never made the transition from the stage to the screen . Oh , he's wonderful in a couple of movies ; as the cowardly lion in THE WIZARD OF OZ he's great , and as the burlesque comic , in THE NIGHT THEY RAIDED MINSKY'S he was amazing . But , alas , his performances were too broad and mannered for any sort of regular employment in the movies , so back he went to the stage , where his mugging fit the proscenium arch . Nonetheless , it is good to see his Cop Act : written by Fred Allen - - yes , THAT Fred Allen - - and adapted for the screen , we can see Bert Lahr , with his huge grimace and big movements and that fey , cowardly personality , too big for reality , just the right size for a live audience and for the fantasy of THE WIZARD OF OZ . I enjoyed it , even though it doesn't work as film . . . . but I'll take Bert Lahr on any terms I can get .
Weaker Silly Symphony	One of the weaker Silly Symphonies , this one is quite enjoyable , but fails in a basic aesthetic rule of animation : if it could have been shot as a live-action short , then it doesn't need to be a cartoon , and therefore isn't a good one . Now , you may disagree with this aesthetic rule of mine , and I won't dispute it too strongly . Nor is this a poor movie : the gags are strong and a fair number of them need to be animated , since the ' transformation ' gags are clearly animation of gags . But there are plenty of live action fox hunts in the movies , and this could have been done that way . But it has its pleasures nonetheless .
Double Talk	This middling entry in MGM's answer to Warner's Torchy Blaine series has Maisie going to Reno , getting involved in a mystery surrounding a divorcing couple . It is a rather dull entry , the result of an uninvolving script and bland characterizations . Harry Beaumont , one of MGM's longtime B directors , does his best with the visual story telling , but even Anne Southern , aided and abetted by some up-and-coming players like Ava Gardner and John Hodiak can't do much with the story but talk fast . MGM , once Thalberg was dead , never quite knew what to do with unglamorous characters and a smattering of 40s jive talk dates the story and gives an infantile air to the entire operation . For completest of the talent involved , but if you miss this , you won't suffer .
Lost Context	This was one of a series of short comedies produced under the supervision of D . W . Griffith , probably as a potboiler to keep the money coming in while he was concentrating on BIRTH OF A NATION . . . . what would later become part of the Triangle-Fine Arts company . But only a few of these survive , director Eddie Dillon was not a sure hand at directing comedy : it's mostly medium shots with one or two long shots , and so visually repetitive . In addition , it seems that a lot of the humor is based on knowing the characters in the series it is based on . Miss Tincher is busy giving her all , and Max Davidson knows how to overplay his part amusingly - - he's not in his usual Jewish costume , but made up with a Ford Sterling beard . Both would do much better later . For completists only .
The Great Marksman	There is a joke about a great marksman . When you came to his home , you found a fence with bulls-eyes painted on it and right in the middle of each bullseye is a bullet hole . A visitor asked the marksman how he came to be able to do that . " There's nothing to it , " said the marksman . " I fired the bullets into the fence and painted the bulls-eyes around the holes . " That's how I feel about most of Snub's leading comedies for Roach and this one in particular : Snub has shot a number of good gags into this movie , and executed them perfectly , and then written a plot to contain those gags . No one expects a comedy to be as closely reasoned and logical as a book by Heidigger , but it needs to make some sense . Perhaps it is the rushing to get from one joke to the next , but I don't find this to be more than adequate . On the other hand , the gags are good . And Marie Mosquini is a real cutie-pie .
Mistaken Relations	Snub goes butterfly hunting in Grffith Park and catches Marie Mosquini by accident . They go to a café where all the men have a lot of hair on their faces and the usual mischief ensues . The plot was later re-used in the Laurel & Hardy classic , THE FIXER-UPPERS , but here it just results in one reel of the usual mayhem , decent enough for the pain-is-funny crowd , eked out with some nice extension of mistaken identities . ' Sunshine ' Sammy Morrison has one of his typical scene-stealing outings , this time as a a youngster to whom Snub gives a baby he has been saddled with to watch . Eddie Boland , who shortly would begin his own , good series of comedies at Roach is on hand , as is studio regulars Noah Young .
Les tableaux	Before discussing this movie , I need to discuss the idea of tableaux . There are two ways of looking at movies : as a series of actions , or a series of scenes . Tableaux takes the " series of scenes " to an extreme : a series of still pictures , rather than action . Perret's tableaux in this and other movies are magnificent . Each scene is a magnificent picture . Given the recent ( 2002 ) restoration of this picture , one can appreciate Perret's composition , his framing techniques - - he likes to shoot small groups of people in windows , one person per window pane , so they wind up looking like a gallery of pictures - - and his attention to detail . The problem arises in the director's decision in how long to focus on each shot . Even with elaborate framing , composition and detail - - this is a movie about a lacemaker , after all - - tastes vary . In terms of story-telling , of course , one should look at each scene just long enough to let its sense penetrate . In terms of looking at pretty pictures , the individual viewer makes up his or her own mind . In terms of a tableaux director's movie , the director makes the decision - - and Perret makes the decision to slow things down so you can look at every line of every piece of lace in every frame of the movie . And it's a simple plot , unadorned by comic relief or much movement of any sort , a two-reel movie , about 16 minutes , and by halfway through the second reel , I was screamingly bored . " All right ! " I wanted to shout . " It's another piece of lace ! It's magnificent ! Now get on with it ! " And that's what's great and awful about this movie .
Clark Gable manqué	This B movie remake of MANHATTAN MELODRAMA set in the Yukon was the one of the salvos that MGM fired in its attempt to use James Craig as a replacement for Gable while the King of Hollywood was at war . Craig is pretty good at the Gable role and there is a pretty good supporting cast , including Keenan Wynn , Jack Holt and particularly John Carradine as a crooked gambler . The problem is that Patricia Dane in the female lead is pretty stiff trying to play her role like Myrna Loy and William Lundigan , although competent , brings not a hint of the sparkle that William Powell did to his performance . Nor does director Joseph Newman take advantage of the nominally outdoor nature of the big finale . Everyone moves as if they are on a sound stage and the ending is abrupt . Perhaps it comes down to the fact that Newman did not serve the material as well as might be hoped .
Biograph After Griffith	By the time this Biograph came out , Klaw & Ehrlanger had taken over and D . W . Griffith had walked . And , while the people at Biograph had learned a lot of the mechanical lessons of Griffith's era - - the acting is fine , the cutting is fine , the crowd scenes are well done , and the composition uses the familiar ' Biograph Right Wall ' - - nonetheless , this is clearly not Griffith's work . What is missing is movement within the frame , the sophisticated complication of action that Griffith understood and which the unnamed director and cameraman did not , and the sense that the story is about more than story . As a result , it winds up looking like Griffith's work from 1909 , and unremarkable Griffith from that period . That being the case , this is a technically interesting movie , since it underscores what Griffith understood about film making that his contemporaries did not . If , however , you are interested in good movies , rather than seeing everything that Lionel Barrymore did , or the young Alan Hale , give it a miss .
Now With Less Semon !	Over all , this is a pretty good movie for Semon . Which , for me , is damning with faint praise . The story is that Stan Laurel was so good in the first half of their first movie together - - usually said to be FRAUDS AND FRENZIES - - that Larry Semon the star / director / producer of the Vitagraph comedy division had him fired off the set so that people would not notice how good Stan was and how bad Semon was . In actuality , Stan was in three Semon comedies , in each of which he got substantial roles . He bounced around a lot in those years , working at half a dozen studios in front of the camera , before retreating behind the camera , where he seems to have really learned his movie craft . But this is a Semon comedy about the Hatfield-McCoy feud , a popular subject for decades , and Larry Semon is in charge , and he gets all the best gags himself - - the best , in this case , is one he does with a clay pipe . But Semon had not turned into the cinematic egomaniac he would be , so there's still some room for the supporting comics like Stan and Frank Alexander - - Alexander would stay with Semon for another six years . And to show his generosity , Semon does give the bear top billing in the title . Which for Semon was a major concession .
A Bunch of dummies	This late Oswald the Lucky Rabbit cartoon - - the series would continue for another couple of years with a one-shot revival in the 1940s - - garners its jokes from plays on horror movies , as Oswald - - who seems to run a wax museum - - takes in an orphan , who , in the middle of the night , encounters various evil wax figures who come to life and attempt to tun him into a wax figure , There are some amusing moments and some instants of real terror for he intended market - - apparently very young children - - but it doesn't particularly please me . My issue with the series is , despite some fairly good individual entries in this series , there is no sense of Oswald other than - - at this stage - - a Mickey Mouse imitator . This is despite the fact that Mickey was invented as an Oswald imitation after Disney lost control of him to Charles Mintz eight years earlier . He is , alas , simply another featureless clown who does various funny things , without being anyone in particular . This is a common feature o a lot of the cartoons of the period , but that doesn't make this one any better .
Slow Vehicle	This rather poor RKO programmer manages to keep some interest going , mostly due to Fay Wray , who struggles with the poor material , but who is canny enough to make the most of her close-ups , and to Paul Guilefoyle who is pretty good is his supporting role as the hot-tempered moral center of the piece . Leading man - - actually , leading chump - - Charles Lang suggests , if anyone , a rather clueless Dan Duryea . The plot , about a struggling bus line , owned by Miss Wray's father and run by her , despite the efforts by wildcatters to put it out of business by faking accidents , has hints of screwball comedy about it at some points , but it is rarely played for laughs . Lang , the newly indigent ex-playboy , is down to his last limousine , which has its potential , but the effect is not funny , merely incongruous . Not a terrible piece to watch , but not to go out of your way for .
Fast Start , Sloppy Finish	This RKO second feature stars Lucille Ball and James Ellison , starts out amusingly - - particularly the scene where Ellison is hung over and the toaster is very noisy - - but ends in very predictable fashion . The leads can't hold this fluff together : Ball is unconvincing and Ellison is too montonous . Robert Coote , in support , is excellent .
' Twas Ever Thus	A typical Keystone flirting-in-the-park one-reeler , this one is differentiated slightly by dressing the players in early nineteenth century garb and having them adopt their manners - - and they do carry it off most convincingly . But once you get past that , there's nothing to make this one different from any of the dozen or so that Keystone turned out from 1914-1916 . Mack Swain , as always , is good as someone down on his luck . Played a little differently , we might have sympathy for the character , but ' Ambrose ' was never played for sympathy . Swein played this character for twenty years , and he remained big , bluff and human throughout .
Some Sparkle , But . . . .	This romantic comedy about a rich young American who is trying to make a go at painting in Paris ( John Loder ) and a young woman who is trying to become a dress designer in the City of Lights ( Nancy Burnes ) owes whatever sparkle it possesses to its leading actors . Miss Burnes , in particular , is a bright and attractive screen presence whose career petered out four years afterward , while Loder wound up in Hollywood playing second leads . Director Carol Reed , one of the great talents of the British film industry in the 1940s and 1950s can't do much with the script , which takes the plot twists and lets the audience in on them far too early . While the effect is not inept , it is not particularly interesting and is best viewed on a dull afternoon .
Neither the Right Way Nor the Wrong Way	This is a flag-waving programmer about the lives of boots at the Great Lakes Training Facilities during World War II . It manages to cover all the bases without doing much wrong . This Pine-Thomas feature - - they were known as " Dollar Bills " because of their ability to squeeze out a decent flick on a tight budget - - manages to have a few interesting bits despite a lack of top-notch talent . The central story , about turning around an unwilling draftee Robert Lowery , who is more interested in winning a boxing championship than the War , and his romance with gorgeous WAVE Jean Parker is a bit subpar , but a fine supporting cast including a humorous ex-shoe clerk Roscoe Karns , cowboy Tom Keene whose son has already died in the war and and Robert Armstrong as their instructor manages to keep things humming along .
Up in the Air , Junior Birdman	Robinet , the lead in this Italian slapstick comedy , wants to be an aviator in the worst way , and this being an Italian slapstick , that's how he does it . Italian slapstick in this period was absolutely bone-breaking , so much so that it makes Keystone slapstick look like drawing-room comedy by contrast . Although the course of this comedy is not terribly surprising - - Robinet gets in the air and causes general destruction , mostly by knocking the tops off tall buildings - - the design of his aircraft is particularly amusing . It resembles a giant sturgeon with a forward propeller and one on top - - an auto-gyro of some sort - - with wings and , of course , a jaw hinged to open and close constantly , suggesting , perhaps a crocodile . At five minutes it is no long enough to get tiresome and you should find it tolerably amusing for that length of time .
Stop Motion History	This short subject - - about one reel - - is more interesting as an historical artifact than as a work of art : it was Harryhausen's first independent production after working for George Pal . Essentially a silent with a synchronized sound score , it covers four Mother Goose rhymes animating the supertitled words that appear one at a time like a teletype . Although the animation is not as elaborate and convincing as it would become by the 1960s , underneath the overly bright colors and banal images , you can still see Harryhausen's sense of humor , particularly in the credits . Even so , it's not particularly fascinating . For Harryhausen fans only .
Good Actors Prop Up Bad Script	One of the problems with a lot of courtroom dramas of the 1930s - - and this one in particular - - is that they are mysteries . Now mysteries make good stories and good movies , since they have usually have a fast start - - someone is killed - - and a definite plot - - the detection of the guilty . But when they take place in the courtroom , as does this one , they are largely composed of showing that the accused person did not do it - - and what does that say about all the people involved in the investigation and the prosecution ? It results in a certain amount of idiot plotting and I always find that annoying . Lawyers do not ask questions they do not know the answer to , and people do not pop up to confess that they shot the dead man , Perry Mason notwithstanding . Nonetheless , this movie is not awful , and it is largely due to the work of the actors involved . Walter Abel , as the accused , and Ann Harding , as the secretary who loves him , are fine actors and manage to bring a semblance of emotional reality , if not verisimilitude to this piece of tripe . Not enough to make it worthwhile - - both actors have been much better served - - but enough to keep you watching to the hackneyed end .
Standard	Fire engine companies racing their ways through the streets towards a conflagration were a standard bit of film from this period : fire companies in Buffalo , New York and Quebec ( on sleigh runners ) were available . Evenually , Edwin S . Porter would edit a bunch of them into one of his early masterpieces , THE LIFE OF AN American FIREMAN . This one , one of the early productions of the American Mutoscope Company , which would evolve - - not mutate - - into the Biograph Company where D . W . Griffith would reign for five years , becoming the leading single director of motion pictures for more than a decade , this has a fairly important place in the history of film , but except for its lack of horses , is a fairly standard example of the genre .
Passion and Special Effects	And so James Cameron directed his first movie release since Titanic . As one might expect of a James Cameron movie , it pushes the technical limits of film-making to show this 3-D documentary on the latest investigations of the wreck of the Titanic , lying four thousand meters beneath the surface of the cold cold Atlantic . We see the remnants of the ship , parts of it startlingly preserved , parts of it eaten away by the elements , and sometimes we see , superimposed the ghostly computer models of the original , actors playing the parts of long-dead people . The scientists who do the work tell us of their work , and they speak of their passion , but unconvincingly . Only the biologists can hint at the strange wonders that grip them , talking of the microbes that eat metallic iron into strange shapes . The rest seem to do what they do because they do it , like a mountain climber climbing a mountain " because it's there . " James Cameron is an excellent film-maker , who is always interested in using the latest technical gadgets to tell his story . Yet in this documentary , we fail to see the human connection , even as humans tell us of their wonder . Perhaps the film maker is so close to his subject he cannot see it . Combining elements from his greatest financial failure - - THE ABYSS - - with his greatest financial success - - TITANIC - - he has produced a documentary fit for The History Channel , Alas .
Stranger in a Strange Land	I'm sure the story of a young man who goes to college for the wrong reasons - - here , William ' Hopalong Cassidy ' Boyd gets into West Point to impress the always wonderful Bessie Love - - and gradually discovers a sense of dedication - - was not original with this , but it's the oldest variation on it I can think of . They're still doing it , of course , because it's a good story . The result , here , alas , is good - - exteriors were shot at West Point for authenticity - - but not great . Donald Crisp , who had a long career as an actor , from D . W . Griffith's stock company through the 1960s , directed quite a few movies in the ' teens and twenties , but except for co-directing Keaton's THE NAVIGATOR , he never did anything noteworthy : a fine actor , but no real visual flair I would opine . The result is a competent programmer , but not much more .
Lynn Redgrave	This chaotic , fitfully amusing comedy of how Lynn Redgrave's character came to mastermind the kidnapping of a Mafia don owes its occasional successes largely to Ms . Redgrave's crisp performance and her sardonic delivery of some amusing lines . Victor Mature is also fine as an oblivious Mafia don . Dom Deluise and John Astin put a lot of energy into their roles as lawyers , and Pat Morita has a funny monologue about how Japanese people can't pronounce the letter L . However , the script stumbles in several directions at once , trying and failing to cover the subplots in the Evan Hunter novel , and the other men in the cast , particularly Paul Sand and Austin Pendleton as Redgrave's unwitting henchmen , along with three or four other alumni of the Second City troupe's first year all wind up playing their characters alike , as vague , whiny and low key . The net effect is slow and dull . Give this a miss .
Unpardonable Waste	This being a comedy directed by Jules White , the first thing we establish is that Buster Keaton's character is a half-wit . This is a basic problem with his sound studio pictures . The real Keaton character is not an idiot triumphing over fate by luck , but a dreamer , out of step with the chaotic world , who triumphs - - or sometimes sinks - - by stoic perseverance . He learns his lesson in the school of hard knocks . But this is 1940 , not 1927 , and Buster is toiling in the Columbia short subjects department , not building features with his hand-picked crew . And he's got Jules White , who thinks that sheer pain frequently applied is the only source of comedy . So there is a constant struggle between Keaton , backed by his co-director from THE GENERAL , Clyde Bruckman , as writer , and Jules White as producer-director . Unhappily , Jules White wins . People get sat on , people get hit on the forehead by shoes with loud sound effects . But Keaton wins a few battles . He still takes a fall beautifully and he has a nice little sequence trying to undress in an upper berth . So don't expect a classic , but do expect some wonderful little bits . Just ignore the parrot .
Naked as in without proscenium arch	By the time J . Stuart Blackton directed this version of the story of how Lady Godiva came to ride naked through the streets of Coventry , Vitagraph had gotten the Word : not an inkling of the proscenium arch remains in this composition ; and , if at times , the actors seem to be just standing around in a state of confusion - - Griffith knew how to direct crowds , and the folks over at Edison avoided the issue by doing without crowds - - at least they form pleasing compositions and point the way towards the end of the irised shots to vary composition . Vitagraph , indeed , was in the thick of the competition to advance the art of movie-making at this point and would be the last of the Patent Trust companies standing , still producing the occasional hit feature through the mid-twenties . It's a pity that the acting in this movie is still definitely pre-Griffith . And the delectable Miss Julia Swayne Gordon does not , alas , ride naked , clothed only in her long tresses . She is definitely wearing a body stocking when she climbs aboard the horse .
Good Leads Fail To Sparkle	John Ritter and Penny Marshall lead a capable TV movie comedy cast in this tale of moral love in suburbia that somehow fails to ever really get off the ground . Director Tony Bill does an able job and the lack of sparkle is , for me , something of a mystery . The early scenes are played , perhaps , a bit too slow and straight . The situation of the affair that triggers the plot , perhaps , is telegraphed or maybe it tries too hard to be the anti-BOB & CAROL & TED AND ALICE in its own , TV-clean way . Certainly there is nothing in the dialogue to raise it above average . In any case , there is nothing that seems to me to be clearly wrong with this movie , and it may work out better for you , if you are fond of the early 1980s . But I think not .
" Our Hands Are Dirty . Let's Take Off Our Clothes "	Four young women change a tire and , feeling hot and bothered , leave their car to go take a swim in the ocean . . . . . and their underwear is less revealing than one-piece bathing suits . While they are frolicking in the surf , a young Black girl comes by and steals their pretty clothes . . . . and their car has mysteriously vanished , leaving them the grim prospect of having to walk home . . . . although somehow I would imagine some kind man would be happy to pick them up . For someone used to stag films of the 1970s - - or even mainstream films of the 1960s , this seems a peculiarly innocent stag film for 1929 . What extreme prudery reigned in that time , to make these films naughty !
A Last Hurrah	This well done but statically shot late silent shows the out-of-date technique of its director , Sidney Olcott . Olcott was , in many ways , a pioneering talent for Kalem , who produced the first screen version of BEN-HUR in 1907 and the first American feature , FROM THE MANGER TO THE CROSS in 1912 . Unhappily , while this story of love and valor in the face of a native uprising in South Africa is cut at a brisk pace , Olcott's limited range of shots - - about 90 % static one - two - and three-shots - - forces editing choices that are occasionally disruptive : two people are standing about , discussing something , and the next shot shows two native warriors in shiny black feather head dresses threatening the audience . The viewer's mind tries to build parallels and fails . Olcott's shots are all well-composed and his larger group shots are dynamic and interesting , but the movie stands and falls by the vast majority of his compositions , which are all astonishingly similar . It is often said that there was a wave of firing among screen actors when sound came in , often attributed to the claim that many of the leading stars had voices that belied their silent images . In fact , acting stars usually have a short half-life . Directing talent was supposed to have survived better , but by the end of 1934 , half the major silent directors had quit or retreated to B productions , never to raise their heads above cover again , even when they had clearly mastered the techniques of sound as well as silence : shell-shocked veterans like Dwan , who said if you kept low , you lasted forever , and who directed into the 1960s . Only the producers made the transition : they had the money and they kept it . But here , in Olcott's last movie , we see the problems of obsolescence that touched so much of Hollywood . Olcott's technique was dazzling and inventive in 1912 but so utterly old hat in 1927 that it was silly . It wasn't enough to keep your head low ; you had to keep moving .
The HoneyMousers	The principal gag in this one is that the two lead characters - - who are mice - - are drawn and voiced as Ralph Kramden and Ed Nortion ( Jackie Gleason and Art Carney ) from THE HONEYMOONERS . There had been several Termite Terrace efforts in this vein , including A TAKE OF TWO KITTIES ( Abbot & Costello , the introduction of Tweety Bird ) but McKimson brings little to this but the conceit . Although a very competent cartoon director , Robert McKimson suffers a bit because Friz Freleng and Chuck Jones , who ran the other two cartoon units at Warner Brothers in this period , were geniuses . I have the impression that he wanted to move to live action directing , as had ex-Schlesinger cartoonist Frank Tashlin ( and earlier , Gregory LaCava ) , but never got the chance .
Too Mild	This episode of the Woody Woodpecker franchise is saggy in the middle , because of the relatively weak gags , and the the inconsistency of the setting - - at first it seems to be turn-of-the-century , given Wally Walrus ' antique police uniform and Woody's occupation as a ' White Wings ' street sweeper , but there is a television set used as part of one gag . . . . Even worse than those is the watering down of Woody's manic personality in the decade since Seamus Culhane was in charge of his best shorts . It may have been more realistic to not have Woody split into four or five doppelgangers , as in THE BARBER OF SEVILLE , as if realism was a primary concern of of cartoon makers . But it's a heck of a lot less interesting .
Fly Me To the Moon And Let Me Play in Sheboygan	Billy Dooley - - sometimes it seems like half the silent comedians were named ' Billy ' and about a tenth of them ' Sid Smith ' - - was a stage hoofer who moved and looked like an exaggerated Ray Bolger . He spent a few years in the mid - and late twenties as a comedy lead for Christie . Dressed in a sailor suit , with a yen for Vera Steadman , his dim-witted character appeared in many workaday short subjects . In this one , he is hired to fly in a rocket to the moon in return for Vera - - the rocket is quite beautiful , with a real Georges Melies look to it . Naturally it does not land on the moon , but in a Turkish Bath on Ladies ' Day . Chaos , as they say , ensues . Hilarity is another matter . Mr . Dooley moves well , but his acting is geared for the stage , the gags are elaborately but mechanically executed and the results , while by no means painful , are not outstanding . A decent addition to your collection of Billies , but I think Sid Smiths average out better .
Before Its Time	Although Melies was a groundbreaker in many aspects of the cinema , including telling stories , fade cutting , trick films , stag films and religious stories , this one may hold the record : the story is that in order to meet the demand for films of the coronation , he filmed this reenactment - - and released it before Edward was crowned ! This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Not Really Felix	Although this appears as the second short on The Felix the Cat dvd collection , it does not resemble Felix particularly . The cat looks like a cleaned-up version of Krazy Kat and the story takes place in a dream after some kids have been reading " Huckleberry Finn . " Of interest for animation historians .
Reports of Cole Porter's Death	As so often happened in this period , Cole Porter's songs from the Michael Todd show that this was nominally based on were cut , except that Carmen Miranda sings a snatch of the title song at the beginning . It's understandable , since Michael Todd produced adult shows and the lyrics are among Porter's most risqué , including the hilarious ' Leader of a Big Time Band . ' In fact , it would seem that they threw away everything but the title . The replacement songs are all right , although strictly ' B ' level . The photography is that startling bizarre Fox Musical special and the choreography by Nick Castle is , as always , riveting - - especially in the number in which Vivian Blaine is leading a bunch of chorines who are dressed in aprons , and high heels - - and flesh-colored body stockings , of course . There is a plot of sort , appropriate to a wartime musical , Perry Como is inert during his two songs , Phil Silvers plays his high-pressure con man and Carmen Miranda - - well , I don't like Carmen Miranda . Any time . Vivian Blaine , playing a straight lead with her ' cherry blonde ' hair is fine : a real cutie-pie . In a few years she would play Miss Adelaide in GUYS AND DOLLS and , despite a long and healthy career , is not know known for anything else . The amount of talent that Hollywood threw away was always astounding . The plot would have us believe that Miss Blaine , Miss Miranda and Phil Silvers are cousins . After working out the justification for that , the writers seem to have given up . Maybe you should too .
Bless Mickey Rooney	As I write this in 2007 , Mickey is still chugging along . One new appearance is already on the books for him in the IMDb , in the 82nd year of his movie career , He played midgets in the 1926 , was MGM's biggest star in the late 1930s and is still chugging along . Bless him . As to this short , it's nothing much : an attempt to compete with the enormous success of Hal Roach's OUR GANG series , using one of Fontaine Fox's comic strips ( he was best known for the Toonerville Trolley , and , indeed , this one takes place among the youngsters of that megalopolis ) that isn't very successful , because Mickey is about ninety per cent of the show and he's not good enough to carry a movie , even of this length , at this tender age . But bless him anyway .
What Went Wrong ?	There's some very good talent in front of the camera in this lighthearted movie about con men conning other con men ; and there are signs that someone who understood something about subtext had a hand in the script , as lies are expounded , confidences betrayed and reality starts to bend so much that you can't tell who is playing what . . . . when Walter Catlett impersonates Ed Wynn , Jerry Lester apes Jimmy Durante and someone who I don't recognize impersonates Julian Eltinge playing Mae West . . . . . then you're on the verge of something so strange that they might have invented screwball comedy a year before Howard Hawks birthed it in TWENTIETH CENTURY . . . . but someone pulled back , said we had to be sure the audience understands the envelope switch . . . . and turned what might have been great into another decent time waster . James Dunn is good , Joan Bennet is very good - - another talented actress that was used and ignored by all the critics because she had the misfortune to have a talent for comedy - - and Herbert Mundin is good . But you walk out of the theater frustrated .
Crash Test Dummy	This was one of Larry Semon's last shorts . He would make three more and die the following year of a combination of tuberculosis and a nervous breakdown . Although it is apparent that Semon spent a goodly amount of money on this picture - - props , miniatures and explosions were not cheap , even in 1928 - - neither story construction nor character were Semon's strong points and by this point , you needed both to make a good comedy . The story is a simple one : Semon wants to marry the girl , but she doesn't want to marry him . So she tells him she will only marry a " famous movie star " . Semon goes to a movie studio , where he is given a job as a stunt man , which he fouls up . He is fired but can't get off the lot without getting caught in a series of bigger and bigger stunts . When it's over , the girl he wants to marry shows up , conveniently enough . " Will you marry me now ? " " No , " she says and that's the end . The stunts are fouled up in a straightforward way , but without much in the way of verve . The net effect is uninteresting . I should say that they are uninteresting to me . I don't find Semon particularly funny , but he seems to play very well to a large audience , particularly if there are small children in the audience . So if you are a small child , you might enjoy this .
Nothing New But Well Executed	There is nothing much new in this story of poor farmers in Maine : their trials and tribulations , their hopes and dreams and the Polish family that bought the abandoned farm down the road . However , the performances are excellent . Jean Muir is luminous as the hard-working drudge who wants something more without quite understanding what , William Janney is her brother who is working his way through college and Donald Woods is as good in his miscast role as he can be : he is supposed to be Polish and a violinist , but his faking is as mismatched to the music as can be . Good thing that what he really wants to be is a farmer ! But despite the excellence of the acting , it's largely repetitious of characters again and again : the kids are tired of the hard work , the father is understanding , the mother is shrill and grasping and so forth . After a while , it's a little too much . Fans of star watching should keep a sharp eye out : Shirley Temple is listed on the IMDb as having her last uncredited role in this , the same year she became the biggest star at Fox . Interestingly , I was unable to spot her , nor is she listed in the AFI Catalogue as appearing here . If you do see her here , please let me know where .
Melodrama	Sessue Hayakawa shot to stardom in Demille's THE CHEAT and his employers didn't know quite what to do with him . A Japanese actor , he couldn't be a romantic hero in the United States , so they made him into a melodramatic hero of a non-white race - - here he plays a half-Polynesian - - who suffered for his love - - usually of a White American woman - - who redeemed himself from the implied sin of miscegenation by suffering or dying . This went on for a couple of years until he was able to produce his own independent features . In the midst of all of this , of course , one is struck mostly by the silly , often idiot-plotted stories and by Hayakawa's relatively subtle and believable acting . This one pretty much follows that course . The print I saw at New York's Museum of Modern Art today was incomplete and the remaining bits had a lot of bubbling from outgassing , but except for Hayakaw ' , it's not worth it . Even director George Melford can't do much with this one .
On the Rock ( s )	Below-par Warner's B movie . True , this is a mostly decent production , with Litel , railroaded into Alcatraz by a judge who doesn't care about plea bargains . He gives one of his solid performances . However , most of the lines spoken by other actors are declaimed rather than spoken and the juvenile leads are truly awful .
Faces	This short subject , nominally in celebration of Warner Brothers ' silver jubilee - - the only thing I can think of is that they may have opened their first theater in 1905 - - they didn't go into production for another dozen years - - is an excellent primer for putting faces to names . If you are a fan of old movies , you have seen these actors , but you may not be able to link the faces with the names . Besides the players , various composers and lyricists are shown . It is amusing , given what happened later , to see Richard Rogers and Oscar Hammerstein II - - but they are seated next to , respectively , Lorenz Hart and Sigmund Romberg . This is not , otherwise , an interesting short subject - - the moviegoer was intended to be overwhelmed by the sight of so much talent and probably was . Now it is simply a historical artifact .
Simple Answers For Complex Questions	The post-Lew-Ayres Dr . Kildare series sputters with Keye Luke and Van Johnson still competing to be Lionel Barrymore's assistant - - and each has to solve a medical mystery of his own choice . Meanwhile , various plots continue from earlier entries in the series , mostly comic . The series was winding down and only two more entries would come out , at two-year intervals . This episode is better than a couple of the polished stinkers that immediately preceded it . The comic relief does not overwhelm the movie , and the usual character actors are on hand in their series roles for your enjoyment and they also give you a young Ava Gardner , just another of the MGM contract players . Hubba Hubba . But the principal reason to watch these movies is , of course , Lionel Barrymore , always an enormously enjoyable and expert performer for any role . Unfortunately , he suffered badly from rheumatism and so he spent this entire series sitting down in a wheelchair . But standing or sitting , he's always good to watch .
The More Things Change . . .	Eddie Barry wants to keep wife Betty Compson happy , and she wants him to be a race car driver , so he hires a driver to impersonate himself on the track ; but there is an accident and he has to go to the hospital and convince the doctor to have him bandaged . He persuades him to do so by offering to donate $2000 to the hospital - - this made me blink : not at the thought of bribing a doctor with money , but at how cheap it was ; or perhaps it simply indicates how far the dollar has fallen in ninety years . When Betty shows up at the hospital , she quickly discovers the deception and is angered by it , but forgives her husband when she is shown how badly injured the actual driver was . It might have been her husband . Finish . Most of the humor comes from the men literally slapping their thighs in joy at the thought of the deception and the ending device , which comes off as rather abrupt . What I find interesting about this movie is that it looks like it was a Biograph shot about five years earlier by Griffith . Its compositions are standard Biograph compositions , even to the defining right wall . I can't find any reference to who the cameraman was , but director Christie had been making movies for eight years at this point , for Nestor , which was the first production company with permanent facilities in greater Los Angeles . The overwhelming influence of Griffith at this point cannot be appreciated by a modern audience - - it's as if , after James Cameron made TITANIC , no one ever made a movie for less than $300 , 000 , 000 ever again .
Like All the Other Comedies	Modern film fans will look at this , if they look at it at all , to see the young Oliver Hardy . Well , he's on the screen for about four seconds in which he's knocked over , does a decent 108 and shows his face for about half a second . He's far down under any notional cast list in this split-reeler about a tramp pursued by a cop , another tramp who looks like him and half a dozen incompetent Keystone-Kops imitators . The gags are unornamented and set up for speed , not humor . I am happy to see this one has survived , just as I am for any film of the era , but little more than that . Bigger roles go to C . W . Ritchie , who later had a Broadway career , and Raymond McKee , who later starred in Sennett's SMITH FAMILY SERIES . There is some location shooting in what I would imagine to be St . Augustine , Florida in a Park in which there is a well-maintained circular pond and some handsome palm trees . Otherwise , eh .
Where Film Comedies Go Wrong	Watching Poodles Hanneford on the screen always makes me think of Chaplin's THE CIRCUS in which he attempts to learn the clown's routines and cannot . The clowns , who perform their routines perfectly but mechanically , are not funny . Chaplin , who performs them ineptly but with tremendous life , is hilarious . Not , I hasten to add , that Hanneford performs his comedy stunts here ineptly . Indeed , the funniest parts of the movie are when he performs a pratfall , as when he leaps into his girlfriend's arms . But Hanneford is not a movie actor , he is a circus clown and he does not know how to bring any sense of involvement at this scale , nor is Leslie Goodwins , who would come , over the next decade or two , to rule the RKO shorts and comedy departments , able to make him . So we are left with a comedy that has a few good moments , a story that is standard and decently but not well executed and . . . . well , it's not bad . I suppose that , for a Weiss Brothers comedy , that makes it as good as you can get . But you can get better elsewhere .
Runaway train !	Decent British part-silent about the life and love of cockney Ray Milland - - yes , that Ray Milland at the beginning of his career - - as the new fireman aboard the ' Flying Scotsman . ' Of course he falls in love with the daughter of the Flying Scotsman's engineer , unbeknownst to any of the parties , and of course the old fireman , fired for drinking on the job , has vowed vengeance on everyone . The whole movie is photographed by Theodore Sparkuhl is Germanic , moody , shadowy lighting that produces an air of foreboding in every scene .
Reasons to Take Off Your Clothes	A chambermaid is dusting when she discovers a statue of a reclining nude . In order to ascertain . . . . well , in order to produce a film that will play in a fin de siecle Viennese smoker , she takes off her clothes . In walks the master , who orders her out of the room , whereupon he follows her . Johann Schwarzer made a bunch of these ' arty ' films and about twenty are known of . Several survive in the Viennese film archive . Just as the porn sites were the first profitable sites on the Internet , so these short ' art ' films which features naked women were popular products of the infant film industry in Mitteleurope . In one form or another , they remained popular . . . . and still show up , which , I am sure , will surprise no one .
More Violent !	This rip-off of Porter's THE GREAT TRAIN ROBBERY - - you could not actually copyright a movie at this time , so there was no real protection for producers against plagiarism - - is generally supposed to be a scene-for-scene remake , but there are differences : the robbery itself is more violent , as the thieves knock out the guard on the train , then beat his body and throw him off the moving train . Don't worry . . . . to the modern eye , it is clearly a dummy . Also , the backgrounds are much more clearly stylized backdrops . It is interesting to note that even at this stage , Lubin's cameraman was playing with framing technique : the brief dance scene uses some false arches to constrict the scene .
Unhappily , I don't read Dutch	There are limits on how intelligent a review I can write about this movie , since the copy I saw today at New York's Museum of Modern Art was from the Dutch Film Archives and the titles were , naturally , in Dutch , and the Museum seems to think that either everyone in old New Amsterdam reads Dutch or they didn't care . So some plot points remain obscure , like the characters ' tattoos . Nonetheless , I need to award this movie a decent rating because its main sequence is a chase sequence , over roofs , down elevators , on boats , in cabs and under railroads , done with some imagination , although doubtless a tad slow for modern audiences who expect people to sky dive out of supersonic jets buck naked . That's a good sequence and , doubtless , if I read Dutch the movie would have been outright enjoyable .
Calling Dennis Morgan !	Jack Carson is teamed up with Robert Hutton in this Warners farce about two would-be songwriters . But while it looks good on paper , the two male leads lack any particular chemistry when together : it's Jack Carson who sings the songs while Hutton plays the piano . This looks a great deal like one of the Carson-Morgan pairings of the era , but the substitution of Hutton for Morgan robs tremendous energy from the proceedings , as Carson plays a top banana with not much of a bunch - - although Janis Paige does a nice minor variation on the Jane Wyman comedy character - - Miss Wyman had turned into a serious actress at this point and was not available to be in entertaining vehicles - - or , alas , not so entertaining . It's movies like this that show how good Carson and Morgan were together .
They Made Her a Leading Actress	A decent script by , among other people , Michael Kanin gets turned into an RKO B movie . Although the cast is nominally pretty good - - including Sally Eilers and Alan ' Rocky ' Lane as the leads - - old pro Teddy von Eltz as the good spymaster and Fritz Leiber Sr . as the rather rather cadaverous and evil Dr . Krull - - a name borrowed , if I recall correctly , for a bunch of subterranean baddies in the Silver Age Fantastic Four - - he whole thing is rather stiffly performed . Saly Eilers is pretty stiff and declamatory and Alan Lane is little better in his scenes with her . Leiber is just fine ; the only question in my mind is why he wasn't picked up as soon as he showed his face and give a third degree . Director Jack Hively is probably at fault for what I see as the film's shortcomings . This was his last year as a director , all in RKO Bs , although he went on to be the AD on several excellent movies of the late 1940s .
Fast start , sloppy finish	The first part of this movie , about the birth and rearing of " Tommy Boy " , is pretty good , if a tad sentimental . Ernest Torrence does his usual excellent job . In the second half , Tommy Boy leaves the farm and falls in with bad companions , and the whole thing degenerates into into bad soap opera . The camerawork is erratic : the shots in the field were apparently shot MOS and look pretty good , but the second half becomes stage bound .
How He Do Go On	Another of the seemingly innumerable FitzParick Traveltalks , a Technicolor series that MGM distributed for a couple of decades . In an era where a trip to the local movie theater was all that most moviegoers could afford , these afforded some interesting shots of exotic locales , and , indeed , the Technicolor photography , here by future Oscar winner Winton Hoch , is quite lovely . However I should note that Mr . FitzPatrick - - who , besides producing and narrating this series , also ran a travel agency for those who could afford to travel - - rendering these , in effect , low-key infomercials - - speaks in what I can only describe as an emphatic drone , as if every word is of great , although equal importance . These series are of most interest when they show buildings or ways of life that have vanished . Do they still use dog-drawn milk-carts in Quebec ?
Famous Players	This early example of " Famous Players in Famous Plays " - - the best known is Bernhardt in QUEEN ELIZABETH - - is interesting on several counts , and fails on other counts . James O'Neill , now barely remembered for being Eugene O'Neill's father , was a well-known actor , famous for playing the Count on stage for many years . He comes off as a fairly florid young man , within the realm of believability . However , other actors are clearly playing for the balcony . Another problem is the short length of the movie : an hour in 1912 was an enormously long production , but it leaves out so much of Dumas ' book that it can only hit the highlights if it is to maintain continuity . Fortunately , by and large , it does , thanks in large part to Edison veterans Edwin S . Porter and Joseph A . Golden . Doubtless this must have been an exciting production in 1913 and an important step towards legitimizing films as an artistic medium . Today it largely is of historic interest .
Movement	One of the pleasures of watching the Lumiere's movies from the 1890s is that they understood composition and the fact that things had to move : no stationary shots of the Brooklyn Bridge , this . Instead , the bridge , only about a decade old then , serves as a backdrop for the constant motion of trains , steam and other items of interest . Even though this film lasts only about ten seconds , the eye is kept busy following events : something Edison's people took a decade to begin to understand . Compare this with , say the work of James White , or VIEW FROM THE NORTH RIVER : a slow , leisurely , boring examination of docks that do nothing . The secret of how to make an interesting movie was already in hand . It just took a while for anyone else to understand .
Big Set Up	An extensive live set up goes into this early Alice short : our heroine is in a schoolroom where she gets into trouble and is made to sit in a corner with a dunce's cap on , whereupon she falls asleep and dreams of cartoonland . Spec O'Donnell is one of her classmates in the live sequence . Other people commenting on this series have made claims that Alice was a ' groundbreaking ' series combining , as it did , live action and animation . In actual fact , Fleischer's ' Out of the Inkwell ' series had been in production for six years at this time and had much better production values and scripts . Nonetheless , it is a pleasure to see a print of this early Disney short on the newest Disney Treasures DVD . Take my advice and skip the Leonard Maltin introduction which apologizes for there actually being anything of interest here . Thanks for getting it out to us , Leonard Worth seeing if you are a Disneyphile or interested in the history of animation .
Bad Boy , Bad Movie	Peculiarly ill-tempered version of much-made story . Seems to be a part tailor-made for Jackie Cooper , but long-time stalwart Meighan seems tired - - he died two years after this movie was made of cancer , and might not have been up to the part . Perhaps it would have been better done four years earlier when Cooper was doing Our Gang comedies at Roach . . . .
A Mack Sennett Comedy	Although this is an early movie by D . W . Griffith , it has all the earmarks of a Mack Sennett comedy half a decade further down the road : people , dressed in ill-fitting costumes , gesticulating wildly ; a frantic chase with plenty of comic spills ; and Mack Sennett himself in a leading role . Still , there are already typical Griffith touches that show his superior talents . During one spill , a hand belonging to one of the fallen cast members , waves frantically before the camera , and a final close-up of the old maid reading THE THREE AGES and laughing happily . Griffith's handling is more controlled than Sennett's ever would be , his direction is more sympathetic and realistic and the chaos that takes place in front of the screen never distracts from the story .
Metonymy : The Container for the Thing Contained	When pretty young Jenny Jugo has her undergarments fall down as she and her much older husband are on their way to Church one fine Sunday morning , she is so embarrassed that she rushes back home . Her husband , on returning , starts to rant , but a little domesticity in the form of bacon restores harmony . However , the rest of the world assumes that she is as loose as her knickers and complications ensue . This film is very professionally written and performed , but it lacks any sort of comic underpinnings . Instead , everything becomes a snickering symbol , from misshapen cigars to bowling bowls that land in the gutter , to men destroying their beds to collapsing candles . We see symbolic representations of rape , voyeurism , masochism and homosexuality , but the one attempt of non-normative sex - - the local Prince invites young Jenny for dinner and she writes a note to her husband that she is tending to a sick relative . Miss Jugo is quite affecting as the ill-at-ease subject of his venery , but , as you might expect , little comes of it . The problem with this comedy is that it goes on for far too long and is aimed at far too intellectual an audience . There is little that is overtly funny ; instead , all the real jokes are symbolic , suitable for Freudian analysis . Charley Chase would have made a good two-reeler of this - - indeed , he did a good two-reeler with socks serving as symbols of sex . But in this movie , everything happens symbolically and beneath the symbols there is no reality . The director of this movie , Hans Behrendt , was a specialist in comedy . He escaped to Austria when the Nazis came to power and made movies there until 1936 . After the Anschluss , he fled to Blegium , but they caught up to him in Belgium in 1940 . He died in Auschwitz two years later .
Never Act With Small Children	This is a prime example of this show biz dictum . Beatty and Caron both act as if they are embarrassed to be in this cheap , poorly written , smutty comedy , and well they should . Apparently they were having an affair at the time and would rather be off alone . So would you if you were in this movie . Give it a miss unless you're a fan .
Another daydream	A lot of work and talent went into this episode in the ' Scrappy ' series of cartoons , but I get little pleasure out of it , because it is clearly aimed at small children , with very little , except some technical work , of interest to an adult . The animation is fluid and cartoonish as Scrappy and Oopie train for and fight against a well-drawn Max Baer , a leading and feared boxer of the day who killed at least one man in the ring . There are a couple of good gags in the opening sequence as the two children train : a shadow boxing gag and beating up one of those sand-bottomed boxing figures that were still popular in the 1960s . And certainly the set-up and logic would appeal to a small child . However , it never really cuts loose with its assumptions as the cartoonists over at Leon Schlesinger's , the Fleischer's and Disney studios were and remains , therefore , a minor effort .
Good Second Feature	This second feature directed by jack-of-all-trades director Richard Thorpe - - he would go to Metro as a B movie director and graduate to big spectacles , based on his ability to get a cheap performance out of actors like Robert Taylor - - shows Thorpe with warts and details of care . This locked room mystery has its major weak points , like stagily-read performances from all hands involved , but it also has its strengths , rocking , as it does , between a comedy drama in which the cops spend their time playing craps , and an early police procedural , as one cop uses routine and careful deduction to crack the case . And while Thorpe can't raise a good performance , he does take care of his visuals , as in the scene set in an alley , where he sets the wind machines to gently blowing Barbara Kent's hair . Although not a particularly good movie - - it is interesting as a transitional piece , as silent stars try their hands at talkies , and a different style of mystery from the usual Sherlock Holmes or Philo Vance points out what is obvious after the fact .
Putting on the Pressure	Another in the campaign conducted by Gaumont and Pathe to take over Melies ' market by producing movies that cost far more than he could afford - - the stencil method of tinting the prints that Pathe used here was too expensive for Melies to replicate regularly . Within a year Melies ' production would be sputtering and in 1912 , he would go out of business , to spend the last 27 years of his life running a subway stand - - indeed , he grew so depressed over his failure that he destroyed all of his prints . Segundo de Chomon , Pathe's inventive director , experiments with getting away from the proscenium arch , and simplifying the design to dice patterns . The appearing and disappearing , the backward-running sequences and so forth are all as carefully planned as anything by Melies , but the lack of Beaux Artes design robs the picture of lushness and mystery . But by this point , it didn't really matter any more .
Getting There	In this short from 1908 , directed by Wallace McCutcheon , we can begin to see signs of what D . W . Griffith would achieve over the next ten years . With Billy Bitzer behind the camera , we see the standard Biograph composition , and with Griffith in front of the camera - - along with Edward Dillon , who would become a member of his acting company - - the stage is set - - even though the acting is still over the top .
Innocuous and pointless	It is interesting to look at the talent involved in this half-reel movie - - Hal Roach behind the camera , Harold Lloyd , Bebe Daniels and Snub Pollard in front of it - - and think : Well . Miss Daniels has been in the movies six years at this point . She's the veteran . She was 15 at the time this was released . Lloyd was doing Lonesome Luke at this point , one of the many Chaplin imitators of the period , and he was making an effort to be somewhat different . Chaplin was short and his clothes were too big . Lloyd was tall and his clothes were too small . When it comes down to it , however , this movie , despite a good set-up , is simply not terribly interesting . If you wish to see everything any of these four people did - - and they later did some excellent work - - then see it . Otherwise , avoid it .
A Sigh for Bygone Days	A competent Monogram B Western , this otherwise harmless programmer is a bit painful to watch . Ken Maynard looks fat and old near the tail end of his career , and attempts to have him play straight man to Gibson's usual low-key humor are largely mechanical . Gibson is , as always fine and steals every two shot they are paired in with his low-key mugging - - if you're not familiar with his work , his style may remind you of Charles Grodin , who seems to have picked up a lot of Gibson's tricks . The pair of aging stars still look good on horseback , but . . . Like most Monogram westerns , this story of two marshals sent in to clean up a town is written and shot in a very conservative fashion and , to the modern eye , may seem annoyingly eked out with shots of men riding horses that could be shortened or cut . But in large part , the western was built on these shots and veteran dp Marcel Le Picard's cinematography is well calculated with many beautiful compositions .
Enunciate	A potentially interesting entry in Warner Brothers ' series of crime dramas is weakened by an improbably wordy script , stagey performances - - Walter Huston , in this early role , seems to have no sense of where the camera is - - and an outright awful performance by Doris Kenyon , who , although fifth-billed , is actually the female lead . Despite the ethnic types that inhabit the better Warners crime dramas , the Irishmen and Italians , this one seems to be inhabited solely by WASPS who wear impeccable , old fashioned clothing . On the plus side , Loretta Young is in her luminously beautiful phase , an absolute pleasure to look at , although she isn't given much to do . David Manners is adequate as the juvenile lead and the idea of the story , how honest men can be driven to become criminals , is potentially interesting . But this movie doesn't live up to its potential .
The Hero Gets to Underact	Stagy version of Robert Sherwood comedy about the waning days of a constitutional monarchy . Everyone overacts , except for director-star Lowell Sherman who acts urbanely tipsy most of the time . The story doesn't hold up well . Watch for Mary Astor in a leading role before she learned how to steal a scene .
Ritz Brothers vs . Andrews Sisters	If you don't like the Ritz Brothers - - and I can only take so much of their mugging myself - - then avoid this Universal B movie . It is not , I hasten to say , a complete waste of time . The best bit in it is a burlesque of those novelty Latin dances from from the Astaires-Rogers movies called ' The Brooklyn Nanga ' , which runs to the scansion of ' The Carioca ' . Once you've mentioned that , you've exhausted the strong points of this movie as everyone heads down to Argentina , where polo-playing George Reeves - - looking like John Carroll - - pretends to be a bandito called ' El Tigre ' in order to romance Grace McDonald . Some decent although unmemorable songs and Ritz Brother routines fill out the time and while this is not the best musical ever made , it is a pleasant enough time waster to make you stay through the end - - although it won't make fans for any of the talent involved .
A Fish Called Stanley	Not much survives of this , Stan Laurel's first movie . By my watch , assuming that it was cranked at the right speed , just 73 seconds , which involve Stan , wearing a tricorn hat , almost getting run over by a steamroller , then getting on it and having it move in various unusual maneuvers and speeds . At the end , he appears in a nice straw boater and blue blazer , and he is dragged off by various people , presumably to a nut house . What can I usefully say about this film ? It is nothing , just another scrap of film from another of the innumerable short comedies produced in the 1910s and 1920s , except that , of course , Stan Laurel would be teamed up with Oliver Hardy a decade later and star , direct and write some of the greatest film comedies that exist . But at this stage , he is . . . . not much . True , he was a former member of the Fred Karno troupe , whence Chaplin had come . . . and later , the great British comedian and astronomer , Will Hay . But for the moment , he is someone whose potential lay in the future . I rate this a , but for historical interest only .
Marcel Varnel's George	George is an unwilling civilian during the war . When an enlisted friend switches clothes with him in order to go to a party , George finds himself mistakenly pressed into the navy , where he gets involved with pretty Ann Firth and caught up in a subplot involving German spies . Varnel directed the last nine of George Formby's movies , and the collaboration shows its strains here . George's persona was that of the well-meaning , lower-class ' cheeky chappie ' who seizes his infrequent , small opportunities and finally prevails , pausing every now and then to sing a song , accompanying himself on his ukulele - - actually an alto banjo . Varnel's specialty was as director of heartless farces with the Crazy Gang and the incomparable Will Hay . The result is a coarsening of George's character . Although Formby pulls it off , his character has lost some of his charm .
Redux	Quirt and Flagg return for yet another go around . This time they're mustered out of the marines . Flagg becomes a speakeasy magnate , Quirt cons him and others out of money and the two of them have a series of go-arounds in which McLaglen constantly threatens Lowe like Ralph Kramden threatening Alice . and Lowe comes up with another tired-sounding wisecrack - - not quite that bad , but they provide very little comic energy and that little is sapped by El Brendel , the unfunniest comedian before Paulie Shore . Then enters Lupe Velez , and she is funny , energetic and beautiful . And she makes this movie move , to the extent that it does , both in terms of plot and comedy . Miss Velez's career in American pictures should have been killed by the talkies , but she was too great a comedienne to let it stop her . Alas , she killed herself in the early 1940s . But she does save this picture .
Rip Van Winkle	Rip van Winkle gets the musical cartoon treatment , and the result , while not a rip-roaring success , does show how Friz Freleng ( here credited under his given name of ' Isadore ' ) came to produce some of the best musical cartoons of the next twenty years , like RHAPSODY IN RIVETS , PIGS IN A POLKA and THE THREE LITTLE BOPS . Although Termite Terrace's musical department was not as strong as it would become , Freleng keeps the musical interludes filled up with good gags - - again , not as good as they would become when writers like Ted Pierce and Michael Maltese were available , but they certainly don't stop the entire cartoon , as his fellow cartoon directors would complain that using Warner's musical Library forced them to . He is assisted in this one by future director Bob McKimson , who was a good animator here . The result is very pleasant .
First You Have To Explain . . . .	At the top of the comments page is a request : if you've seen this title , please write a review for others . But there is so much to explain about this movie before a useful comment can be made , that it becomes a meaningful problem . First and foremost , this is a silent picture in black and white . This means that , at the time I write this review , perhaps one person in ten thousand would be willing to see it at all . The prejudice against black and white movies is , I feel , foolish , but silent movies pose an even greater problem to the modern moviegoer . As brilliant as they may be , it is usually only the great comedies that make any sense to modern moviegoers . Silent movies are rewarding , yes , but they are not meant for the passive moviegoer who sits down and says " Entertain me ! " You must pay attention . You must understand that you are dealing with a society that is long gone . Are there a hundred people alive in 2005 who saw this movie ninety-one years ago ? The last and foremost problem is that this is not a movie such as you are used to , a series of pictures that tell a story with occasional titles to convey dialogue or scene-setting . No , the titles tell the story and the movie illustrates it . This movie-making technique was dying out when this movie was made . If you are willing to put in the work to look at this movie , here are some of the things you might wish to look for . First , the prints available seem to be in good shape , but there seem to be issues with the continuity . Perhaps someone went back and edited the movie to make it shorter , and did a bad job . Perhaps when this print was assembled , there were technical issues with the cutting continuity . The acting is primitive , even by the standards of the era . Nonetheless , the movie was a smash hit and made its star , Dustin Farnum , such a star that for twenty years after , women named their babies after him , including the mother of Dustin Hoffman . The good points of this movie are that it is much more complicated than later versions of this often-filmed movie . It hints at the complexity and philosophic issues of the Rex Beach novel it is based on . True , this makes characters appear out of nowhere and vanish just as suddenly , but such issues are not restricted to movies more than ninety years old . It also has some beautiful cinematography , particularly the early , ship-bound sequences which seem to have been filmed on actual ships of the era . And once the action gets going , it gets moving fast , with explosions and fistfights aplenty . So , is this movie worth your time ? I'm afraid you'll have to look at it and tell me .
Another Pointless Remake	This perfectly serviceable remake of the 1977 picture raises the question as do so many remakes , of why this was remade . The scene is changed from the Upper West Side to West Greenwich village , but other than that , it looks like the leads worked on their characterizations by looking at the earlier film - - and the originals do it ever so slightly better .
Star Vehicle	A star vehicle for Mae Marsh . Interestingly , this would be a fairly typical sort of movie for Mary Pickford in three or four years . Here , the first half , set in an orphanage , does not wear well , since the inmates consist of 12-year-old boys and twenty-year-old girls . Rather backwards girls for their ages , except physically . The second half is somewhat better , although the entire production rambles hither and yon and despite some excellent production values - - including a spectacular fire - - never quite makes up its mind as to what it wants to be . Miss Marsh gives a fine performance , particularly in the comic bits . Robert Harron is , alas , rather wasted . Scripted and produced by D . W . Griffith .
Monkey on His Back	I first must note special interest : I do not like ' comedies ' in which animals are mistreated for the audience's amusement : Jules White & Zion Meyers ' DOGVILLE series for MGM fills me with horror . But chimpanzees are human enough and social enough that using them as performers does not disturb me and I have some fond members of the Marquis Chimps on television when I was a child . Given that , we are left with the question of how this stacks up against the others in the series and the answer is : not too badly , as the usual Snooky plot - - Snooky and small children against evil adults - - makes its way in a racetrack venue , where the baddies are trying to fix a race until Snooky rides the winner home . Of course , there are the usual touches that annoy me : Snooky holds perfectly intelligible conversations and rescues toddlers but the titles are a bit wittier than usual for this series and there's a nice sequence of bathing beauties . So if you like Snooky movies , you'll probably like this one .
Blind to the Blue	Race horses have been a subject for motion pictures since before there were motion pictures - - Eadward Muybridge's series of photos , meant to figure out how a horse runs , is considered an important datum in the movies ' history . This story , about how a boy trained his blind horse to be a champion steeplechaser , has the added fillip of having the actual horse play himself . But the story is given the B movie treatment and it shows great indication of having been cut down , past the fat into the muscle and perhaps the bone - - there's apparently a wonderful back story about the breakup of the juvenile's father and the stable owner , and a clear sense that he came to no good - - although exactly what he did is never made clear . Nonetheless , in the context of a small budget , the actors do a fine job . Granville Bates , another actor with a familiar face usually relegated to uncredited roles or the cutting room floor , does a nice turn as the grouchy Colonel Griner , a role that could have been very monotonous .
Overdone	Elaborate and overproduced , this early George Sidney musical short suffers a bit from the sort of overproduction that Billy Rose's shows were infamous for - - take a look at FUNNY LADY - - that played very well in the period , although the profits for the producer might be pretty iffy . There are a couple of plots shoehorned into the spaces between the numbers , and some excellent care is taken to camera placement . But the huge sets and overly elaborate costumes dominate the short . Of course , it's interesting to see what the now legendary Billy Rose looked and acted like , and you can have some fun looking at Peggy Ryan as a real teenager . A few years later she would move to Universal and be teamed with Donald O'conner as teenaged lovers for far too long , but on the whole this is an adequate , but not terribly interesting musical short .
The Lion Squeaks	Static , early MGM short covering the city desk of the " Daily News " , where the usually-reliable Roscoe Karns is the managing editor . Everyone speaks very loudly and very clearly and every emotion is ludicrously overemphasized . Some interesting setting shots of linotype operators .
Porky the Leading Man	At this stage , Porky was still Termite Terrace's only star - - although Daffy Duck was pulling up fast and Bugs would be introduced shortly . So he got tossed into every cartoon , including this rather dull retelling of ' Jack the Giant Killer ' , with a Giant who looks and sounds like Bluto from Popeye but who was , undoubtedly , voiced by Billy Bletcher . Jokes in this one are thin and rather stretched out . Nor , despite their hand in inventing Bugs , are Dalton and Hardaway real prime Termite Terrace directors . Hardaway would soon go to Lantz , where he would work long , hard and well on Woody Woodpecker . Dalton would continue working through the 1950s . The wonderful staff that had already built up at Termite Terrace stops this one from being a stinker , but it's certainly no classic . Look at it and then move on .
Near-Serial thrills	Fast , engaging Warner Brothers B movie , spearheaded by the dependable John Litel and the young ( ? ! ) Ronald Reagan as they engage in various undercover stuff . The movie is paced like a strung-together serial , and the entire production is full of gimmicky holes - - Reagan , despite being recognized as an ex-con , is hired as a pilot in about eighteen seconds - - but it hangs together through sheer speed .
Growing Up With Timmy Burton	Casper the Friendly Ghost is given the animated Tim Burton treatment in this computer-animated cartoon with a claymation look . in which the powers of cuteness and niceness triumphs over the old-style order in which ghosts , vampires , mummies and so forth are sent to ' scare school ' in order to learn how to terrify ' fleshies ' . It is interesting that in the two decades since Burton's askew vision of horror , as shown most clearly in BEETLEJUICE , EDWARD SCISSORHANDS , and the animated features THE NIGHTMARE BEFORE Christmas and THE CORPSE BRIDE , that view has become mainstream to the extent that Casper the Friendly Ghost can be given the same treatment . However , the result here is viewer-friendly kiddie farce , eked out not with black humor but with puns and ' adults make no sense ' jokes . The result is sporadically amusing , and children are likely to be entertained by it . but adults can give it a miss .
So This Is Paris Hollywood	Paramount had a specialty of sex comedies set in Paris , France from the mid-twenties until the Production Code closed them down in 1935 . At that point , the Screwball Comedy arose . As long as they were doing comedies in Paris , they did a couple of straight programmers set there too . In this one , William Powell plays an American in Paris who , while trying to write , makes a living by an interesting blackmail scam - - I've never heard of it before . This movie , with a script by Herman J . Mankiewicz and a good cast has a chance of being very good . But except for William Powell , as always , charming , and Guy Kibbee's emphatic muddleheadedness , director Richard Wallace seems to be unable to raise a decent performance . Carole Lombard keeps threatening to disappear into the background , Lawrence Grey seems impossibly callow , and Wynne Gibson seems to be reading her speeches phonetically off a blackboard . One wants to like this movie and there are a few moments when it appears on the brink of turning into something very interesting , like the scene over onion soup at 1 AM , but then it turns into another pointless costume change . William Powell's career was stuck at this point : he was trying to make the change from screen villain to leading man , but couldn't quite get the right vehicles . He would leave Paramount for Warner's until he struck gold at Metro in 1934 . But he always remained a character actor , capable of small or broad performances that would delight the audiences . It's a pity he's not strong enough to carry this movie by himself .
Not George , Anyway	This tightly plotted story about how George gets involved in a murder as a suspect and victim is efficiently directed , as one would expect from a farce with Marcel Varnel at the helm . However , George Formby's usual charm is largely absent from this movie . Part of the reason is that some of the plot is put into motion by George's lies . But , the majority of the distaste I have is that George's goal is to be a star on the stage , which he is evidently unfitted for . In other movies his goals are ones he can obviously attain , once given an opportunity : to win an auto race or become a newspaper photographer . Not here : George , in the body of the story , anyway , is blissfully free from talent . But Varnel's style of story is cut-glass farce : his best work was with Will Hay and the Crazy Gang . George Formby's appeal lay in other directions and although he can carry out standard farce , it's a waste for him to do so , like sitting Frank Sinatra down at a piano and telling him to play . George does get to perform three songs , including one of his better ones , " He Was Such a Daring Young Man . " Also giving a good performance is Ian Fleming as an unflappable police inspector , but they can't really make this a good movie .
Doesn't Age Well	Edgar Selwyn , one of the people who actually founded the studio that would become MGM ( " Goldwyn " was originally an amalgamation of his and his brother's name with co-owner Samuel Goldfish , who liked it so well he renamed himself after the studio ) , directed this rather stagy version of a story about fidelity and infidelity among the well-to-do . Norman Foster , who would go on to become a good B director , is fairly weak and most of the players are rather mannered in their performances . As usual , Adolph Menjou gives a fine performance as Tony Minot , a philanderer who only falls in love with married women . Harold Rossen as the DP does his usual fine job , moving the camera around lightly to maintain composition . The palette , though , is that stark black-and-white that makes everything look as if the film had been overdeveloped . MGM would abandon it in a couple of years
Saying the words	Anthony Hopkins tells the story of working with Katherine Hepburn on A LION IN WINTER , how she said " Don't speak the line , just say it . " In this largely uninteresting second feature - - or third feature , we see evidence that advice is good advice . Almost everyone speaks their lines portentously , in an effort to give them weight and importance . Only third-billed Anthony Quinn just says his lines , as if they had just occurred to him , and he is present in the moment and much more intelligent in presentation than everyone else . He steals the show from first-billed Joan Perry and eponymous , second-billed Roger Pryor . I cannot recommend this movie particularly , but if you feel a need to see it , you'll enjoy it for Quinn .
Oy Vey	With the departure of Mack Sennett from Biograph for the greener pastures of Keystone , Eddie Dillon became Biograph's leading comedy director , usually under the supervision of D . W . Griffith . I am loath to credit Griffith with any hand in this strange little comedy , because it lacks anything in the way of worthwhile story construction , although it does have the usual Biograph visual look to it - - the famous ' Biograph Right Wall ' . The story is a simple one : Sammy works in a sweatshop and loves a pretty girl and she him ; but he is pressured to marry his boss ' daughter . A common enough story and situation . So what makes it funny ? Every character in it is Jewish . And how do we know they are Jewish ? Because everyone has a huge hooked nose , except , of course , for the girl that Sammy is in love with . Amusing enough in a mildly bizarre way , but it's a single joke that grows old in about thirty seconds .
Her Rotten Kids	Roscoe's sister brings her two boys over to his office - - he's a doctor in this one , with a nice beard , and a manner like Ford Sterling - - while she goes out shopping . He doesn't like them and they don't like him and spend a lot of time and effort in ruining his practice . In many ways this looks like it was intended as a sort of ' Katenzjammer Kids ' movie , but our sympathy is all on Roscoe's side - - ill-natured and sour as he is , the boys intend to make his life miserable from beginning to end . It is interesting to see Roscoe playing a character so far from his usual amiable self But the total effect of this movie is not worth it - - the gags aren't particularly funny , alas .
A World In Turmoil	Dickens ' OLIVER TWIST is lovingly filmed for the screen by Vitagraph co-head , Blackton . A good deal of money has obviously been spent on costume and sets , but it is evident that Blackton was not concerned with the major changes in the industry that Griffith was wreaking at the Biograph Studios in Manhattan and that , indeed , were going on in New Jersey at the Edison Studios . The sets are clearly stage flats ; the actors emote in a stagy fashion that was already a bit old fashioned ; and the world of Oliver Twist fits snugly into a proscenium arch . Within two years , Blackton would largely retreat to the business office and Vitagraph would begin to produce some innovations of its own , but in an industry undergoing such rapid changes , two years is little short of eternity . One advance worth noting is the crediting of a performer on screen : Elita Proctor Otis as Nancy . Miss Otis had a career on Broadway that spanned about 25 years and apparently Blackton wanted her badly enough to offer her a screen credit . It is the earliest one I have seen , giving her a good claim to being the first screen star .
The Importance of Being Earnest	This biopic of the life of Thedore Herzl , the founder of Zionism , is an earnest movie and shows the influences that caused him to seek a renewed homeland for Jews in what is now Israel . The movie spends , properly enough , a lot of screen time demonstrating anti-semitism in forms from accusations of well-poisoning to the Inquisition to the Dreyfus Case to demonstrate why Jews needed their own country . However , the net thrust of the movie is on the order of preaching to the converted . The static camera shots , the story told through title cards , and old-fashioned techniques - - including antiquated Magic Lantern method of showing Herzl's thoughts in a small rectangle in the upper right-hand corner of the screen - - work against making this a good movie to show to Gentiles to bring them to the cause of supporting Zionism ; and the acting is overly large and stagy .
It must be art . . . . . they're nekkid	Three young women are frolicking in the water when a man comes along and orders them out , so they leave , but not before he - - - and the audience - - get a good view . A surprising number of these dirty films survive in the Vienna Film archives from the first decade of the 20th century . Just as the first real money-makers on the Internet were the porn sites , so this sort of ' art ' film was very popular in its own time , before movies made a push to become respectable . But this sort of stag film remained popular at smokers for decades to come with young women absent or losing their clothes in an amazing variety of situations .
Surely Everyone Knows This Story	Little Red Riding Hood gets the Walter Lantz treatment as Knothead and Splinter , having been told the tale , are sent to visit Granny . Pulling out out hammers , dumping the wolf in the washing machine , using the artillery gun on him , and so forth , they give him a hard time . The story is eked out with various cameos and decently executed gags , but there isn't that much to this particular version until the final sight gag , which is a good one . Over all , though , this is not a particularly auspicious cartoon . The whole thing is suffused with an air of mechanical construction with little of the inventiveness that made the Lantz cartoons such a joy in the 1930s and 1940s .
Too Fast a Pace	This one-hour feature from RKO , about how Ann Dvorak wants to revive father Harry Carey's racing stable but winds up following a filly after it's picked up in a claiming race moves along at too fast a pace to be particularly engrossing . Even the large number of fine actors in supporting roles - - not only Carey , but Berton Churchill , Hattie McDaniel and WIllie Best can't make this much of a picture . Carey's slow , honest pace of dialogue conflicts with the limits imposed by the short length of the film , and the other supporting actors are given almost no time to work in their roles . A movie only for fans of the actors involved .
Beautiful but still	This silent movie , its story constructed around the famous Sir Edward Cole Burne-Jones painting , which in turn was based on the Tennyson poem , is a fair , if pedestrian romantic story about a rich lord ( played by Reginald Denny ) who loves a poor tenant ( played by a Mary Astor so young she hasn't quite lost all her baby fat ) , who are brought together by the artist painting the picture . The compositions of the individual shots are beautiful - - parts of it were shot on Louis Comfort Tiffany's county home - - but the piece is very static - - I can only conclude that Herbert Blache's technique was not up to anything more and this increasingly out-of-date technique would , eventually , result in the end of his career by the end of the decade .
The Silent George Arliss	This must have been a spectacular stage show . I can see how it would work there : the shooting , the strangling , the processional before the murder ; these would really have worked under the proscenium arch , and there is a good attempt to open it out in the added scenes , but the whole thing comes to a crashing halt for me at the thought that anyone would look at Alice Joyce when he's got Jetta Goudal on his second string . Also , Mr . Arliss - - who once in court described himself as the world's greatest actor and explained later than he had been under oath to the tell the truth - - is , alas , voiceless , and so largely wasted in a silent movie , although his witty stage ad libs are preserved in the titles . Even so , he acts everyone else off the screen , even as they chew the scenery in order to be noticed - - except Jetta Goudal , who is simply luscious . Harry Morey , as Miss Joyce's two-bottle-a-day husband is a caricature and you know at the halfway mark how it is all going to turn out . Still , there is Mr . Arliss to look at , before he turned so old and arthritic-looking in the 1930s - - perhaps because he was trained in the more posing-and-exposition style of acting fashionable in the 19th century . If this comes your way , give it a look , but ask them to crank it a trifle faster than they did tonight at the Museum of Modern Art . The IMDb lists it at 80 minutes . It was originally announced at 90 minutes , but the print from UCLA ran 110 minutes . Either the opening needs to be cut or it needs to be projected a couple of feet per minute faster . Maybe both .
What Went Wrong ?	I have the feeling this movie should be funnier than I find it . All the performers are good - - even if Gene Raymond was always a little too stiff to be interesting , that has lots of possibilities in a screwball comedy . Joe August's cinematography is , as always , great without being intrusive . The stooge reporters , including eternal lunk Gordon Jones , are fine . But this story of how Anne Southern pursues once-and-future fiancé Gene Raymond , after her editor , Richard Lane has a fake murder staged to break up the marriage , never quite gels for me . Maybe it's the way everyone rushes through their lines . Maybe it's the long excursions in a serious plot about murder that no one is expected to care about . Maybe it's the fact that everything is a little too polished and beautiful , including Anne Southern in an expensive fur coat - - I don't care if she is on an expense account , she's a reporter . Mostly I attribute it to the fact there is only one genuinely funny scene , when Anne Southern is beating up the gorillas her editor sent to fetch her back . The whole thing is directed by RKO stalwart Ben Holmes , a jack-of-all-tradesman for anything not involving a horse . Mr . Holmes worked so fast that he is credited with directing four movies that came out in 1944 , even though he died in 1943 !
On Average , Nothing Gets Done	This so-so family movie is a fairly innocuous effort in a fairly standard mode - - a couple gets married on drunken impulse in Las Vegas , and their kids don't like it . Will love - - or a soundtrack of an Elvis impersonator singing " Viva Las Vegas " - - rule the day , or will family pressure ruin everything ? The hook for this movie is that the leads - - Josie Bissett and Rob Estes are married , and they are a cute-looking couple . Most of the worthwhile jokes are in the camera work by Michael Storey and editing by Drake Silliman . This being 2005 , we have modern liberation : she is a minor celebrity , a cookie magnate . He likes to wear hats and sing karaoke versions of " Fever " - - Peggy Lee needn't worry . If you never see this episodic movie , you probably won't have to explain why you missed it , but there's a lot worse crud out there .
Beach Nuts	So-so silent comedy in the series Joe Rock produced for Alice Ardell - - she had great charm , but not much comedy ability , so Rock built her up by using a different comedian in each movie . Here's it's the dependable Chester Conklin . Alice and Chester meet on the beach where they are both dog owners - - and the dogs get the best lines . After being chased by the obligatory cop , they wind up in a hotel lobby , then involved with some bootleggers . Some amusing moments if you're a silent movie nut , but nothing outstanding .
Dance Movie Without Dancing	James Dunn and Sally Eilers form a dance team , but we see little dancing : the director has ace cinematographer James Wong Howe concentrate on their faces and for their one big number , they are replaced by uncredited doubles . Dunn was a hoofer , but obviously neither was up to it . The story is much darker than one would expect from a musical . There is a suicide offstage and old vaudevillians who can't get a booking . Dunn and Eilers are good but not great . Of more importance is Howe's low-key lighting as they achieve success and lose each other . It was an annoyance that much of the print was out of focus until the last ten minutes , but in some ways it actually focuses you on the shapes ! Not worth seeing except for fans - - at least until they find a good print !
The fault lies not in our stars , but in our mustaches	A fairly typical Keystone the-youngsters-want-to-get married short , but . alas , Papa the astronomer doesn't want daughter to marry Chester Conklin , since papa is a firm believer in long , bifurcated beards and and Chester only has a mustache . Or something like that . So it's time to set off some Roman candles and drive Papa barmy . All very amusing , I suppose , if it's this or the Ham & Bud show down the street , but it's been done before and better . And remember kids : don't shoot Roman candles at your parents at home ! See if you can spot Charley Chase lurking behind a beard and , if you do , remember to shout " Beaver ! "
The devil is in the details	A potentially fascinating story about love and the rackets is rendered into second feature mush by pedestrian direction . You have snappy dialogue , a midget , a criminal gang masterminded by a deaf-mute who communicates via pantograph within the first ten minutes . You're talking about von Sternberg meets Todd Browning here , and the director can't think of anything more interesting than have James Gleason murdered by carbon monoxide poisoning offscreen , which , of course , makes him sit up straight and stare ahead . And poor little Dickie Moore , with his legs chopped off . But it's OK , Edmund Lowe thrashes the baddies at the end and marries Wynne Gibson . Heck . I've given it all away . You'd never expect a happy ending like that . Save your heart from such shocks and give this one a miss .
A Parrott Chase	Charley Chase - - still working under his birth name of " Parrott ' at this time ; he wouldn't become ' Chase ' for another nine years - - was not just a minor Keystone supporting comic at this point . He was a minor Keystone director , given the job of wielding the whip on Ford Sterling , one of Keystone's top three or four comics at this point , a man whose comic personna including a beard like a billy goat and a disposition as attractive . So Chase , who in his time , would get fine performances out of Lloyd Hamilton , Billy West and eventually the Three Stooges , couldn't do much in this one-reeler about a cad who tries to drown Ford and steal his widow for the insurance money . But he gives it a decent effort and there's some good comedy construction about a trundle bed that turns out okay .
Folksy Humor	It's a little startling to see Guy Kibbee in a toupee - - actually two toupees , since the movie begins with a prologue with him as a young man - - but once you grow used to him , he looks perfectly natural . By the time the main story begins , Kibbee , or Scattergood Baines , the eponym of this movie , is the owner of a hardware store and the leading citizen of Cold River - - good , folksy advice is free . This is the first of a small series done from a series of story by Clarence Buddington Kelland and while it not a great movie , it is very pleasantly directed by underrated old hand Christy Cabanne , who manages to insert the occasional interesting shot when the mood calls for it . All in all , a pleasant second feature .
Keystone slapstick	An unremarkable Keystone effort with much mugging and physical attacks . This is what people think of when they think of a Mack Sennet comedy : much movement and little in the way of sense , as people beat each other up and wander into open cages at the zoo . None of Keystone's top comics are in this one , although Sydney Chaplin , as the lead , manages a few graceful surprises .
Collapses at the End	This late Biograph Griffith starts out pretty well and develops into a very tense situation : Blanche Sweet Sweet plays a dancer and we get a five-minute Isadora-Duncan style production that I couldn't help snickering at - - Ben Model was playing the piano - - who falls in love with and marries Henry Walthall , ' The Idealist ' . They have a daughter , but eventually she grows so bored with her new staid life that she signs over her daughter to Walthall and goes back on the stage . . . . and then one evening her daughter wanders away from home into her path . . . . The problem I have with this movie is that the ending is rushed and unsatisfactory . Having established a good dynamic story tension based on character , Griffith writes it off in half a minute , leaving me dissatisfied . Happily , except for the purpose of the story , Griffith is at the top of his form and his prime troupe is on view , with tiny parts being played by Lionel Barrymore and Harry Carey Sr .
A Dog's Life	Fala was the famous Scotch Terrier owned by Franklin Delano Roosevelt during his last two presidential terms , , the cause of a bit of a controversy and a stern lesson to the Republicans that you can attack a man , but best leave his dog alone - - a lesson that Nixon learned well enough to use to advantage in his Checkers Speech . Just so there's no misunderstanding , let me state I like dogs : big dogs , anything from an Irish wolfhound down to a corgi . I have no patience with small dogs , even though my sister likes terriers and her current dog is a Westy . In any case , this short subject , giving the ' home front ' story from the viewpoint of Fala is an amusing conceit , and it's given the usual MGM polish , even though everyone is a stand in . But the idea does not travel well past World War Two and dog lovers . . . . so it come out a little too precious for my taste .
Oh , you kid !	Soft-core porn circa 1901 : a woman strips while performing on the trapeze and winds up wearing more clothes than a modern family on a picnic , while members of the audience crane their necks trying to spot even more . The trapeze work is not very good .
Cartoonerville Trolley	Disney was still pretty far back in the pack of cartoon producers at this stage of the game , when Felix the Cat and Koko the Clown were still way ahead in the lead . Nor was Disney backwards about borrowing gags : this cartoon opens with Oswald polishing his trolley , which he then places on his rump as a fluffy bunny's tail : a typical Felix trick . Despite this and some cheating in production - - the last sequence is a repeating series as the trolley goes into a number of black tunnels - - to hold down costs , there are also clear signs that Disney is still ambitious , particularly a well-composed shot from a low Point of View . The basic situation and many of the gags are borrowed from Fontaine Fox ' popular TOONERVILLE TROLLEY strip . It's not an awful variation , it's not a great one .
But . . .	This film is largely of technical interest . In the 1920s , two-strip Technicolor - - as opposed to the three-strip variety that became standard in the late 1930s - - was usually used for set pieces within a major movie : the endpieces of Keaton's SEVEN CHANCES , the triumphal march in BEN HUR and the masked ball in PHANTOM OF THE OPERA among the best known . Only a few features were made using two-strip technicolor , most successfully in Douglas Fairbanks Sr . ' s THE BLACK PIRATE . Because of the technical difficulties in shooting in technicolor - - high intensity lights were needed , as well as careful color choices - - the high costs of producing prints - - up to five times that of black and white - - and the fragility of the prints , a technicolor movie in this era was usually noteworthy because of its use of technicolor . That is one problem with this movie . The other problem with this movie is that it is shot largely as a series of tableaux , little more than still shots of interesting scenes . Film enthusiasts will recognize the use of this technique in Griffith's BIRTH OF A NATION . Given the subject matter , the mythic characters used , the subject of the film and the technical problems described above , THE FLAG becomes little more than a museum piece , a film that is technically fascinating , but of little value as a movie . This piece has been restored recently , with a new score by Vivek Maddala . Mr . Maddala has done three scores for silent pictures that have been shown on TCM . He uses a lot of atonal flourishes here and I feel the result here overwrought . This may be appropriate , given the other issues and , indeed , the purpose of the film , but there you go . The movie remains an interesting museum piece , but it will never make my list of all-time classics .
Do Cats Eat Bats ?	Der Fledermaus , aka Mighty Mouse , battles a bunch of bat-winged cats from a mysterious planet . The format of Mighty Mouse rarely varied : sometimes it was mock opera , featuring Pearl Pureheart and Oil-Can Harry , but mostly it consisted of Mighty Mouse beating up a bunch of cats . There is little doubt of the success of the formula for Paul Terry's cut-rate shop - - he lasted forty years in the business , far longer than other , more talented cartoon producers , but he did it by staying within his budget and producing cheap cartoons that gave Fox something to offer for their packages . And because neither he nor his directors seemed to have much respect for what they did , thy did a technically competent job without anything of real value . Here , Connie Rasinski makes the cats scary and alien by sticking bat wings on them , and having MM pound on them a bit . Cue the cheering mice . Eh .
Survive and Is Seen	I had the pleasure of seeing this film tonight at MOMA , where , Mr . Anderson notes in his comments , it survives . It is a silly , rather obvious film as Miss Talmadge ( who is as startlingly beautiful with long braids as she would be in a plain white apron 15 years later - - beauty is beauty ) plays a princess who doesn't wish to get married to the prince from the kingdom across the tracks , nor does he want to wed her . They exchange miniature portraits , during the posing of which they each make faces . Horrified , they run away from he afternoon in disguise , meet each other , fall in love and return home to get married . No real surprise there . John Bunny , who would shortly become the first American comedy star has a supporting role in this movie as one of the kings . The actors perform their roles competently and charmingly .
Fades in the Stretch	So-so Romantic comedy of how several professors try to get their colleague's job back by playing the horses scientifically isn't much . What strengths there are lay in the supporting cast , particularly the ever-delightful Edmund Gwenn and Sig Rumann , as well as Ava Gardner in a well-played role as the other woman . James Craig is ok in the lead and Frances Gifford seems to be doing a breathless imitation of Larraine Day , but the overall effect was apparently so unhappy that director Willis Goldbeck did his work under a pseudonym . The intent was apparently to produce something light and breezy and reminiscent of SARATOGA , but it all appears a bit harebrained .
The Problems of Royalty	No , the problems of royalty are not worrying about revolution . Instead , in this movie , it is a lack of romance , which apparently does not exist when you get to dress well , eat decent food , sleep in clean , comfortable beds and marry pretty princesses who do not smell like they've been mucking out stables all day . This is directly contrary to the experience of anyone who has ever had to actually worry about how to stretch a dollar to make ends meet , but I suppose in 1916 , it was thought that this mishmash of ' La Boheme ' , ' The Student Prince ' and ' The Prince and the Pauper ' would flatter the hoi polloi that made up the movie audience of the period . Well , it will hardly surprise you to hear me say that it might have worked in 1916 , but it doesn't today . What does work is the acting , which is fluid and natural looking , particularly the acting of H . B . Warner . We are used to seeing him in movies made thirty or forty years later , playing a senile druggist for Frank Capra or an ancient Egyptian prince for Cecil B . Demille . Well , when he made this movie he was 41 , and quite lively in his movements . He plays the prince with an air of bonhomie that is quite effective , and it is easy to see why he remained a favorite of directors into his eighties . I cannot recommend this movie to someone with a casual interest in silent movies , but to those who wish to see how the esteemed character actor acquitted himself in his starring years , this is a fine example of a star carrying a bad picture .
First LKO picture	Henry ' Pathe ' Lehman had a checkered career . He got his start in the movies by telling D . W . Griffith he was off the boat from Europe , claiming he had been a director for Pathe Freres . While working for Sennett , he was possibly the first Chaplin imitator on film . Within a year he had used his credentials to get his own studio , trying to out-Sennett Sennett . He lost it in a couple of years , but the name continued on through the end of the decade . Then when the Arbuckle scandal broke , he called a press conference and claimed that he was the fiancé of Virginia Rappe , the girl whose death had triggered the entire event . The lies he told contributed to the rage that surrounded the entire affair . In the meantime , we have this movie to consider . It stars Billy Ritchie , an ex-Karno comic who claimed he was not a Chaplin imitator and that , indeed , Chaplin stole his character . There is some fun in a rough way , but the bone-breaking slapstick is not tempered by the sort of brilliant editing that Sennett's crews could perform . Ritchie is interesting , but the entire thing is clearly a rip-off .
Silent Backstage Musical	Elaine Hammerstein , part of the great theatrical family of producers and lyricists was a leading star on Broadway and - - in this period - - a leading actress in the films . Here in this backstage musical melodrama , she's a spunky New York Irish girl who makes her way up to star in a Broadway musical , but of course , she loves fellow New York Irish Teddy von Eltz . It's a full-dress melodrama co-written by Mrs . Fanny Hatton - - and , despite a few nice touches by director - - later MGM producer - - Hunt Stromberg , , it doesn't work . It's hard to do musical numbers in silent pictures , although some people could manage - - Robert Z . Leonard could manage and von Stroheim's MERRY WIDOW works beautifully . However , the musical numbers , which should be set-pieces of beauty to contrast with the tawdriness of the rest of the melodrama , don't really come off . Miss Hammerstein looks best posing in the intermediate two-shots - - she is very charming but doesn't seem to know how to play to the camera , and the story line is fairly standard . Even the Demille-type party scene looks a little tired . While this is by no means a bad movie , it lacks anything to make it great . Worth a look . but not one whose omission will ruin your life .
Afraid Not	Overwrought comedy-mystery suffers from unlikeable characters , poorly-paced script . The actors try hard , but between the bratty kid , the scatter-witted hero and the shrill heroine , even veteran character actor Lucien Littlefield ( as identical twins who hate each other for unspecified reasons - - probably for signing the contract to be in this picture ) , the picture does not wear well .
Betty !	Betty Boop starts to take more form in this , the second cartoon in which she appeared , although she still has floppy spaniel ears . . . . yes , Betty was a real dog when she was young ! This is one of the animated song cartoons that Fleischer did , and the gags fill out the singing of ' Barnacle Bill ' . Not bad .
Monkeyshines	A large monkey arrives in a crate at a private house and escapes . Everyone , led by a bald-headed man in a housedress chases it . This sort of early slapstick movie was the standard model during this period , being used for runaway horses , pumpkins and whatnots , until Mack Sennett added a bit of standard story , usually derived from Griffith , around it for his Keystone movies . Here , in its early form , the entire movie consists completely of the chase and only the variety of acrobatic contortions used in the process - - and , of course , what they are chasing . Indeed , the route they take seems to have been largely set for the subgenere . This being an Italian slapstick , the stunts are particularly vicious - - there is one scene in which they climb down a chimney . This does not , alas , allow it enough individuality to make it particularly interesting .
Should've Been Better	This decent second feature about how Chester Morris goes undercover to break up a counterfeiting ring is a decent effort , but has all the earmarks of something that should have been better . It has a fine cast including Morris , Lloyd Nolan , Claude Gillingwater doing one of his patented grouches and the always believable Marc Lawrence as a hood . But minor irritations , including Margot Grahame doing a poor line reading , a script that seems to overstate the obvious and , most annoying to me , bad soundwork , render this no more than adequate . Usually you don't notice sound in a movie like this , but I have several issues . First , everyone but Chester Morris speaks clearly and at the same sound level at all times . Second , there is not much Foley work : except for a few sequences , there is no world outside the characters . And finally , the music track doesn't exist , except in a few scenes , where its presence calls attention to itself and its lack elsewhere . George McKay has a nice turn as ' Angel ' , an expert in how to act to avoid being identified as someone who passes ' queer ' money . But other than that , , there is little to lift this movie into anything particularly interesting . So it's a decent time waster , and little more .
Surprisingly bland	Given the talent here - - Billies Gilbert and Bletcher in front of the camera , Charley Chase behind it - - this is a surprisingly dull short comedy from Roach , as the Billies play stock German dialectician comics going out for a night at a nightclub . Chase directs competently , but nothing really surprisingly funny ever happens - - perhaps there was no sense of any real character on the part of anyone involved . There are some interesting shots , particularly the low-shot view of the floor show , and this is not a waste of time - - both Billies were good dialect comedians and quite capable of doing the standard routines more than competently . It's just that it's been done as well or better far too many times .
Fragment	Very little of this Billy West comedy from 1918 is known to survive today : only a forty-second fragment in which Leo White instructs a half dozen girls ( including a very young and conventionally coifed Leatrice Joy ) in a gym class , using Billy as a saw horse for their gymnastics . Billy's playing of the scene indicates some mild sexual anxiety , which seems funny and perfectly human to me . Perhaps there are reviews extant of this movie that make it apparent what this movie was about , or perhaps the production company's records have survived . Or perhaps they haven't . While the survival rate of movies from this era would seem to be more than adequate - - hundreds of movies survive from 1918 in one form or another - - they are actually , very poor . Thousands of movies were produced , some good , some bad , and even those that survive are frequently in poor shape or , as in this case , fragmentary . And as they vanish into the maelstrom of dust , goo and fire that is the fate of celluloid , we lose another piece of our history . Perhaps we can do without yet another movie by Billy West doing his rip-off of Chaplin , just as we can do without all the scrolls lost in the library of Alexandria . But still , it would be nice to have them . If some odd chance has brought you to this page , I urge you to do what you can to preserve these old movies . Even if it is only looking at this fragment on a DVD : try THE LARGER WORLD OF LAUREL AND HARDY from Looser than Loose . They're on the Internet , where you're likely reading this .
Exercise in Stereotypes	The sort of line-drawing animation that is used in this Silly Symphony about cannibals in Africa is interesting . . . . a sort of animated line drawing , eked out a bit - - arms and legs thin lines , hands and feet big . But the modern viewer will be offended . The extreme stereotype of Blacks will offend the modern viewer , just as , doubtless , some of the modern images we hold to be normative will offend people three quarters of a century hence . . . . or indeed , now . All comedy , after all , is transgressive behavior at some level , but the line between amusingly transgressive and offensively so depends on viewpoint . Consider the Jew of Malta , Shylock and Fagin or the comedy act of Stepin Fetchitt . One of his stage acts was to sit in a chair and read a paper while one of his comedy recordings was playing . But this one is offensive to the modern viewer and should be viewed purely as a product of its time . And should be watched and commented on if only to keep the reality that ' Uncle Walt ' was an artificial construct , just as much as his cartoons .
Fred , Not Tex	Tex Avery worked on this one , credited as an ' artist ' and it must have annoyed him , because while the construction of this cartoon and the gags are good , the timing is slow and , at times , awful - - and Tex , as we know , was always anxious to get on to the next gag . We've only got a few minutes folks . Instead , we are caught up in the relatively meaningless plot , as Pete tries to kidnap Oswald's girlfriend and he has to rescue her . From the carnival by the sea . That's enough basic ideas for Tex to have constructed four cartoons and have enough gags left over to leave for Michael Lah . Oswald has been in some pretty good cartoons , but this , alas , is not one of them .
What was ours is ours again	No , this lost film has not mysteriously turned up in a meat locker in Alice Springs , a barn in the Faroes Islands or even in the Gosfilmfond Archives , where a mutilated version was used to educate good Communists on how capitalists try to burn up small babies for profit . Tom Stathes found a Kodascope copy of the last reel at a flea market . There was an exciting escape from a fire , some recovered smuggled diamonds and an opportunity for Max Davidson to do some of his lovely pained reaction takes . It looks like a good production and Baby Peggy - - who is still alive and well as of the writing of this review - - remembers the shooting of the fire scene and her unwillingness , despite the urgings of the director and her father to go through the fire . She may have been young , but she was no fool . So keep on going to those garage sales nd flea markets , folks . There are lots of things still missing and maybe we can find them yet .
Everybody's Doing It !	Surprisingly funny short - - about ten seconds - - showing half a dozen people , including policemen , housewives and workmen on roller skates . Interesting as a very early example of fast cutting all done without the benefit of Russian theoreticians , the year before Griffith stepped behind a movie camera .
Which Way Did He Go , George ?	This amusing but overly frantic second feature comedy stars Ross Alexander as a Hollywood press agent who is fired from his job flacking at a movie studio and becomes a radio reporter on Tinseltown , dishing the dirt . Alexander co-stars with future wife Anne Nagel , but the show is stolen by Charley Foy and by Glenda Farrel as a hard-boiled secretary at the radio station . Ross Alexander is an interesting performer , but his manner in this role is a little too loud when he opens his mouth , half Walter Winchell and half Ted Lewis , although when he lies back on his heels for a reaction shot , he seems made for the movies . Alexander was being cast in Dick Powell's cast-offs at this point and his director here , Clemens , doesn't add much to this one-hour featurette .
The Timmy's Fallen In A Well School of Anaimal Acting	Thunder the Dog was one of the numerous Dog Stars that sprang up in the wake of Rin-Tin-Tin . He starred in a half dozen movies in the mid-twenties and then disappeared from the screen . In this one , he is the loyal pet of George Hackathorne , a thoroughgoing coward . George behaves like the 98-pound weakling in a Charles Atlas advertisement , but Thunder loves him anyway and when George is drafted in the army for World War I , Thunder decides to join the Red Cross . We then advance several months . Thunder appears to be the relief driver in a Red Cross ambulance and George is sitting by the side of the road , shaking in terror . Eventually things settle out and George overcomes his cowardice because of Thunder's love for him . The movie never quite seems to makeup its mind whether it's about George or Thunder . While there is much to be said for that balance in scripting , the quality of the script can't quite maintain that balance as Thunder comes off as smarter than the people he is around . Production values are excellent and the battle scenes look convincing . But don't pass up a chance to see Rin-Tin-Tin , with very good actors and great behind the camera talent for this one .
Saps At Sea	Carl Schenstrøm and Harald Madsen were the leading pair of ' Fat and Skinny ' comedians in the movie world until Laurel and Hardy came along . While their characters never shed their movie-comic trappings - - ill fitting costumes , weird mustaches and bad hats - - they remained enormously popular and continued making films until 1940 - - two years after their first and best director , Lau Lauritzen Sr . died and two years before Schenstrom , the skinny one died . Kinowelt , which has had success with its Laurel & Hardy DVD set has produced a seven-DVD set of the comedies , under the name " Pat und Patachon " , the names they were known under in Germany . I have issues . The versions are cut down ( this one is 48 minutes instead of the original run time of 76 minutes ) and a voice over tells you what is going on - - in German , which , alas , I do not speak ) . These are apparently TV versions made in the late 1960s or early 1970s and it is difficult to judge what is missing - - although a lot of the continuity is definitely lost . This one has three segments . In the first , they are ice sailing and fall into the water , where they float for a while , being tormented by seals and swordfish . Then they are rescued by a tramp steamer , where they are befriended by the cook and beaten up by the first officer . They hit port in Bilbao , where they rescue the captain's pretty niece , who seems to have been sold into the degrading life of a taxi dancer . On the way back , Madsen winds up boxing some big guy for a lot of money , with the usual amount of cheating and confusion - - Abbott and Costello seem to have borrowed a lot from this movie for IN THE NAVY . All in all , a pleasant comedy , but it lacks the inventiveness of some of the movies that these two have been in and the range of characterization of others . Maybe I just don't enjoy boxing comedies . They always require too much obtuseness on the part of the other characters in the movie . Skip this one and come back to it if you really like these too .
Express - - no time for sight seeing	This high speed B movie of Rory Calhoun trying to get out from under the thumb of the diamond smuggling syndicate moves at too fast a speed to make the viewer care much about the characters . They are all portrayed as stick figures : Calhoun , his adventure-loving friends who get caught up in high-profit racket in Macao ; the leaders of the syndicate who spend their time around a board room ; and the woman who loves him , who is little more than a plot device : she is a writer who asks occasional questions which fill in the plot holes . The dialog is composed of clichés . The music is so overwrought it dins in your ears , and frequent titles appear to let you know where the action is taking place and what is going on . It all doesn't matter , however , as locations , people and plot all flash past at too fast a pace to make much difference to anyone . You're left with the feeling that there are good actors here without enough time to make any impression . The net result is simultaneously paranoid , breathless and uninvolving .
Isadore , Not Friz	In this , the first of more than three hundred cartoons that Isadore ' Friz ' Freleng ever directed , we see no sign of his future greatness - - although he does use one of his favorite gags , of some one entering one door and then exiting another , unrelated door later . This was one of the Oswald the Lucky Rabbit cartoons that were produced for Charles Mintz after he cheated the rights to the cartoon character out of Disney and then lost them , in turn to Universal Pictures . It is , so far as future efforts are concerned , no better and no worse than the others of this period , with Oswald , as co-directed by Rudolph Ising , simply another frenetic clown , doing the same sorts of cartoon shticks that cartoon firemen would do for another ten years .
Supporting Actors Don't Need Stars	But they do need someone to make sure the script works and a director who can deal with zigs . Joseph Calleia - - best known as the heavy in GILDA - - gets a chance to star in this programmer as a lawyer who joins the political machine and then fights it . He is especially fine in a couple of underplayed small scenes . He is ably abetted by fine supporting actors like Jonathan Hale , Ted Healy and the always wonderful Thomas Mitchell . But the story veers and rushes off two thirds of the way through and before you can catch your breath , it's over . Was this originally broached as a vehicle for someone like Spencer Tracy and then bounced down ? Director Marin never got out of the B movies , and his inability to direct Calleia in the second half shows why . Visually the picture is fine , with the usual MGM gloss . But even the best character actor needs the occasional hint from his director , and it looks like Marin could not supply it .
And Down they Go !	This weak little effort doesn't begin to use a fraction of the ability of its two leads , Slim Summerville and Zasu Pitts , in no small part because too much of the story concerns the two good-looking but uninteresting juveniles . The picture is one of Roach's one-hour ' streamliners ' that he was concentrating on in this period ; it took World War Two and contract work to stabilize the studio . However , the little time they do get together - - in this honeymoon hotel movie - - is time well spent . The two were in ten movies together - - if you don't count ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT , where they reshot all of Miss Pitts ' scenes with another actress - - and they certainly worked together well . This was their last movie together . A pity they couldn't end on a higher note .
Not Betty Boop	The Van Beuren cartoon factory suffered for some time in not being able to figure out what sort of cartoons it wished to produce . This is sort of a Betty Boop cartoon ( with a Helen-Kane-style singing cat in a dress and the gags are very much in the Fleischer vein , although the artwork is far superior in execution , if not in concept . That , I suppose , sums up far too much of the Van Beuren product : short on ideas , long on execution .
Random Adventures	This is a lesser example of Griffith's series of shorts concerned with social problems , like WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH OUR OLD ? and ONE IS BUSINESS , THE OTHER CRIME . It is , according to its first title , " suggested by Press Comment on the Tramp Evil . " Billy , a poor bootblack , played by Edna Foster , decides to try finding a town where business is better . On the road he meets with two tramps , played by Donald Crisp and Joseph Graybill . They force him to beg for him , and then kill and rob an old man . At this point , Billy protests and they decide to kill him . They lock him in a shack while they decide which of them is to do the evil deed . Billy is rescued when a friendly dog carries a plea to help to a rich family in the neighborhood . They subdue the tramps and adopt Billy . Some of what I consider to be weakness in the story - - the randomness of the tramps ' crimes - - may well be an artifact of the short length of this film and the contemporary view of tramps . It may also be an attempt to tell the story from Billy's point of view , in which adults ' actions seem capricious . Also , Griffith offers no clear solution to the problem ; but he never did . He always seemed more interested in stating a problem than solving it . In any case , this particular short , while done well enough , suffers from these , in my opinion , uncertainties . While not bad , it is certainly understandable that this is not one of Griffith's better-known pieces .
Broken Nightmare	Griffith returns to the Limehouse author of BROKEN BLOSSOMS to poor effect . Two years earlier we had Lilian Gish , Richard Barthelmess and Donald Crisp acting out a small melodramatic tragedy on sheer acting chops that , even today , through muddy prints , works beautifully . This time , however , we are confronted with Carol Dempster , Charles Emmett Mack and Ralph Graves - - and if you say " Who ? " three times like an owl , this movie shows you the incredible loss of acting talent that Griffith had suffered . Confronted with three actors who couldn't act - - the scene where Dempster is terrified that Graves will rape her is clearly a gloss on Gish's terror in the closet of two years ago and so inferior that it seems sacrilegious to mention them in the same sentence - - Griffith directed them with a collection of affectations to try to make up for a lack of emotions , and tried to give the entire piece some direction using a framing device of Good Vs . Evil . The total effect is ludicrous . There are some good scenes , but the three principals don't appear in any of them . Give this one a miss .
A Series Low	This is a decent but weak episode in the MGM series , possibly the weakest . The plot concerns the Judge being informed that he has inherited two million dollars and the entire family heading out to Detroit . Mickey Rooney spends almost all of his time mugging and the life lessons and warmth that give life to the series seem to be that if you inherit a major fortune , you shouldn't buy a tuxedo . Lewis Stone , as usual , gives a fine performance , although he is a lot more dithery than usual . The movie is given the usual MGM gloss and people who like to spot talent on the rise or after the fall may note that Aileen Pringle plays a saleswoman who sells a dress . In the 1920s , she was one of MGM's leading players until Garbo came along and took all the good roles from her .
Well , Fast , anyway	A not-too bad short comedy that suffers from its lack of originality . Lige Conley was a film comedian who is so obscure today that only about a third of his credits appears in the Internet Movie Database . In this film he is a dead ringer for Martin Short in A SIMPLE WISH , but much better at taking the many pratfalls he performs in this movie . The director is Norman Taurog , near the beginning of his nearly fifty years of directing comedies , children's movies and light musicals . FAST AND FURIOUS is composed of a series of gags stole from other , more famous movies . The first half takes place in a general store , where Conley makes pancakes using cement , and we watch old eggs grow legs and dance , until they hatch with a puff of smoke . The second half is Conley and a blackfaced assistant chasing crooks who have stolen the day's receipts , and is a mixture of the gags from Harold Lloyd's GIRL SHY and Buster Keaton's SHERLOCK JR . , both released that year . Perhaps Mr . Conley's career would have done better had he had better gag writers , but Taurog's did not suffer .
Singing and Dancing to a Tiger Beat	As a fan of musicals , I am pleased by the Disney Channel's efforts to keep the genre alive . Indeed , some of their efforts are excellent musicals : HIGH SCHOOL MUSICAL , for example . This movie , however , is shot with little sophistication in either the musical forms or the dance forms . Most of the songs are fast , energetic hip-hop pieces danced with tremendous sexual energy . Only one song tries something different , " A La Nanita Nanan " and it is sung as a study in pure modality , with nothing to say beyond that . The photography is beautiful but straightforward - - try to shoot Barcelona and make it ugly ! - - and does not use the background for any real emotional content . In short , this movie speaks down to its audience , giving them what they expect to see - - four teen-aged girls in Barcelona for a musical festival and romance with a dancing Spanish grandee . The lack of variety gets a little onerous at times and speaks to a pre-teen audience that used to be served by magazines like ' Tiger Beat ' . The people who made this movie missed a great opportunity : 8 . 3 million people tuned in for the premiere . But the talent were not interested in either glorious past of the musical or the future potential . The result is a movie that won't survive .
First of Three	In this , the first of three Roach streamliners starring Noah Beery Jr . as ' Pidge ' and Jimmy Rogers as , well , Jimmy , a pair of trouble-seeking cowboys wandering around the modern west , we see the middling mix of comedy and western story telling that was the hallmark of this modest series . Noah Beery Jr . later turned into a fine supporting character actor , best known today for playing ' Rocky on THE ROCKFORD FILES . Mr . Rogers career fubbled out in a few more years . In this one , they get mixed up with a dude ranch . The movie is no masterpiece , but its good humor carries it along for the short hour it takes .
Old Men Talk Talk Talk	Tom Selleck gives a dynamite performance as Eisenhower in this whitewashed hagiography which concerns itself solely the politics leading up to D-Day . While it is well written , it is not particularly cinematic or dramatic and Selleck's performance cannot disguise that entirely . Selleck is shot in a pearlescent light and the other roles , when they come up against him , are designed to demonstrate Ike's humility , concern and prescient correctness in all things . Churchill seems grumpy and futile ; Patton an ass . Only Montgomery seems to come off well . Overall , not the worst movie ever made about D-Day , but a few battle shots might have helped . The choice to leave them out was , of course , deliberate . Still , if the idea was to produce a character study , a bit more honesty is called for .
The Dippy-Doo-Dads	Originally , Hal Roach envisaged the ' Our Gang ' series as being about small kids and their animals , but Bob McGowan soon set that right , limiting the animals to Pete the Pup , Darina's mule , and the occasional onerous issue of greasing Wheezer . So Roach split off the animals - - dog , monkey and goat , including occasional supporting talents like ducks and cats , into the Dippy Doo-Dads , who were a sort of bestial Our Gang . The series didn't run long , and looking at efforts like this one , in which the monkey , is his Cold Stream Guards uniform , makes a lot of trouble for everyone else in order to steal peanuts from under the nose of the title character , shows why . Relatively straightforward titles also didn't help . A bizarre bypath for the Lot of Fun .
Clearing Himself of Murder	Ace the Wonder Dog stars in his third movie , assisted by embittered James Ellison . Ace is accused of murder - - although it is Mr . Ellison who is accused of harboring a vicious animal which needs to be destroyed . Although there is considerable talent in this RKO programmer - - and Ace the Wonder Dog is a handsome animal - - it doesn't quite work . Leslie Goodwin , the director , was working his way out of the short subjects department and does his best . But the inherent difficulty of producing an interesting animal star and fitting it into a sound feature makes unreasonable demands on the plot to the point of occasionally disruptive silliness . Nor are the actors the best of RKO's players , producing a certain amount of untoward emotional reticence about the humans . These factors make the movie less than good .
Top Hoot Bottom Melford	An excellent Hoot Gibson programmer in which he plays a confidence man posing as a lawyer selling phony law books . When a murder takes place , he is called in to defend the accused man . Al Bridge is also excellent as the sheriff looking for exculpatory evidence . The direction is credited to George Melford , one of the best visual stylists of the silent era , but he shows little flair here . There is no camera movement , but he does have some fun with the cuts .
On the Spot	Johnny Arthur was one of those silent comedians who turned out a goodly number of funny comedies , made a transfer to sound in small supporting roles and faded from the public's mind even as they continued working . Movies like this are why . Johnny is in love with a girl who is movie struck and proclaims her devotion to various stars of the period . So Johnny changes his clothing and hair and style of moving to imitate her fancy of the moment . In doing so , he constructs a good pastiche but fails to assert an interesting or attractive personality of his own . How could he help but fade from sight given an opportunity ? The last gag is the most telling : at the end , doing a passable Harold Lloyd imitation , he asks his leading lady , Virginia Vance , " How do you like me as Harold Lloyd . " " I prefer my own Johnny , " she answers . Perhaps we might have too .
The Spirit of Casper	This early Chuck Jones cartoon shows the usual sarcastic edge of Termite Terrace cartoons in this era , between the self-aware humor of Carl Stallings ' music and the voice work - - provided by fellow director Tex Avery . However it also clearly shows what in this period is Jones ' weakness - - his lead character is a child of sorts , like Sniffles - - but there is little in the way of appeal to adults except for the academic one of seeing the early works of one of the great cartoon directors of all time . Jones would return to his juvenile characters later in his career , bolstered by better scriptwriters and a surer command of the essential psychology of people - - his rarely seen ' Ralphie Phillips ' cartoons like FROM A TO ZZZZ can be considered glosses on this work . . . . but their value will arise out of their understanding , rather than an overwhelming sense of cuteness .
Fast	This , the fourth episode in Twentieth-Century-Fox's B series of the Cisco Kid , has Cesar Romero pretending to be dead , aided by a grave and a man who claim to have killed the Kid . The story is well done - - Fox's B unit was probably the best among the majors at this period - - and Edward Cronjager's usual excellent cinematography - - lots of process shots and a tremendous number of basic two-shots - - is handsome without being intrusive . I am mildly surprised that the Fox Movie Channel is running these amusing little second features so freely - - an attempt by them to run some Charlie Chan movies a couple of years ago raised a lot of fuss about stereotypes : one would not , of course , wish to show movies that implied that an ethnic Chinese man would automatically be the smartest person in the room , or that his U . S . - born children would act like American kids .
Entertaining Potboiler	This expertly rendered potboiler stars Hobart Bosworth as a great diver who is approached by some con artists . They want him to front for a fake company recovering gold from wrecks . He refuses and they put pressure on him by vamping his son . Everyone plays their parts well and this silent movie from 1920 is beautifully acted - - particularly well underplayed by Bosworth and con man George Webb - - and well shot . The outdoor scenes are shot on location , including the diving platforms and that adds a great deal to movies like this : a touch of realism that later , slicker Hollywood movies would lose . Watch out for Gladys George , who spent the late thirties playing oversexed mature women ( best in THE MALTESE FALCON ) as a young , innocent ingénue .
First Stanwyck Starrer	This movie creaks with age , but is memorable for being Barbara Stanwyck's first movie as a star . Miss Stanwyck gives an excellent performance , as always , but the supporting cast , particularly Charles Butterworth , steals the show as an amiable drunk whose bark is worse than his bite .
Creaky creepy	Creaky but interesting melodrama powered by Walter Huston's performance as a brute and a dynamite action ending . Although Wyler's direction is not as sure as it would be later , it is interesting to note that , for the most accomplished studio director of all time , a man said to operate without a style of his own , a lot of images that show up in his later films ( particularly WUTHERING HEIGHTS and THE LITTLE FOXES ) also show up here .
It's A Bear	Back in the day Hollywood turned out short subjects of a myriad stripes in order to fill out a film program . There were comedies and westerns and mysteries and newsreels and cartoons and educational shorts . This is one of a series of slapstick westerns turned out by Universal Pictures - - they took pride in being able to supply a complete show to the local exchanges who could supply them to movie theaters on short order - - and a goodly number of them changed their programs once a day . This one is about two buckaroos who dump flour on each other and roll each other around in barrels , their girlfriends - - one pretty , the other fat - - and the pretty one's bear , Danger - - when you're good looking , people put up with an awful lot . It's fast , it's silly , it's uncomplicated . Good enough .
An Influence on THE THIEF OF BAGHDAD ?	Sessue Hayakawa invades Douglas Fairbanks ' genre with this light-hearted romp , playing an Egyptian dragoman - - a great-grandson of Napoleon - - who goes to work for a wealthy western family , rescuing them from evil Pasha Fred Jones , who looks a lot like Billy De Wolfe in a fez , and a small horde of oriental hopheads , to whom Jones has promised a year's supply of hashish . Hayakawa does Fairbanks , both in terms of climbing , leaping and such physical feats - - although in no ways as gracefully as Fairbanks did - - and in making fun of a current craze , in this case a belief in reincarnation . The aunt in the family he is working for believes she is the reincarnation of a two-thousand-year-dead queen and that Hayakawa the reincarnation of her lover , and every time she exhorts Hayakawa , he replies insultingly in Arabic - - which is translated for the audience . Although not a great film , it is enjoyable , Worth a look , anyway .
Presaging Maya Deren and Doing Better	This early experimental film by Emlen Etting shows a woman dancing in a field of grass and wildflowers , then a train trip into a less natural environment , the city , where movement and beauty are subdued . It would seem to be a prefigurement of Maya Deren's work , but seems much more accessible . It does not use the camera tricks that Deren delights in to make people appear and disappear . It is , largely , a study in motion : the wind in long grass , the wind in trees . Yes , the dancing is sometimes overly modern and to my eye pretentious , but the creators seem to lack the annoying self-involvement that Deren's work conjures up in my mind . It is not about Etting or his subject , it is about the grace of movement . It reminds me of one of the complaints of D . W . Griffith about the studio-bound films : they had lost the wind in the trees . Etting has not lost the wind , and if his technique is not sufficient to hide his technique - - the art that conceals art - - at least he does not leave the audience to try to puzzle out what he intended . Art requires work from its audience , but appreciation of art is not the same as assembling a jigsaw puzzle .
Calling Yosemite Sam	After Fred Quimby had lured Freleng away from Schlesinger's shop , he stuck him in a slot making ' Captain and the Kids ' black and white cartoons , an assignment and attitude that he hated so much that when his contract was up , he scurried back to Schlesinger , made YOU OUGHT TO BE IN PICTURES as a way of saying he was wrong to have ever left and spent the rest of his career in the same place - - Depatie-Freleng was , after all a way of making sure the Termite Terrace crew still had day jobs . And , oh yes , they based Yosemite Sam on him . But despite the opprobrium heaped on Quimby - - whose evil plot was to hire the best people and leave them alone - - there is a vivacity and humor about this cartoons that was lacking before in Freleng's work . Perhaps as the old hand at Schlesinger's studio , he felt he could not adapt the over the top pacing and gags that Avery and Clampett were working on , until he had gone elsewhere . Perhaps he found Scott Brady an easier orchestrator to work with - - certainly Brady's work never sounded better . Whatever the reason , this cartoon , despite it not being a great one , shows a lot of touches that Frelengs work lacked before , but which he continued to use for the rest of his career .
Silent Duvivier	This late silent film by Duvivier is a well enough told story , but nothing remarkable , with none of the brilliance that would regularly infuse his works from 1930 . One looks for poetic realism in Duvivier's work , for evil women - - consider the unspeakable mother in 1926's POILE DE CARROTE - - , but there is none of that here , merely a well-told story of a woman who thinks she prefers a life of glory on stage in Paris to life with her Scottish lord of a husband in his castle . The story is fine , the actors are okay , but it's all been done many other times , and my attention began to wander until I imagined that the cad who tries to seduce her looked like Dick Smothers and the actor on stage with her in the finale was an incredibly young William Bendix dressed as he would be in 1949's CONNECTICUTT YANKEE . Obviously , both are highly unlikely . There is a nice attempt at a new-to-me technique , what looks like a cut by switching the image into a mirror and back again . I'm not sure what this was intended to accomplish , but perhaps they thought it would indicate not just a visual but emotional change of perspective to the audience . , Otherwise , Duvivier plays a lot with the optical printer as he would continue to for the next half-dozen years .
British Noir	This decent British noir , about a petty crook who gets out of prison and is caught between the police looking for a murder and the crooks who got him put in prison in a smash and grab job is a lot grittier than American noir . WIlliam Hartnell is very believable as the ex-con and Joyce Howard is fine as the not-too-bright dance hall girl who believes him . American noirs seem to have a sheen of glamor in comparison to this underclass melodrama . There is a strong homosexual component to the underworld in this movie , with Herbert Lom as an effete foreign crime boss ; his chief henchman plays his role as flamboyantly homosexual , just shy of a cheap British comedy . The whole thing looks shot cheaply , which adds to the grime , and the direction and actors don't seem to do full justice to the script , but the net effect is decent . Worth a look .
The Organizing genius of Capitalism	Although those mired in an antiquated theoretical framework may mistake this movie as a Marxian commentary on the oppression of the free worker and the destruction of useful property that rightfully belongs to the proletariat , in actuality , it is no such thing , but a paean to the organizing genius of of capitalism . It is an answer to Marx , a throwing down of the gauntlet . Some roustabouts are standing with sledgehammers and no idea of what to do : typical of the working class . At the command of the gang boss - - representing , as he does , the capitalist , who knows what he wants and will achieve it while paying his worker what the invisible hand of the economy will permit - - the workers , previously unmotivated , lift their hammers and destroy the wall . The wall , the Marxian theoretician will have us believe , represents some useful function of society . The twisting of things to the service of propaganda is apparent . The wall represents evil , a separation among society . Only through work , directed by the capitalist , will walls be destroyed and all profit . But there is more . The auteur retreats one step and runs the movie in reverse ! At the command of capital , labor can make or unmake a wall . Clearly labor has no voice in the process . All direction comes from the capitalist .
You Are There !	It's odd how certain images get so into the public mind that they become ridiculous in themselves . Here is the chubby-looking , pencil-mustachioed Frank Buck , strolling around the jungle in pith helmet and shorts , to order the natives in how to capture pythons , monkeys and tigers for zoos in the United States . It sounds ridiculous , and if you watch carefully you will see some careful camera cheating to make things look more dangerous than they actually are - - it looks , for example , as if he captures a 20-foot python by throwing his jacket over it But Buck did capture these wild animals and if there was a certain amount of cheating for the camera , well , it works . Which is all the justification one needs .
From Stan and Ollie to Ralph and Ed	I wonder if Jackie Gleason was very familiar with this series ? Everyone comments on the fact that Gleason's Ralph Kramden and Carney's Ed Norton owe a lot to Mr . Laurel and Mr . Hardy - - but I find that Gleason's characterization owes a lot more to Billy Gilbert in this movie , one of the Roach studio's ' Taxi Boys ' series , teaming Gilbert with Ben Blue . Hal Roach was always on the lookout for new ideas for short subjects series , and the idea of upgrading dependable second banana Gilbert to lead and teaming him with the acrobatic Blue must have been irresistible A taxi garage would give endless opportunity for working class humor - - consider the success of the TV series TAXI half a century later . Nor could the fact that the director had done a similar series for Sennet a few years earlier have hurt But Gilbert and Blue lack any substantial chemistry - - and independent short subject studios were on their way out , unable to compete with the majors like RKO , who would give you Leon Erroll and Edgar Kennedy , or Columbia , who would give you the Three Stooges or Andy Clyde for much less .
Charles Ray Earns His Reputation	Charles Ray gives a fine performance in this movie , released before his star-making turn in THE COWARD . While he is out trying to raise money to pay the rent , his sick mother is evicted from their home . While their friends move her back in , Ray goes in search of the landlord and winds up killing him . Ray gives a great performance here , constantly on the borderline between sure action and uncertainty . It works here , as it does in THE COWARD . However the wild success of that movie would typecast him and within a few years he would be sleepwalking glumly through such works as THE PINCH HITTER . For the moment , though , he is in fine form , and Tom Ince's careful attention to details make this a good melodrama .
Something Old and Something New	This pretty good RKO B western stars George O'Brien , whose career , which was going pretty hot in silent days , wound up in this series of solid B westerns for RKO . After he retired in 1940 , his mantle was picked up by Tim Holt . The entire series is entertaining , even if there are usually some flaws - - in this one , there is a lot of trouble matching lighting from one shot to the next . But the story is pretty good : it's a Reconstruction story , about how the ruthless carpetbagger is stealing old property through spurious tax claims . In this case , it's old Spanish Land Grant owners , in the person of Rita Hayworth , newly delatinized in appearance but still playing Hipsanics . Tim Holt is still learning his craft here and he's pretty stiff and callow seeming . He rarely got a chance to show his real ability and spent a long , happy career in B westerns , although he occasionally poked his head up , most notably as the junior gold prospector in THE TREASURE OF SIERRA MADRE . The rest of the movie is fun for looking at veteran talent : Neal Hart and Tom London in front of the camera , Oliver Drake in a scripting credit . All in all , a pleasant way to spend an hour , especially for fan of Hollywood westerns .
Romeo and Juliet in the Mafia	Some parts of this movie have not survived seventy-five years well , and at times the dialogue limps . Robert Young , as the young lover , speaks in a voice that is annoying in the high register . Constance Cummings is a beautiful young woman and a good actor . Boris Karloff handles his rather small role gracefully , with just an air of lurking menace . But it is Leo Carrillo , who begins the movie looking like a buffoon and ends the movie as a terrible monster , who owns this movie . I won't give away any details , but the ending , once you realize its inevitability , is a real shocker . Does Carrillo's performance make the movie worth seeing ? Yes , although just barely , and you may need a bit of patience until the movie is worthwhile , but perhaps the mobile camera-work will keep you interested .
Saright with me	This very amusing Monogram comedy has a number of strong points , including a silly plot which you can largely ignore , since it is pretty much obvious how it is going to turn out from the beginning , . But it has a marvelous comic turn by Irene Ryan ( best known as ' Granny ' on the Beverly Hillbillies ) , the dependable Black comic Mantan Moreland and some fine , energetic musical numbers . The whole thing is well directed and if the print quality is a little off - - a little too dark for my taste - - it is nicely cut and edited . This will not go down in anyone's book as a must-see classic , but it does fill in an hour or so very nicely . What more , really , can you ask from a low-budget movie ?
Now , Which One is Paul Muni ?	He's the goofy Quebecois trapper speaking with an accent , that's who . With World War Two raging in Europe , Great Britain was trying to make sure that the French-speaking Quebecois didn't decide to throw another revolution , which is why Laurence Olivier played one in 49TH PARALLEL . Nothing loath , Warner Brothers , not quite knowing how to deal with its acknowledged Great Actor , Paul Muni , who liked nothing better than to disappear into a bushy beard and an accent , cut a deal with Fox for this picture , in which he appears in a short beard . Which made him very hard to offer as a star and he would make one more war-based picture next year , playing a clean-shaven Norwegian , before disappearing from the screen for a few years . What the heck : George Tobias was cheaper for all-purpose ethnics . Anyway , this is a pretty amusing picture , if you don't take any of it seriously . The cinematography , co-credited to George Barnes , is very handsome , Muni plays the role for laughs , the roles are filled out with leading character actors and the soundtrack skips between ' Aupres de ma Blonde ' and ' Oh , Canada . ' Good enough .
Oops !	At first this appears to be simply another of the rather boring actualities of the last decade of the 19th Century , one of those very short films in which the real interest is seeing something that happened far away in a theater , the mere illusion of immediacy , perhaps , enough for a 19th century rube , but surely a sophisticated inhabitant of the 21st Century would not be affected by these images . Think again ! This shot of horse trooper on practice - - in this case , moving through an obstacle course a good deal like a steeplechase - - seems to be just a series of flowing images , everything perfect . Until someone misses his jump , falls - - - and you know he can be killed . A couple of weeks ago I saw this year's MAX PAYNE and yawned through the gun battles , as dozens of highly-trained snipers with machine guns were taken out by a guy with a pistol . This is far more believable - - and not , I fear , just because it is real . Have we become so caught up in the web of our cultural and storytelling assumptions that we cannot tell reality from illusion ? Who , then is the bumpkin and who the sophisticate ?
Motion Pictures are first pictures	This is actually a fairly decent little short subject , and it's not because of the fair choreography , the unmemorable singing or Knox Manning's usual pompous delivery of overwritten lines like ' savage as the night from which it comes ' . It's because the unnamed set designer and Technicolor DP Charles P . Boyle agreed on a set that looks like it was designed by German expressionists with a sense of humor , and dressed up in bright but shadow-lit colors , so you a constant stream of impressionist blotches , like Mondrian on a black canvas . So if you can ignore the sound , this is a great picture , worth a ten . . . . but the soundtrack brings it down to merely good . Does anyone but me think Katherine Dunham is a dead ringer for Phylicia Rashad ?
Learning to Play the Game	at this stage in the history of the cinema , there was no copyright protection for individual films , so successful efforts were often redone by competitors . . . . and the ways in which they wound up doing things differently tells us more about their weaknesses and strengths than their original works . This is Melies ' version of the Lumiere Brothers ' film of 1895 and while he imitates them adequately in terms of composition , it can be seen immediately that this is a Melies movie : the actors are much more flamboyant than those in the Lumiere piece . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Classic Eberhardt	This high-speed version of one of Mignon Eberhardt's classically plotted mysteries is directed by Noel Smith , one of Warner's experts in short features , timing in at a bit less than one hour . Mr . Smith spent much of the 1930s and 1940s directing second feature westerns and mysteries . Half a dozen people are isolated in a house while the detective tries to figure out which of them , all with excellent motives , committed the murder . This sort of mystery requires a tremendous amount of talking , and people talk fast . Unhappily , most of the dialogue is exposition and delivered a bit stiffly . Visually , it's very nicely done with some excellent tracking shots to maintain good composition and an overall look like an Old Dark House movie . The print , like many of the major studios ' B movies of this period , is in excellent shape . Over all , it's a pleasant way for mystery fans to spend an hour with a story that will keep you guessing until the end .
Pour Le Sport	This fairly typical late silent Paul Terry cartoon is about hunting , as Farmer Gray and the cat go riding camelback for dinosaur , lions , monkeys and squirrels . It is a little livelier than usual as instead of using the shotgun , the farmer teaches the dinosaur to play fetch a la Gertie and cavorts with the monkeys . Clearly Terry is already aiming his cartoons for very small children , but certainly the playfulness of the entire operation raise this above his norm so it is still highly watchable - - a bit of a stretch for Terry who stayed in business for many years by running a cheap operation in which he fit his budgets to his contracts with Fox and his stories for four-year-olds . But , as I have already said , here it works .
Spreadin ' the Jam	Harman and Ising produced this Cubby Bear cartoon for Van Beuren and the difference in quality shows . Although Cubby comes off as a variant of Bosko , every technical detail is handled better than under van Bueuren's home staff : sound , music , backgrounding , voice and animation are all clearly superior . What happened ? The next home-grown Cubby , CROON CRAZY was a lot better too . Perhaps it was simply a staff shakeup , but at this distance , it's hard to tell . The story is just as crude and annoying to the modern viewer as any other van Beuren product . But writing always seems the last thing to get better . People don't seem to realize its issues . ,
Typical	By this point in his career , Woody had settled into a routine sort of cartoon - - a fight with either Wally Walrus or or the Buzzard , plenty of gags on a somewhat catch-as-catch-can basis . In many ways , the style is reminiscent of MGM's Tom and Jerry cartoons , whence writer for this one , Heck Allen had come and would return . Not , I hasten to add , that there is anything wrong with that . There is a good deal of character in these cartoons and the characters rarely violate them , but there isn't much depth to them either : Wally is simple and grumpy , the Buzzard is greedy - - here , in Amerindian guise , he craves to win the archery competition against Woody and his slingshot - - and Woody is a destructive little kid . Good identification for his target audience .
Land Shark	Warner's TIGER SHARK plot - - usually with Edward G . Robinson in the lead and a top director like Howard Hawks or Raoul Walsh directing - - gets the B treatment among lumberjacks . Stanley Field , of course , doesn't have the range of Robinson , but John Payne is fine in an early outing as the juvenile lead , and Gloria Dickson is absolutely terrific . She never got out of the Bs , and was working for Columbia when she died in a fire at her home four years later , alas . This feature is one of the very short , one-hour second features that Warner Brothers produced under Briney Foy in the pre-war period . Overall , it's a good , workmanlike piece .
Psycho Marching Band	A well-written and executed script manages to triumph over some mechanical line readings to produce an amusing short . I wonder about these Generation Y comedies . which seem to be about the oppressing need to succeed in over-blown instances of trivia . Are they satirizing high school relationships , where the politics are so vicious because the stakes are so low ? Are they satirizing the short-sightedness of the coming generation ? Or are they simply doing stuff that makes people laugh ? I hope it's that . None of the acting jobs , as I have noted , is particularly worthwhile , but for a quarter of an hour , you can skip great acting and life lessons . Read the posters in the background , instead . And Go Penguins !
First of Two	Although the Internet Movie Database lists this as an 1897 Production , the British Film Institute DVD release of Paul's films in 2006 claims this was part of his original Alhambra show in 1896 and proved to be so popular it was remade two years later . Perhaps the IMDb dating is a compromise of the two editions . In any case , when we compare this to the Lumiere's pictures of babies , particularly Lumiere's QUERELLE ENFANTINE ( 1895 ) , we notice that 1 : the composition and background are simpler - - face on shot , blank wall behind - - and that the children are much more natural and boisterous and humorous - - they wear big floppy hats . The Lumieres came from photography and understood composition . Paul was selling to a music hall audience , far more boisterous than Lumiere would ever be .
The Art of Redemption	This pretty good propaganda programmer has officer George Murphy fouling up , being busted out and reenlisting as a common sailor , where he runs into Pat O'Brien and Jane Wyatt , Murphy's ex-fiancée and O'Brien's sister . It's interesting to watch the two stock Irishmen play off of each other , each in their usual registers : Murphy easy-going and O'Brien in his bulldog mode . The story also takes some interesting and unexpected turns that raise it above the usual level of flag waving propaganda . Somehow a Viennese violist and Desi Arnaz wind up in the crew for some comic relief and plot purposes . RKO's technical department , the equal of any in the business , came up with a new machine to simulate the effects of horizon on the sea . Looks pretty good .
Mountain Climbing	Director Charley Bowers , who would leave Mutt & Jeff that that year of 1926 to produced elaborate , live-action cartoons starring himself ( such classics as WILD ROOMER ) , has the unlikely pair go mountain climbing , dealing with the cartoon laws of physics and various wild animals , including a mountain goat with more personality than their exhibit in their movies . It is a little difficult for modern viewers to appreciate the comic strip that these cartoons are based on . Indeed , I find them lacking in much substance beyond their basic clown personalities . But there is little doubt they were enormously popular in their day and this is quite watchable cartoon .
Merrily We Roll Along	One of a standard series of cartoons for Termite Terrace over the next decade , in which the gags are set up by puns on the titles in a bookstore or magazine shop ( Clampett's BOOK REVIEW ( 1946 ) for example ) . Here , it's advertising posters for popular commercial products . About two-thirds of them are no longer sold , so it becomes an exercise in popular culture archeology . Nonetheless , I expect the modern audience to be familiar enough with , say , Bon Ami cleanser , its baby chick mascot and motto " Hasn't Scratched Yet " to catch the drift . And the gags , as one can expect in a Friz Frleeng cartoon , are amusing . That being the case , it should be noted that this cartoon saw the introduction of the song " Merrily We Roll Along " to Termite Terrace's files . Along with " The Merry-go-round Broke Down " it was their theme . Enjoy .
The Vitagraph Studios	Roy Mack directs another nice musical short at the Vitagraph Studios out in Brooklyn - - if you go out to the neighborhood , you can still see the company logo on the chimney , although it hasn't been used as a studio in decades . Production shifted for the war in 1942 and never got moving again afterward . Rita Rio - - also known as Dona Drake - - is a jitterbug , like Betty Hutton and June Allyson in her early shorts , leading the band and dancing and having a fine old time . This sort of short was a staple of Warner Brothers ' Vitaphone division from 1926 through 1944 and this is a good example of the genre .
Pre-Code Baby	George Stevens graduated from cameraman to director at Roach , but eventually RKO offered him more opportunities , so off he went . This short looks a lot like the Boy Friends series at Roach - - ex-Roach director Fred Guiol is a writer and ex-Roach regular Grady Sutton appears in front of the camera - - but the humor is much less subtle and bawdier than at Roach . Still , a fairly well done short with the usual beautiful Stevens compositions . Worth a look to see if this is to your taste .
Good Natured Tyler	Tom Tyler , today probably best remembered for playing the villainous Luke Plummer in John Ford's STAGECOACH starred in a series of B westerns in the mid-thirties , usually called ' Cyclone Tom ' . Good talent behind the camera , including director Webb , screenwriter Oliver Drake and editor Fred Bain make this a pleasant outing , the cast contains the usual expert western players and a couple of fine silent comedians - - including Max Davidson - - and the story , if it mostly consists of Tom trying to sort out misunderstandings as due to lack of communications , is expertly handled , with good humor and some good stuntwork . While this particular effort will probably not make new fans for the genre , if you have a taste for these westerns , you should be pleased . If not , it is still a decent time waster .
Decent but Title Heavy	I saw this one under a handicap : they didn't have a camera with a suitable aperture , so the left of the image was cut off down to Academy ratio and there was no accompaniment - - two conditions under which one should not see a silent film . However , it was that or nothing and so any reader is warned that my opinion may be influenced by these issues - - but I don't think so . I used to haunt the 80 Saint Marks and I lost a pair of shoe soles in the old Regency , glued there by thirty years ' deposit of Coca-Cola residue . At least I hope it was Coke residue . Anyway , this change-of-pace comedy shows Bill Hart doing some nice comedy - - his dislike of a top hat is most amusing - - and he climbs about the buildings of Manhattan - - Joe August must have enjoyed the trip out east - - like a combination of Douglas Fairbanks and Will Rogers . But despite a good beginning and a good ending , there is a title-heavy middle section in which every joke is contained in the titles and most of the plot events , too . The result is a middle that drags . Add in a couple of thoroughly unlikeable characters that we are supposed to like - - Arthur Shirley and his movie-father , Andrew Robson , and you have a movie that is carried solely on the abilities of William S . Hart - - which are sufficiently broad to make this worthwhile , if not a classic .
Use Woodbury to Soap Away Those Spots	This is a zippy little comedy-mystery as Joan Woodbury honestly alibis nightclub owner Bradley Page and the police , in the person of Alan Lane try to break her story . The cast , which includes Jack Carson in an early sizable role and Cecil Kellaway is headlined by Parkyakarkus , a popular dialect comedian of the era and the movie moves along at a good clip . Only Joan Woodbury is less than excellent , and she's pretty bad . Longtime director Christy Cabanne , usually held to be the least of D . W . Griffith's disciples was near the end of his string of good B movies for major studios at this point . Shortly he would retreat into westerns and cheap independent productions like the ' Scattergood Baiunes ' series , but here , given a bit of a budget , he shows us a good short feature with lots of classical camera movement .
Interesting but slow	Mickey Rooney tries life behind the camera in this potentially interesting but occasionally plodding true confessions story of Helen Walker - - here doing a rather good Claire Trevor imitation - - sprung from prison to take part in a plot to steal a priceless supply of ' oil of myrrh ' from an old lady . The story is interesting , but a good cast - - including Aldo Ray in his screen debut - - fails to do much with the script , Perhaps there is simply too much detail or perhaps Mickey Rooney , who was used to improvisation over many takes , did not have the budget for the extra takes . The result is a fair B movie , but no earth shaker . Mickey went back in front of the camera where , the year I write this , he still is , delighting audiences in a film career than has lasted more than eighty years .
Gollywhoppers !	A nice little second feature , the last directed by silent perennial Chester Franklin - - brother of Sidney Franklin , with whom he co-directed a lot of children's movies in the teens . We needn't go too much into the details of the plot , which are pretty harmless as you might expect of anything with Rin-Tin-Tin Jr . and Jackie Cooper away from his home base of MGM . However , it is a pleasure to watch Joseph Calleia , who was almost invariably cast as a gangster in evening clothes - - his best known role was probably as the sexually ambivalent boss of Glenn Ford in GILDA - - as a tough guy reformed by Coop's innocence and , of course , Rinty . He does very well with the role .
Another Weeper	A well-intentioned but predictable soap opera . Although the script is better than most of Miss Stanwyck's roles of the period , this story , like most of her early roles , creaks , this time with unhappy sincerity and an over-the-top ending . The direction is capably handled and the cast is excellent . Otto Kruger , best known these days for his suave Hitchcockian villains , gets to play her sympathetic co-star .
Suffer the little children	Slow but powerful and earnest piece decrying child labor . As the factory owners live a life of ease and short takes , the workers - - including children - - suffer a life of hardship and long takes . Loom for future star director James Cruze - - director of THE COVERED WAGON - - who was a contract player for Thanhouser at this time .
Always a Mcbridesmaid	This is another in the series of ' McBride ' TV movies that the Hallmark Channel runs . The series is pretty much in the model of the TV Perry Mason in which John Larroquette directs and stars . The mysteries , which are solved in court , are excellently composed classical mysteries with plenty of red herrings scattered about to baffle the viewer . This one is no exception and the result is good , if not outstanding : the continuing characters have a bit of history , but the elaboration of the mystery does not lead much room for them . The sharp-eyed viewer may recognize Charlie Robinson , who appeared with Larroquette in the TV series NIGHT COURT as a judge .
Clyde really Cooks !	Who was Clyde Cook ? One of several hundreds of silent film comics , whose short subjects are now largely forgotten . A small man with a large mustache , he made dozens of comedies which are now forgotten by all but a few old film buffs . Mr . Cook , alas , never seemed to develop much of a character or style . He was simply one of several hundred comics who did silly things because they would make the audience laugh . You could watch him , but you probably wouldn't go searching out his movies , and so he faded into obscurity . As for why you should watch this one , it is mostly interesting from a historical standpoint because it was directed by Stan Laurel and had Oliver Hardy in a major supporting role . It has a story and some moderately interesting situations . There are some good gags here . Clyde is a cook for a railroad construction crew . He goes hunting and tries to catch fish using flypaper and succeeds in catching a skunk by the tail . He uses gunpowder instead of baking powder for flapjacks . There's also a thrill comedy sequence in which various people struggle along a railroad on a high trestle bridge . If it's not up to Harold Lloyd in SAFETY LAST , it is still a pleasant , painless comedy with a few laughs .
Fishy Puns	An unusual , somewhat weak , but still enjoyable Felix the Cat . The Black Cat is playing baseball with a Black boy , when they find a map showing where some pearls are buried at sea , and construct a submarine - - out of a barrel and a stovepipe - - and steam off to find the treasure . Along the way they run into such aptly named fish as a weakfish , a soused mackerel and a Jewish-looking loan shark . Unlike the best of the Felix cartoons , where the mutability of items and playing with light and darkness are the themes , this is a collection of fishy puns - - not great , but enjoyable enough for the casual viewer . I haven't seen any Felix cartoons that are not worth your time and if this is not a great one , it doesn't break that string .
Good Quick and Straight-Shooting	This Tim Holt western is a remake of the 1940 LEGION OF THE LAWLESS , starring George O'Brien , Holt's predecessor as RKO's leading B western star . The plot is a good one , about Tim Holt being sent to deal with the vigilantes who are ruining the town , and Cliff Edwards ( best known today as the voice of Jiminy Cricket ) is on hand for comic relief and the occasional song . Holt is still a little callow for the lead in a western , but he has a few good moments and the gloss of good writing , some nice photography by Nick Musuraca and post production carry it along for the hour that it takes . The westerns were the most conservative of movies and it shows in the occasional iris cuts . But some of that may be laid at the feet of director Breatherton , who directed B movies , mostly westerns , for a quarter of a century and who started out as an editor - - the ability to ' cut in the camera ' led to an efficiently shot production . The result here is a fairly attractive western for fans of the genre .
Horse Laughs	This is a pretty good comedy drama about how Polly Bergen inherited one horse , had all the smart guys in racing take her for a sucker but still managed to triumph - - at least to the extent of snaring Howard Keel . Polly Bergen is a little too one-note in her role , one that seems to have been tailor-made for Jane Wyman - - but that was another studio . Howard Keel is wonderful in his laid back role , which seems to have been written for Clark Gable . There's an excellent supporting cast , including Nina Foch - - who is a wonderful scene stealer here - - and Marjorie Main and John Sturges shows a good command of his cast and crew , moving surefootedly from comedy to drama . The issue with the film is that it's all a little too familiar , both the polite love triangle and the horse story . It all results in a pleasant waste of time .
The Trap Drummer	Joan Bennett's father lost his fortune in the stock market crash and now she earns her living as a hostess at her ex-butler's speakeasy and ekes out her income as a hostess for hire for country weekends - - no funny business . Of course she falls in loves with penniless artist Ben Lyons and that's two sides of the triangle . The third is John Halliday , who wants her as his mistress , but is gentlemanly about it . Misunderstandings and complications ensue . Halliday is excellent , Halliwell Hobbes , as Miss Bennett's boss is fine and Ben Lyons is , well , a little too monotonous and he and wife Bebe Daniels would depart for England and radio in a couple of years . But Miss Bennett is excellent . She had quite a career at Fox , with a wide variety of roles . Very interesting for an actress , if not enough of a type to build up a real star personna . Here she plays . . . . well , the character that Myrna Loy would play at MGM during her starring phase , starting with her turn as Nora Charles in THE THIN MAN . The similarity is amazing and I wonder if Miss Loy based her character on Miss Bennett's turn in this movie .
Silly fun	Googily little wartime fantasy about a cleaning lady who , convinced a lucky charm owned by her late husband ( played in two photographs by an uncredited Charles Laughton , Lanchester's real-life husband ) will keep her from harm , goes to Berlin to " give that blooming Mr . Hitler what for . " Ably supported by a cast of first-rate comics , particularly Lumsdale Hare and Fritz Feld , it still requires Miss Lanchester at her most wide-eyed to pull this one off .
As the title	Interesting RKO Sports short showing the work of a New York State game warden , protecting the roads from dam-building beavers , beavers from poachers and rivers from pollution . Apparently they do more than sit in towers and watch for forest fires !
Stage Struck	Stage struck Colleen Moore - in an early role without her famous bob , but looking adorable nonetheless - - insists that she won't marry Earle Rodney because she is going to devote her life to the stage - - and the small-town stage at that , where the leading man shares his dressing room with a cow . This comedy is not short on laughs , but excels by virtue of Miss Moore's charming enthusiasm . The ' Roman spectacle ' that they watch is excruciatingly funny in its cheapness .
Camera Movement and Cutting , too	Amazingly , for an American film of this period , there is evidence of camera movement , as the cameraman pans to the left to keep Roosevelt and Prince Henry in the frame , then moves back to show the remainder of the procession ; and a quite evident cut to show the interesting people at the tail . of the procession and the beret-wearing troops in support .
Talent	A fairly good comedy short from 1925 , made more interesting by the talent involved : future Laurel & Hardy supporting actor Jimmy Finlayson stars ; Stan Laurel directs and co-writes ; James Parrott , brother of Charley Chase and future L & H director co-writes ; L & H cinematographer Art Lloyd is behind the camera and future KING KONG star Fay Wray has a small role . Fin is very good as a faithful husband , whose wife is looking for proof that more than his eyes have been roving . She hires a private detective to provide it . It consists of three scenes and the one in which Fin is trying to pick out a new hat is interesting . He was always good at registering comic dislike .
As portrayed by Tom Brown and Culver	Interestingly conceived but erratically realized mixture of melodrama and documentary as the American Legion pays for a scholarship to Culver Military Academy for Tom Brown in honor of his Medal-of-Honor-winning father . The script is a little too neat and episodic , however , and apparently the young actors were not up to Wyler's 90 takes to get the scenes right , so some of the scenes are a bit misjudged . Watch for an incredibly young Tyrone Power Jr . in his screen debut and an uncredited and very funny cameo by Eugene Palette .
Norma Talmadge Triumphs Over a Hacked-Up Scenario	I have had a great number of issues with the Norma Talmadge features I have seen . Her husband and producer , Joe Schenck , spared no expense in purchasing properties for her , but but while they might have been excellent stage shows , they were not well adapted for the screen - - a problem that Buster Keaton , who was Schenck's brother-in-law and whose films Schenck financed , suffered from . The problems with Deluxe Annie arise purely from a chopped-down script , based on a stage show , which was based on a novel . Intended as a liberal treatise on how circumstances can lead moral people into crime , we start out by having Norma Talmadge getting clunked on the head in Manhattan , developing amnesia , wandering off into the fog and winding up in Chicago two months later , with no explanation . She is broke and about to steal a watch and a bankroll but instead gets involved in a variation of the Badger Game in partnership with the man who clunked her on the head following a dust-up with her husband with Norma's predecessor in the con , and whose wallet and watch she was about to steal . Got that ? I got it and for a good twenty minutes I considered walking out in annoyance , but I didn't , because , amidst all the claptrap and plotting-by-coincidence , Miss Talmadge gives a wonderful performance , running a wide range of emotions , played subtly or broadly as the situation required . It wasn't enough to make me really admire this movie , which is believed to be the earliest surviving film of director Roland West , but it made it better than painless . Eugene O'Brien , as her partner in crime , also gets a few good scenes , and there is some lovely location shooting in Manhattan and along the Hudson River . But except for Miss Talmadge's fine acting , I would have missed them .
Charming	This Edison short from 1912 is based on an O . Henry short story : a son of the idle rich falls in love with the daughter of a self-made man and , in order to gain her father's permission to wed her , offers to work at unskilled labor for thirty days . This being an O . Henry story , you can expect a sharp snapper at the ending . In the meantime , until you get there , there are some some good comedy gags . You do need to get used to the Edison style of editing , which was very short of title cards but which is very well edited for understanding - - despite , to the modern eye , the occasional abrupt transition . Or perhaps not , given MTV techniques . The interesting historical fact about this movie is that it was directed by Oscar Apfel . Mr . Apfel directed from about about 1911 through 1928 , then just gave up and spent his last ten years as an actor . During his directing phase , however , he co-directed Cecil B . Demille's earliest films , basically teaching C . B . how to do the job . Why did Apfel give up directing ? Was his technique out of date ? Maybe . It was a common issue with several directors who vanished at that time . But here in 1912 , he and his company are in fine form .
Not a Great Cartoon , but . . .	Very few of the cartoons directed by Rudolf Ising - - or his partner , High Harman - - for Merrie Melodies were very good . They were still far too busy trying to create Disney look-alikes ( like Bosko , for Mickey Mouse ) , maintain their contracts and deal with their intermediary , Leon Schlesinger , whom they would shortly try to cut out of the equation and who would reply by raiding their shop and forming the nucleus of Termite Terrace . Nonetheless , they had a few good ideas and this one , in which a man leaves his library and characters emerge from books , would become a staple of cartoons for the next dozen years , leading to pictures set in drug stores , road signs , neon lights and book stores . This cartoon , therefore , is not very good , but is important enough to warrant your looking at it .
God Looks Out for Fools and drunks	Apparently a variation on LA CHUTE DE CINQUIEME ETAGE , this one is about a drunk who throws his wife and family out of the window - - at least apparently since the first half is not known to survive . Then , in sorrow , he tries to hang himself . Although Melies is primary remembered for his flights of fantasy and feats of magic , he turned out a fair number of serious pieces , including a series of shorts about the Dreyfus Affair in 1899 ; and some of his fantasies had serious undertones to them . It's interesting to see this straight-out piece of melodrama . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
The Bears !	A good cast struggles with a silly , mawkish script about how the children of tyrannical circus owner Nehemiah Persoff struggle for control of the circus - - a remake of HOUSE OF STRANGERS - - and the result is boring , but some pretty shots of mountains and great animal acts - - including trained polar bears and hippopotomi - - make this worth seeing at least once . The casting is interesting . Esther Williams is present for star power , even though , as others have noted , wet she's a star , dry she's nothing . The rest of the cast is excellent , including Robert Vaughn and Cliff Robertson before they hit it big , but they aren't given much help in direction . Still the animal acts may make this worth your time .
The Loan Shark	Edison had a good line of socially conscious features at this point , usually produced by some organization . Here with the Edison Company - - most notably Charles Ogle as the usurer - - we see a ' typical ' case of the victims of usury . Although offered as a ' realistic ' view of the effects of usury , it veers frequently into melodrama . It also , unlike Griffith's work at Biograph , purports to offer a viable alternative . Well , it can , but it requires a lot of effort , intelligence and goodwill , like the modern use of ' micro-loans ' in Third World countries . At this stage , Edison still had its own editing and story-telling techniques . Notice the shortage of title cards and their prolixity when they do appear .
Beautiful But Dumb	This documentary is beautiful . The photography and music , in fact , are so good , that Howard Hawks seems to have cribbed extensively from it for RED RIVER . But the narration is done in the style of a teaching nun explaining sex to a class of deaf pupils . What can you learn from this ? That people insisted on farming in a land of dust . That the first world war caused the dust bowl and vice versa . That Indians and buffalo need to be cleared and that large explosions cause headlines about President Wilson . That British tanks were used to harvest wheat and that victory parades cause erosion . Watch this , by all means , but try not to listen to the words .
Racing Vehicle	A star vehicle for Wallace Reid , and a sequel to his earlier success , THE ROARING ROAD . It's also one of the few decent prints of any of his majors roles that survive . Reid is an ex-racing driver now , settled down with a baby - - - played by his son , Wallace Reid , Jr . - - and his wife doesn't want him to speed anymore . But his father-in-law , played by the irrepressible Theodore Roberts , is putting up a new car to set a record from Los Angeles to San Francisco and wifey has walked out on Reid , with baby , to San Francisco , where the baby is sick / Will Reid win the race ? Will the baby be all right ? Will Theodore Roberts steal the show ? Fans need not worry , but will want to see this anyway .
good for what ails you	Silly little comedy short about Rudy Vallee running a hospital where he cures his patients - - one of whom suffers from Pagliacci - - by means of music . Perked up by a rare onscreen appearence by Mae Questal , better known as the voices of Betty Boop and Olive Oyl . Vallee sings " Keep a Little Song Handy " , " Mammy " and the immortal " My Alabammy Mammy Pain " .
Still In The Silent Era	William Boyd is willing to kill himself for enough insurance money to pay off his debts , but crime boss Warner Oland raises the stakes : a year and a day , and the money will nominally be paid to wife-for-hire Dorothy Sebastian . But a lot can happen in a year . . . Shot beautifully by under-rated DP Hal Mohr , this movie , with a newly mobile sound camera is very good visually . Unfortunately , leads Boyd and Sebastian are not quite out of the silent era and director Fred Niblo is not so good at directing the dialogue - - nor does the depression that the leads evince for the first half of the movie , help things much . James Gleason and Zasu Pitts are , of course , excellent , but , despite an excitingly shot finale , the acting prevents this from being more than an averagely good picture .
Follow the Bouncing Ball	The screen song has a long history . Take a look at photos of the earliest purpose-built movie theaters and you see that they are advertising sing-alongs inside . The earliest regular series of talkie cartoons were the Fleischer follow-the-bouncing-ball sing-alongs from 1926 - - two years before Disney supposedly invented the sound cartoon with STEAMBOAT WILLIE . And the studio - - which became FAMOUS in the 1940s - - continued to chunk them out . This is a fairly typical one : a series of blackout gags , followed by an exhortation to sing along with the bouncing ball - - the song being " I'm an Old Cow Hand " . The song is sung straight , then they begin to ornament the words with further animation . A clear reminder of the days when movie going was a group experience and you were part of an audience .
The End of the Act	At the moment just the last ten seconds of this Melies magic act survive : it looks like he produces some cards , makes them grow and sets the enlarged but still small court cards dancing . A lovely little act and typical for Melies in this period in between the big story films like Gulliver and VOYAGE DANS LA LUNE , he made dozens of these , all a lot of fun to people who like stage magic . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Have to Watch My Language	Ralph Bakshi , watch out ! Almost half a century before FRITZ THE CAT , there was a flourishing pornographic movies industry - - Johann Schwartzer in Austria was producing the equivalent of dirty French postcards in Austria , suitable for smokers . This is a pornographic cartoon , with sexual members that detach themselves , crabs , and it ends with a cartoon reenactment of the sort of donkey show that I saw in Tijuana in 1970 , only with a jenny instead of a jackass . The result is a cartoon of more interest to historians of movies than a teenage boy looking at sexually-oriented manga , although doubtless this played in smokers in the 1920s and 1930s .
Boyd Gets to Do Some Acting in Another Good Hopalong Cassidy	A gang of outlaws are burning out ranchers and then their front man is buying out the settlers at bargain prices . But when a pal of Hopalong's is killed , Cassidy goes to investigate , disguising himself as foppish , milk-drinking Bostonian to do so . in an amusing comic turn . Boyd , a capable but bland actor was made for this sort of western , and given the series ' start at Paramount , it had a level of gloss , both in the writing and production that almost all B westerns lacked . Veteran George Archimbaud directs and the cast includes the always excellent Andy Clyde , Russel Simpson as the lead villain , the almost forgotten J . Farrel MacDonald , and Mady Correll as the female lead - - not the love interest , since Hopalong never smoked , drank or paid attention to women . A pleasant way to kill an hour .
Hard-Knocks slapstick but . . . .	At first this appears to be no more than another bone-grinding slapstick of the era . Harold plays a beauty parlor worker who wishes to slap Snub , kick his boss , beat up on Bud Jamison , and to flirt with every pretty girl , particularly incompetent manicurist Bebe : just another knockabout slapstick in which the ' jokes ' are sheer physical violence . Yet , even at this stage , there is something more to Lloyd's comedies than that . For one thing , this is better constructed and paced than most comedies of the era . . . . although that might be an artifact of cut-up prints usually projected at incorrect speeds - - silent movies were meant to be shown at varying speeds , but the invention of the photofone sound-on-film technique meant that every frame had to be shown at the same speed . That is one possible explanation of the difference , but it won't explain it all . Look at this one yourself and perhaps you may come up with a better explanation .
Crashing Taxis	This fast-paced Fox programmer - - originally issued at 78 minutes , although the version I saw was cut to just under an hour - - looks a lot like its Warner Brothers counterparts , programmers modeled on Jimmy Cagney vehicles . Brian Donleavy does a good job in the lead role , playing the cocky , brash young hot shot , although he lacks the detail work of Cagney . The piece , however , is a lot more violent than the equivalent Warner's fare , as Donleavy goes seeking trouble , rather than snapping into it when it finds him . top-billed Rochelle Hudson is pretty good as the moll / love interest and the bill is filled out with a fine supporting cast , particularly by Harry Carey , always solid and believable . But the script lacks the sense of exposing the social ills that usually infused the Warners actioneers , and the direction and camera work , although competent , is not top notch . A decent , if unexceptional movie .
The Crazy Gang	This wartime farce concerns the Crazy Gang - - you may think of them as a precursor of the ' Carry On ' series , if you like - - who get involved in World War Two , which for them means running a fish and chips shop off a barrage balloon , floating accidentally into Germany , being interned in a concentration camp , acting as Hitler doubles and escaping . Don't worry if it makes no sense , it's the Crazy Gang , meaning about eight music hall performers taking every opportunity to engage in pratfalls , puns , cowardice and risqué jokes . The Crazy Gang starred in something short of a dozen movies in the late 1930s and early 1940s , a sort of all-star supporting comics ' series . The director of this and other movies in the series was French-born Marcel Varnel , a specialist in high-speed farce for Gaumont and Gainsborough until his untimely death . When he worked with Will Hays and his group of comics - - Moore Marriott appeared in both series - - he produced some very fine situational farces . Here , in this looser-plotted work , with every comic fighting for screen time , the result is something that would have been a very popular home film in Britain , but which does not , alas , travel well in time or space to a modern American viewer like me .
Clowning Around	Poodles Hannaford came from a family that spent centuries as acrobats in the circus . He developed series of tricks that would have seemed to make him a natural for the screen , but his variety of clowning was often so bizarre that it never seemed to work . In this , his simplest film appearance , he is at his best : he plays a character who goes through basic circus clown routines , but he does it without clown makeup and so seems simply human : a fellow down to his last quarter , looking desperately for a job . What could be more human than that ? Unhappily , the time and place mitigated against him : it was 1928 , silents were on their way out and he was working for the Weiss Brothers , so this very amusing comedy would lead no place . But for those interested in th history of clowning , you get to see Poodles do some of his famous bareback riding clowning . Still , worthwhile if you get a chance to see it .
Hiding in Plain Sight	The cops are trying to chase down Eddie Boland and , after a series of amusing gags evading them , he pretends to be a short order cook in a diner where pretty Ethel Broadhurst is waitress and the level of gags becomes more mixed . As Harold Lloyd moved into three reelers and features , Hal Roach needed someone to replace him in one - and two-reelers . He had already set up Snub Pollard with his own series and had tried an aborted series with Toto , filled out with Stan Laurel , but Lloyd's success made clear the market for the light comedian - - someone who could take a pratfall and woo the leading lady . So Roach gave Eddie Boland a series of shorts for a couple of years and they are actually good - - a mixed bag of gags - - but somehow they were never tremendously popular , so eventually he closed down the series and stuck his ace director , Charley Chase back in front of the camera . As I have already said , the Eddie Boland comedies were good , but they lacked a strong story line and Eddie , while a good comic , somehow is not a top banana . If you enjoy silent comedies , you will find this one very amusing in spots , but not overwhelmingly so .
Okay	Well executed but unexceptional one-reeler about a couple of incompetent paperhangers . James Parrott , brother of Charley Chase , was an equally skilled man behind the camera , later writing and directing some of Roach's best two-reelers , before he died too young , but while the gags here are well done , he never really developed much of a personality in these pieces and they are not , somehow , quite as sharp as the stuff he was co-starring in with Sid Saylor two or three years before . The extended gag with the plank of wood seesawing is typical . Of course it's also a pleasure to look at Jobyna Ralston as the girl in these pieces . She was James ' co-star before she replaced Mildred Davis as Harold Lloyd's better half on the screen - - although Miss Davis married her co-star .
How You Gonna Keep Them Down on the Farm ?	I first must note special interest : I do not like ' comedies ' in which animals are mistreated for the audience's amusement : Jules White & Zion Meyers ' DOGVILLE series for MGM fills me with horror . But chimpanzees are human enough and social enough that using them as performers does not disturb me and I have some fond members of the Marquis Chimps on television when I was a child . With that in mind , we can comment on this particular Snooky the Humanzee movie in which he plays a farmhand . He goes through the standard Chimp Act , putting on human clothes and so forth , but this time the story is filled out with some good gags - - the early one about milking a cow is nicely handled - - and some adult comedians doing some bone-breaking slapstick competently . Although I am no fan of this series , this is the best of them I have seen .
The Story Not The Thought	This is a typical-looking Biograph social piece , on the lines of D . W . Griffith's A CORNER IN WHEAT and ONE IS BUSINESS THE OTHER CRIME . But while Griffith made his pieces in this vein morally ambiguous , preferring to raise questions without coming up with answers in which he himself had little faith , Christy Cabanne takes a much more melodramatic position : the rich are evil , the rich are hypocritical and the poor and downtrodden will suffer at their hands Which is a superior line to take ? I admire Griffith's ability to tread that narrow line , to excite questions that are still unanswered - - but for pure story telling , Cabanne's methods are better , particularly given that Biograph's audience was poor and urban - - just the sort that feels oppressed by the rich . And while he only has a few of Griffith's best actors - - Alfred Paget , Bobby Harron and Donald Crisp in particular , it was a pleasure to recognize an improbably young Alan Hale . He was 21 when this film was released .
One-Shot	George Gordon is a potentially interesting cartoon director who seems to have never created a really great cartoon . The second person hired by Fred Quimby for his cartoon unit at MGM - - Quimby was hated by all his directors because he left them alone except when it came time to grab the best cartoon statuette at the Academy Awards ceremony - - a situation I would think ideal , by the way - - he labored for a couple of years anonymously on the Captain & the Kids cartoons , disappeared for a bit , showed up again in 1943 , and worked , on and off , for decades to come . His last credits seem to have been directing a lot of Smurf episodes in the early 1980s . This cartoon concerns a tree surgeon who happens to be a donkey , fighting a termite over a tree . It is quite competently done and it is , effectively , a silent movie : the only sounds are the Scott Brady score and the occasional hee-haw of the donkey . The artwork is interesting , particularly the way the tree is drawn as almost a human being , and the gags are deftly handled ; I am particularly taken by the way the final pay-off gag is not shown but implied . Yet , although they are highly compeent clowns , there is no sense that either the donkey or the termite are more than individuals who come into existence as the credits roll and who will cease to exist when it's over . Well , it's fun while the film is rolling , which is more than can be said for a lot of cartoons . Enjoy it for that .
Editing	It is a little difficult to comment usefully about the editing of Edison films of this era . Recent work has indicated that Porter's landmark LIFE OF AN American FIREMAN was originally edited in a style consonant with magic lantern shows , but later re-edited to agree with now-standard practices : linear time , albeit with clearly marked flashbacks and speeding up and slowing down of the passage of time . Nonetheless , by this point , Porter's technique had become sufficiently widespread throughout Edison that this uncredited piece is skillfully edited , although filled with - - to the modern eye - - abrupt transitions . The set design also has clearly improved . COHEN'S ADVERTISING SCHEME , from three years ' earlier , made use of painted backdrops . This movie has a much more realistic appearance . If the plot still makes use of then-current stage conventions - - the big-nosed Jewish merchant , the dancing lower classes , etc . , in a style that Griffith would turn on its head within a couple of years , still there is an attempt to fill the screen and keep things moving . Stylistically , Edison's products went their own way until about 1913 . There remains a strangeness - - to the modern eye - - to the works of the studio that was occasionally exploited to advantage . This piece , however , remains a curiosity .
No Context for Review	Let us imagine you are someone from Japan who enjoys a lot of different films . You like American films , and have seen several hundred of them , mostly westerns , but only about twenty made before 1945 . You've seen almost all the pictures that Frank Capra directed from 1928 on , one non-Capra drama from 1926 - - let us say , FLESH AND THE DEVIL - - and enjoyed it , thinking it full of weird and wonderful images , and then you are confronted with a melodrama from 1921 . I submit you may like it or not like it , but you have little context to understand whether it is good or bad , either innately or for the year 1921 . It might be Ingram's FOUR HORSEMAN OF THE APOCALYPSE or it might be an utter piece of hackwork . Well , that's my problem with SOULS ON THE ROAD . I like Japanese films , but more than half of them have been Samurai flicks . I have seen a about ten of Ozu's silent films and one silent drama from 1926 . So what can I tell you about this movie ? I can tell you that , by and large , I thought it interesting , but the style of acting is not something I can comment on . Characters ' motivations are not clear - - the main character has suffered a nervous breakdown , but we're not sure of the pressures that led to it - - and they maintain their positions until something drastic happens . People do things for the sake of the plot , seemingly to illustrate the story's moral , not because of who they are . Perhaps to a Japanese audience of 1921 , motivations and actions would be clearer . Is it a good movie ? Is it a good movie for a 1921 Japanese production ? I don't know . I enjoyed it , but in large part I enjoyed it because it helps fill in a little of my background of Japanese films . I have a somewhat academic appreciation of early film and can spend hours pleasurably looking at Zecca experiments in scene changes or industrial films of Westinghouse factories . You probably can not . . . . but then , you're reading this review , are you not ?
99 . 47 % Pure Soap	The second screen version of this durable weeper . Although it lacks the charming goofiness of the 1934 version - - provided by W . C . Fields and Zasu Pitts - - it tells the story with enough flourishes to keep you wondering how everyone is going to get out alive and in some semblance of happiness . Watch for a very young May McAvoy in a supporting role .
Exotic Locales	Sparing no expense , surrounded by hostile natives in their colorful clothing - - sorry , but this is black and white - - across stormy seas , braving the local perils of English cooking , Lumiere has ventured into darkest London to show you . . . . a lion .
Changing Clothes	All of the major players in this movie have been much better served . Zasu Pitts has a throwaway role , Victor Varconi - - - well , I must admit I can't think of anything else I might have seen Mr . Varconi in , but his role as husband is the sort that Tommy Meighan made a career playing , and he has almost no presence . Raymond Griffith isn't given much leeway , although he does a couple of amusing takes , and as for star , Miss Leatrice Joy . . . . well , she does get to play two roles , but one is a selfish boor who wants to become a Great Actress and the other is as a little mouse who doesn't want anything . Really , it's largely an exercise in posing to another typical Cecil B . DeMille script in which the times , we are informed , they are a-changing . The actors do as much as they can , which renders this pleasantly watchable , but nothing to go out of your way for .
Attack of the Killer Pumpkins	Early slapstick short from Louis Feuillade involving runaways , except that , instead of it being a runaway horse ( see Griffith ; s THE CURTAIN POLE for an example ) , it is a cartful of what appear to be hundred-pound pumpkins that get away , rushing hither and yon , down sewers , up chimneys , pursued by the drayer , a couple of other people and a very unwilling donkey . Very amusing .
Gags A-Plenty	Snub Pollard is quite good in this gag-filled comedy as a hapless bum who has gotten himself attached - - quite literally - - to a ball and chain and a grateful escaped convict . Although not particularly sophisticated - - as you would expect from a Weiss Brother release - - there are lots of gags and pratfalls skillfully exhibited . Alas , comedy had been moving for ten years away from simple exhibition of clowning and Snub had never moved with it - - in many ways , he had moved away from his co-starring days with Harold Lloyd and while he was capable of miming emotions , there was little exhibited in the way of any endearing or enduring character . With the coming of sound , Pollard's career which had begun with an Australian pantomime troop , would end in a few incongruous comedy sidekick parts in westerns and bit parts . But here we are in a last hurrah for the unadorned silent clown and while the films are not as good as they had been at Roach , the gags are . Enjoyt this for that if you can .
Adventure Flick	Decent although unremarkable adventure flick as Keenan Wynn - - who looks dashing and satanic in a beard - - and a crew composed of other Royal Navy Reservists - - go searching for stolen Nazi gold . The opening sequence in which the team is assembled and instructed via ape recording looks like it was lifted for " Mission Impossible " three years later .
Puzzle Mystery	This is a tightly-constructed mystery of the pre-Black Mask style , in which the solving of the crime - - here a potential serial killer - - must be tracked down , and the only clear clue is a bit of paper at the scene of the crime with a cypher code . The movie tries to add psychological drama by turning it from a " Whoodunnit " to a " Howcatchem " a style of mystery familiar to all fans of the old " Columbo " TV movie series , with the added punch that it is told from the viewpoint of the killer - - in this case , Robert Preston , who is an American who is somehow running a code-breaking division for the British government . Motivations are established early , but the whole thing is rendered a bit flat by the lack of details that surround the personnel . The result is a well-told story that is not , alas , particularly gripping .
Yup	A classic western plot - - a bad guy wants to grab off a small landowner's land and only a laconic wanderer can save the pretty ranch owner - - having killed her man by accident - - runs along in its well-greased way . Luke Perry is fine as the scruffy , squinty , hoarse hero . Jaclyn DeSantis is good as the woman he tries to help and while there are few surprises in this one , it plays nicely to the strengths of the classic western , including some fine camera work by James Wrenn . It is the old-fashioned camera work that is most notable about this picture , and the color choices that hearken back to silent days , with blue tints for night scenes , an overall sepia wash to the day scenes and an amber touch to the interiors . There are lingering shots when people are riding horses , giving a leisurely but inevitable air to the entire proceedings . A very pleasant TV movie .
Country & Western Music	One of the numerous musical short subjects that the movie studios churned out , this one purports to offer you a sampling of Western songs from the old west and modern musical westerns : " Home on the Range " , " Oh , Susannah " , " My Little Buckaroo " and " Deep in the Heart of Texas " are offered for your enjoyment . All are offered as little vignettes ; " My Little Buckaroo " is a clip from a Dick Foran musical Western . Such featurettes were common to movie theaters . Indeed , photographs of early movie theaters advertise sheet music and performances ; and Max Fleischer began his famous ' Follow the Bouncing Ball ' series of cartoon sing-alongs in 1926
Wanna Buy a Duck ?	I turned on this comedy , not expecting much . It looked like the sort of meaningless unfunny ' family ' comedies that Disney specialized in during the late 1960s . But the sure comic timing of Mickey Rooney and Buddy Hackett won me over immediately : and the absurdity of the situation - - two sailors on a submarine in the middle of the desert , told off to deliver a talking duck is carried through surefootedly . True , it is cheaply shot and timed to look more like one of those fantasy-comedies that populated TV during the 1960s - - Mr . Ed , I Dream of Jeannie , The Munsters - - but there is something about its attitude towards the government , with its idiotic bureaucratic navy that speaks to the 1960s . It's not a great movie by any means , but a very amusing time-waster , with some great parts for old timers like former child actor Jackie Cooper and ex-Charlie Chan Roland Winter .
Oh Suffering Kay !	Another Kay Francis super-weeper . Here , through no fault of her own - - or indeed , anyone - - she loses her husband , her daughter and her home and must get it all back by going on stage , starting in burlesque , until her triumphant Broadway premiere enables her to get her husband out of prison . She doesn't love him any more , of course , but that's a chance to suffer when the movie is over . Kay and an excellent supporting cast manage to put this drivel over , which explains why she was the highest paid woman on the Warner Brothers lot . While you might do better to whet your teeth for the delectable Miss Fwancis - - she had a slight but charming speech impediment - - on better vehicles such as TROUBLE IN PARADISE , this piece manages to hold up .
Powered by Gleason	This , the third in the series of Roach ' streamliners ' - - short comedy features about 50 minutes in length - - about Sgt . Doubleday , the instant non-com with the photographic memory is , like the others , an unremarkable comedy , some good bits placed in a script that often seems to start and stop , but it does have one great positive value in the performance of James Gleason , a funny and highly talented comic performer for thirty years in Hollywood . Usually cast in some role that suited his lower-class New York accent - - check him out as the cab driver in THE BISHOP'S WIFE - - here he plays the regimental colonel : vain , pompous and father of a very pretty daughter who , with the issue of pistol shooting , is the core of the story . If you feel that he is not enough to make this movie worthwhile , I certainly understand . But for me he made the difference between a dull hour and a pleasant one .
Signs of Life	At present only about two reels of this late-silent Universal comedy survive , enough to give you an idea of the plot - - Kathryn Crawford , a dress designer , is married to Charley Chase , which must be kept secret for some reason , and Parisian couturier Jean Hersholt wants to take her to Paris to study under him - - euphemisms , always euphemisms . The current surviving sections start with Charley in a very funny gag , follow through for a bit , and then jumps to the predictable ending . As Universal dumped almost all its silent footage in 1948 , it seemed for a long time that this was all that survived - - a terrible fate for Charley Chase fans . However , the word at Slapsticon ' 07 is that there are private collectors out there with enough footage to just about make up the entire movie and Universal is interested . . . . . so stay tuned . July 14 , 2008 : As an update , I have just received notice that this movie has been restored and will be exhibited in Syracuse this summer . I look forward to hearing impressions of it and hope to see the restoration for myself some time .
RKO B Westerns	Tim Holt and Richard Martin starred in a long series of RKO B westerns from the early 1940s through the mid 1950s . Production values were good , stories generally were fine , but the directors were people like Lesley Selander , director of this effort , who knew how to shoot the scenes very well but wasn't much on directing the actors . Good actors like Holt and Martin could usually manage , although they occasionally made bad acting choices , but the leading ladies , usually up-and-coming starlets , often gave wooden readings of their lines , like Linda Douglas in this . This is a typical entry . It is , by all means , satisfactory except for one or two performances . It is well worth your time .
Comedy Bits	Mary Pickford and her director , Alfred Green - - her brother Jack is also credited as co-director , but it's hard to say how involved he actually was - - did this movie as a comedy with a few serious bits . Miss Pickford is charming in the early scenes in Belgium , in which she gets a particularly stubborn mule to go home , and cleans a floor by strapping brushes to her feet like skates . But World War One intervenes and sends her on the road towards the plot , which is OK , even if no one else is called upon to do much . One of Bobby Harron's brother plays the romantic boy , Adolph Menjou and his mustache get to pose and middle-aged husbands are portrayed as dangerous fools . Not one of Miss Pickford's best , but her charm manages to carry it off well .
Go And Darken My Doorstep No More	This is a fairly good early talkie , thanks to a good original story by Booth Tarkington and an amusing performance by Leo Carillo who , in this phase of his career , always wound up playing Italians . Here he seems to be channeling Chico Marx and he comes to the rescue of orphan Virginia Valli , who has been tossed out of her uncle's house for drinking ginger ale in a road road while he is running for election on a temperance ticket , and he'll keep the two thousand dollars left her , thank you . Given that start , I don't have to tell you how everything turns out . The performances are good . Carillo's role was originally intended for Otis Skinner , but he dropped out for some reason . Cinematographer Ernest Miller - - who spent his long career mostly shooting B Westerns - - and editor Arthur Roberts manage to keep you from noticing the stage-bound shooting by a careful combination of cutting and changing perspective . The sound track is a little thin and scratchy , but that might be an artifact of this particular print . There are several amusing lines scattered throughout the dialogue and the result is a a pleasant , if old-fashioned time waster .
Light Touch Saves Yet Another Noble Harding Picture	Really , how much of these noble suffering roles could Ann Harding take without puking ? It isn't simply a matter of typecasting ; often typecasting , particularly for stars in the studio period was simply a matter of finding a good compromise between their talents and the sort of vehicle the public would accept . And assuredly , Miss Harding could carry this sort of superior suffering with a great deal of class . I suppose the way to handle this is the way director Stephen Roberts did : make sure that the supporting actors are amusing . Edward Ellis , best known for his role as the eponymous murder victim in THE THIN MAN is utterly charming as Harding's father-in-law , and Walter Abel's cohort of tipsy gamblers are also amusing . This was a strength of Mr . Roberts ' directing . It is a pity he died the year this was released as Hollywood lost a talented director in him . In terms of story , this seems like a cross between THEODORA GOES WILD and THE WOMEN . If you're not overloaded on Ann Harding movies you should enjoy it greatly . Even if you are , the supporting talent makes it worthwhile .
Producing Plenty of Pleasing Pratfalls	An early and amusing Semon from the days before his budgets and ego ballooned out of control . He is the utterly inept janitor in an office building , where an inventor is busy cutting a deal for a new sort of - - well , it looks like it might be a racing car , but it might be a zeppelin . But when Larry is not wielding a broom and forcing everyone into either ducking or taking a pratfall , or dunking an ice cube into the water cooler like an over-sized tea bag , he is fouling up industrial espionage . There is is a lovely thrill comedy bit with Madge Kirby at risk . As with Semon's other comedies of this period , he is the star but not the whole show , and that produces more varied and greater belly laughs . In this period his camera work was more interesting than his competitors , his gags as funny or funnier and although his story construction was no thing of beauty , it served as a fine framework for the gags . What happened to Semon later ? But 1922 , his shorts had gotten out of control . Was it wounded vanity as Chaplin moved ahead , making more money and getting more public acclaim ? Had he simply reached the limit of his gag construction without the ability to make his works truly cinematic ? Did he simply fail to understand the lessons of Chaplin , Lloyd and Fairbanks , that the public had to care about the character ? I don't know . But this is a good comedy . Enjoy it for that .
Not long enough to be annoying	One of the problems with the disappearance of the short subject is that everything has to be a feature - - even if it doesn't warrant it . Fortunately , some people still make short films , even if they are usually student works , and occasionally one shows up that is worthwhile . This one , based on a short story , is one that needs to be made as a short story or not at all . Doubtless we will see the two-hour feature version of this with high-tech special effects and lots of fake blood scattered about in a few years . In the meantime , let us enjoy this decent short .
Wee Sybil Jason	Released the same year as John Ford's WEE WILLIE WINKIE , in which Shirley Temple saves the British Raj , this Vitaphone short starring Sybil Jason is played much more for comedy , with a musical interlude or two . Miss Jason is rather stagy in her line readings and seems far more forcedly cute than Miss Temple's ebullient demeanor . The real star of this short is , neither Sybil Jason , nor Lumsdale Hare , but the beautiful Technicolor photography , courtesy of Ray Rennahan . A Technicolor specialist whose credits include the color sequences of the silent BEN HUR , two Oscars and two terms as president of the American Society of Cinematographers , this movie is more notable as a treat for lovers of the Technicolor process than its story or acting .
Composition	Jack Frawley , Lubin's cameraman for his remake of GREAT TRAIN ROBBERY is the writer and director of this movie , and he does a couple of interesting things in framing techniques in order to change the composition of the picture , using arches , trees and roads . He clearly understood the technique more clearly than most of the directors of this era . At this period , few except the Lumieres in France knew how to handle composition cleanly , and this picture is interesting for these techniques . There is even a bit of a tracking shot at the train depot .
The Producers	This Warner Brothers movie uses its juvenile B leads from BROTHER RAT in another version of George Kaufman's BUTTER AND EGG MAN . The dialogue is sharp and brittle , but only Ronald Reagan as a fast-talking , down-at-the-heels Broadway producer and Jane Wyman are spot on . Wayne Morris is miscast as Reagan's partner and Eddie Albert is dull in yet another go around as a put-upon nice guy . Jane Wyman was a wonderful comic actress at this stage in her career and this was precisely her meat : hair bleached blonde and talking a mile a minute . Unfortunately , in a few years she would win an Oscar for playing a mute in JOHNNY BELINDA and would never get a chance to be this entertaining again .
A Selected Short	When we think of short subjects in the studio days of movie-making , we think of comedy shorts , and other specialties : newsreels , educational shorts , sing-alongs and , of course , cartoons . But westerns were one of the first genres to emerge , starting with Broncho Billy Anderson in the first decade of the twentieth century , and cowboy shorts continued in production up until the 1940s , at least at Warner Brothers . Anyway , this is one of them and it compresses the usual story into one reel : cowboys riding up and down , shooting their guns in celebration , a fight in a saloon , the pretty girl and the shy cowhand and so forth . It's all directed in a broad comedy style that may remind the modern viewer of some of John Ford's rougher comedies like DONOVAN'S REEF . And that shouldn't be surprising , since he had gotten his directing start four years before this at Universal Studios , whence came this piece .
Bob Cummings , Comedian	This is a pleasant enough comedy set in turn-of-the-century Miami as Bob Cummings plays a swindler who's been swindled : he's been given a deed to a large plot of mangrove swamp in the out-of-the-way community . So he decides to con the locals , some of whom are not as honest as he . . . . There are a few good points to this movie , including some nice scenery , both around the mangrove swamps and Terry Moore , Will Geer has a nice role as mayor-postmaster-sheriff , and probably Lord High Poobah and Arthur Shields slides easily through his role as Terry Moore's father . But Bob Cummings is a little too one note in his performance to make this more than average good .
Hugh Herbert as W . C . Fields	Warner Brothers provides us with another one-hour B picture , with almost exactly the same plot as W . C . Field's THE MAN ON THE FLYING TRAPEZE . Hugh Herbert is quite enjoyable in the lead , but I enjoy Hugh Herbert and his pixilated little men ; his drunk scene with Hobart Cavanaugh is excellent . Dorothy Vaughn is fine as his shrew of a wife - - if you close your eyes , you may think you're listening to Marjorie Main . But Patricia Ellis is very stiff as the ingénue and the third act clearly rushes to make it through the end on the one-hour mark . Completists should note that this is an early credit for Dalton Trumbo . Do not , however , expect any moments of drama or depth .
Sound !	Antediluvian soundie cannot do justice to the enormous talent of Washington . Although the picture is sharp and the composition is excellent , Washngton's voice is washed out as he sings the title song while lounging against a tree and his ' mammy ' berates him into getting a job moving empty crates in Harlem .
As the Title	Louis Feuillade was Gaumont's lead director for a decade or two from about 1907 and he directed many of his pieces with a casual haste that resulted in some fascinating cinematic moments : pulling an exact duplicate of the woman you've just kidnapped out of a trunk , or going to your lawyer by balloon may be offered to the audience as if such are everyday occurrences . What did the audience think ? When you're having a good time , you're likely to forgive small random gaffes . Most of his comedies were short , and contained one or two gags , elaborated by repetition until the film was used up . Sometimes it worked , sometimes it didn't , but when a film lasts five minutes and there are several more of similar length on the program , you're willing to put up with a dud . So this simple movie isn't much , but for what it is , it is fine . Bout-de-Zan hooks up with a circus elephant and the elephant becomes the star of the movie . There's an amusing bit in which Bout-de-Zan and the elephant scare off a fake blind man and take over his pitch . The casual acceptance of the situation by passersby and their donations is amusing . Later , we see the elephant eat with a fork . Not much to it , but who doesn't like elephants ?
Or Should They Run ?	Mabel Normand's next to last movie stars Mabel and Creighton Hale as a couple of dim-witted thieves , outwitting the even more dim-witted Eugene Palette and terrorizing Oliver Hardy in a very good cameo appearance - - it's wonderful to watch Mr . Hardy's beautifully timed comic reaction and lets you know that he was a great comic actor even without Mr . Laurel . The jokes in this one are pretty good - - the same fountain gag would be repeated the next year in the L & H EARLY TO BED and it's interesting to watch the contrast in comic styles : Mr . Hale models himself on Harry Langdon , while Mabel goes for the big action sort of comedy that she learned in her Sennet days , and they both work . But Mabel is clearly getting a little pudgy and rubber-faced by this point . Although it's probably the best of her Roach shorts , it makes me sad to realize that this beautiful young girl would be dead in three years . Ay , wheel . It's pretty funny .
A Forgotten Debut	British Pathe decided to get into the cartoon business with this , the first of a series about a small dog - - ' tyke ' is Yorkshire slang for a dog - - who does nominally funny things . The drawings are good , the animation is all right for the era , and the dog walks around on his hind legs , talks and laughs at his own witticisms to help out the audience . Here , Jerry sees an advertisement for a cartoon dog and answers it , riding a swaybacked horse to the office , where he is promptly awarded a contract . The series , although nothing special by modern or even current standards - - it opens with a pen and a bottle of ink drawing Jerry , reminiscent of Fleischer's " Out of the Inkwell " series - - was apparently good enough for Pathe to produce over forty of them . They very occasionally show up at New York's Museum of Modern Art , or , if you wish , you can go to British Pathe's website and take a look at them for yourself .
Spy Stuff	This is a static but watchable story of beautiful German spy Florence Vidor , caught between clueless Jack Holt and wily Sessue Hayakawa . The men are trying to protect information about a convoy in the Pacific where a new German submarine force is rampaging - - remember , this is World War One , and the Japanese were on our side - - and Vidor is trying to find out about it , while fighting her feelings as Jack Holt keeps proposing to her . Mr . Holt , in the tradition of all heroes , is a bit musclebound between the ears , while Hayakawa's intelligence shines through . Despite the motionlessness of the camera , well composed shots and skilled actors keep this one moving along . Charles Ogle is a bit over the top of Vidor's ruthless doctor / spymaster , but in a movie like this , some one has to be .
Performances	This is an early Griffith effort - - when you're turning out eighty or ninety movies a year , you look everywhere for a story . A full reel , this was an immense production in Griffith's schedule and it shows . Although it is shot in simple long takes and the crowd scenes are staged well but not as amazingly so as later efforts would do , this has a full and beautiful set , in an era when set dressing was practically non-existent . The acting is broad in the comedy scenes , and more controlled in the romantic scenes . Notice the background actors gesticulating wildly in the kitchen scene ( and the trademark ' AB ' ! ) which looks looks a lot like Sennet's later Keystone style . Although Griffith directed more than five hundred pictures , almost all of which survive , he has a vast corpus of works that are rarely seen , because so many people concentrate on his best features and perhaps a dozen of his best-known shorts . Kino is to be applauded for including this in their silent OTHELLO dvd and for hiring John Mirsalis to do the delightful , simple score .
Sing It Again !	Weird little short - - a couple of minutes in length - - showing a series of clips from films done by Wharton , including Pearl White in THE PERILS OF PAULINE and Irene Castle waving a large American flag . The sound track consists of a song recounting the stars with the chorus repeated several times : " It Was Hollywood On Cayuga . . . Ithaca in the early Teens . . . . " A rag of a memento showing that film makers tried a whole bunch of studio sites . harmless piece of boosterism .
Strong Silent Types in Talkies	Well mounted , interesting story about suave racketeer Armstrong falling for impoverished deb Lombard , hampered a bit by the declamatory style of speaking any speech longer than three words and apparent immobility of microphones .
Not Quite a Dog	Ace the Wonder Dog , RKO's answer to Rin Tin Tin - - not that anyone had asked the question - - is introduced in this Richard Dix programmer . Dix was a leading star at RKO from 1929 through 1940 , but for RKO this meant handsomely mounted B movies that his loyal fans would go to see , and which could be used to introduce interesting new talent , like Ace . Here Richard Dix pretends to be blind in order to recover incriminating letters that might result in his sister being blackmailed - - don't ask me why his being blind would help . Richard Dix ambles through the movie with his usual muscular performance . It is unsurprising he had his fans . Even the fact that this movie ends with a closeup of Ace the Wonder Dog doesn't fool anyone . A talented performer , yes , but we was no Richard Dix .
The Young Son and Heir	Dated , stagey and suffering from a static camera , this early Philip Barry play still manages to pack a wallop due to Barry's wonderful dialogue and the strengths of the leads , Frederick March and Ann Harding , right at the beginning of their careers , but possessed of a naturalness that carries this movie along . Thanks to the Vitaphone Project for reuniting the rediscovered soundtrack to the moving image .
Nodding Off In A Moving Vehicle	Some wonderful actors are a lot of fun in a curiously unengaging screwball comedy . The cast is a great one : Fredric March and Loretta Young in the leads , with Robert Benchley , Eve Arden , the unfortunately forgotten Allyn Joslyn and Helen Westley as a blonde bimbo . It has some wonderful comedic moments - - the one where Young orders Westley to sit down and play the piano is priceless . However , the whole thing never quite gels . Perhaps it is because of the theatrical background of the story : March gives one of his few miscalculated performances . It is impossible to tell when his character is being sincere and when his character is trying to manipulate the other characters . When he is in full blown theatrical mode , as in THE ROYAL FAMILY OF Broadway , he is hilarious . When he he plays a small-time chiseler , as in NOTHING SACRED , he is hilarious . Perhaps it is because there seems to be no chemistry between him and Young . It is appropriate to their characters ' relationship in the movie , but it is not , very interesting . And that pretty well describes this movie . Watch it for the moments , but not for the movie .
Social Drama	Monogram tries its hand at producing a social drama on the order of DEAD END or ONE-THIRD OF A NATION with Jackie Cooper giving a high-energy performance as a leader of a street gang , but the entire production slides over into standard melodrama . Neither does the cheap production value help - - even though it might seem to for a film of this sort . But the photography by Gilbert Warrenton is a little too glossy for the piece . Guy Usher as Jackie's father and Margorie Main as his mother give fine performances , and the movie may be the first feature to use the standard " These Foolish Things ( Remind Me of You ) " in its soundtrack , but despite its aspirations , director William Nigh never seems to manage much of either great significance or entertainment .
Fireman , save my child !	An exciting early clip of a fire department in action , with horse = drawn fire cars flying down the street towards the conflagration . Although the overcranking results in slightly slowed motion , the straining of the horses makes this a classic and model clip of how to shoot a scene like this
Typical RKO musical	This typical mid-40s RKO musical is enlivened a bit by Joan Davis ' goofy mugging . The plot , of course , only serves to gives people time to take a break between the comedy bits and the musical numbers . We also have a view of Roach silent comedy star , Glen Tryon as George White . The musical numbers are pretty good , particularly the first one with Gene Krupa , a triumph of choreography and camera-work . Krupa seems a little . . . . weird in the number , however , like he's on strong drugs and flipping out . Although this is not unheard of in drummers who are not on drugs , it may be significant that Krupa had spent time in jail on a marijuana rap in 1943 , and this might have been an attempt to capitalize on his ' bad boy ' image .
Valentino on the Rise	This was Valentino's last film before he appeared in Rex Ingram's THE FOUR HORSEMEN OF THE APOCALYPSE , the film that made him a star - - so great a star that the original six reels of this movie were cut down to three and edited to make his role more important . It's a fairly old-fashioned movie for 1920 : a still camera , mostly one - and two-shots and the frame is frequently irised in to provide a specific composition , a technique that Hollywood had largely abandoned by this time , preferring to let the objects and people provide their own compositions . The story is also old-fashioned and the entire thing was done to showcase the female lead , Margeurite Namara . Who was she ? Someone who was a show-biz celebrity at the time . Really , the only talent connected with this picture whose name has survived well is Valentino and perhaps Gene Gauthier . Although his next picture would make him a star , Valentino is clearly a very talented motion picture actor by this time . He understands how to pace his movements and how to indicate his character - - and even his nationality - - by how he moves . Here he is clearly European . In the previous year's DELICIOUS LITTLE DEVIL , no one could have acted more American . Here was a man who earned his stardom . Take a look at this and other performances and see it .
Retreat to Cable TV	This Hallmark Channel TV movie has a decent script , about a New York teenager who is sent to stay with his grandfather to straighten out and does so . Nowadays the movie theaters are full of big spectacles which seem to be all about production values and little about people or story , so efforts like this are welcome , especially as they allow us to see actors who might not be young and beautiful any more , but who can turn in performances ten times as interesting as current movie leads . It is a pleasure to watch the older actors - - Ed Asner , Rue McClanahan , Ralph Waite and others handle their roles simply and interestingly . However , Alex Black , as the juvenile lead , is a little too nice , his transformation is a little too easy and he spends too much time smiling to put much depth into this effort . Danielle Savre , as the ingénue , though , is excellent .
' French ' Does Not Mean Classy	An illiterate man with some sense of intestinal urgency needs to find the right door at a railroad station . He chooses . . . . the wrong door . Zecca was Pathe's leading director at this point and was always willing to experiment in an effort to find a new way of telling a story cinematically . This split reel subject does not fall into that category . It is simple , crude , short enough to be funny , and even has an appropriate structure - - there is a payoff joke at the end . The questions raised by this short are : what audience is it intended for , since the doors to the toilet and the telephone are marked in English . Was this intended for the English-speaking market ? Was it intended for the French market , where the ease of reading the telephone door would make the joke clear ?
The Other Black Bird	Fast-paced mystery programmer that times in at exactly one hour , this one doesn't give you any time to grow bored , as a piece of forged Chinese furniture turns out to be real . Eddie Foy Jr . is great as the fast-talking sidekick and the plot veers in unexpected direction . William Lundigan is earnest and stiff as always , but even the butler speaks fast in this one .
It Wasn't The Best of Films . It Wasn't the Worst of Films	This well-mounted and visually interesting silent version of the Dickens novel is a good effort , but , of course , it pales before the 1935 version starring Ronald Colman . As a silent film it suffers from too many title cards - - an artifact , no doubt , of the fondness for the book . One searches for nice things to say about this movie , but they all have to be qualified as " For 1917 . " Good set design for 1917 . Good composition for 1917 and so forth . Still , the acting is good , the story is there and if you want to see what was good in 1917 , you can take a look at this . Or you could just stick with the 1935 version and I won't fault you .
Miracles Are All Around Us	A couple , on the verge of ending their marriage because they cannot have children , find themselves stranded in a village in Mexico where they come to know some of the locals - - and each other - - as they prepare for their festival . This comedy-drama is handled in a very quiet manner and the focus seems to be more on the man , played by Jason Priestley , rather than his wife , played by Nicole Scipione , which keeps the tone a touch lighter than it might have been handled , keeping a good balance between comedy and sadness . Even Cheech Marin plays the local priest largely straight . While this is not the best TV movie ever made , it is a pretty good effort and worth your time .
Roy Rogers Rides Again	Plenty of amusement in this Roy Rogers movie as the folks borrow the plot of DESTRY RIDES AGAIN . Roy's father and grandfather were both old-fashioned , famous western sheriffs . Gabby Hayes fetches him out to deal with cattle rustlers . . . . but the FGI after his name is not the Federal Gureau of Investigation , but Fellow of the Geographical Institute . As usual in these movies , a lot of care is taken for some lovely cinematography , although there are some obvious day-for-night shot given away by the shadows . The Sons of the Pioneers , as you might expect , show up to sing a few songs , and this high-class B Western is sure to please fans of the genre .
Half A Good Start	Little Lulu was a series of one-panel , wordless cartoons produced by ' Marge ' for many years starring Lulu as a mischievous , imaginative child . This , the first of the cartoon series produced by Famous Studios , the Fleischer successor , gets off to a great start with a fine series song and some good sight gags , but it soon turns into a plot with a story in which Lulu is sent by her Mammy to get a dozen eggs from a store and soon breaks them . The gags following her efforts are not as amusing . The first half makes for a very good start , as I have said , but then she starts speaking to her dog . Alas , the net result is a good , but not great cartoon .
Some Laughs Remain	This frantic Warner ' B ' comedy about how millionaire Jeffrey Lynne copes with being invisible succeeds , in large part , because of the great , great comedy chops of Everett Horton , who takes over the movie as the mad scientist who turns him invisible . Well , he's not mad , actually . He is , in fact , quite amiable , so amiable that he allows his colleagues to send him to an insane asylum after a lovely variation on the " Mayhem in the Classroom " vaudeville sketch . Jane Wyman is also on hand doing her wide-eyed comedy gal , and Willie Best does a decent turn for the era . The cast is filled out by the usual competent Warners B cast of the the era . Jeffrey Lynne , as the lead , is given very little do do and his plot is disposed of efficiently . This pretty much describes Mr . Lynne's career . But this comedy remains with some reasonable pleasures in it .
Kids Type the Darnedest Things	Louis Feuillade was Gaumont's director of whatever they needed directing for a couple of decades from about 1907 : classic serials such as JUDEX and LES VAMPIRES , melodramas of all lengths , slapstick comedies and kiddie comedies , particularly those of the Bout Le Zan series . In this one , Bebe is a child actor in a kiddie comedy , pinched , along with the director , because a lot of " cinematic artists " have been running con games , stiffing restaurant bills , and so forth , and they are hauled into the nearest police precinct and put into the hands of a prefect who has had enough of this sort of nonsense . The humor in this short , as in several of Feuillade's kiddie comedies , arises from his children behaving in very unchildlike fashion . Worth looking at once for the pleasure of the joke
Closing Down the Shorts Department	Roach's ' Girl Friends ' series winds down in the last year of Roach's short subjects production with no Zasu Pitts and with Thelma Todd dead - - Patsy Kelly and Pert Kelton get roped into selling aluminum pots and pans door to door . Unhappily there is very little chemistry between these two comediennes as Miss Kelly is 90 % % of the show and Miss Kelton is largely reduced to nodding in support . The gags are what sustains this movie ; the Roach studio staff knew how to write gags and they could call upon a large number of actors and actresses to fill out the cast expertly . This actually looks like it was originally intended to be a Laurel & Hardy short subject . It's a pity we can't see that version . They could have made a great movie out of it , but they were no longer doing short subjects .
Benny B Team	This is a very pleasant little B movie from Columbia . The plot is that Phil Harris is a house painter in partnership in with Eddie ' Rochester ' Anderson , comes down with amnesia and becomes a band leader , getting wealth and the girl in the process . In this they are ably abetted by old hand Del Lord in the director's chair and the inimitable Walter Catlett in his usual seedy hustler mode . Mr . Harris sings a couple of his hits , Rochester , as always , steals the show . While this movie led no place in particular for anyone's career - - Harris and Rochester went back to radio , Del Lord back to the shorts department and the rest of the cast went on doing whatever it was they did , there are a lot worse movies out there taking up more of your time for less effect .
Superior Grist	Bright little Saturday afternoon oater , one of several dozens starring Tim Holt for RKO in the 1940s . If the script is , in the main , average , there are several surprising turns in the plot and occasional flashes of wit ; the photography is excellent , and the cast is uniformly excellent , with the sole exception of Tim Holt , who seems a little stiff and dazed . That may have been an acting choice he made , given the script , and it makes sense but is , an unfortunate choice . Still , the movie is well worth your time .
Counterpunching	This rarely-seen cartoon from Rudolph Ising shows that he was still watching what the competition was doing and trying to equal or better it - - Fantasia had come out the year before and this looks like his reply to it . But to my taste it doesn't work , marred by the excessive sentimentality and " it's for the kiddies " mentality that lingered at his and Hugh Harman's studio . Hanna and Barbera had already moved across to work for Fred Quimby directly at MGM , taking their vicious streaks with them , and while FANTASIA could do with one or two " for the kiddies " sequence among its variety of offerings , this solo short must be viewed on its own merits : beautifully backgrounded , lovely music conducted by the talented Scott Bradley , but utterly banal . There's nothing wrong in doing something for the kiddies , but I could watch A CORNY CONCERTO , Termite Terrace's reply to FANTASIA , with pleasure when I was three and I can still watch it with pleasure half a century later . That's the difference between competence and greatness . Ising learned and he did start to turn out cartoons fit for man as well as boy . But it was too little and too late .
Long Ago and Far Away	This is one of the earliest full color cartoons turned out by the Termite Terrace crew and I wouldn't expect you to be interested unless you are fairly familiar with popular culture seventy years ago and able to figure out , for example , that Lilly Swans is supposed to be Lily Pons - - there were three or four that escaped me ( I have no idea who Tizzie Fish is supposed to be - - a radio cooking show host , apparently ) . The cartoon is a just a series of " can you identify this one ? " gags . You might be interested in looking at the Art Deco style of cartooning that Tash used in this one - - it showed up in a couple of other early color Loony Tunes like PAGE MISS GLORY and then vanished into the standard house style .
Cheap and easy	Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan have great screen chemistry . All of their movies show it . And for the first three quarters of this film , they light up the screen . This is the third time this movie has been made . The first time , it was Ernst Lubitsch ' THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER and a delight . The second time , it was IN THE GOOD OLD SUMMERTIME and Judy Garland's songs and a brief turn by Buster Keaton made it a delight . This time , however , despite a sharp beginning and middle , the movie collapses at the end . Nora Ephron's movies seem to do this all the time : you start to notice the easy manipulation of the audience , and then she rushes the ending to get it over with .
Well-trained tools	A charming little trick-photography piece in which a poor , exhausted tailor , ordered at gunpoint to make a suit in a hurry , falls asleep on the job and dreams of how his tools and goods , brownie-like , make the suit . This picture somehow seems to be more than a series of camera tricks , but more a matter of longing for an easier life , something which the audience of the time - - indeed , of any time - - could sympathize with .
A Work in Progress	The work meant here is the work of restoring this movie , since it did not exist in any sort of coherent form for many decades - - until the folks at UCLA got their hands on a version that the Soviet film archives , Gosfilmfond had held for many years , intended as a feature on how the upper classes in America mistreat the lower classes - - from which they had removed all the jokes . UCLA turned out a version that could be followed , including a lot of stills , in 2001 , but more clips have been identified and they intend to continue working at building up a comprehensive version . And well they should , since Mabel Normand gives a wonderful performance and the script makes a good deal of sense . Molly is the daughter of a working man who is dissatisfied with the life she sees in front of her . Her father is a good man , but has his own ideas of what is proper , and Molly wants more : love , respect and a useful life . Her only confidante is a man who makes silhouettes , played with compassion by George Stockdale , who acts as Molly's fairy godfather in this Cinderella story . Yes , it is incomplete , and the missing sections make one ache for what is gone , just like the restored edition of Capra's LOST HORIZONS . But the warmth of the performances make up for a lot . The one real trouble is that a tacked-on thrill ending , involving a daring parachute leap from a dirigible . . . clearly tacked onto a complete and charming story . I look forward to seeing further restoration work on this movie . Even as it exists , it shows a good deal of charm . The performances are excellent . What a pleasure to see Miss Normand actually act !
Not Bad	A surprisingly strong series of gags and a familiar story manage to enliven this early Van Beuren - - which animator Frank Tashlin called ' Van Boring ' - - sound production , to the point where it is worth watching . Van Beuren Studios was one of the major cartoon studios from the mid-twenties until it lost its contract with RKO in the mid-1930s . Usually its products were technically well done but weak on the creative side . In this piece , everything works well . If you like black and white animation , this one is worth a look at .
Honi Soit Qui Mal Y Pense	This is , in its surviving form , a split-reel melodrama by Alfred Machin , whose best-remembered work is the anti-war drama , MAUDIT SOIT LA GUERRE made just before World War One broke out . Although the acting in this one is fairly primitive , and the miller's character is indicated that , despite being fairly well-to-do for the period - - he does own his own windmill - - he dresses in foolish-looking clothing that is heavily patched . Despite these problems , this is a pretty good piece of film , not only for the dramatic way in which the miller takes his revenge on the cuckolding pair , but also the way it is shot . At this period , most American films were proscenium-arch-bound . Griffith was just getting started , but in Europe , they were already sophisticated . This is shot outdoors , with several well-chosen cuts and a couple of camera movements to keep composition . Also , the print I saw was beautifully stencil-colored , which certainly doesn't hurt .
Silent movie comedian	A very pleasant short for Harry Langdon fans . The entire 20 minutes go by without more than twenty words being uttered , nor do they need to be . Langdon has a couple of nice , typical bits in the movie , playing with a water hose and hiding out with wax dummies . If you're not familiar with Langdon , this short is a pretty good introduction to his pixilated personality .
Predictable But Sweet	This is a highly predictable movie , but exceedingly sweet , as Jenny McCarthy , a demographics-driven marketing expert goes back to take over the family business - - the Santa Claus operations for daddy and , of course - - and discovers the true meaning of Christmas . The jokes are a little weak as elves stop work every seventeen minutes for cookie breaks and Ms . McCarthy is a little strident . George Wendt is surprisingly good at producing a layered performance as Santa Claus . Everyone else falls into patterns that you would expect in a post-millennium movie in which Christmas is freed from all religious significance , but it has its moments and its charms .
Knockabout Farce - - then knock him down and step on him	Paul Bertho stars in this pretty funny knockabout force from 1911 , It's a real knockabout slapstick piece and one of the most violent I have ever seen , as people attempt to cushion their falls by landing on other comedians . The second half does some nice camera trickery as Bertho seems to hide in a large satchel , which travels on along , evading his pursuers . I can't tell if this is done by good stop motion and cutting or by simply having a string on the bag : probably stop motion , but the viability of other methods is a plus . This is a very primitive movie - - the Italian comedies of this period usually lack much in the way of mise-en-scene , but the cutting is very much in the style of Melies . Still , it's mostly interesting from an historical perspective .
Quick Fun	An amusing runaway - heiress - and - newspaperman comedy ( think IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT without Capra , Riskin , great actors or Harry Cohn ) , this second feature times in at pretty close to an hour and seems to be all right . Perpetual lunk Gordon Jones is fine as the eccentric newspaper photographer , but Betty Furness can't speak her overwritten lines with any conviction . Indeed , the entire movie seems a bit overwritten , possibly to give the leads some interesting characters they couldn't manage on their own . Witticisms such as " I know a good seven letter word for good-bye : GOODBYE " abound . As usual , the fun in these movies is supplied by the supporting cast , including Henry Kolker , Franklin Pangborn and E . C . Clive . It will give you something to do while the plot is lumbering along its inevitable course .
Wedding Speeches	A Jewish couple has just gotten married and people give speeches at the wedding supper . The morning after , however , it is time to get along with the business of living . . . . . When I tell Jewish jokes , I use my grandfather's voice . Younger people tell me I shouldn't make fun of people , that no one speaks that way . Maybe not nowadays , but they did once , and this short subject is full of malapropisms and humor that once were common among my grandfather's generation . When I watch this , I watch it with fond memories of people I once knew who were like this and I enjoy it greatly . I hope that you will be able to appreciate it , at least intellectually , on those terms .
The Formal Drama	In its time the American B western was possessed of a form as rigid as any dramatic form in existence . There would be half a dozen plots that could be used for a western and the story was usually told in a conservative fashion , using techniques that ran back to when William S . Hart , popularizer of the Good Bad Man in the movies , was one of the leading western stars . The conservatism was a combination of practicality and art : the Bs were the stomping grounds of silent A directors who wished to continue to work . . . . and the fact that the story took place in the outdoors meant that the outdoors formed a good part of the story . In this one , Joel McCrea is the Good Bad man - - a great trail boss whose men got out of control and wrecked a town . Now the town is struggling to make a comeback , and has hired McCrea to lead the drive - - and much of the town has come along on the drive The movie is beautifully shot and the plot has a revenge drama quality that makes it peculiarly interesting . Unhappily , most of the acting talent once you get past McCrea is less than first rate . Still , it does have its not inconsiderable charm and its easy assumption of what may seem like bizarre attitudes may give you the start of an understanding of the genre .
Going Out Swinging	This is the infamous short which is supposed to have killed Langdon : he had a cerebral hemorrhage and died soon after it was finished . Since it was 1 : a Columbia short and 2 : costarred El Brendel . who reasonably held the record of World's Worst Comic Actor between Al Joy - - who , by the way , turned out shorts that were no worse than your average 1970s situation comedy : not great perhaps , but relatively painless to anyone who has ever sat through a Brady Bunch marathon - - and Paulie Shore , it is supposed to be an awful short . Think again . It is actually a pretty good short . True , it does have the usual Columbia monstrosities , but it does have a funny story , some good comic acting , Christina McIntyre gets to sing for a change and Harry and Brendel do a fine little dance-and-piano number . Shed no tears for Harry . He worked steadily in the movies , did some interesting work - - his PRC features are very funny - - and he lived a very comfortable life , just as Buster Keaton did in his last decade . He went out in harness turning out a good comedy . There's nothing wrong with that , and this one is a bit of all right too .
Their Best Comedy - - Don't Cry If You Miss It	Carney and Brown were two minor supporting comedians whom RKO teamed , hoping for the same chemistry - - and profits ! - - that Universal was getting out of Abbott and Costello . But whereas A & C were two guys who had spent twelve years honing their act and timing , this pair had to move on their acting ability , which was decent , and their chemistry - - which , alas , was non-existent . Strangely enough , this , their cheapest feature - - no supporting acts , no songs - - is , I think , their best . I credit Leslie Goodwins , the director , who usually spent his time in the shorts department directing Leon Erroll and Edgar Kennedy shorts . There are some very funny gags scattered about . A surprising amount of comic energy is supplied by Erford Gage , who plays their sergeant in this and ADVENTURES OF A ROOKIE . He also gets to pull the best gag in the movie , something you'd expect to see in a Merrie Melody . So this movie is not a waste of time . But it does make you appreciate Abbott and Costello all the more .
How Did I Get In This Handbasket and Where Are We Going ?	Cisco and Pancho ( played by the always amusing Cesar Romero and Chris-Pin Martin ) , wander into the third movie version of a pretty good novel set among aristocratic Mexicans . Charles G . Clarke's camera work is sharp and beautiful , but while the movie is always interesting , the various elements don't gel together perfectly : Cisco and Pancho go about their part of the movie as if it is a comedy , and the rest of the cast is dealing with real problems . Still , Fox turned out the most sumptuous of B movies during this period , and you can spend your time just looking at the pictures - - the rescuing of the runaway stagecoaches , the agave plants by the edge of the canyons , the musical numbers or the sharply lowlit portrait shots . That is a lot of fun in itself .
Earning Some Cabbage	At this stage in their careers , Lloyd Hamilton and Bud Duncan were a comedy team for Kalem , Ham and Bud . Playing two vicious tramps , they wandered into depressing situations , created some chaos and left . This was supposed to be funny . Usually it wasn't . According to stories , the two men hated each other and the team broke up in 1917 when Kalem starting breaking up with the ending of the Patents Trust . Hamilton developed into one of the most respected performers of silent comedy in the 1920s and drank himself to death in the 1930s . Duncan inexplicably kept working for another thirty years . Surprisingly this is actually a watchable comedy from this period . Although , like most of their films , it is composed of simple variations on a single theme , watching the pair of them make and toss around sauerkraut , wrecking everything in the process is actually fairly amusing . I see than Hamilton is credited as director on this one , and assume that he was able to impose some humor into the situation that I can enjoy without being able to understand . Maybe they were having fun trying to kill each other . I certainly appreciate the attempt .
From Circus To Circus	Another of Snub Pollard's gag-filled one-reelers from Roach . Pollard , once he split off from Harold Lloyd had a busy career in Roach shorts for a few years , and his gag construction was impeccable . However , his character never seemed to make much sense and by the end of the decade he was working comedy support in B westerns . He remained , to the end , another small man with a big mustache who did things not because of his character , but because they would make the audience laugh . This one is better than average for him , because his gag construction makes sense , in that he works in a circus , and so his characterless clown is more suitable . But while watchable , it's still not a great picture .
et la metteur en scene	What can we say usefully about the works of Germaine Dulac ? This little-remembered member of the French avant-garde in the ' Teens and Twenties has had her work recently revived . A series of movies by her were shown in 2003 at the Museum of Modern Art in New York . Each movie was preceded by an earnest lecture to the effect that Dulac was an important theoretician in film , someone who produced and directed her own films and who , after those days were gone , was an important film critic . Also she was a lesbian and a woman - - somehow the lecturer always put those two in that order - - in Paris in the 1920s . All of these things , we were informed , makes Dulac an important figure in the history of films and probably the woman's movement . Without intending to denigrate any of these things , I must admit I find them all irrelevant to the most important questions : were her films any good ? And , in particular , is this film any good ? Let's consider the latter question . First , the good parts : Mme . Dulac's films - - and , I hasten to add , this film - - shows an excellent sense of cinematic language and composition . Mme . Dulac's compositions and setwork are pleasing and naturalistic and her actors in full command of the techniques of cinema acting of the period , naturalistically restrained when the scene calls for it . Unfortunately , these abilities are overwhelmed by issues of story composition and character definition . This is a full-blown melodrama , about how the artist in question - - this case , a dramatist hoping to have his first play produced - - tromps on the lives and affections of the two women who care for him and support him : his wife , who forgives his laziness and the starring actress , who gets his first play produced and with whom he has a brief affair . This is followed by an endless third act in which he lies , dying , unaware of the premiere . My reaction : let him live or die , but in less time , please . My other overwhelming issue with this movie , and Mme . Dulac's other movies is that her men are not men so much as collections of blemishes whose real purpose in life is to make women's lives miserable by random , barely motivated acts . It may well be that this is how Mme . Dulac saw men : after all , she was a lesbian and a woman . I find her drawing of male characters as aimlessly villainous to be annoying . Yes , this is a melodrama , but even Snidely Whiplash has some consistency of character . Perhaps that is the point of the movie . If not , the movie fails . If it is the point , then I still have the right to mislike it heartily . I do so .
Keystone Programmer	If you've seen one , you've seen them all - - but if you've seen Chaplin or Arbuckle's versions of the slovenly restaurant , you've seen it done much better , of course . This one depends on the Keystone staples : mugging , fraud and physical violence which of , course , have their own charms . And one cannot deny that it is nice to see Louise Fazenda out of he ' country girl ' makeup . Here she plays the gum-chewing girl at the cashier and is quite pretty . Naturally , the Keystone Kops get involved and there is a fine silly chase to round off the entire effort . If you're a fan of his sort of comedy - - as I am - - you will find it nicely , if not brilliantly done . But I freely admit it's a bit raw for people who think Adam Sandler is funny .
I'm Henry the Eighth I Am	This short subject about a couple of the wives of Henry the Eighth of England is pretty much of a burlesque skit and Bert Lahr as Henry mugs it up endlessly . Although a marvelous presence , he was made for the stage , with his rubber face and loud noises , so apart from his turn as the Cowardly Lion in THE WIZARD OF OZ , his best role is as a burlesque comic in THE NIGHT THEY RAIDED MINSKY'S . Here he runs through his usual combination of oaf and child , and in a two-reeler it works . But if it had gone on for another fifteen seconds , it would have been far too much . Also good in this short is Monte Collins , a comic who had a bit of a leading role in some shorts in the late silent era and who then slipped into second banana roles and did some nice work for Columbia , particularly with Buster Keaton .
Directed by William Wyler	Decent entry in the late silent series of Mountie shorts starring Cobb , this has a little more actual acting than most entries in this series - - when they ran thin on inspiration in these shorts , they simply had the actors move slower , but not in this entry . If , like me , you're an admirer of William Wyler , you'll want to take a look at this . If not , you can skip it unless you have a hankering for leather hats .
Visiting Goldfish	Melies always kept the American market in mind when he made film and early on sent his brother to New York to open up an office . where said brother produced westerns for the company . He liked to employ Francis Ford , who later became a big star and gave his brother Jack his start . . . . who became John Ford . So the link from Georges Melies to John Wayne is not that far . I don't think that Melies did this one through double-exposure . I think he put a thin fish tank in front of his actors and chivvied the fish back and forth - - including at least one goldfish . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Combining Skills	Jack Duffy combined two useful show business skills - - the ability to take a good comedy fall and the ability to make himself up as an old man - - and used these skills to good comic effect to play an old geezer who could take the bone-breaking falls that were common in this era of the movies : made up he looked like Chic Sales , but much sprier . And he was pretty good in a number of comedies , usually in support , but sometimes in lead , as in CHICKEN FEATHERS . But this piece , although it had good gags , wanders too much from its basic plot assumptions - - wifey wants prize-fighting ended , but Jack is a fan who somehow gets his butler to go into the prize ring - - to rise much above a decent average .
Every Cliche in twenty minutes	The beauty of this two-reeler - - and its physical beauty has faded with the aging of its colorwork - - is that it seems to encompass every single western cliche in 20 minutes . Although it does lack a couple of the plotlines , it includes fancy shooting - - Dennis Moore , Dennis Moore , galloping through the sward . . . ahem - - fancy riding , the pretty schoolmarm and the Old Coot . Yes , truly a western for the moviegoer on the go !
Overwrought , But Decent .	Bret Harte's " The Outcasts of Poker Flats " is one of his two best known stories ( the other is " Luck of Roaring Camp " ) and while his reputation has receded over the past century , his humanism and warmth towards the unlikely inhabitants of Gold-Rush California is worth remembering and enjoying . But while the story and performances in this version are good , director Joseph Newman - - who got his start doing " Crime Does Not Pay " shorts for MGM - - never quite got over the need to drive every point through with a stake . So Joseph Lashelle's beautiful photography is over the top , the music by Lionel Newman - - no relation - - is overwrought and so forth . The result is a decent film , but the melodrama tends to overwhelm the characters .
Remembrance of Things Past	Decent , post-Warners-stint fare from Chuck Jones . Although Mr . Jones seems to have exhausted all his really great ideas by 1965 , what remains is still better than any other animation of the era . While not a picture to seek out , if you are in the audience when it plays , you won't suffer .
" You're in trouble . Serious Trouble . "	Once again , through no fault of her own , Kay Francis is in trouble and must get out of it through brains and determination . This time it's Bogey , doing a minor variation on Duke Mantee from PETRIFIED FOREST . As in most of Kay's vehicles from this period - - Warner's was pushing Bette Davis as their leading female star at this point - - everyone works hard and gives a performance that makes this hokey weeper watchable .
Good and Loud	Good camerawork helps this stylishly shot although slightly stagily performed version of Doyle's THE ALLEY OF FEAR . The principals are excellent in their roles , but the supporting actors tend to ham it up a bit . Wontner gives a witty performance as Holmes and Ian Fleming - - no , not that Ian Fleming - - is an intelligent Watson .
Good Late Girl Friends	Although Thelma Todd never developed the chemistry with Patsy Kelly that she had earlier in the series with Zasu Pitts , there are signs of a relationship that looks possible here : Thelma a bit ditzy but willing to stand up to Miss Kelly's unending - - and to me - - annoying brashness . The story - - about the two of them as reporters trying to get a good story out at the hospital , has plenty of possibilities . There are also some interesting performers here , including Charlie Hall and , in a rare on screen appearance , Billy Bletcher , who started out in silent comedies and wound up as a major voice artist for Disney - - doing Pete - - as well as Warner's - - where he specialized in explosive , growly fathers . The result is not a great comedy short , but it ha enough moments to make it amusing .
Talky silent	Decent entry in the silent series directed by Elvey . The cast is well chosen , the acting is fine , and this one has a lot of movement in it , but the whole movie is marred by the fact that Holmes is a cerebral character , and there is no way to do a mystery without a lot of talk .
A Good Short	Keaton's first screen work after his career collapsed at MGM due to drunkenness , the breakup of his marriage and frustration is a pleasant little piece . True , it lacks the absurdity bordering on surrealism of his great silent shorts , but it does have Keaton at work in a sound film doing what he had always thought was his best mode of operation : interpolating his silent stuntwork in a long sequence in which the only ' ghosts ' appear : a dance hall girl and some ghostly bandits , whom he kills - - although they may only exist in his imagination . The sequence includes some fine pratfalls . Not a great work by any means , it is certainly worthwhile for anyone who loves Keaton's work , as do I .
The Best is Yet To Come	A one-reeler from Charley's ' Jimmy Jump ' period , this is a competent comedy with a number of good set-piece gags , but almost nothing in the way of either character development or extended gags - - it's amazing how going from eight to 16 minutes opened up the ability of Charley and Leo McCarey to make not just a good comedy , but a great one . In large part , I suspect , Charley was still working his way into the character and still going with what today would be considered G-rated material : no naked ladies , a la LIMOUSINE LOVE , no grotesqueries a la HIS WOODEN WEDDING , no fantasy sequences like LOOKING FOR SALLY and no subtext worth mentioning . But there are a couple of good laughs here and an actual story , abbreviated though it may be .
Woof	This RKO short subject is about the training of coast guard dogs , told from the viewpoint of one of the dogs involved - - at least the voice-over narration is supposed to be the reminiscences of one of the dogs , a Doberman Pinscher , leading up to the World War Two service of the dog on a Pacific Island , fighting against the Japanese . Although not a particularly informative picture , it does have a certain amount of propaganda value , as we watch the action . It is primarily a flag-waving exercise , with the message that dogs are valiant for the sake of the United States , and we , as loyal American humans , watching this movie in the theater , should also be .
My Father Was A Fugitive Aramaean	In the middle of the American Civil War , in a peaceful valley , a foraging Union soldier meets a Confederate Picket and shoots him . What will the Confederate soldier's mother do when she discovers the refugee she has sheltered may have killed her child ? Griffith , reviled for the racism of BIRTH OF A NATION , sometimes by those familiar with the work and sometimes by those who have no idea what is in that movie , saw the Civil War as a tragedy for all Americans , full of complex problems for which there were no solutions . THE FUGITIVE , although not one of his best works , has been made available on DVD by Kino and is well worth your viewing time .
The Film Professor	Martin Scorsese , besides being a highly distinguished and successful film director , has spent a lot of his adult life educating people about film , first at New York University and through his filmed lectures - - items like A PERSONAL JOURNEY WITH MARTIN SCORSESE THROUGH American MOVIES AND MY VOYAGE TO ITALY . And , since he understands his subject both instinctually and intellectually , you can do no better towards understanding the impact of this film than by listening to what Professor Scorsese has to say about it . Or you could look at it yourself . Certainly the conceits in it , from the startling images to the idiosyncratic usage of Technicolor should fascinate and amuse the viewer .
Not a Movie	This 13 minute ballet performed to Dukas ' " The Sorceror's Apprentice " is included in the new DVD of the Powell-Pressberger TALES OF Hoffman . Powell did a movie of it , using the brilliant Freddie Francis as cinematographer . It provides a telling counterpoint to that movie and clearly illuminates why TALES is a great picture . First and foremost , in TALES , camera angles vary in wild and dazzling method . That lends an excitement , movement and sense of weirdness that Francis ' excellent but far more conventional camera placement in this piece lacks . Powell started out in silent movies as an assistant to Rex Ingram , and visually he continued the traditions of silent film . No one except Minnelli ever used colors as boldly and effectively as Powell and Pressberger , in works like THE THIEF OF BAGDAD , A MATTER OF LIFE AND DEATH and especially TALES . Here colors are used far more prosaically . And finally , Powell and Pressberger knew how to use sound for its emotional content - - think of the wind in I KNOW WHERE I'M GOING . Here , the music serves to direct the action . In net , this is a jazzed up record of a ballet . A good one with a fine prima ballerina , but nothing more . But watched immediately before TALES - - watching it afterwards is impossible - - it lets one see how brilliant the Archers were . A MONTH LATER : I must've been asleep when I wrote the review . Thanks to the other reviewer for correcting my foolish errors , which I leave here so that anyone reading this can enjoy a good horselaugh here at my expense .
Differences	It is always a fascinating conundrum for me to look at early Japanese films , because there are so many differences from the way their American equivalents would be done . Technically , this is much more elaborately drawn and backgrounded than an American cartoon would be in the era , but the animation is not as sophisticated : the characters don't seem to be as fully articulated as American animators would make them , As for the story itself , it seems to be a Japanese fairy tale or perhaps children's fantasy , just the sort of thing that American animators would turn their hands to when feeling ambitious . But the details are at once fascinating and confusing . Momotaro , the hero of the story , is born out of a giant peach his foster mother finds floating on the river . Is this any odder than , say , the origin of Thumbelina ? No , indeed , But even so , I cannot but help and wonder : why a Peach ? Well , someday I may find out . In the meantime , this is a fascinating glimpse into the early roots of Japanese animation and the folks at Digital Meme are to be commended for making it available on DVD .
Creaky But Amusing	Clancy ( Charles Murray ) and MacIntosh ( Lucien Littletfield ) are a pair of stock comedy Irish and Scottish plumbers who have been partners for twenty years ; but when Clancy accidentally buys some shares on margin , MacIntosh's Scotch thrift rebels and their partnership breaks up . In the meantime , their children are in love . . . . Murray and Littlefield had been playing these characters for twenty years , and they are expert and amusing in doing so , particularly when high-hatting each other . The camera-work is also quite mobile for 1930 , but the soundtrack is hissy and this sort of comedy characterization would vanish shortly . For the moment , though , it was still a popular comedy genre and it's a pleasure to watch these two old pros at work ,
A Superior Keystone	In the midst of the large number of awful comedies Sennet produced in this period - - he seems to have been too involved in the production of comedy features , as well as the unraveling of the Triangle Corporation - - there are a few that stand out today as watchable . The films Arbuckle turned out before he left for his own studio are often excellent . The famous TEDDY AT THE THROTTLE is fun because of its script and gags . Here is another one that is interesting , although not for the reasons you might expect . What is different here is Raymond Griffith . He is dressed as weirdly as the others , but most Keystone comedians look as if they made their fashion choices on drugs . Griffith looks like he mugged William S . Hart and stole his clothes . While the other comedians glare and glower like fiends , Griffith keeps a wary , personable smile on his face most of the time , and expresses human emotions at other time . His movements , although broad , are not demented . He is clearly an actor who is comfortable with film . Perhaps I am reading too much into this film . Clearly , after he went behind the camera for a few years , and then re-emerged in the mid-twenties , he produced a recognizable comedic human being , but I think he is showing signs of reality here . It is refreshing and pleasing .
Mute Swan Makes Talky Silent	Well-filmed but slow silent version of Molnar's THE SWAN is hampered by far too many title cards . Frances Howard , soon to be Mrs . Sam Goldwyn , makes a lovely Princess , Ricardo Cortez makes an excellent tutor and Adolphe Menjou makes , as always , a funny and aristocratic Prince , but it takes twenty minutes until the situation is set up and then everything is resolved by title card . Stick with the charming 1950s version with Grace Kelly , Louis Jourdain and Alec Guinness .
Jumping at Lightning	This is one of Charley's Jimmy Jump one-reelers , produced when he was re-establishing himself as an on-screen presence , but before he went to his beautifully constructed two-reelers . As a result , the characterization and plot are cut down to a bare minimum and the result , while sustained by his wonderful gag construction , is not particularly remarkable . In this one he is a lightning rod salesman out west . His gags are funny - - he and Eddie Baker have a great sequence passing an incriminating wallet back and forth , but the overall effect is a bit too rushed . While I enjoyed it , it is not a good vehicle to showcase Chase to someone unfamiliar with him .
OK Oater	Standard fare beautifully shot . Joel McCrea and Forest Tucker give good performances in this story about a cavalry troop under move , constantly under attack . The real star is the cinematography , shot in beautiful color and featuring some of the best scenery outside a John Ford western . Be sure to see it in wide screen !
The Old Dark Pirate Ship	There was in the 1920s on stage and the 1930s in the movies a genre of ' Old Dark House ' shows , so-called for the J . B . Priestley novel of the same name . Priestley's novel was eventually made into a wonderful movie by James Whale with some great stars playing people with ordinary problems who are forced to take shelter from the storm in an ancient house inhabited by lunatics . But what , this movie asks , do you do if you live in an ancient house , you are bored out of your mind and a horde of lunatics descends on you during a storm ? Well , you have this movie , which is quite all right , although not a patch on Whale's movie , being hampered a bit by competent but not great actors , stagy direction and a plot which distracts you from the potentially interesting performances . Definitely worth a look , but you won't be coming back for a second show .
A Superior Terry Toon	This better than usual Paul Terry cartoon is directed by Mannie Davis , brother of Termite Terrace's Art Davis and the best director that Terry managed to hang onto for a long time . It is , as you might guess from the title , a version of Cinderella . Besides the usual competently timed gags , it is rendered superior for the studio by better than usual sound design and voice choices : Cinderella sounds like a girl from the Bronx who needs to have her adenoids operated on , her fairy godmother looks like Mae West and as for whom Prince Charming is modeled on . . . . . well , it's a fine , silly choice . Davis ' efforts are rendered superior by the fact that he throws out the gag , refusing to dwell on it . The lends a casual wackiness to his cartoons that other Terry directors like Rasinski rarely achieved .
Calling Doctor Howard !	If you think you've seen this movie before , you have . Director Del Lord and writer Felix Adler migrated eventually to the Columbia shorts department , where they wound up doing Three Stooges movies , and this short , about how barbers Billy Bevan and Andy Clyde head out west to find gold and discover it already minted and put into stacks , was remade once or sixteen times for the Stooges . Andy Clyde had just stopped being a supporting comic with long beards on the Sennett lot , and was just starting his co-starring stint with Billy Bevan , wearing a nice French beard and mustache . They handle this bit very competently in the Sennett style , but they were always house players and eventually they left , Bevan to do some nice supporting work and Andy Clyde to a long career - - he had the second-longest running series at Columbia , many of which are excellent , support in major movies and wound up as a supporting character in THE REAL MCCOYS . Worthwhile on its own merits , it also might be interesting for anyone who wants to see how comedy evolved . . . . or perhaps devolved under Jules White .
Decent Genre Movie	Although this movie has a reputation of being absolutely awful - - apparently Roger Ebert rates it a bomb - - and , while it is clearly a rip-off in every imaginable way of the Leone-Eastwood collaborations , down to Tony Anthony - - playing ' The Stranger ' dressing in a poncho - - the technical work on this movie is quite decent and makes for a pleasant enough afternoon . The cinematography by Marcello Masciocchi is top notch ; in fact , the long , dialogue-free sections of the movie flow very well , thanks to the camera-work and the editing , for which we can credit Maurizio Lucidi , who later went on to helm a few movies . If the story holds few surprises for fans of Sergio Leone - - well , when did Westerns ever do much in the way of innovation ? Go see this movie for the traditional strengths of a western - - which means a decent show and some beautiful pictures - - and you'll have a good time . Not every movie must be a great classic , after all .
An education in eight minutes	MGM shorts come in several varieties . There are the CRIME DOES NOT PAY series , in which a grim story is told . There is the Robert Benchley short , which is very funny and nothing is learned . There is the Pete Smith special , in which we may or may not learn anything , but there will be smirking , and there is the Carey Wilson short in which you will learn something dull and good for you and . This is one of them : earnest , short and not very interesting , sort of like Cliff Notes .
Was ever a woman so rudely wooed ? Why , yes .	This is the sort of rough comedy that Ford had been making at least since the previous year's BUCKING Broadway and would continue to make regularly through DONOVAN'S REEF . It is not a particularly distinguished member of the club - - which includes the Oscar-winning THE QUIET MAN . but any John Ford picture is worth looking at . One thing worth noting is Ford's fine and , for the era , advanced sense of framing . True , he still uses irised shots as a substitute for a medium close in two-shot , but that is a common convention for the era . Of more interest is his strong use of framing lines to reduce the effective composition of shots in a fashion that most directors would not catch on to for another five years . . . . . but then , he always said that was his sole strength as a director . Did anyone believe him ?
Not So Grand Hotel	This poor knockoff of Vicki Baum's GRAND HOTEL - - or perhaps the MGM extravaganza produced the same year as this last gasp from Tiffany Productions - - is short of major stars in front of the camera , even though it does contain some notable names such as Theodore von Eltz , J . Farrell MacDonald and Henry Walthall from the silent era and future stalwart Alan Mowbray from the sound era . So it's fun to look at to see what they look like in 1932 . Christy Cabanne , a prolific director whose reputation time has not been kind to , is in there pitching with this one . There are an awful lot of moving shots , including extended takes that look like that should have been shot with a crab dolly - - something that would not exist for another dozen years . Shot too cheaply to be done well , it shows that people did try , even when the roof was crashing in on their heads . Tiffany went under this year . Cabanne , who started out directing Raoul Walsh in LIFE OF PANCHO VILLA in 1912 and would continue directing for another sixteen always tried to give value for money . It's a pity he so rarely had much to work with .
Bad History Great Spectacle	Cruze attempted to follow up the success of THE COVERED WAGON with this rousing story of the founding of the Pony Express in the early days of the Civil War . Plenty of talent is entertainingly displayed , from Wallace Beery as " Rhode Island Red " ( puh-leeze ! ) at his coyest and the ever-delightful Betty Compson to excellent camera-work by Karl Brown . But a script devoted more to fanciful attempts by the Knights of the Golden Circle - - a sort of Ur-Ku Klux Klan - - to lynch their way to power , random road agents and the assertion that a running man with a revolver can shoot down three stationary men with rifles makes hash of the entire show . Still , if you enjoy the sort of piffle that suffused the western for many years , you will enjoy this Cecil B . Demille sort of western And if you can find a clean copy of this work it is a delight to the eyes .
A Solo act	A sharp script manages to save one of the late , Chuck-Jones-produced Tom & Jerries as they do a spy movie spoof . At the end it degenerates into roughly-drawn random violence - - as opposed to the exquisitely drawn random violence of the best Hanna & Barbera Tom & Jerries . Before that end , however , it is pretty good .
Professionally Amusing	Mr . & Mrs . Sidney Drew starred in a series of polite situational comedies , first for Vitagraph and then for their own company , releasing through Metro . Mr . Drew - - uncle of John , Lionel and Ethel Barrymore - - died after his son was killed in the first world war and his wife - - who wrote and seems to have directed a sizable number of their comedies , starred . In this one , Mr . Drew has been fired from his regular job and , money growing short , takes up a position as a professional patient of a dentist , to reassure the other patients in the room . There he meets and falls in love with Mrs . Drew . There are problems with this film that look like they are a result of re-editing - - indeed , the print notes that it has been re-edited . Nonetheless , the comic bits that fill the picture and the charm of the two leads go far to explaining their popularity - - alas , very few of their works survive in any form . While this is not a great picture in its current form , it has enough smiles and charm to carry it through .
How You Gonna Keep ' Em Down on the Farm ?	Roach's ' The Girl Friends ' series plods on with Patsy Kelly taking the place of Zasu Pitts and with second-string director Gus Meins helming the venture . The result is a decent little comedy short with plenty of funny gags , but without , alas , the warmth and chemistry that Miss Pitts was able to bring to her relationship to Miss Todd . Besides the chemistry between Miss Pitts and Miss Todd , their characters were clearly differentiated , Zasu shy and awkward , Thelma brash . Thelma tones it down a bit here , but Patsy Kelly had only one setting . Yet they are both excellent comedians , they are willing to do all sorts of physical stunts and the gag-writing at Roach was top-notch . The result is a good comedy - - not a great one , alas , but you can't win them all with your second string team .
Cute	Two minutes of three dimensional shapes - - cubes , dowels and so forth - - in motion around themselves , this is an exercise in moving symmetry . Although I usually have little patience for such abstract films , this one is very short - - as I said , two minutes - - and doesn't have time enough to bore the watcher . Its creators , Bute and Nemeth are considered early workers in the field of art films , pictures of the sort that Maya Deren would turn into self-involved pieces that strain the viewer to find some sense , but the symmetry of of the shape and the movement and a lively score make this piece worth your while .
Marry In Haste , Repent in Seventy Minutes	This is a bright little silent farce of newlyweds Marie Prevost and Harrison Ford - - no , not that Harrison Ford , but the one first one who had his name in a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame Although many silent farces fail because of the lack of good lines and that slammed door whose noise makes you jump , this works very well . Ford and Prevost quarrel over her mother and his friend . She puts on a blonde wig which , of course , renders her totally unrecognizable - - a convention of farces to this day . After all , if Lois Lane can't tell that Clark Kent is Superman because he wears glasses , who can blame a man for not recognizing his wife in a wig ? Sharply-written titles and good silent acting raise this one above average . Look for Franklin Pangborn , playing his familiar ' nance ' character in an early outing .
Ship Was Never This Shapely	One of a series of Billy Dooley's short comedies from the mid-twenties , this one is a bit lighter on the bone-breaking slapstick and heavier on the physical construction of gags , as Billy , still in his sailor suit , comes home and everyone tries to make him feel at home - - so to speak - - by making things more like they are aboardship - - including gangways to the front door , Vera Steadman using semaphore flags and uncle in a Napoleanic-era admiral's uniform . If the series - - and , this one - - has any real weakness , it is that there is nothing particularly great about it . Billy has nothing to recommended himself as a character : I feel no particular sense of connection with him and , while the series is competently constructed and the gags well executed , they will neither make nor lose fans for the bygone art of silent comedy . Still , if you are already a fan , you should get some fun out of this one .
Dog Doesn't Bite Man	This is one of forty shorts that Harold Lloyd made in 1919 . It's fast , it's furious , and it has a lovely gag sequence in which Harold tries to steal a sausage , loses it to a dog and . . . . well , it's very funny . Too fast and furious to make much sense , but a lot of fun .
Actually Saw the Thing	We have here a high-priced costume drama with a standard story : they're in love but they're both so noble they can't tell each other , so we have to go through the entire movie . I have found myself not too fond of Miss Talmadge's movies , so you need to take that into account in this review . Nevertheless , this turns out to be a decent film for the era . It was a spectacle production and it shows with a great shot in the opening and the sumptuous costumes : too sumptuous perhaps . At times the movie seems to drag - - I saw the 111-minute road-show version instead of the 72-minute version meant for the nabes , and I think they held most of the shots too long so that the ladies in the audience could take a look at the fabrics . Nonetheless , besides a decent script - - their families hate each other , of course , and it's the St . Bartholomew's Day Massacre , which is raised to start the plot rolling and then never mentioned again , there are some good performances . Top among them is Wallace Beery who , as the Duc de Tour , manages to combine most of the seven deadly sins . He really makes you want to hiss . Likewise , Conway Tearle does himself proud . True , he has the thankless job of being the leading man in a starring lady ' film , and who remembers anyone in those except Claude Rains occasionally dressing down Bette Davis ? Nonetheless , he does get to do some acting , some nice fencing and one or two good lines . Contrast that with the deadly environment of THE DANGEROUS MAID , a costume drama he made with Constance Talmadge - - that was the Bloody Assizes - - and in this you'd think he's Tommy Meighan if not quite Douglas Fairbanks for screen presence . I think that if you want to see a Norma Talmadge movie , you'd be best off seeing KIKI , a terrific comedy . But this is a costume drama and more typical of her starring vehicles , so if you need to see one of those , this is watchable . But I'll bet the 72-minute version moves better .
There's a New Man In Town	After Harold Lloyd began to move into longer movies - - by 1921 he was doing 3-reelers and would soon be do solely features - - Hal Roach looked for anew comedian to star in his light comedies , a more realistic one . He tried Eddie Boland , who was a fine comedian , for a season , then eventually put Charley Chase back in front of the camera , for a long and successful series of shorts running through 1926 . Although Snub Pollard is credited as appearing in this one , he doesn't appear , but his regular supports , Marie Mosquini and ' Sunshine ' Sammy Morrison do . What survives is a pleasant one-reeler in which Eddie Boland shows up in a western town and the inhabitants give him a rough time , including a try at hanging him . The gags are pretty good , but there isn't much structure to this series yet .
Musical Film Noir ?	This is a pleasant musical programmer from Fox in 1948 , directed by old hand Lloyd Bacon . Dan Dailey does some nice hoofing , Charles Winninger does his patented Old Time Entertainer bit , Barbara Lawrence knocks your eyes out in another small role and makes you wonder why she didn't have a major career . Fay Bainter plays the mother and Charlie Ruggles is on hand for no particular reason , but he's always welcome . And if it weren't for the air of post-war anomie that covers this production like a wet blanket , it wouldn't be anything . Pardon me while I take a few minutes of your time to make a major thesis about a minor movie . Consider : Winninger and Bainter are ex-vaudevillians . He has a good job with some appliance company in New Jersey , they live a decent life , but he is waiting for vaudeville to come back . He has trained all his children for the act and the movie concerns itself with the various members of his family going their own ways . One girl gets married and almost disinherited . The second falls in love . That leaves Dan Dailey . When a spot in a Broadway show falls through , Dan decides to accept that scholarship to MIT and to play baseball ( ! ) At this point , Sig Rumann shows up with an offer of sixteen weeks in Denver . . . . The constant disillusionment is , of course , assuaged by the brightness of the production . But in the end , Winninger is left , seemingly happy with his role as a newly promoted vice president of an appliance company . But is he ? What is this but the flip side of film noir ?
Shticks	These Mexican Spitfire movies are usually little more than a collection of bits from comedy short subjects , and RKO was one of the two best studios for short subjects in this period - - Columbia was the other with the Stooges and Andy Clyde . Lupe Velez does her broken English doubletalk , Leon Errol does a bit of his crazy legs routine and alternates between his usual voice and his Lord Epping bit and the usual silliness ensues . In this case the effort is strengthened by the addition of several wonderful comedy performers . Fritz Feld is there , clicking his heels and popping ; Tom Kennedy has a small bit as the sheriff and Zasu Pitts shows up , although her role is far too small and doesn't use her as well as it might . Plot ? Plot ? Of course there's a bit of plot as the Lindsays try to get Lord Epping's business by having him get them a war orphan and he shows up with girl - - a war orphan from World War One . Does it really matter ?
Modern B Movies	It used to be that movie stars who could no longer draw a crowd in large enough to justify a big studio contract would end their days in B movies , movies made to fill out a double bill , where they could still attract some people , and perhaps fill out the tail end of their contracts . Nowadays they go into TV series or even into made-for-TV movies , like this series of murder mysteries that Dick Van Dyke has been starring in for the Hallmark Channel . Dick stars as a professor of criminology at a fictitious college ; his son plays his nephew , a private investigator and his grandson his nephew's son , so the whole thing is a real family affair . The movie is a fine , old-fashioned locked-room murder , with a very nice twist and an interesting background , filled out with a New Age retreat , plenty of red herrings and some fine supporting players , particularly Susan Blakely . This is not a great movie , of course . There isn't enough of a budget to hire talent enough to do something novel and expensive , but these old pros provide a pretty good couple of hours .
The Whole is Less Than The Sum of Its Parts	Another High Concept Movie that doesn't quite work out . Harold Lloyd made some of the funniest comedies in the 1920s , right ? Right ? So if we take the funniest parts of of his funny movies and make a movie out of just them , it will be even funnier , right ? Right . Well , no , actually . Yes , Harold Lloyd's movies are hilarious , but no , the gag sequences by themselves aren't as funny . Yes , they are wonderful to look at in terms of sheer invention and execution , but without the context of who Harold is this movie and why he happens to be pulling that particular gag , it isn't as funny . It's Harold Lloyd . It's comedy clips . You expect him to be doing something funny , so you're expecting it . The trouble is that funny is unexpected . " I never saw that one coming " . Instead of wondering how he's going to get out of this predicament , you wonder what predicament he's going to get into next . By all means , go see the Harold Lloyd movies , but see them as they were meant to be seen , not as someone decided forty years later how they should be seen . Even if it was Harold Lloyd .
Christy Cabanne	This Monogram drama from 1934 is from the period when they were still trying to make good movies , before they focused on cheap second features . It has a good script , a fine supporting cast , including Edgar Kennedy , who gets to do one of his patented slow burns , and Maidel Turner , who is excellent as a well meaning , gossipy neighbor . Wallace Ford is also good in the lead . Unhappily , Gloria Shea , as the female lead , is not up to the standards of the rest of the cast , which also includes Betty Blythe and Vivien Oakland , but the material is good enough to support her . Christy Cabanne was on a bit of a roll during this period , working with small budgets but getting good casts , and here he gets to play some tricks with the camera-work . Early , character-setting scenes are shot with a highly mobile camera that swoops gracefully through the world of the rich , but it stops dead in its tracks once Ford and Shea are married and living in poverty in Brooklyn . The effect is beautifully calculated to keep the audience in a state of low-level anxiety , a trick of the camera that was discovered during the silent era but rarely used in the sound era . I can think of only a few cases , such as Kurosawa's HIGH AND LOW and Sturges ' THE GREAT ESCAPE that use this method . Cabanne is often denigrated as the least of D . W . Griffith's disciples , but he managed to keep directing until his death , usually second features with small budgets . I think the low esteem he is held in is undeserved and hope that people who care about movies will give him a chance .
A long lustrous night	Among the earliest scenes on record are various short films of city scene : Paris , New York - - even a Lumiere short about a lion in a London zoo . But those were made a decade and a half before and at this time the film-makers of Denmark were arguably the most advanced in terms of technique and film grammar : no longer innovative , perhaps , but solid , with a good sense of composition and camera movement . The result here is a fine little movie . You may find it drags a bit as it shows you various portions of Copenhagen . But to me th great charm in these movies is not simply the distance in space , but in time : these were made 98 years ago . Looking at them , I wonder if we have advanced as people at all .
First American Feature ?	Or first American serial ? It was released as five short subjects in successive weeks because it was believed that the American film-goer would not sit still for a fifty-minute movie . In that sense it is an interesting curiosity . How is it as a movie or series of movies ? For 1909 , very good indeed . The acting is a bit overwrought , and I have some issues with the costuming , since all the Egyptians wear beards like Hittites However the the story of the life of Moses is a good story and the script and actor do a good job at showing the character of Moses : his flash temper as a young man that he never completely mastered . Patrick Hartigan is also good in the scene where he first sees Zipporah and is caught between great suspicion and love at first sight . It is also worth discussing some of the special effects : the Angel of Death that appears and disappears , the triptych composition when the Israelites are crossing the Red Sea and the nice double exposure when the Egyptians drown . Yes , they may seem a bit obvious almost a century later . . . . . but they are still startling and for their era , highly innovative .
Talent Behind the Camera	This weeper is well directed , as you would expect with Frank Borzage directing . No one had a surer touch at directing a sentimental romantic drama than Borzage , and with James Wong Howe as the director of photography , you have some effective , beautiful shots . Together they know how to produce shots of depth and beauty that illuminate the story and create a three dimensional world , whether it's a deep-focus shot of the wedding rehearsal where you can see the neighbors hanging over the fence watching , or a shot of Marian Nixon and William Collier seated together , with only one in focus , under a scrim of light . But this movie , while good , misses being great because of the lack of great performances at its heart . Charles Farrell was a good performer , but his stardom was due to being teamed with Janey Gaynor in their breakout hits , and Marian Nixon , while competent , is clearly a stand-in for Miss Gaynor . The best performance in the entire movie is William Collier Sr . , who is great , reminding me of a pudgy , beaten-down Harry Carey . Definitely worth your time if not worth seeing more than once .
High Production + Home Spun = Freak Show	Hal Roach was getting out of the short subject business when this movie was being made . He had fired Charley Chase , Laurel and Hardy were doing features only and he was negotiating to sell ' Our Gang ' to MGM , where the shorts would continue to be produced for another nine years . In the meantime , Roach was trying to produce longer Our Gang pieces , short features , or increase the production value by other means to get a higher price for his product . This is the result : Alfalfa sings in that annoying voice of his that people obviously considered cute . And there is a major ' night club ' sequence , populated with the rascals . The problem is that Our Gang kids were chosen to be , well , kids , and the results here - - watching six year olds screech swing versions of " Loch Lomond " is pretty aggravating .
What , no entertainment ?	Decent if not brilliant , this social comedy for Leatrice Joy is a bit of a disappointment , alas . It does turn the standard ' boy meets girl , boy loses girl , boy gets girl ' plot on its head in an amusing way : Clive Brook is newly divorced and paying more alimony to Lilyan Tashman than he makes when he meets Leatrice Joy in a fine ' meet cute ' scene . So the object of the entire movie is to lose the girl - - in this case , Tashman . Unfortunately , the middle of the picture sags : what should be played at high speed with fast cuts for door-crashing farce is played at a moderate pace for little impact . And Brook is pretty much of a stiff all the way through . Joy is fun . however , and Tashman too , as is Casson Fergusson as a sheik with a receding hairline and no chin . What is notable about this film is its easy acceptance , in the mid-20s , of women's rights - - and duties . Hubby Brook is not bringing in enough money to make ends meet , so Joy goes out and gets a job without batting an eye . Alas , this sort of attitude vanished with the years : a decade and a half later , when Stevens directed WOMAN OF THE YEAR for Metro , the big scene was the one in which Hepburn tried to make breakfast and failed miserably - - thereby demonstrating that she was not a real woman . I think I prefer this movie .
It's a Vaudeville Show . Judge it as a vaudeville Show	Well , it's certainly not a great vaudeville show . There are none of the top acts of the form's heyday . What you have here are the animal acts - - the funny dog acts , the juggling seals - - some dancing , some singing , one or two sketches . You don't have any of the great monologists , certainly , nor the headliners that you would have gotten in a big house in the days gone by . Nonetheless , if you're in the mood for a variety show - - which died out even on television with the death of Ed Sullivan - - this is a fair sampling of what you'd get . I happen to remember and like this sort of show . But it requires a certain mindset , aesthetic and expectation , just like going to see a movie made from a graphic novel . Robert Alda , Alan Alda's father , does a pretty good job as master of ceremonies and the harmonica playing and animal acts are a lot of fun . Good enough for me .
Anoth Good Comedy that Leads Nowhere	This is another good comedy by Johnny Arthur that demonstrates why he never became a bigger star , even though he continued to work and work well far into the sound era . The modern film-goer , if he recognizes him , will probably know him from playing Darla's prissy-voiced father in Our Gang shorts from the mid-thirties . In this one he plays another unlikeable rich man who , unlike , say Keaton's rich men , never learn better . He won't give his servants any time off unless they are ill , he sneaks out of his house rather than be stuck there when quarantine is imposed and he feels free to kick his valet . All this means , of course , that the audience takes great pleasure in his comeuppance when the house a friend lends to him turns out to have been occupied by fake spiritualists , and the movie is well directed by Charles Lamont , but who would want to look for more movies about this star ? Still , it is a good comedy on its own and worth your time , both as a comedy and an object lesson in how not to build a career .
The Worm Turns	This 1936 programmer starring Owen Davis , Jr . as Bunker Bean shows signs of having been a Douglas Fairbanks Sr . sort of show when it was originally produced for the New York stage in the mid Teens , as Bunker Bean , a downtrodden clerk , finds his nerve and self confidence at the hands of some spiritualist swindlers . It is a cute idea and there are several lovely moments , but Davis ' performance at the beginning of the movie is so low-key and depressing that it stops the movie from rising much above average . Later on , he seems to turn into Rudy Vallee . The bravura performance that Fairbanks would have given it hangs over the performance . Happily , Davis is not the entire show . Robert McWade gives a good turn as his irascible , predatory boss , Hedda Hopper is fine as McWade's annoying wife and , for completists , Lucille Ball has a credited role as a gum-chewing receptionist . But her performance - - indeed the performances of all the employees shown in this movie seem completely indifferent to their jobs and all the bosses seem to think that every good deal must involve a large measure of cheating . This limited range of character types threaten to sink the movie , but some good writing manages to make the entire thing , if not outstanding , amusing .
Mayhem in the Classroom	Pretty new schoolteacher Ethel moves in and both Billy and Babe want to be teacher's pet . This is one of the many comedies that Billy West did as the best of the Chaplin imitators . Physically he had down a lot of the mannerisms of Chaplin , even though in terms of characterization he remained fairly rough and ready , quite willing to sin as much - - or more - - than he was sinned against . Hardy was given a beard to make him look like Eric Campbell . The comedy is performed with rough , painful slapstick ( as an example , there is one sequence in which Hardy is stuck in a chair and Ethel tries to pull him out of it , holding onto him by his hair , which comes out in in handfuls ) , some clever camera trickery , and a supporting cast of ' students ' who do bits from the classic vaudeville skit , " Mayhem in the Classroom " . All in all , not one of the better of Billy's Chaplinesque comedies , it is still fun to watch .
Keep On Working	In 1930 , Hal Roach decided to put his old OUR GANG actors , Mickey Daniels and Mary Kornman back to work in a series of short teenage comedies . Adding in Grady Sutton and giving them the usual fine Roach behind-the-camera talent - - this would be the last movie that George Stevens handled as a regular cinematographer - - this series of shorts continued for three years , Unhappily , while loaded with good performances and gags , the series - - and this one in particular - - lacks the innocent charm that series director Robert McGowan brought to the Our Gang series . Also , Mickey Daniels , has grown from a cute freckle-faced child to a positively ugly young man whose mugging is over the top . It's still fun , so enjoy it for that . It's just not great .
But Where ?	A solid comedy-mystery from Monogram , the second directorial effort of long-time B director Phil Karlson ( best known today for the 1970s version of WALKING TALL ) is about a radio performer who is shot dead in a dark , locked radio studio during a performance . Jackie Moran is Jimmy Kelly , a page at the studio who wants to break into show business by whatever means possible , and Sidney Miller is is fellow page and stooge , Sammy , who gets roped into all of Kelly's schemes , especially when the corpses begin to pile up . Dewey Robinson , a beefy heavy at Paramount in hundreds of roles , has a fairly substantial role as the investigating policeman , who spends most of his time chewing . . . . gum or tobacco , it's never specified which .
Be Careful What You Wish For	A good Gloria Swanson comedy programmer , this lacks the verve that her work with Alan Dwan showed ( MANHANDLED is a classic ) . The story , about how rich Eugene O'Brien falls in love with poor Gloria , but her aunt insists that she be trained as a lady while Eugene is off for six months in South America - - is decently handled . But there are clear cheats in this as a double does cartwheels for Gloria : if Dwan had been directing , Gloria would have insisted on doing the cartwheels herself . Director Rossen does a fine job on the visuals with the help of cinematographer George Webber , who seems not to have adjusted to the constraints of shooting with sound a few years later . Their pans of faces a couple of times are telling , human and very funny . But the most interesting thing about this film is the way Swanson is made up . I had to blink a couple of times when I realized that she had the same look Joan Crawford would sport during her 1930s ' Shopgirl ' phase .
Redo of the 1934 Version	This short was made during the fallow period in Disney shorts : Disney was concentrating on feature production , the strike that would result in much of his staff going off to form UPA was on and the result was that his bread-and-butter work , the shorts distributed by RKO showed a severe drop off in script quality . It was not until the the following year , when he ' exiled ' some of his more talented people who , he felt , had supported the strike , to the shorts department that quality would be re-established . In the meantime , shorts like this and MICKEY'S BIRTHDAY PART resulted , basically redrawn version of earlier successes . Do we need to speculate on why all the ' orphans ' look exactly like Mickey ?
There's A Ford In Your Past	Surprisingly funny , early Keystone as Ford Sterling and Nick Coghley fight over Mabel Normand , their weapon of choice being - cheese ! Sterling's usual over-the-top mugging works hilariously to express the vileness of the cheese . There isn't much to it other than that , and the ability of people to ignore a wedge of limburger being shoved into their pockets is surprising , but , hey , it's funny .
Early Propaganda	Although there had been anti-Nazi propaganda films released before this , all the way back to LITTLE MAN WHAT NOW , this set new records for anti-Nazi propaganda , so much so that it was banned in New York and recut . How is it as a movie ? Well , it's a PRC production , which means that it's done on the cheap and lacks any signs of subtlety . It's of interest these days as an early example of propaganda and an early credited role for Alan Ladd .
It's not THE COCOANUTS , but . . . .	It is a watchable first-generation film musical . There are some obvious flaws caused by a mostly immobile camera and choreography better suited for the Broadway stage than the Hollywood sound stage , but there are some great strengths to it . Among them are its cast , including Arthur Lake , Sally Blane ( Loretta Young's sister ) and Lloyd Hamilton , a good if unmemorable set of songs and the opening-out of the action to a beach location - - if you can accept cliffs in seaside Florida , of course . Leo Tover , whose black-and-white cinematography would be Oscar-nominated in the 1950s , is obviously operating under a considerable handicap . Except for the dance numbers , and a couple of MOS sequence , almost everything is done in medium shots , usually extended two-shots . Still , director Marshall Neilan manages to keep things humming , there are a couple of funny scenes ( including a six-handed bridge game ) and we get to see a lot of tanned legs .
No Mystery At All	This is a mediocre western programmer , utterly unremarkable and not worth your time , except for Ritter's singing of traditional songs , particularly his rendition of " Ride Around Ye Little Dogies . " The acting is more concerned with making sure that people speak clearly , and the gunfire sounds like cap pistols .
Poor Little Rich Girl	I must note that I love the silent ' Our Gang ' series and this is not one of the best of them - - which makes it , nonetheless , an enjoyable short subject . This one is more concerned with its plot than most of them - - Mary Kornman , who would like to feel mud squish between her toes , falls in with the gang and their engineless taxicab and has a swell old time . Farina gets more than his fair share of screen time , but , as usual , makes the most of it The gag construction is topnotch and , as is usually the case with this series , believable . But as my favorites are the idylls , like A QUIET STREET , this one is a little too frenetic for my taste . But if they still made ' em like this , I'd be very happy .
Prat Falls	This is another amusing episode in the " Sergeant Doubleday ' series of streamliners from the Hal Roach studio , full of pratfalls and mugging . The streamliners were short features intended for double or triple bills , averaging about 50 minutes . This series is made amusing by the contrasting of Doubleday , a draftee with photographic memory made a sergeant for it , and his would-be nemesis Sergeant Ames , a twenty-year man who keeps trying to one-up Doubleday and fails continually . This episode is enlivened when the two of them are given new trainees . Doubleday's bunch are Kentucky mountain men , ringled by Arthur Hunnicutt who spent the 1950s and 1960s playing the type . Frank Faylen also shows up as Captain Gillis . Presumably after the war he retired and reared his son , Dobie .
Movies are made , not born	Carl Schenstrøm and Harald Madsen were the leading pair of ' Fat and Skinny ' comedians in the movie world until Laurel and Hardy came along . While their characters never shed their movie-comic trappings - - ill fitting costumes , weird mustaches and bad hats - - they remained enormously popular and continued making films until 1940 - - two years after their first and best director , Lau Lauritzen Sr . died and two years before Schenstrom , the skinny one died . Kinowelt , which has had success with its Laurel & Hardy DVD set has produced a seven-DVD set of the comedies , under the name " Pat und Patachon " , the name they were known under in Germany . I have issues . The versions are cut down ( this one is 42 minutes instead of the original run time of 80 minutes ) and a voice over tells you what is going on - - in German , which , alas , I do not speak ) . These are apparently TV versions made in the late 1960s or early 1970s and it is difficult to judge what is missing - - although a lot of the continuity is definitely lost . SPOILER : PLOT POINTS REVEALED The good news is that the acting and direction can take it . The set up is clear : a studio's two leading actors are giving the producer a lot of trouble , so he brings in Pat and Patachon to to make the film instead . What was intended to be a serious western turns out to be a disaster , but the audience thinks it is a comedy and success is insured . Although the situation and gags are strongly constructed and the movie is a lot of fun , the lead comics are a bit too one-noted and dour to hold your interest . Still , the overall effect is strong and if I would not have chosen this movie to start off the collection , it still has its lively points of interest , sliding the fellows in on a strong start . They work their way in to character in later offerings in the series , which is a good addition to the collection of any fan of silent comedy .
You've Got a Dirty Mind	Jack Duffy has two skills that made him the lead in a nice series of short comedies in the 1920s : the usual ability to take one of the bone-breaking falls that slapstick called for and the ability to make himself up as an old coot , which gave him a nice character and made the pratfalls more impressive . In this one he manages to get himself tangled up coming down the pole at the fire station - - very amusing . For the rest of it , he is competently assisted by highly reliable comics like Gale Henry and the Christie Studios machine , which seemed to specialize in get from the set-up to the gag and thence to the next set-up as expeditiously as possible . The result is funny , if not great .
Black Music for White People	Hoagy Carmichael stands around looking like a stiff while Jack Teagarten's orchestra plays some of his songs : " I'm Wrong " , " Washboard Blues " , " Old Rockin ' Chair " and " Stardust " . While a fine songwriter , this particular soundie has no oomph and is too well-behaved and vanilla to be of much interest musically . Nor does the film add any particular impact . Average .
Good Gagwork	Bobby Dunn was another of the highly competent slapstick comics who worked a lot , had their own series of starring shorts and gradually faded from the scene . Here in this nicely done Arrow comedy - - probably intended for states-right issue - - he combines a countrified character with the popular genre of auto races , turning out a pleasant time waster . The best gags in this short , however , are pure camera trickery - - the one in which a mailbox is opened to produce a seemingly endless series of people who have managed to hide within with it , and a gag shot in reverse that Chaplin used in PAY DAY , released in the same year as this - - probably both stolen . . . . . borrowed from a common source . Dunn's version with letter envelopes is more elaborate than Chaplin's , while Chaplin's version with bricks is more perfectly executed .
The Boys Play With Their Toys	Dorothy Arzner's last directorial effort is replete with her usual feminist slant on things as Merle Oberon - - playing a Norwegian - - is caught between romantic Nazi officer Carl Esmond , who wants to marry her and British spy Brian Aherne who loves her , which is all a great inconvenience to her winning the war for Norway . The men are busy playing with their big tanks and their large meetings - - the state marriage of Esmond and Oberon with its TRIUMPH OF THE WILL sized set decorations are very funny . The occasional battlefield shots looks to me like they are modeled on those sets of plastic soldiers that used to be advertised on the back of comic books . Oberon , appropriately enough , seems to spend much of her time trying to keep a straight face as Esmond tries to romance her into marriage . It fits neatly into the sort of movie that Arzner used to direct Ruth Chatterton in in the early 1930s , but here , deprived of her favorite screenwriter , Zoe Akins , and forced into the confines of wartime propaganda , she still manages to get in the occasional sly dig .
Eburne and Fazenda	Maude Eburne and Louise Fazenda play off each other wonderfully , as two long-time friends and partners in a doughnut shop who part when one of Eburne's harebrained investments pay off and she leaves to get her daughter into society . The two bring an sense of cameraderie , irritation and mutual sympathy that is reminiscent of Laurel and Hardy and the supporting cast , including the ever dependable Franklin Pangborn and a young Anne Rutherford are fine . The script , however , veers from beautifully played small moments of pensiveness to to unfunny moments of forced slapstick . Eburne plays her role as if she is playing the snobby wife in RUGGLES OF RED GAP instead of the down-to-earth Maw Pettingill , which role she did take . The comedic partnership is very uneven and the net result is generally ill-humored . Still , it's worth a look to see what these two old pros can do with their opportunities .
The Dollar Bills	Pine and Thomas were known around Paramount as ' The Dollar Bills ' because they were both named William and they could turn out a watchable second feature that would turn a nice profit on the cheap . For a decade or so they prospered , giving B talent a chance to shine in decently-written movies with good production values . Here Chester Morris , Nancy Kelly and Lyle Talbot - - a decade past their primes - - are enjoyable in the sort of movie that W . S . Van Dyke used to direct people in a decade earlier - - MANHATTAN MELODRAMA and SAN FRANCISCO , where the two male leads grew up together , one became a gambler - - usually played by Clark Gable - - and the other became a priest or a lawyer - - that could be Spencer Tracy or William Powell - - and they both love the same girl , of course . And that's the beginning , middle and end , with , of course , an interesting run of good character actors , of which Hollywood had a plethora in the 1940s . So don't expect anything startlingly original , but do expect a pleasant ninety minutes .
The Marines Take to the Water Hole	Jack Perrin and Harry Tenbrook , WWI Marine Corps vets , head out west to visit the father of their deceased buddy and get involved in a fight over water rights . There used to be a large genre of ' modern ' western , some examples of which survived through the collapse of the B Western in the 1960s . But while the modern western by the 1960s had become nostalgic to the point of depression for the Good Old Days of Open Spaces - - think of THE MISFITS - - the modern western of 1927 did not even recognize that the good old days were gone - - think of one of the characters in SUPPORT YOUR LOCAL Sheriff , on being told that James Garner was heading to the frontier of Australia : " I thought we were the frontier . " It would take another forty or fifty years before the Western became a closed , nostalgic art form , its vision of freedom , growth and frontier shifting to science fiction . In the meantime , you got these mixed genre works . This is a pretty good B picture , done with occasional gusts of comedy - - Tenbrook digging a trench in eight seconds , or Perrin trying to thread a needle . It's a movie for people to have fun with and it succeeds .
Warner	This one is another fast and fun example of Warner's B work in this period , timing in at 75 minutes , with the usual cast of supporting actors talking fast to get the words out . Guy Kibbee plays . . . well , a typical Guy Kibbee role , except he's not a dolt this time , and it's Aline McMahon , usually cast in the pre-codes as the gal who's seen it all and shows it , who plays his love interest - - he's a pressman whose wanderlust made him leave his family and head out over the world ten years before . Now he's back and trying to woo his wife . Of course the plot is not that simple . There's a bit of a political scandal in town and the rapprochement that's the heart of the story weaves its way in and out of that . There are the usual fine , now-forgotten supporting actors in this piece . Nan Gey , playing the elder daughter , is cute as a button , and Oscar Apfel , who taught Demille how to direct a movie , has for him a sizable role . It's not a great movie , but there is some real chemistry between Kibbee and McMahon . Definitely worth a look .
Nice Scenery	Pleasant short feature - - it times out a bit under fifty minutes - - about Tom Mix , a government agent intent on stopping unlawful Chinese immigrants coming into the US via the Grand Canyon . This feature was shot in the Grand Canyon and so has some very nice scenery . Tom smiles a lot and the villains are appropriately vicious . While not as good as his best , the surviving prints are in excellent shape .
Some Fun	This decent but unremarkable programmer has George Murphy sliding occasionally into his Irish brogue , as a reporter in foggy London who wants to go on vacation , but he needs to solve the mystery of ' the Umbrella Man ' and court Rita Johnson - - doing a Billie Burke imitation - - assisted and hampered by his dog and Scotland Yard . As you can tell from that description , it has occasional screwball overtones , but it's largely carried by Murphy's Irish charm . MGM didn't do many of this sort of movie once you descended from the heights of the THIN MAN series , and so it needs to be compared to the RKO programmers of the type . It comes off well in most departments , but it does lack focus and depends on the charm of Mr . George Murphy . . . . later U . S . Senator . That's one way of getting there , I suppose .
Hold My Grapes	A superior entry in the series - - which means it is watchable . Most of the good lines are reserved for Reginald Denny , who infects those about him with energy . George Zucco performs his usual thankless role of the intelligent villain with his customary restraint . The plot is , as usual , exceedingly silly . To see how this sort of material can be done interestingly , take a look at the SAINT or FALCON series from RKO .
Betrayed and Ruined	Mary is a good girl working as a waitress at an expensive resort , but when a rich , handsome young guest offers her an engagement ring , she accepts it . . . . . and shows up at his wedding to some one else with a baby , of course . Although this is certainly not one of Griffith's stronger pieces from this period , it is still , like all his work , well worth watching . He handles large groups beautifully - - everyone is always doing something that makes sense , not just standing there saying " Rhubarb " . And the early scene in which Charles West and Dorothy Bernard play falling in love is a beautiful piece of pantomime - - one forgets , sometimes , the strong visual component of acting that these old silent movies demanded .
another travesty	This time , as you can probably tell from the name , of Robert Louis Stevenson's DOCTOR JEKYLL & MR . HYDE . Long a favorite of straight adaptations ( there was a famous version featuring John Barrymore a few years earlier , and Frederick March would win an Oscar for his portrayal a few more years down the road ) , this features Stan in alternating roles as a clumsy research scientist who , his bestial nature revealed by the potion he has accidentally mixed , turns into a capering practical joker . Not polished by any means , the films manages to hold together by means of having a plot .
An All-Star Cast	That's how the credit reads at the start of the 1951 re-issue , and an all-star cast it is indeed , as a great cast of silent stars strut their stuff under the direction of Louis King in this variation of THE CHAMP , with Henry B . Walthall as an alcoholic ex-movie star and Leon Janney as his son . This cast knows how to play melodrama , and they do so in . . . . perhaps a little too well as perhaps a little more comedy relief might have helped - - or perhaps might have wrecked the emotional impact . But Walthall is almost all of the show and he has some lovely scenes , particularly in the sequence where , back on the skids , and made up as Lincoln in a side show , he resists reciting the Gettysburg Address to sell patent medicine . The scenes on the movie set are also wonderful , with former real-life director King Baggott , playing a movie director performs his role efficiently and compassionately . But , as I said earlier , everyone is good here and the movie , while no classic , is well worth your time .
Mixed Bag	Good performances , direction and interesting camerawork struggle with an indifferent script that lends little insight to this just-the-fact-ma'am handling of the DC Sniper . Dutton is little short of superb , but he can't do much with the material . The fisheye lenswork and overly crisp definition are , at first interesting , but after a while simply emphasis the emptiness of the story , and the musix is annoying from the start .
Put the Cossack to Sleep	Ahem . Those are Cossacks in their big hats there , dancing the kazatsky , although the female lead does look like a gypsy . Oh , well , just as in these early cartoons , inanimate objects could become suddenly animated and species were fungible , the distinction between a Gypsy and a Cossack wasn't important . I guess . More importantly , this is actually a pretty good cartoon from this period . I attribute this to lead animator Isadore ' Friz ' Freleng who , over the next decade , would become the resident expert out of making one-off cartoons based on musical numbers , perhaps reaching his peak in SKYSCRAPER SYMPHONY . Certainly the gags are a lot sharper than usual for this period and their pacing is excellent . Worth a look .
Chester Morris Makes This One	This WWII story of melting pot recruits - - in this case , bomber pilots - - has all the usual wisecracks , including the one about Brooklyn - - is perfectly ordinary . Chester Morris , who is usually good , is particularly good in this one with his usual straightforward performance . This is the sort of movie that made John Wayne and Randolph Scott superstars , but Morris was a little too old , lacked momentum in his career - - he had already spent too many years in B pictures - - and so never escaped . He would shortly go into the Boston Blackie series and while he would work steadily and well through his death - - right up through his role in THE GREAT WHITE HOPE in 1970 - - his career would not provide many high spots . Still , if you haven't seen too many movies of this sort , you might enjoy this as much as I did .
Max and his Pantomime Donkey	Max Linder strays further from his usual haunts of situational comedy , far into straight slapstick as he gets into a dispute over the woman he is courting with a pantomime donkey - - although whether the donkey wants the girl or Max i something I can not quite make out . In any case , Max and the Donkey go on the set slapstick chase of the French and Italian cinema , including crawling down the side of a building . It is here that we get a touch of Max ' character : while Max just leaps , the donkey stops and thinks it over on the rooftop before finally heading down the building , an effect which s achieved by putting a painting of a wall on the floor and shooting each of them crawling backwards in turn . While straight slapstick chase is not Max ' usual meat , he manages to pull it off with enough charm to make this worthwhile .
Good Comedy Western	Ted Wells was a late silent cowboy star , starring in some decent Hoot Gibson knockoffs when he made this comedy . He and Margery Bonner are in love but her aunt insists she marry either a society man or a hero , so his hands decide that he will be a made-to-order hero . . . . but society man Jack Pratt keeps getting the credit . Although Wells lacks the easy-going charm of Hoot Gibson , his stiffness is , if not a conscious acting choice , suited to this role . Westerns long remained one of the most conservative genres of movies , second only to trailers , and this one is no exception . Wells is often shown riding in irised shots , unusual outside of westerns by this period . Although this will not win new fans for silent B westerns , if you are interested in the genre and don't have access to any Hoot Gibson efforts , this one boasts a decent story and some fun titles .
Music Hath Charms	When George Stevens moved form Roach to RKO , he spent a couple of years in the shorts department where one of his assignments was ' The Blonde and the Redhead ' series , which starred June Brewster and Carole Tevis , based on Roach's ' Girfriends ' series , but with much more lingerie in evidence . In this good entry in the series , gangster Big Boy Williams tries to impress the girls by convincing them he is a great violinist - - hiring series regular Grady Sutton and his Stradivarius . Of course there are the usual misunderstanding , and of course Grady gets into a tiff with movie plug-ugly Dewey Robinson . Also , keep an eye out for Will Stanton , a fine ' drunk ' comic of the period who worked quite a bit as part of Raoul Walsh's acting troupe at Fox in this period . While the series was never great , this is amusing enough to keep you interested - - and it's always worthwhile to watch George Stevens ' evolution as a director .
Prince Vidor ?	King Vidor was still working his way into the movie industry at this point , contributing a script for this nicely turned little comedy as Reggie Morris moves into his sister's house to take care of it while she is out of town and gets involved with his neighbor Photographed in a straightforward manner , the comic situations are amusing enough and the leads charming enough to make this an amusing little movie . The only major name in this production , Vidor had a very long and occasionally distinguished career . It's impossible to tell how much of the comedy treatment was his , but the charm of the characters bespeaks his later efforts . On any terms , this is a nice little comedy .
Saturday Afternoon Fare	Decent little oater about El Malo , a quixotic Robin Hood type Mexican bandit who falls in love with a singing Myrna Loy . Superior talent ( writer Oliver Drake among them ) , fine staging and good acting serve to make this a pleasant way to kill an hour or two .
Come Out , Come Out , Wherever You Are	This is the movie that got Stan Laurel out from behind the camera permanently at Roach . He was supposed to direct this movie and Oliver Hardy was supposed to play the role of the butler , but fell ill - - and so Laurel took the role himself . This was one of the ' All Star ' pictures that Roach was making at this time , taking a slightly out-of-luck movie star and surrounding him or her with several of Roach's comics . Theda Bara starred in a couple , Lionel Barrymore did at least one and this time the marquee value is provided by Harry Myers , who had starred in a popular version of A CONNECTICUTT YANKEE IN KING ARTHUR'S COURT a couple of years earlier , but is now best remembered for playing the millionaire in Chaplin's CITY LIGHTS . Stan steals the show , although his technique is still a little crude here , taking some nice falls and doing an interesting drag bit . Worth the time of any L & H fan .
Juvenile Heroes	Amusing trifle with jaunty Harrison Ford and intrepid Junior Coghlan capturing hissable Ivan Lebedeff for the glories of newspaperdom and a front page headline : this sort of thing used to infest pulp magazines until it was driven into the comic books , but the charm of the stars - - also including the aptly-named Elinor Fair as Harrison Ford's rarely-seen love interest - - keep this chugging along at a good clip , never taking itself the least bit seriously , and wonderful fare for a silent kiddie's matinee when you don't want to look at another horse .
John Ford at Fox	John Ford - - still credited as ' Jack ' Ford - - moved from Universal to Fox and directed this Buck Jones comedy-drama as his first effort . He directed it competently for the era , without much in the way of flair , but it is interesting in that he would return to this theme of the ne'er-do-well who turns out to be a pretty nice guy throughout his career - - his best handling of the theme would probably be with the series of comedies he directed Will Rogers in a decade and a half later . In the meantime , though , Ford was still finding his way , constrained by the fact that he was working with Buck Jones , a competent but not extraordinary actor , instead of Harry Carey ; his mise-en-scene is constricted by the town setting of most of the show , although there are some nice shots about two-thirds of the way through when the robbery is being planned out of town by the bandits ; and the lack of the extraordinary stock company of actors he would accumulate over the next forty years , The result is pleasant enough , although if it weren't for the fact this were a John Ford picture we wouldn't think it worthy of much commentary . Nonetheless , given that Ford is arguably the greatest director in the history of cinema , this movie is worth seeing , and our thanks are due to the people at Fox for making a beautiful DVD edition available in their amazing FORD AT FOX set .
Near the End	An amusing cartoon that points up the major flaw with Mickey : he's just not very interesting . He's talented , graceful and so forth , but too much in control of any situation and lacks anything like an amusing character . The Disney solution was to give him a strong supporting cast , including Donald Duck , Goofy and Pluto - - with his girlfriend , Minnie , in a grass skirt , dancing the hula . But in the following couple of years , the three supporting characters would each be given his own series of starring shorts , and Mickey would find himself largely out of a job , eventually turned into a corporate icon . In the meantime , take a look at this one .
Hurrah for supporting actors	Well meaning but wooden story of how Geronimo , with fifty Apaches , came to stand off the U . S . Army . Chuck Conners gives a creditable performance as a wooden Indian , and his soon-to-be real life wife plays the woman who loves him . Most amusing for Ross Martin as a wise-cracking sidekick and Adam West , four years before he became a wooden Batman , as a sympathetic army officer .
Is That Henry Hull ?	After seeing Henry Hull in dozens of movies , always playing the old geezer with the rasp in his voice , it is astonishing to watch him in this , when he was actually a matinée idol on Broadway , with a stage accent to match . This short scene is between him and James Dale , who plays a dramatist who wants Hull to appear in his next play , which Hull proclaims as ' too old-fashioned ' - - it involves the character's wife cheating on him and his reaction to it . It's a little too polite and hoity-toity to be particularly interesting , nor is it particularly cinematic - - it might be a short scene run between changes onstage . But it's interesting to see Hull at this stage in his career .
Not so many things	This movie is not the first feature picture . That distinction appears to go to an Australian film , NED KELLY AND HIS GANG from about 1906 . Others , particularly the Italians , had made a few films of more than a couple of reels before FROM THE MANGER TO THE CROSS came out . Nonetheless , this movie is historically very important as the first American feature . . . . . and much of it was shot on location in Egypt and what was then Palestine . It was an enormous undertaking in its time and deserves our respect . But , does that mean it is worth seeing ? Well , if you are fascinated by the history of the film , yes . If you are unfamiliar with silent film techniques , then no , almost certainly not . This film is shot as a series of tableaux . In the films of D . W . Griffith and others of his line , the titles explain the picture . In tableaux , the pictures illuminate the text of the titles , like an illustrated edition of a novel . Given the average American's familiarity with the subject of this movie - - the life and death of Jesus Christ - - and the use of quotes from the New Testament as titles , this is precisely the effect of FROM THE MANGER TO THE CROSS : an exciting one , for people who never got to travel further than downstate . To a modern audience , however , it will seem static , as this style of moviemaking went out of style by about 1920 . Second , there are the anachronisms . Cities are shown in their modern guises and if Jesus never saw the walls of Nazareth reared by the Crusaders , so much the worse for the moviegoer . If the nose of the Sphinx was battered off some time between 700 and 1000 AD , someone viewing this picture would never know it , given that Jesus , Joseph and Mary are shown sitting in front of the Sphinx and a pyramid to illustrate the Egyptian exile . So there are problems with this movie that make it something not to be recommended to the average , or even above-average moviegoer . However , if you love films for their own sake , give it a look .
Nice	A very good Snub Pollard short . Snub has always been a problematic comedian for me , since he looks so weird and was always teamed up with Marie Mosquini as his love interest . . . . it makes you wonder why Lon Chaney never got the girl or Marie didn't talk him into going to a barber . Snub also seemed to not have much of a personality , tailor-made for being a supporting comic and , indeed , some of his best shorts involved very elaborate gags . But not this one , and it works well enough , when Snub rides the rails into town with that delightful scene stealer , ' Sunshine Sammy ' Morrisson , and they try to get something to eat , preferably at Marie's diner . A simple , believable thesis and one that director Charley Chase knows how to fill out the story and insert the lovely gags into the structure .
Hats Off !	One of the better of the Paul Parrott comedies for Roach - - his poor health caused him to retreat behind the screen where he directed some very funny comedies starring Laurel & Hardy , The Girl Friends series and a few for his brother , Charlie Chase . Here this tale of how Paul tries to elope with Jobyna Ralston starts out with an excellent sequence in which his opera hat gives him a lot of trouble . The story starts in soon after that with the usual issues and one or two excellent gags thrust in . The ending of the print I saw is rather abrupt , but that is a not uncommon issue with a lot of comedy shorts from this period . Perhaps the print was damaged or perhaps they simply ran out of film .
A Charming Trifle	This little short shows an entirely different society from the one we are used to , one in which a woman coyly throws her hat into the water to attract a man's attention , where lovers exchange tintypes , and in which , when they wish to neck at the beach , they use umbrellas to hide their activities from passersby . The leads are having fun and Jean the Vitagraph dog is a handsome , intelligent actor - - with a nose job and implants she could be the rage in the 21th century .
Biting the hand that feeds you	A send-up of Griffith's THE LONELY VILLA and other movies of that sort , such as THE GIRLS AND DADDY , THE LONEDALE OPERATOR and many others , as the heroine , thinking that burglars are trying to break into her home phones her husband at the office , who rushes home . . . . well , who tries to rush home in his chauffeur-driven automobile . Sennett would later perfect the send-up and introduce the Keystone Kops in THE BANGVILLE POLICE . For the moment , he's having more gentle fun , as will the viewer .
Ah , symbolism !	Strange little animated fantasy about newlywed animals who take a rocketship to go " dancing on the moon " , using all the Fleischer special effects . Doubtless the symbolism renders this full of Hidden Sexual Meaning , but that symbolism lifts it well above the level of typical , puerile animation of the era between Betty Boop and Pepe Le Pew .
Good Clips	Actually , very good clips , and the narrative makes a very good claim to proving its thesis : that the sexy Pre-Code dramas and comedies actually represented a realistic depiction of the 20th century morality until Joseph Breen clamped down , making the Production Code not just voluntary , but mandatory . There is a good claim in that , but it makes its point by looking at the best of the Pre-Code works and the worst of the movies made under the Code . Nor does it go into the reason that Hollywood made those sexy movies in the first place , and stopped making them later : to sell tickets at the box office . Truth has never been the primary concern of the movie industry ; and while these clips demonstrate that Hollywood was interested in selling tickets to men who wanted to look at naked women . . . well , the underwater swimming sequence from TARZAN AND HIS MATE shows Maureen O'Sullivan's stand-in swimming around in the nude , but Weismuller is wearing a loincloth .
Good , Standard Keystone	This Keystone from the end of 1914 , involving the usual suspects running around some plumbing issues will not hold many surprises for those familiar with Keystone in this period , or , indeed , with the works of the Three Stooges , who often played inept plumbers . It is , nonetheless , very nicely performed , especially by Charles Murray who mugs it up freely and ineptly , as well as the pretty girl who plays the house's maid . Although this will likely not make any new fans for Keystone or Mr . Murray , for those who are pleased by the field , it will , I feel confident , prove to be a superior effort as it takes potshots at all the classes . If you don't know much beyond Chaplin from this period , take a look .
Sennett beats the Kaiser	A funny and stylistically interesting feature from the Sennett studio directed by wunderkind Richard Jones . Although his comedies generally featured human-looking comics for Sennett and Roach , as opposed to the grotesques made popular at Keystone , in this one he combines the two styles : the Allies look and act like normal people , but the Germans are in the full grotesque makeup of the earlier films , acting with the exaggerated mannerisms one expects from the Sennett studio . The entire Sennett company is on view here and the jokes are crude , take advantage of the propaganda of the era - - there is a joke about German soldiers capturing a Belgian convent - - and funny . If you don't know this style of comedy , you may be taken aback by it . If , however , you like this sort of thing - - and I do - - you will have a lot of fun .
The Battle Behind the Scenes	Looking at a Jules White-directed Keaton short , one can almost see them battling behind the scenes , White a proponent of smashing things and slapping people , and Buster trying for elaboration . Given that they shot these shorts on a three-day schedule , there is a lot of cheating going on , mostly through undercranking the camera to get Buster through one of his falls . Yet this is a highly entertaining short , particularly in the first half , as Buster fights with his ex-wife's trunk for some of his trademark falls . Even Elsie Ames gets some excellent pratfalls in . Buster also gets to do some real acting here , and people who think of him as stone-faced do not really watch him . He shows an enormous range of emotion even though he doesn't smile . In many of the Jules White shorts , he seems mentally deficient , but here he is , struggling to make the best of a bad situation : his ex-wife's alimony means that he and his new wife are suffering , so he comes up with the idea of having his ex-wife move in , which will save on the living expenses . It's a crack-brained idea , but Buster perseveres . Yes , there are many crude Jules White touches , but it's a Buster Keaton movie and he and the audience win in the end . Give this one a try .
The Cat Creeps	Guy Kibbee stars as Scattergood Baines in another outing , well directed by Christy Cabanne . This time it is a murder mystery : two eccentric old ladies have died , leaving their fortune to their cat , and suddenly murders begin to happen . . . The Scattergood Baines series , from a series of stories by Clarence Buddington Kelland , never raises its head above its B roots , but the scripts are well written - - this one is particularly good - - and contains a wealth of character actors , including Florence Lake - - best known for playing Edgar Kennedy's wife in his series of shorts for RKO , Willie Best as Scattergood's shop assistant , and the dependable B lead and A support , Wallace Ford . There's also a nice subplot as John Archer , new owner of the weekly newspaper , tries to make a go of it and romance Margeret Hayes . It's all very pleasantly handled , and the mystery plot is well handled . Not a classic by any means , it times in at just over an hour and is a fine time-killer .
Models	A train , waiting in front of a tunnel , is suddenly struck by another train emerging from the tunnel . This is one of the earliest cases of models being used for rail cars , although at least a couple of the Edison battle recreations of the Spanish-American War were shot in bathtubs . This film was made possible by the rise of model railroading . Although to the modern eye , this is obviously model work , the moviegoer of the era would not be so ready to recognize the fakery and so this must have been a very exciting film for the period . Within a few years , American film-makers were crashing real locomotives for the movie-going public , but doubtless producer Robert Paul found this less expensive method much more profitable .
Bathing Beauties	Sound may have been threatening , Sennet and the Christies may have been showing the strain , but the 20s were still roaring when George Marshall supervised this short comedy for Fox . There is a reasonable story , lots of bathing beauties , great production values and plenty of comic takes and pratfalls and , of course , a small dog in this short subject about a hotel throwing a bathing beauty contest for publicity . Naturally things get out of hand when publicity man Richard Walling is concerned . But this is one of the few reasonably accessible comedy shorts from this comedy unit and you will see a wealth of skilled physical comedians working their gags here , many of whom never raised their heads above the second screen of actors - - and some who never got that far . But there are plenty here and it's nice to see the results .
Another Fine Tim Holt B Western	This is another of the good B Westerns that Tim Holt did for RKO from when he took over the franchise about 1940 through 1952 , with a pause during World War Two for Air Force Service . Besides the usual values , including good comic relief by series sidekick Richard Martin , we get a slightly off-kilter performance by Hugh Beaumont ( best known as the father on " Leave it to Beaver " as the chief bad guy and Gail Davis as the female lead for this episode - - usually this series featured competent and strong-willed female characters . I must say that I am particularly impressed by Miss Davis ' performance here , who , judging by her IMDb resume seems to have had a fairly undistinguished career . But given the strong writing , that's not very surprising .
Special Effects	Some brilliant stop-motion , wirework and the early equivalent of blue-screen photography powers this early Pathe special effects short , inspired by - - the invisible thief of the title shows up waving a copy - - H . G . Wells ' THE INVISIBLE MAN twenty-eight years before Claude Rains became a movie star in the title role .
Singing and dancing	Cab performs a couple of his songs in his wild , seemingly effortless fashion and threatens the camera in this soundie from 1935 . Although he seems strangely contained in this short , any chance to see Calloway perform his music should not be missed .
Not Quite Saludos Amigos	This early effort by directorial jack-of-all-trades Richard Thorpe quickly shows its stripes as a musical-comedy western - - it opens with the Mexican army captain leading his cavalry in a cantering chorus that works very nicely . This is a western with a little bit of something for everyone , including a clip of Rex the Wonder Horse and Ladies ' Day at the swimming hole . The songs are surprisingly fresh , Babe Kane is very funny as the distaff comic side kick , and there is pretty good camerawork , particularly in the dance scene . While not for everyone - - the stereotypes are hard to take if you forget for a moment this is a farce - - if you have any taste at all for this sort of thing , you will find it enormously entertaining .
Broad and enjoyable comedy	Gale Henry directs and stars in this amusing tale of an incompetent female detective set in " Chinatown " in 1918 ; a member of the local Tong has stolen a formula for glasses that will enable people to see what's in chop suey , and she is charged with recovering the plans . What results is sequence of puns and chases that won't strain anyone's mind , but will keep you smiling throughout .
Homer Brightman	This is a better than usual Woody Woodpecker from director Don Patterson as he and the buzzard - - playing lumberjacks somewhere or other - - go at each other , starting with a good slapstick over flapjacks - - Woody never had enough to eat - - and escalating , in best cartoon fashion , to dynamite . Given Patterson's usual lackluster indifference to weapons of mass destruction , I attribute the majority of the brightness of this short to writer Homer Brightman , who seems to have a hand in the better Woody Woodpeckers of the mid-fifties . Also , the backgrounding on this is less simplistic than on some of the others issued the same year . That always helps . Why was Wally Walrus relegated to five seconds of screen time and one gag as the cook ? Equal time for walruses !
Bobby Vernon	Bobby Vernon has just been married to Lila Lee , but her parents object and kidnap her to Reno , where , if not rescued , they will be divorced . It probably wouldn't hold up before a judge , but it does produce a fairly funny movie . The thing is , Vernon is not particularly funny in this amusing comedy . Yet he had a history in vaudeville , worked for Sennet in such classic comedies as TEDDY AT THE THROTTLE and , after sound came in and he retired from performing to become a writer of comedies at Paramount . So we can see him not as a traditional movie clown , who performs pratfalls , but as a light leading man in this movie , with the comic bits inserted as appropriate and filmed for best comic effect - - there's one in which he steps on a sponge on a hotel register - - I have no clear idea why it would be there - - and it squirts someone in the eye . We don't see Vernon in medium shot doing this . Instead the cameraman cuts to a medium closeup of his foot and lower leg , the sponge and the squirt's victim's head : the gag is emphasized , not the performer . It's not the best way of shooting a comic performance - - the classic clowns always were careful to shoot in such a way , when performing their real gags , to show you there was no camera trickery , But to shoot that gag in a medium shot would be to lose it . So Vernon and director Archie Mayo chose the gag rather than the performer . That's by no means the best gag in the movie . There are others , much better . Enough , I think , to make this worth your time .
Where do you get these ideas	Odd little cartoon , even for Chuck Jones , about a cat , raised by eagles , who flies by whirling his tail around . Sort of like a reversed Pepe Le Pew , full of cute little bits and a large bulldog to torment . A treat for cat lovers .
Saving the British Way of life	That old hero of the Penny Dreadfuls and Boys ' Papers , Sexton Blake , the Poor man's Sherlock Holmes joins the effort to save the British way of life in this entertaining potboiler . We start out with a hair-raising murder of a man with a cut off hand and head on from there in a wonderful little murder drama , full of quickly made deductions . This looks a lot like those old Sherlock Holmes movies made by Roy Williams Neill starring Rathbone and Bruce . There is some fine cinematography by Geoffrey Faithful and the acting is certainly adequate to the job . Keep a look out for a very young Jean Simmons in her second year of film acting .
Miscellany	Another delightful one-reeler from Pete Smith . We get to watch Lena Horne sing " Ain't It The Truth ? " in a bubble bath , watch some close-up sleight of hand exposed and see a three-year-old balance on knives while eating an apple , while Smith makes bemused comments . A lot of fun .
Working up to KIPPS	The comparison was inevitable when I saw this movie the day after I saw Carol Reed's version of KIPPS . However , while KIPPS is a serious movie leavened with humor , this is a comedy leavened with a lot of tension , and eased by the occasional song : Jimmy O'Dea sings a typical comedy piece about ' The Pride of the Coombe ' and Betty Driver sings a swingy number This working class comedy is clearly a quota quickie , but also , clearly , Reed has learned his craft and the result , while no classic , is an engaging bit of fluff . The performances are sterling and the scene between Edmund Gwenn and James Harcourt is beautifully played . The camera-work is , likewise , unimpeachable : classic camera movement to maintain composition . In short , by the time he directed this movie , Reed had the ability to direct anything that came his way . The next decade would show that .
The Code of the West	Not as well known as the 1948 John Ford version , this one does not spoon feed the issues to the viewer . Harsh , uncompromising and utterly devoid of false bonhomie , Boleslawski made this at almost the same time as the screwball classic , THEODORA GOES WILD .
Hard Times	A brutally depressing script and some fine low-key performances by Peter Strauss and Pamela Reed and some good location shooting in Ohio power this fine TV movie about hard times in the rustbelt . As the mills close and the union jobs disappear , the blue-collar workers are threatened by everyone : management , owners , their wives and children . Strauss is completely believable in his role , and Pamela Reed is , as always , wonderful . See if you can recognize John Goodman before he put on weight . The heavy metal score - - was someone making a pun ? - - is , at times , obtrusively annoying , but the cinematography by Frank Stanley is knockout , particularly the mill scenes .
Night Club Acts	A superior short from Joe Henabery , featuring several good night club acts , including ' Bazooka ' Bob Burns a popular performer of the period : a hillbilly Will Rogers with a homemade trombone he called a ' bazooka ' . No nightclub ever featured this array of talent , but as a short variety show a lot of fun .
Rashomon Don't Care Either	The musical comedy biopic gets the Rashomon treatment in this faked-up biopic of Eva Tanguay , one of the great stars of turn-of-the-century vaudeville . Mitzi Gaynor , as always , gives a great performance and it's a pity that , with the exception of the movie version of SOUTH PACIFIC , she was always Fox's B musical star , doing whatever they gave her . The musical numbers are all overdone , as if choreographer Jack Cole is mocking the form ; the semi-strip-tease to jazzed up Mozart ( I'm not making this up ! It's the most out-of-place dance number outside of Sally Forrest's weird one in EXCUSE MY DUST ) and other numbers that recall LADY IN THE DARK - - all very modern for the era and absolutely bizarre in context . Oscar Levant plays the piano magnificently a few times and David Wayne gives a typically graceful performance in support .
The film makers must be crazy	" The plotters , anticipating Motana's death , " mourn " him as his hair , stuffed into the bodies of toads , smokes over their fire " reads one of the title cards . This is , after all , a documentary about the Kwakiutl Indians . And yet , clearly , it is a directed story film . It's an unusual sort of film these days , limited to " novel and astonishing works of unprefigured genius " like THE GODS MUST BE CRAZY , but in reality , this is how documentaries started . Flaherty " cheated " by modern standards on NANOOK OF THE NORTH . CHANG has a story line imposed on it . While unedited footage of Kwakiutl Indians carving totem poles might have been a big draw in 1896 , by 1914 the sophisticated filmgoer demanded more : a story line . And so we had this , by modern standard , odd . . . . well , call it a " mockumentary " , but not in the sense of a Christopher Guest film . We see real Kwakiutls in real Kwakiutl regalia dancing real Kwakiutl war dances aboard real Kwakiutl war canoes . It's just that it's edited together and given titles to make it a story . Interestingly , although a story film , this movie survives because it was saved at a couple of museums . So what can we make of it ? Well , make of it what you want . A feature film from the dawn of feature films ; fascinating shots of Kwakiutl Indians when they still did these things . Do you want egg in your beer ?
Powered by Donald Pleasance	This play was a shocker when it first came out in 1912 , and we can see the reasons why even today , with its calm look at the difference in the way in which society treats fornicators : for men it's winked at , for women it's the worst sin that can be committed - - unless sanctified after the fact by the benison of holy wedlock , in which case the only consequence may be a baby born seven months after the wedding - - unremarkable and unremarked . But society has changed so much in the 95 years since this play came out , that the question remains as to how much power these waxworks can hold for us ? The 1928 silent version , directed by Elvey still works , and the play still works here , almost entirely due to the role of Jefcote , played with great humor and probity by Donald Pleasance . Even through the accents , you can see a real person here , even though the other roles are little more than statements of position : the calm father who wants justice done , the mother of the wronged girl who utters constant malapropisms , the boy's fiancée who drops him out of Christian charity and her father who urges him to stand up to his father until his interests are attacked . . . . . only the Donald Pleasance character shows grit , spunk and self-awareness . . . . and the piece is directed to make him the focus . The play , therefore , works as a character study . But for how much longer ?
Selling to the Theater Owner	This late silent Koko the Clown cartoon has Max pestered by an ink salesman , so he throws him through the door , whereupon Koko and Bimbo announce that if they were salesmen , they could sell anything to anyone , and so they do , to Scotchmen and scrubwomen . Although Fleischer had already made the move into sound cartoons - - they had been producing song cartoons for at least three years at this point - - the days of silent Koko were limited and the increased effort on backgrounding would not save them from having to move through to the next phase - - Koko just about vanishing and Bimbo reduced to support to Betty Boop . But the franchise still had some legs and this is a fine effort .
Why a Duck ?	Because they couldn't afford to get Eddie Cantor , I guess , for this landmark film of a live duck singing " Ma , He's Making Eyes at Me " . What ? A film of a singing duck is a landmark ? Yes , because it is one of the earliest sound films in what became the Movietone process , the sound-on-film method that has been the standard since about 1935 . The method was developed by Theodore Case and this actually very amusing vaudeville bit makes a good test for synchronization of movement and sound , an issue that the competing system , the Vitaphone sound-on-disk method had from the beginning . SPOILER ALERTActually , the duck doesn't sing the song . Gus Visser does , and the duck just quacks at the appropriate moments . What are the appropriate moments ? I suppose you'll have to see the film to find out !
Kelly from the Emerald Isle	Two years before Walt Disney added a sound track to his third Mickey Mouse picture and " produced the first sound cartoon " , Max Fleischer was producing " Car-Tunes " using the Phono-film system that later evolved into the modern movie-sound system . This series , including the ' bouncing ball ' did not use the sophisticated playing-with-ink effects of the usual Ko-Ko cartoons that Fleischer was producing at the time , but they are definitely sound films - with an orchestra , people singing . They are worth a look for people with an interest in the history of film .
Stage and Film Magic	Melies started out as a stage magician , but he quickly learned and invented a lot of film magic too , which he uses to great and good effect in this effort : the one where he slices the boy in half is wonderful . It's a thirty-second magic act , little more , but must have been a real jaw-dropper when originally shown . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
The New Magic	Melies began as a stage magician and his movies always show this influence and technique . However , he was certainly not averse to using cinematic magic even when the stage magician knew how to make these illusions without a stopped or masked camera . He uses film techniques to make eggs come out of his assistant's mouth and to make people switch places . The use of these techniques and their apparent ease must have had more effect on the audience of his day . They are still a lot of fun . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Zez Confrey	I am sure that most of the audience of today , if it has any interest in this short , is interested in seeing Babe Ruth , one of the great baseball players of all time . Well , I'm happy to see him too , but for me the best part of this movie is Zez Confrey , one of the great jazz composers of the first half of the 20th Century , composer of such eccentricities as " Kitten on the Keys " , " Stumblin ' " and " Dizzy Fingers . " He even plays a bit of " Kitten " in this one amidst film clips of Ruth hitting home runs and instructing him how to compose a new song . The result , " Home Run on the Keys " is given a full band orchestration , but there's more than enough of the weird timing that Confrey brought to his compositions to keep me happy . There's also fellow songwriter Byron Gay and some singing moppets .
In Living Color	My first reaction is that this is nothing spectacular for Melies : ordinary stage conjuring , done with plenty of verve and pleasure in his presentation , and just enough under-cranking to add special vivacity to his presentation . However , the print that is preserved is beautifully hand-tinted and still , after ninety years , preserves lot of color . So it's good to look at . But what a thing to do to Santa Claus ! This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
The Movie Star	This is one of the movies that made Douglas Fairbanks , along with Mary Pickford , Gloria Swanson and Charlie Chaplin , the leading member of the new American aristocracy , the Movie Star . It is a pure star vehicle , with Fairbanks leaping gracefully over park benches and wire fences , leavened with a little social satire . True , his great production pieces of the 1920s - - THE THREE MUSKETEERS , THE THIEF OF BAGDAD and my personal favorite , THE IRON MASK - - lay ahead of him , but Doug puts out star power at megawattage , even in old , beat-up prints . If you don't know Fairbanks ' work , you've got a treat ahead of you .
Picaresque	Delightful late silent version of the often-filmed picaresque story about the young nobleman who decides to travel to Paris with an acting company . Early Cavalcanti outing shows the influence of the French surrealists , particularly Epstein's FALL OF THE HOUSE OF USHER in the early scenes , and his fluid camera and sympathetic wit keep this version rolling along . That's Charles Boyer as the suave villain .
A Safe Bet	One of the strongest of the Pink Panther shorts , this succeeds by a series of gags on the same theme : a safe cracker attempting to break into a safe inside of which is the Pink Panther - - the panther itself , of course . It also is strengthened by not having the two problems of many of the Depatie-Freleng cartoons . It does not have actively ugly backgrounding - - the backgrounding , instead , is nondescript - - and it does not have a laugh track , so you can enjoy it on your own terms . What it does have is the Pink Panther , a character with little personality , That is a weakness of all of the series . A comedian without a personality may do funny things and make you laugh , but he is also replaceable by any other comedian . It is odd that the old pros who did these cartoons seem to have forgotten that , but there you have it .
An interesting bypath	An early attempt by Zecca , Pathe's leading director in this period , at scene changes . All of them are done by fade . This technique would be abandoned , resulting in the standard French look through the 1920s , most notably in Louis Feuillade's movies , in which the camera sits in one location . The result is a much more subjective camera than the typical American style .
Choppy Production	There are a number of problems with this production : first is the way that Claude Gillingwater's role is written : an expert for twenty years in playing a range of grouches , here he is just out-and-out mean for no good reason . He starts mean , he gets meaner and it ends with him protesting at a baby's being baptized Perhaps as the plot-activating villain of the piece , reducing him to a purely melodramatic villain might be considered an option . Gillingwater is too subtle an actor to pull this off - - yes , it sounds like a paradox , but it's true . The other problem is some unnecessary idiot plotting . At one stage , Tess takes an oath on the Bible to keep a secret . When she is asked to reveal it , she remains silent , instead of stating that she had sworn to keep it a secret . Surely this could have been fixed ? Now that I've gotten the weak points out of the way , let me mention the two real strong points : first and foremost is Janet Gaynor's performance . Miss Gaynor , by this stage , was able to read the most googly lines with a simplicity that showed her conviction ; and she could move on the screen only as someone who had learned how to do so in silent movies could do so ; yet in her talkies even the large movements of silent movies are toned down and simplified in a way that shows you exactly how the character thinks and , more importantly , feels . Miss Gaynor is worth the whole show by herself ; true , she is teamed with long-time co-star Charles Farrell , but , while he is adequate , the movie focuses on Tess and her relationship with her father , played wonderfully by Dudley Digges , a skilled actor who rarely got a chance to strut his stuff . The other thing that lifts that movie out of the ordinary is Hal Mohr's beautiful keylighted cinematography . Happily , the recent ( 2006 ) restoration of this movie by UCLA has located excellent elements to work from . To be appreciated , it should be seen in a theater . Check your local film museums .
A Little Perspective , Please	Given the effusion over CHELOVEK S KINOAPPARATOM in the commentary section of the IMDb , I expect this will be a tad out of place , but I feel that this is a very good , although not groundbreaking movie . First , what we have here is a portrait of a city - - Moscow , I believe , on the lines of MANHATTA and the more famous BERLIN : DIE SINFONIE DER GROSSTADT . It is an excellent example of the genre , with some beautiful camera-work but in no wise groundbreaking . The distinction , if any , lies in the use of the eponymous Man With a Movie Camera as a character in the film . People stop to gawk at movie cameras in operation at first sight , and Vertov must have been frustrated at some of the excellent footage he would have to throw away . Then it probably occurred to him that if he made the camera itself a character , the gawking could be explained . To Americans this might be strange , but silent European films often had the camera clearly comment on the action of the film - - check out Feuillade's serials , such as LES VAMPIRES for examples . This leaves open , of course , the issue of why , in several of the crowd scenes , in which we see the actor / cameraman from the rear , people are looking at the movie camera actually in use to take the shot . Could it be it is not the man with the movie camera they are looking at , but the operating camera ? This being Soviet cinema , we are also supposed to gawk over the editing technique , which the Soviets invented - - or actually , reported on , as they had been in use for up to thirty years by the time . The Soviet academicians got their stuff into print first - - elsewhere , people learned by experimentation or going to work for someone who knew what he was doing . Finally , although Soviet film in this period is vibrant and interesting and does have a lot of editing techniques that were influential , they were making good films in Russia before the Revolution . I urge anyone who is interested in Russian films to look up the works of Yevgeny Bauer or Starewicz . And take a look at this movie , by all means . It's very good . I apologize if anyone thinks I am complaining , but I worry that other commenters may have oversold it . Why not see it and make up your own mind ?
Goood Programmer	A standard RKO programmer about the loves and lives of midshipmen at Annapolis is enlivened by three factors : cast , location shooting at Annapolis and the usual handsome work of Christy Cabanne . The cast includes Van Helfin in his early , semi-villain phase , Arthur Lake at the end of his juvenile period - - the following year he would begin playing Dagwood in the Blondie series , which would keep him busy in movies and TV for the next twenty years - - and the always entertaining Harry Carey as the father of James Ellison , the nominal lead . Let me , in yet another review , call your attention to the work of Christy Cabanne , usually cited as the least of D . W . Griffith's followers , who worked with him at Biograph and continued working until his death in 1948 . TCM has recently been running more of his work at Warner's and RKO and they are surprisingly good , with off-kilter framing . He knew how to use the camera for psychological effects and even in his cheapest B westerns show their moments of flair . Here , equipped with a decent if not huge budget he takes a movie that should be meaningless and makes something very nice of it . Doubtless some of the lovely camera placement is due to familiarity with Annapolis . He was a graduate of it .
Well Timed Farce	A year after they had a hit with the social comedy SKINNER'S DRESS SUIT , director Seiter and actor Reginald Denny teamed up again in this sharply-turned farce . reminiscent of the sort that Clarence Badger was doing with Raymond Griffith over at Paramount . There are the usual complications that lead to the situations in this farce : an adventuress - - Gertrude Astor - - with incriminating letters , a young couple in love - - that's Denny and Gertrude Olmstead - - and a crook pretending to be Reginald Denny's character . The timing is brisk , the situations comical , the pratfalls well taken and if dialogue instead of titles might sharpen it a tad , the silent version we have is quite funny without them .
A Comedian Not Named Billy	I was once asked if all of the silent film comedians were named Billy . " No , " I replied , " Several are named Sid Smith " and the Sid Smith who appears in this one is one of the best . Along with ex-Keystoner Harry MacCoy , he shows up in this short for Columbia based on a wildly popular comic strip of the era , ' The Hall Room Boys . ' Their gags are inventive and fairly unusual , like the way MacCoy gets a customer in their diner to take off his hat . This Sid Smith lasted until 1927 , leaving a body of very strong comedies , particularly in the work he did with Paul Parrott in the two years previous to this one . No much of his work , alas , survives , but this one does and it well worth your time .
Bad Accents	One of the failings of the movie industry is that Paul Scofield has not been hired for enough jobs . This has been a blessing for the British theater , of course , but it would be pleasant to have more of his roles recorded . Fortunately he appeared in this and a few other BBC TV productions and while Noel Coward's comedies of manners have not aged well , Scofield shows up well , starting out as an annoying individual in the first act but coming into clear and amusing focus the second act . One of the weaknesses of this piece is the way he and Toby Robins have been directed . While Scofield puts on a fairly convincing Texan accent , Ms . Robins talks like a middle-class Jew from Brooklyn - - and the two of them are supposed to have known each other all their lives . This is a fairly typical and old-fashioned bit of British snobbery among uncareful directors : look at the way Americans behave in Agatha Christie pieces from the 1930 .
Play or Pay	Warner Brothers continued its campaign to get Kay Francis to break her contract not just by lowering the quality of her vehicles , not just by loading her dialogue with ' r's or putting her in horse operas , but now by lending her out to other studios . She was the highest-priced actress on the Warner's lot and they didn't want her any more . But she was not going to give up that contract . In this lend-out to RKO , Miss Francis , as usual , gives a wonderful performance . In fact , given the cast of minor players - - including a few long-time favorites of mine like Nigel Bruce and Kane Richmond - - and they give fine performances too , even if we are expected to believe Mr . Bruce hails from Chicago , in this minor comedy . It's about a professional adventuress who is getting a lot too old to play wealthy men for suckers . It's a little slow-starting , but by the half-way mark , it is moving along at a good clip . Definitely worth your while .
Love and Laughs	I must admit I am a sucker for Charley Chase's short silent comedies . They combine full , three-act stories , fine acting and strong comedy gags that arise out of believable situations . The modern movie goer , used to witty dialogue and color photography - - well , color photography anyway - - may lack the patience to penetrate into the subtleties of silent film acting and a camera that looks at the people instead of indulging in jumpy MTV-style cutting techniques , but Charley Chase cuts right through that . How can you not enjoy a comedy in which a man sets fire to his hat and falls in love in a rainstorm ? Charley is willing to do anything to his character to get a laugh and the girl , but he remains believable and sympathetic throughout . This comedy , although not from his best period , is still crammed full of amusing gags . This is probably not the movie to use to introduce people to Mr . Chase - - he is better served in silent efforts like LOOKING FOR SALLY and MIGHTY LIKE A MOOSE and sound efforts like THE PIP FROM PITTSBURGH . But once you've got the habit , you'll enjoy this one too .
And the Kitchen Sink	Of the four or five big producers of silent comedy in the 1920s - - Roach , Sennett , Educational , Christie and , oh , probably one or two others - - whose work survive in some quantity , Christie ranks down near the bottom for my taste . Most of their stuff is competently done , but rather mechanical , with the set-up leading directly to the gag . But they occasionally turned out a very good one , and this is one of them , due , in no part , to Gale Henry , a tall , gawky-looking woman who , like all good comics , was fearless and without a sense of embarrassment . Some of her best work was done with Charley Chase and she really shines there in two of his best , MIGHTY LIKE A MOOSE and HIS WOODEN WEDDING , but she comes off pretty well on her own in shorts like THE DETECTRESS and in support in OPEN ALL NIGHT . The large party of her charm is that she played a physically unattractive woman , and never asked for our sympathy . Notice the indignity she goes through in being rescued from the fire here . While Miss Henry does not make SOUP TO NUTS a great comedy , she makes it more than usually funny .
By Cheating , of course	An early " cheater " , a cartoon put together by using clips from earlier cartoons with enough filler to make it a " new " picture . Of course , this being a Fleischer Popeye , it's funny and there are plenty of " Impossikible " stunts . A good introduction to Popeye .
Freleng Gags	Friz Freleng had one rule when doing movies : lots of perfectly-timed gags - - and if some aren't top-notch , the pacing carries you along . This one takes a while before you get to the good gags - - the first that I think top-notch is when the umpire comes out , but the pacing is always funny . As with almost any Freleng cartoon , well worth the few minutes it takes to watch it . Note : when ' The Mayor ' throws out the first baseball , it is a clear caricature of Fiorello LaGuardia , well-loved mayor of New York in this era . During a newspaper strike he went on the air to read the comics to his deprived citizenry , and here Freleng takes the opportunity to return the favor .
Charley and the Desert Song	Another delightful Charley Chase short that starts out with Charley in Paris , 20 years after the Great War , singing ' Madamoiselle from Armentieres ' . continues with him joining the Foreign Legion to avoid paying a bar bill and winds up with him caught at an Arabian harem . Although it's not a tightly constructed work , like THE NICKEL NURSER , the jokes come through at a good clip , and it's always fun to hear Mr . Chase sing . The Legion section is a lot of fun as Charley cluelessly mugs his way through the dessert . Charley Chase , despite the fact he always turned out a good short subject , has largely disappeared from the public consciousness . He was never as big as Roach's superstars , Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy , he never broke out of short subjects and he died in 1940 . Still , his work is starting to turn up regularly in places where people look for stuff like this , at comedy festivals and on TCM and perhaps he is in for a major revival . You could do a lot worse .
Four Stars Out of Five	In an effort not to alienate his wife's wealthy aunt , newly-wed Charley must masquerade as a boarder in his own home while his wife pretends to be married to an old beau . Although not one of Chase's best comedies , there is no shortage of laughs in this outing for Charley . His long-suffering reaction to the frequently offered artichokes is a corker , and the matter-of-fact way in which he and his wife's old beau exchange places is also very funny . This likely won't win any new fans for Charley , but will please his current ones . See if you can spot Charley's real life mother , Polly in the cast - - I couldn't find anyone with enough family resemblance to be sure it was hers . It does raise the question of whether she approved of Charley's stage name : the real family name was Parrott , which Charley used to direct . But how comfortable could his mother been as Polly Parrott ?
The Mexican Army to the Rescue !	An excellent silent western starring the now unfortunately forgotten J . B . Warner . Told with good humor and interesting camerawork , we have Mr . Warner in love with a lovely Spanish senorita , his life saved by a jumping bean , then leading the Mexican army to rescue a woman from the Ku Klux Klan . Surviving prints are a bit dupy after eighty years , but it's still a pleasant effort and well worth your time .
Sailing Into Danger with Edward G . Robinson	Robinson's career as a leading man was on the downslide at this point and he was jerkily moving into starring support roles like his turn in DOUBLE INDEMNITY when he made this one , a handsome Fox programmer with noir lighting in which his role is a bit of a retread , combining the lovesick dope of TIGER SHARK , the mature sea captain and some World War Two intrigue . He's got good players with him too , with Lynn Bari and Victor MacLaglen . . . . and when it came to playing a role cleanly and honestly in the movie theater , Robinson's only competition was Spencer Tracy . And if they have film footage of either of them reading the telephone book , it will be worth seeing . So this one is worth your time . Which you should have known when you saw his name on the cast list .
Nice Scenery	A rather tired plot of people looking for sunken treasure decently directed and performed by a German crew - - except for the female performer who parades around in brassiere and briefs as if she spends the rest of her time wearing leather and an SS uniform . The usual betrayals occur and for the most part it is forgettable , except for the Japanese titles that parade across the bottom of the DVD . And the photography . The cinematography by veteran DP Franz X . Lederle borders on brilliant and makes this otherwise bad movie more than worthwhile . I'm not sure where the location shooting took place , but it has an immediacy and tropical brilliance I have rarely seen in the movies ; the moving shots are well calculated and the underwater photography is superb .
Chang Apana	This interesting short documentary is available as an extra feature on the recently ( 2006 ) issued DVD of CHARLIE CHAN IN Egypt . It concerns a Chinese cop in Honolulu who flourished from 1898 through 1934 by the name of Cahng Apana . While there is little doubt that the idea of a pidgin-speaking police officer in Honolulu was the inspiration for Earl Derr Biggers ' character of Charlie Chan , Apana was not , of course , Chan . He was a tough beat-pounding cop who has become something of a legend in Honolulu , and this documentary , which includes interviews with his grandson , with the curator of the Honolulu Police Department and other experts , is a well-done piece . It's worth your time to look at it if you're looking at the movie it accompanies .
Hoot of the Rodeo	There's just enough of a story to hang on this picture to keep it coherent . Otherwise , it's Hoot Gibson displaying his easy-going charm and some excellent footage of the action at the rodeo at Soldier's Field in Chicago . It's a lot of fun . This was the era when B movie western stars like Hoot deservedly made a lot of money for the studios , and paid for the chancier A pictures . But sound was coming onto the scene , and the studio heads all knew it would not survive . And Uncle Carl Laemmle at Universal decided the way to make the transition was to fire stars like Hoot Gibson and start over again . It was a mistake and Gibson's career continued to flourish for many a moon afterwards
Over the top with technicolor	Someone was foolish enough to give Leon Erroll technicolor and a decent budget , so he spent it . You don't see chorines wearing purple any more , and more's the pity , say I . Erroll milks the gags for all they are worth .
Down at the mouth	Oscar-nominated short has various farm animals , their mouths animated to look as if they are speaking , with various wisecracks , catchphrases and , in one case , an owl singing a couple of lines of a Bing Crosby song . More interesting for its novelty aspects , it's short enough to be amusing .
Beautiful movie	A pretty fair movie - - look for Myrna Loy as she begins her ascent to Queen of Hollywood . The real star for me in Jame Wong Howe's magnificent photography , lovely deep focus work ten years before Greg Toland ' revolutionized ' pictures with it .
Fast Burlesque Humor	This is a surprisingly funny programmer from Monogram . Somehow , a bean manufacturer under pressure ( ahem ! ) from the Beans Syndicate to gouge the US Government in war contracts accepts a bundle from Britain of two little girls , who turn out to be Harry Langdon and Charley Rogers . Of course , it could happen to anyone . Somehow , also , a priceless diamond gets put into a can of beans , and the fellows must get them back , by disguising themselves as women . The two comics play off each other beautifully , Rogers , in a rare lead , talking a mile a minute and Langdon his usual bemused self . Despite their differing comedic styles - - sort of like the pairing of Durante and Keaton in their comedies of the early 1930s - - the two of them manage to produce an air of camaraderie .
The Story of Ruth	Ruth Etting was a Broadway star who made occasional passes at the movies , but they never took . An interesting biopic , LOVE ME OR LEAVE ME , starring Doris Day as Miss Etting and stolen by Jimmy Cagney was made in the mid-fifties at MGM ( not Warners ) . How much truth is involved is a matter of conjecture . In this one there is a plot as she and her agent try to get her to see an impresario who can give her a break . She sing three songs . There is also one interlude in which the Canova family appears . It is Judy Canova's first screen appearance . The director of this short film is Joseph Henabery , who basically operated out of the old Vitaphone studio in Brooklyn until it went into war work . One of D . W . Griffith's disciples , he tells a bit of his story in Kevin Brownlow's THE PARADE'S GONE BY .
A Seat on the Trolley	Another of the Mr . & Mrs . Sidney Drew movies , in which they take a small situational comedy and play it with great charm . In this , Mr . Drew is tired of having to give up his seat on the trolley to women with squalling brats , and so he buys a doll and passes it off as his own baby . This sequence is a lot of fun as Mr . Drew alternates between acting as if the doll is a real baby , and treating it as a mere inert prop - - and bystanders react to his cavalier behavior . Even the plot , which involves him trying to court Mrs . Drew - - they aren't married in the movie , you see - - when she believes him to be a married man with a baby - - is done in a realistic , convincing and funny way . It is a pity that a two-minute chunk of the film does is bubbled out of existence - - but so many of the many fine comedies they did no longer exist . If this one is available to you , don't miss the opportunity to see it .
Superior Silent Oater	Well-handled western with both Hoxie brothers makes excellent use of a non-standard plot , although the horses look a bit skeptical . The action and twists keep on coming at a good clip and some excellent photography by Harry Neumann rounds out a movie that is well worth your time .
The Illustrated Title	This very early film by Michael Curtiz is purported to be the sole surviving effort of his produced while he was still in Hungary . Hungary had quite a thriving film industry , but by the 1930s it was a purely domestic industry , some of the film community having gone to Germany - - among them Curtiz - - and later to the United States , while a goodly number wound up running the British film industry - - prominent among them the Korda Brothers and Emeric Pressburger . This effort is an example of the ' illustrated text ' , the subject being a poem by Antal Farkas . This methodology was dying in other film centers by this time . Curtiz makes a good effort at it : his compositions are very modern , using objects to frame the action , instead of irising the screen ; and if the actors seem overwrought , that came be laid at the feet of the subject , a socialist poem . Curtiz ' later employers , the Warner Brothers might have been annoyed to have this mentioned . Technique seems to overwhelm the subject , but the effects , including a fully tinted print , are quite striking .
Beau Cinema	What can anyone say about this ? Beautiful print , some fine acting by Barrymore - - wonderfully subtle for the period in the early sequences and quite appropriately over-the-top at the end . Given the uniformly over-the-top performances he was called on to make towards the end of his career , the well-preserved Barrymore silents - - this one , his fine , generous performance in THE BELOVED ROGUE , and the sheer electricity between him and Dolores Costello in WHEN A MAN LOVES show what a fine actor is - - that and his wonderful comic turn in MIDNIGHT . I have been less than impressed in the past by some of the scores offered by the Young Composers but , although a bit shaky in the earlier sequences , this one settled right down and was quite good . I had quite forgotten this was directed by Harry Beaumont , who became my favorite MGM B director - - even though , of course , MGM didn't make B movies .
Bad Luck	There is a word in Yiddish that can be transliterated as " Shlamiel . " Nothing ever works out for a shlamiel . If one apple in a barrel is wormy , that is the one he bites into . If he plugs a device into a socket , the wiring will be faulty and he will get a shock . If there is a banana skin anywhere in the city , he will trip on it and fall down a manhole . There is another Yiddish word , " Shlamazel " . When the shlamiel trips on a banana skin and falls down a manhole , he will land on the shlamazel . Who will be named Lloyd Hamilton . That is the basis of Lloyd Hamilton's comedy and character in the 1920s and this particular film , while not from his peak work , is full of beautifully composed and executed gags on the theme : among the worst falls he takes is to fall for beautiful Dorothy Seastrom , who gets him in all sorts of amusing trouble . Also on hand is fat girl comedian Babe London . Now best known for her role as Oliver Hardy's fiancée in OUR WIFE , she handles her role as the discarded woman with good will and plenty of energy . But Ham is really the whole show . Poor fellow .
Don't Skip This One	This is a very funny sound short for Charlie Chase , playing the Duke of Chasewick , but hired by Dell Henderson to play himself , and disabuse his wife and daughter of any fondness for nobility . Charley gets into a very funny fight at the beginning of this short , and has some lovely support , not only from a young Julie Bishop as Henderson's daughter , but also uninhibited silent comedy pro Gale Henry . James Parrott directs this one , and Charley always seems a little more charming under his brother's direction . The whole thing turns into a bit of a series of revenge on Henderson as Charley leads them in a game of follow the leader . Good physical comedy makes this a fine short comedy - - standard for Charley and not to be missed if the chance arises .
Freedonia's Going to Peace	A typically good Charley Chase short subject , this one is marred a little by a hasty ending , but getting there is a lot of fun . Armistice has just been declared , and if War is Hell , then getting out of France is even worse , as Sergeant Chase and his squadron first continue fighting a battle with a cow and then , as he is about to leave for New York with Nita Pike , he gets thrown into service to pay back his laundry bill . Luis Alberni is funnier than usual , as he fails to overlay his Italian accent with a French one , and the two interludes of working off his debt are filled out with a couple of musical numbers : " Mine , All Mine " and a nice little song and dance routine with a push broom to " Sidewalk Sam " - - it's always a nice bit in a Chase soundie when he sings , since he started his career as a song-and-dance man in vaudeville . Not a great Chase picture but , as usual , it has many great moments .
Good Work	Let's see , Walt Disney invented Oswald , produced him for Charles Mintz and then discovered that he owned no stake . . . . Mintz basically cheated him out of it and everyone in his studio except Ub Iwerks and Carl Stalling . So he turned around and invented Mickey Mouse , which was basically Oswald with mouse ears instead of rabbit ears and went on to fame and fortune . In the meantime , Mintz produced some Oswald cartoons and then suddenly discovered he didn't own him either , Oswald belonged to Universal Studios . And , according to legend , Walter Lantz won Universal's animation department in a poker game and worked for his own profit for the next forty years , producing a lot of good cartoons , including Woody Woodpecker . And in the early 1930s he did a lot of Oswald cartoons , using once and future Disney talent , like Clyde Geronimi here , to excellent effect . In fact , I would go so far as to say that at this stage , Lantz was clearly producing better cartoons than Disney . Dietrich's music is less sophisticated than Carl Stallings , but more effective , and the gags , I think are better . Get thee to the Universal Studios WOODY WOODPECKER AND FRIENDS DVD and take a look for yourself .
Is it 1933 already ?	This is an amazingly strong Merrie Melody from this period . While most of Leon Schlesinger's staff hated this series because the cartoon would usually come to a halt during the obligatory song number , the usually boring Earl Duvall showed precisely how to do this sort of cartoon : a good version of the number , a good , basic story - - cats fighting each other over a tabby around the eponymous back yard fence - - and a series of strong and well-timed gags : in other words , do what you're doing in a way that amuses you , without the annoying imitation kiddy voices singing the songs . A couple of nicely done POV shots showing strong composition , good perspective and lots of movement - - I'm thinking of the section where the cats are fighting on the electric lines - - don't hurt either . Although Termite Terrace would come to do this much better , particularly under the direction of Friz Freleng , this is a fine cartoon in its own right and a harbinger of what was to come .
Suffering Sylvia Sidney	Sylvia Sidney was Paramount's low-class weeper star in this period , with a lower-class accent and a beautiful face that could suffer stoically or break out in helpless tears just when the plot demanded it . In this one , she has just gotten out of prison because she and her husband were involved in a badger game and one of their victims killed himself . Her husband is still in jail and she falls in with George Raft , whose hair is always perfect . They encounter various problems that keep getting worse and worse until they reach the point where you're ready to laugh - - except that Miss Sidney is so perfect in these roles , that you simply want to hug her . George Raft is adequate and for those of you who like such thing , Charles Middleton , best known as Emperor Ming of Mongo is on hand .
" Your grandson is facing a grave crisis .	" We believe his first tooth is arriving . " So reads one of the titles in this episode of one of the many charming Mr . & Mrs . Sidney Drew comedies from this period . Although most people now think that silent comedy was slapstick and little more , there were a large number of drawing-room comedies and the Drews specialized in them : well written - - usually by Mrs . Drew - - and wonderfully performed . They were enormously popular , first at Vitagraph and later in their own company , releasing through Metro . This one , about the travails of anxious parents , worrying that their child is an idiot because his first tooth is late in arriving , is filled with funny titles like the above , but there are fewer sight gags than in most of them - - Mr . Drew , uncle of Lionel , John and Ethel Barrymore , was particularly adept at stage business . Because far too much of the story has to be told by title cards , I don't rate this among their best work , but it does show up on TCM and thus is probably one of the most accessible of their now frustratingly rare movies to survive . And it is still darned funny .
His Master's Silence	To appreciate why this comedy is so very funny , you need to stop and think about the story : a youngster , home alone . Gangsters come and break in . Desperately the child calls on the phone for help . Parents race to save the child . No , it's not HOME ALONE , it's several of D . W . Griffith's better known shorts . In THE LONELY VILLA , it is the phone that provides the call for help , and daddy races home in an auto . In THE GIRL AND HER TRUST , she is a telegrapher , and help comes on railroads . Yes , indeedy . THE BANGVILLE POLICE is a lampoon of a contemporary genre , just like the SCARY MOVIE franchise . And while the police force took on a life of its own , it had its origins in the works of Griffith , for whom Sennett had worked for years , and whom he called ' the Master ' . Even if Griffith rarely put cows in his pictures . . . . at least , not as major supporting actors .
Lysistrata Redux	This sprightly programmer , starring Marie Dressler , transforms the story to modern politics ca . 1931 . Dressler and the women are anxious to close the speakeasies - - this was made during Prohibition . There is a strong cast of women , including Polly Moran , Joan Marsh and Karen Morley . The men are played by supporting comics , including Roscoe Ates , on whose voice Porky Pig was modeled . Dressler was an interesting character . A big legitimate stage star , she was one of the leaders of the strike that formed Actor's Equity . By the late 1920s , she was washed up , until screenwriter Frances Marion wrote a role for her , and by 1931 , she was MGM's biggest star . Her character was a fat , good-intentioned , foul-mouthed harridan , and she could tread the line between comedy and drama as surefootedly as anyone in the industry . Charles Reisner directs without much visual flair in this movie . He relies mostly on cuts to move the story along , moving the camera only slightly to maintain composition . POLITICS is pretty well dated , but it remains a fascinating film , if only for the performance of Miss Dressler .
Swing Symphony	This is another fine Swing Symphony from Walter Lantz ' shop . His music department had excellent connections to the Los Angeles Jazz scene , and would hire them for these efforts , as in THE GREATEST MAN IN SIAM . So this effort spotlights the title song . Alex Lovy , who would in the 1950s become the house director for Woody Woodpecker , directs ably , with plenty of gags about a ranch owner who feels that everyone singing " Home on the Range " tends to encourage a lackadaisical attitude . Instead , we have the driving boogie-woogie of the title song keeping everyone moving along , interspersed with a goodly number of jokes . Some people may be offended by the stereotypical look of the Black musician who introduces the buckaroos to the song . I look upon it as normal for the era and discount it .
The wages of sin in eighty minutes	Welcome to the world of Tod Browning , a world of sideshows and thieves , vampires and murderers , where men cut off their arms for love and wear dresses for revenge , the world of Dracula and FREAKS . Browning was a true original . He had a long association with Lon Chaney that ended only with death . In Browning's world , people pretend to be other than they are , but they rarely know who they are until it is too late . There are considerable problems with the story as told , probably due to the fact that the movie was shelved for a couple of years and then had the titles rewritten anonymously . I strongly suspect that the relationships between the three leads was a lot more sexual in Browning's script than they are here . In short , this is a bizarre movie and the main actors in it - - Wallace Beery , Raymond Griffith and Priscilla Dean play bizarre characters manipulated by a bizarre fate . Perhaps you don't believe in fate . If not , you may find this movie a mess of wild coincidences . But if you accept Browning's vision , you will find yourself drawn along . There is a happy ending tacked on , for those of you who like happy endings . The rest of us will ignore it .
And then he slipped away , unnoticed	Maurice Elvey's last film is a brittle comedy with a serious theme as an old-line British advertising firm finally decides to not automatically fire women after they get married . . . . and the newly married leads find out that progress has its costs . Elvey had a long career in British films , forty-four years behind the camera and almost two hundred films , sometimes head of production at his studio , but he seems to have been the forgotten man of the British cinema . With a few exceptions , his works are not well remembered and even his best-known successes , such as HINDLE WAKES have their flair attributed to others . Part of this is that he has no easily recognized style : his choices always serve the picture , rather than changing the picture to suit his style . Critics , film students and reviewers always like it when you can tell who directed a film without actually having to read the credits . Elvey was too canny for that . Let's look at a couple of tricks he pulls out of his pocket that you might not notice if you weren't looking for them . In this movie , Elvey's camera is largely still ; the few sequences in which it moves - in particular , a scene in which the wife is about to leave on a business trip - - the camera moves only to maintain composition . This being a working class comedy , even if the people are upper class workers , Elvey has an air of depression and cheapness in the details , from the annoying radio jingles to the way doors sound when they close , to the way that water heaters refuse to work properly . This is a very accomplished rendition of what could have been another meaningless programmer , like so much of Elvey's work . The film industry was collapsing , not only in Britain , but over the world . Someone had to retire , and who better than a seventy-year-old back number like Elvey ? People never knew what they missed .
The Moving Camera	George Fitzmaurice was one of the great commercial stylists among directors in the 1920s . He suffered an eclipse in the early talkie era but was fighting his way back into the majors when he died in 1940 . This means , of course , there are a lot of problems with this movie . The screen actors don't know how to do dialogue and most of the stage actors don't know how to turn down their performances for the intimacy of the movie camera . Barbara Stanwyck , looking very fresh-faced , is very loud in her line readings . She knows how to show her emotions beautifully already , though . But producer Joe Schenck didn't spare any expense behind the camera , and it shows . Avant-garde cameraman Ray June moves the camera about impeccably , despite the fact that no one else bothered . While other directors were having their cameramen use cuts to change subjects , Fitzmaurice has June move the camera . Notice the long tracking shot at the bar in the opening sequence , and the MOS shots used to fill out the sequence . The camera-work is not fluid . It is , frankly , fairly clunky , but it is light years ahead of anyone else in the business in 1929 , except possibly Mamoulian's APPLAUSE . So while their are a lot of problems with this movie , the camera-work makes this one very superior for 1929 and Barbara Stanwyck makes it worth looking at .
Not the First , But the First Regular	There had been cinematic animations before Bray turned out this , his first animated cartoon , as far back of Blackton's Sketches in 1896 . But animation remained a labor-intensive and expensive form of movie , because someone had to draw each frame . Bray's studio was notable on two points : first , a lot of talent in the field passed through his doors , including Lantz , Fleischer and Paul Terry ; and he bought or encouraged the invention of various methods to bring the cost of cartoon production down to a manageable level : the Hurd-Bray patents were key to this , including cel technique . Therefore , although this is not the first animation or even the first regularly issued series of animation - - that honor would belong to Emile Cohl in France - - it is crucial because without it there would be very little : no Looney Toons , no Betty Boop , no Woody Woodpecker . . . . and so it is important . But when confronted with the statement that a particular film is important , we are , nonetheless , left with the question of ' is it any good ? ' Yes , it is . The animation is lively and the sequence in which the dog steals and devours a sausage is delightful . If you get a chance to witness this landmark film , don't miss the chance to get some enjoyment out of your research .
Smile for the camera	A sprightly early Fairbanks film . Although too much of the story is told through intertitles , Douglas usual physical gags , including much building climbing and witty situations make for a good time . Look for Erich von Stroheim ( who was also an assistant director ) as a member of the Weazels Gang .
Roman A Clef	This is a biography of Hetty Green , the Witch of Wall Street , a woman who went head to head with the other robber barons of the Gilded Age and who usually came out ahead . They had to change the name for fear of lawsuit by her heirs . It was the common , if apocryphal story of how she made her son go to a free clinic , rather than pay a doctor that sent the lawyers at the studio screaming for a cover name for the character . In truth , Mrs . Green was a monstrously greedy character who , if she did not sell tainted pork to the Union Army , as did her fellow Robber Baron , Armour , did go to free clinics herself , rather than pay for medical treatment . She also forged her aunt's will and tried to bribe the judge in the case , but those are mere trifles in her story . Almost inevitably , the writers soften her character , making her more sinned against than sinner in love , and the anonymous benefactress of scrubwomen and so forth . Doubtless people would have refused to see the real story , because there was no real story beyond a woman living a tough life , going head-to-head in the man's world of Wall Street and doing it well . Enough of a story for me , perhaps , but not enough to sell the studios . The performances are sterling , and May Robson is having a lot of fun playing an out-and-out villainess , much as Edward Arnold would the next year , playing Jim Fisk , the man who precipitated the Panic of 1869 . That's softened too . Still , actors love playing villain . They have fun , and the audience does , too . So have some fun and see this one .
Bob Clampett	Clampett left Warner Brothers , did the Beany & Cecil puppet shows and seems to have dropped from the consciousness of animation fans . Yet there was no one with a wilder sense of cartoon stretching than he . He spent much of the late 1930s doing Porky Pig movies ( when he produced his first masterpiece , PORKY IN WACKYLAND ) , but most he was confounded by the fact that Porky , although Termite Terrace's major star in the period , seemed to lack much of a personality ; through the 1950s he remained more of a character actor than a star . In this one he sets up the situation , which is a cat-versus-mouse routine . It's a very funny movie - - by this time , Warner's had developed its cartooning style , so that its shorts were all good - - but not one of the mazing ones . Still , it's well worth your time .
Young Scrooge , Old Scrooge and Middle Aged Scrooge	Seymour Hicks , in a long and distinguished career , had a specialty of playing Scrooge on stage for many a decade . He first essayed the role in 1901 , when barely past thirty and got bad reviews because he couldn't play ' old ' well - - he got better at it . In his time , he committed the role to film twice : in this silent film ( re-edited in the mid-twenties ) and in a sound version in 1935 . In this earlier version he gives a fine performance , but it is quite clearly gauged for the stage . He twitches , he shakes himself out of camera range and he is the angriest Scrooge I have ever seen : not in the sense of ready to lose his temper , but angry all the time . It's an interesting interpretation and must have been a corker on stage . But on the theater screen it is , alas , just too big .
Plot Twists Aplenty	A rich young man checks into a hotel room to commit suicide , when his design is thwarted by blackmail and murder in the room opposite his - - elaborately staged for his benefit . Why does he wish to kill himself ? Is the confidence game being run on him as simple as it seems ? Don't make your mind up too soon . Scriptwriter Jules Furthman - - the favorite screenwriter , in coming days , of Josef von Sternberg and Howard Hawks - - and director Henry King - - two years before his classic TOL'ABLE David - - concocted an entertaining journeyman work for the William Russell unit of Flying A - - one of companies releasing through Mutual in this period . By the standards of the period , this was a superior programmer , perhaps a touch overlong , but still well worth your time if you get a chance to see it .
Dystopian Comedy	Amusing little fantasy about a man who buys an artificial arm and discovers it picks everyone's pocket . Blackton was a leading exponent of trick shots in early American films - - like Melies , he had been a stage magician , and the stop-motion effects are slickly done .
Silent Western	Prime early William S . Hart western . Although it lacks the elaborate and fantastic structure of Hart's HELL'S HINGES . the prints of this survive better . The story is nothing surprising to someone familiar with western films , but it is told with a simplicity and honesty that lift it far above ordinary Saturday Oater fare .
and Duke the Dog	Some fine acting , by adults and children alike enliven this screen version of Booth Tarkington's novel in his Penrod series about ordinary kids living ordinary lives . The humor is nicely done and low-key , in the style of Roach's OUR GANG series and features some excellent comedy performances by such adult actors as Johnny Arthur and the great Zasu Pitts and , interestingly , the director's daughter as Penrod's older sister , Marjorie - - the serial numbers were rubbed off a couple of decades later for a couple of Doris Day movies , BY THE LIGHT OF THE SILVERY MOON and ON MOONLIGHT BAY . The time of the story is advanced from the 19th century milieu of the stories to a contemporary setting . It might be interesting to see a version of the stories set in the era they were intended to represent , but the people involve have a certain timelessness about them . Of more interest is the director , William Beaudine , whose career would go from directing Mary Pickford in the 1920s , to slide in the 1930s , until he wound up directing Bowery Boys features and ended his career in the 1960s directing such films as JESSE JAMES VERSUS DRACULA'S DAUGHTER . Like Alan Dwan , he was one of the leading silent film directors who kept their heads down in the sound era and worked forever . Here , equipped with a decent budget , script and actors , he turns out a fine little movie . It is on the tame side for modern tastes , but it has its charms . Give it a try .
Film Noir	I'm always glad to see a new Woody Allen film and this is no exception . Here he returns to the dark , chaotic world he investigated in CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS - - his best straight drama , I believe - - and which he explored comically in BULLETS OVER Broadway - - his best comedy and you may disagree with both choices : a world without a god to impose a moral order which , tragically , destroys the men and women who inhabit it . A world of Film Noir that takes place across the river from London's Parliament where man's laws are made where he gives us a variation of AN American TRAGEDY . Yes , it can happen there . There is a lot less Bergman influence in this movie . Instead the influences are visual touches : Hitchcock , Truffaut and others jostle each other in this script , the effective story of how a former tennis player cold-bloodedly marries into a wealthy English family - - " They've got nothing but money " he says trenchantly at one point - - and winds up murdering his pregnant mistress , the former fiancée of his brother-in-law . The script is brilliantly done and , even as he struggles to hide his crime , he wants himself caught . That desire to pay for his crime is the only thing that endears him to the audience , but it was enough to put the New York audience - - including me - - who sat through the showing on the first day of the new year in a similar mood . Would he be caught , which would give the universe some moral shape , or would he succeed in his quest for freedom and wealth ? The script is topnotch , the cast performs admirably and the background of operatic music adds to the melodramatic tensions . If the movie has any weakness , it is purely a comparative one : Woody Allen's New York films capture New York with subtlety . Wandering the streets of Manhattan , he can finds spots of beauty that would escape the casual eye : a scrap of paper blowing in the wind on 9th Street , the warehouse where the floats for the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade are stored , the cramped interior of a basement store in Chinatown . His views of London are more conventional in this movie : a river view of Parliament , the brick galleries of a London tennis club , the wood-and-leather library of a stately country home . Perhaps , in time , Mr . Allen's perspective may bring us images of London that the natives have overlooked , but I doubt it . While this movie and his next , scheduled movie , also shot in London are worthwhile experiments , Woody Allen based in London is as unthinkable as Woody Allen in Hollywood . Come home , please , Woody . We need each other .
Very Pleasant Little Comedy-Drama	Jake Cohen has spent thirty-five years , starting as a peddler , building up a big department store . He suddenly realizes his sons can run the business perfectly efficiently without him , his youngest son is in love with an Anglo-Irish girl ( Oy ! ) and his beloved wife dies . Feeling useless , he takes a long walk through the English countryside of his youth . It had been less than a decade since ABIE'S IRISH ROSE was the biggest hit ever on Broadway , and battling Irish and Jewish in-laws remained a staple of comedy for many years ( Anyone remember BRIDGET LOVES BERNIE ? ) , but this is a much gentler movie , with many beautiful and heartfelt family scenes . You may not find these characters believable . Believe me , they did exist once upon a time and this movie by the usually underrated William Beaudine - - better known for directing most of the Bowery Boys movies , but still working , at this stage , for a major studio and doing a fine job - - is well worth your time .
Another Good One From Tashlin	After Tashlin accepted Columbia's offer to head their cartoon department , he brought his Termite Terrace Sensibilities to the place and turned out a mixed bag of cartoons - - some brilliant like THE FOX AND THE GRAPES and some merely very good , like this one about a big bulldog who steals a cocker spaniel's dog license in order to avoid the dog catcher's wrath . When he went on to become a live action director , Tashlin directed some of the most cartoon-like movies you ever saw - - particularly when working with Jerry Lewis . Contrariwise , when directing cartoons , Tashlin always included some extreme perspective shots - - look for the one where the conscience is fighting with the little devil .
The Edge of the World	Star Pickford and director Tourneur - - along with his two favorite cameramen and assistant Clarence Brown doing the editing - - bring great beauty and intelligence to this story of poor , isolated Scottish Islanders - - the same territory that Michael Powell would stake twenty years later for his first great success . Visions of wind and wave , sunbacked silhouettes of lovers do not merely complement the story , they are the story of struggle against hardship . The actors bring the dignity of proud people to their roles and Pickford is brilliant as her character struggles with her duties as head of the clan , wavering between comedy and thoughtfulness , here with her father's bullwhip lashing wayward islanders to church , there seated with her guest's walking stick in her hand like a scepter , discussing her lover , played by Matt Moore . See if you can pick out future star Leatrice Joy in the ensemble . I tried , but failed .
Putting It Together	Alice Guy - - she is usually called Alice Guy-Blaché , even though her career pre - and post-dated her marriage to Herbert Blaché - - was , arguably , the first movie director , even if no one thought to call it that for a dozen years after she first took the job . She came to the US about 1910 to open an American branch , stayed to direct for her own company and prospered for a few years until her career petered out . This wasn't because she was a woman , but simply that technique continued to advance so rapidly that no one could stand the pace for more than about twenty years , until the Studio system made the job more manageable . Along the way she directed this comedy , arguably the first with an all-Black ( or Afro-American or whatever phrase you wish to use ) cast . It is a well-performed comedy for the era . As all of Alice Guy's movies are , it is subtly played , although being a comedy , there are a few ridiculous touches - - the men wear boutonnières the size of sunflowers . It concerns the profligate ways of Sam Jones , played by James Russell , who finds a billfold with a lot of money , and runs through it in short order . A nicely done effort for the era . If all you have seen from this period is D . W . Griffith , give this a try and see if it is interesting .
Why Do They All Take The Night Boat To Albany ?	Sharp little programmer that answers the question posed by Al Jolson . Everyone in this cast turns in a top-notch comedic performance , even Warren Hymer as the dim-witted life guard and Berton Churchill as Zasu Pitts ' boss . The jokes are punctuated by enough well-acted moments of tenderness to make the whole thing believable
Form shape and movement	One of the astonishing things about the works of the Lumiere brothers is not simply that they are among the first motion pictures , but that they are well-composed motion pictures . Consider this picture of people on a moving sidewalk at the World's Fair of 1900 in Paris . Were some contemporary of the Lumieres to attempt this for the first time - - say , Edison's incompetent producer , James White , who did tackle the subject elsewhere - - this would be shot from straight on and on the level or slightly above , or perhaps from behind , so that we could see the backs of these peoples ' hats - - a subject which seemed to fascinate Mr . White endlessly . Instead , Louis Lumiere placed his camera so that motion proceeded on the diagonal , from the upper left to the lower right , and slightly below eye level . Behold ! Not only do you see the movement in this moving picture , you see the faces of the people in it and its setting in a fairly interesting triangular composition : people , buildings , movement . Even today many film makers seem to lack this elementary understanding of making good films .
Maddening von Sternberg	Typical Wallace Beery feature rendered weird and beautiful by von Sternberg direction . Although only Beery gives a good performance - - slower and much more introspective than his usual Long John Silver of this era - - the von Sternberg visual touches - - the odd camera angle that brings out the lines on Beery's face , or the macrame drapes that cast shadows on the juveniles - - make this a deeply disturbing movie , like Tarrantino directing an episode of Sesame Street .
The World is About To End . Should I Mow the Lawn ?	This short subject , which starts off with a picture of a mushroom cloud arising from a nuclear explosion , is produced by " The National Clean Up - Paint Up - Fix Up Bureau " - - with of course , the cooperation of the Federal Civil Defense Administration . In an era when they exposed soldiers to atom bombs to study effects - - indeed , a couple of years before Howard Hughes imported sand from atomic testing sites for studio retakes of THE CONQUEROR , eventually resulting in the death by cancer of Dick Powell and the removal of one of co-star John Wayne's lungs - - this seemed sensible . In retrospect it looks like a parody of itself - - will a semi-gloss or a latex best resist the end of the world and should I use a white undercoating ? Or would wallpaper do a better job ? Maybe one of the Morris prints which uses lots of green arsenic for the nursery . In the meantime , you'd better throw out those old newspapers because when they drop the Bomb next door , they will burst into flames and lower real estate values . But , in many ways , B movies and industrial films provide us with the best view of contemporary thought from an era . For a major picture , you have many bright people laboring intensively to make every choice . For something like this , it's a matter of getting it today , not right , and so the casual easy choice that reveals the habits of the era is the one taken . So while you're busy laughing your head off at the stupidity of people more than half a century ago - - and trying hard not to think of what people will think about us in another half century - - consider this from a sociological viewpoint , if you would .
Not Chaplin	Despite the remarks of the other commenter on this movie , I see no resemblance to the Chaplin film of the same name except for the title . This is not a comedy about how Ko-ko hides his pay envelope from his wife , but how Ko-ko wants to get paid like everyone else at the office . " Only people who work get paid " says Max and draws Koko a scene where he can make little ones out of the big ones . . . . . but burglars appear , both in the cartoon and live action world . Is it my imagination or do I see a lot of tension between the Fleischer brother in this movie ? Max was the creator and co-star . . . . but Dave was the model for Ko-ko and the director . When the studio collapsed , two dozen years later , it was because the two of them were no longer on speaking terms . Were they already fighting when this was made ?
Religious FIlms	Having invented the trick film and the stag film ( with the same year's APRES LE BAL ) , Melies also pioneered the religious film , with this account of the temptation of St . Anthony , using the same sort of camera tricks he was using for his magic works . But I wonder : what was the placement order of his catalogue ? Did this come immediately after APRES LE BAL ? This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
The world is ending . How can we profit from it ?	This Danish feature about a comet that destroys northwest Europe , leaving only a single man and a woman who meet in a church , is beautifully photographed , with many lovely shots and a fluid camera . Of course , the capitalists try to make extra money out of the panic , and of course the lower classes - - as exemplified by the common folks in a mining town - - break into the home of the wealthy capitalist the evening the comet hits in order to gain vengeance , interrupting a ballet in the process . All this is standard stuff for the better sf of the era : Wells , Verne and so forth . I have some issues with the way it is cut . Since the actors don't really play people , but types , they do not give terribly interesting performances . Also , the direction is , even for the era , slow : people are shown holding conversations that we never hear . To understand the success of this movie , the modern viewer must recall that the First World War had been raging to the south of Denmark for twenty months when it was released . This is not a work of fiction so much as a parable , to eschew worldly things , and to seek God , for all worldly things will be destroyed . Including people .
One Year Before The Creation of the World	Robert Montgomery is great in this comedy of manners . It should have been a screwball comedy , and if it had been released eighteen months later , it would have been , but there was no such genre at that time ; even a year later , IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT was considered a screwball comedy instead of a romantic one . But at this time , Screwball was BOUDU SAVED FROM DROWNING , and the Production Code hadn't closed down the sex comedy , which is what made the American screwball comedy . So this movie about how ace press agent Robert Montgomery saves Sally Eilers from committing suicide by jumping off the Staten Island Ferry , makes her the toast of the town and then orchestrates her defense after she shoots someone just misses . Montgomery is perfect , exuding an air of genial , self-aware corruption , but everyone else seems to be taking matters far too seriously , even the old ladies he hires to pose as Eiler's sniveling aunts in the courtroom . MGM's Harry Beaumont , their resident expert on making bricks without straw and stars without talent somehow fails . . . Eilers lacks the subtlety and range for her role , which weights down this work . Madge Evans is present and steady , but the entire movie lacks the sense of madness that infuses screwball . Ah well . Good try .
Syd , Not Charlie	This film , while it has its moments of excellent comedy , . is mostly interesting because it stars Chaplin : Sydney Chaplin , that is , Charlie's half-brother . Although his outfit is very different from Charlie's tramp costume , I fancy I can see a lot of resemblance in their movement and timing : hardly surprising , as they were both with the Fred Karno troupe in England , as was Stan Laurel .
Forgotten Comics	This is a lesser but still very amusing short from Charley Chase's peak period : an ex-girlfriend of Charley's moves into his building with a new husband , and neither Charley's wife nor the new husband are happy with the situation . Modern viewers might be confused by some of the 1920s dialogue ( " I haven't seen you since Heck was a wienie " may need to be explained ( see below ) and there's a tremendous amount of sexual symbolism involving feet , socks and garters that don't add much to the usual visceral humor , even if they work together well for ex-lit majors like me . As for the confusing bit of dialogue quoted above , there is a phrase " A dog's age " for a long time . This gave rise to " since Hector was a pup " and since frankfurters are sometimes called " hot dogs " and sometimes " wienies " ( from Vienna sausages ) and thus this particular bit of snappy dialogue . As already said , amusing if not Chase's best . Don't start your friends on this one , but if they like his silent comedies , give it a well deserved shot .
Beautiful compositions	Although there have been several comments on this and the other films on the CIVIL WAR FILMS OF THE SILENT ERA DVD - - which also includes two other Thomas Ince films , the celebrated THE COWARD and the lesser-known THE DRUMMER OF THE EIGHTH , I would like to bring up a point about the beauty of Ince's films . First , his sense of composition is definitely superior to Griffith's at the time these films were made : instead of focusing your eye by changing the shape of the frame , a technique that was going strong at this stage of motion pictures , he uses the lines of composition in a painterly fashion to let the viewer see his subjects in a more naturalistic fashion . In addition , the costumes are carefully chosen and the sets carefully decorated for the purposes of the film maker . Lilian Gish , in her book THE MOVIES , MR . GRIFFITH AND ME writes of how she would choose her costumes for D . W . Griffith's pictures . In Ince's films , in contrast , the costumes are chosen for the purposes of composition : characters who are to stand out against dark backgrounds wear light colors . for instance . There are many striking images in this film : Granddad standing in lonely pride on a hill ; the veterans , Rembrandt-like , sitting in the bar ; the clean lines of the gun emplacement in the battle scene , destroyed by gunsmoke and fighting soldiers ; the lines of visitors to the graveyard , moving slowing among the white stones and waving flags . They are not the famous images used by Griffith , chosen , as we are told , from the magazines and newspapers of the era . Surely their beauty and power are aided by the excellence of this print , but they are beautiful and moving . Accustomed as we are to seeing worn-out prints of silent films many generations from the camera negative , this film is startling and fluid as it gives the lie to our preconceptions . I can only hope that the forthcoming D . W . Griffith : Years Of Discovery 1909-1913 DVD will have prints of similar quality . On that , you will have to check comments on the titles on that DVD . I look forward to writing several .
It's the Smart Writing , Stupid	What Mike Maltese , long Termite Terrace's best writer , was doing working for Walter Lantz for one movie , I have no idea - - he may have been feuding with hated producer Selzer , because he spent two or three years bouncing hither and yon until he settled in with Hanna-Barbera - - but this mild satire of rock-and-roll music is peppered with impeccably timed gags , a hallmark of Maltese's scripts in the past . Which argues that that was all that Woody Woodpecker was lacking in this period , because after this it was largely back to the usual sluggish stuff , largely fit for kids . But a good director would probably have helped too . It also helps when the art looks good , and while the animation had been too simple for several years , there is some nice background art on this one .
With Ghosts	Walter Catlett is suffering from a potentially fatal case of hiccoughs - - caused by an annoying young man who wishes to marry his daughter - - and his doctors prescribe for him rest in a place as quiet as a tomb : a haunted house . Although this movie is not particularly outstanding , this one-reel short subject still manages to be worth more the usual allotment of smiles , in part because of Roscoe Arbuckle's breezy directing that keeps things moving along , a good collection of haunted-house gags and , of course , Walter Catlett . Often forgotten today , Catlett came off a long Broadway career into the movies , where he prospered in all sorts of comedies . His best remembered role may be as the constable of Howard Hawks ' BRINGING UP BABY , whither he was brought to also teach Katherine Hepburn how to perform comedy .
Un Soldat S'Arrose	As Melies ramped up production to compete with Gaumont and Pathe , he added to his bread and butter - - which were the amazing trick and magic films he is still remembered for - - into the occasional slapstick . Here , he produces a superior effort , that still stands up today , thanks to his sense of story , timing and his set design . In an era when one joke , repeated until the camera ran out of film was standard , this one has several . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Little Mary Is a Frump	This D . W . Griffith feature - - for 1910 , this 13-minute movie ranks as a feature - - manages to combine most of what Griffith had learned of film-making by the point , except for his handling of crowd scenes . Mary Pickford and company are excellent in this melodrama with comic overtones , from the ironic title - - there is nothing blithe about Mary's life as she suffers a life of hard work on a farm - - to the occasional gawkiness she displays when she is seduced by a hard-living traveling salesman . Finally , when she recognizes the situation she finds unsatisfactory solace in religion . The performances are a little slow to the modern eye , but fulsome . The camera work is wonderful , as you might expect from Billy Bitzer in this period . While this is not a key work , it is well worth the time of anyone interested in silent movies .
Boxing Romance	Blithe-hearted Billy Smith must save the day by staying four rounds with tank boxer Slugger Sampson , even with crooked , sap-wielding promoter Jimmy Durfee trying to lay him out , in order to get the money to pay for the Widow Lucian's eye operation , and so win the heart of her daughter , Tena . Got it ? No , this movie is not as melodramatic as it sounds . It starts slowly and conventionally , padded out with some comedy gags that don't work too well , but once the actual boxing starts , it picks up dramatically , with some good camera-work and excitement . Not a classic by any means , but worth a look .
The Red-Headed Chicken	Jack Hannah , still relaxing and on the run from Disney - - he was one of the union sympathizers exiled to the Disney shorts department following the strike , where he directed the best of the Goofy shorts in the ' 40s and 50s - - turns out a Woody Woodpecker that , despite its minimalistic line work and animation , still manages to replicate the manic air of the best of Seamus Culhane's Woodies from the 1940s . Strong use of background color and some good wash work in the outdoor , rainy scenes do much towards compensating for the reduction in quality , and both Homer Brightman's usual good scripting and Daws Butler's deliberately bad Peter Lorre imitation add to the fun .
Erratic but Well Meaning	This early Stanley Kramer production is well-cast , with fine performances by Millard Mitchell , a typical bit of interesting overplaying by Gilbert Roland and some good work by the rest of the supporting cast , including Byron Foulger and Henry Morgan . But although the early scenes are nicely done in an appropriate semi-documentary style - - director Fregonese started out doing public-service shorts about firefighters and the police - - the majority of the movie is taken up with moments of melodrama . I also have the uneasy feeling of no real connection - - that the ' six convicts ' of the title are meant to be types , rather than individuals . Cameraman Guy Roe , who started out with well-regarded B noirs like ARMORED CAR ROBBERY and later went into TV work , does some handsome work with good choices of angles . Look for the sequence in which the convicts get upset about the pitcher being withheld from the game .
Sacrifice	This is a pretty good PRC cheapie about how Marjorie Reynolds is about to marry her boss , a lawyer about to become an Assistant District Attorney , when her old boyfriend shows up after four years in prison , ready to collect her and the loot from the job he went to prison for , a job done with Marjorie's brother . It's a spiffy screenplay and the actors are all good , but the piece is directed without much in the way of flair . The dp , little-known Arthur Martinell , had his best-known work in the 1920s , particularly the comedy ELLA CINDERS . But while he does his best with a set of classical compositions and camera moves and some moderately interesting use of the cheap PRC style of lighting , old-time director Willam Nigh never does much to make this more than adequate .
Nice Work if You Can Get It	Although his early sound shorts are not among his best work , this Charley Chase short from 1930 is carried along not only by Charley being goofily in love , but by his co-star , June Marlowe , now best remembered from her work as June Crabtree , the teacher in the best of the early sound OUR GANG shorts . Here , in her natural brunette hair instead of the blonde wig from the other series , she is equally charming , playing herself . They are ably assisted in the meet cute plot by longtime Sennett hand Dell Henderson as an escaped lunatic that Charley mistake for June's father - - she insists that she will not see Charley without her father's permission . Charley's comic takes as he tries to please her purported father as Henderson acts madder and madder is a typical piece of Chase zaniness .
Starts Fast	Johnny Hines , a popular light leading man of the early 20s , starts as Burn ' Em Up Barnes - - even his parents call him Burn ' Em Up ' , so I suppose odd baptismal names were popular back then - - in this racing car comedy , a popular genre of the era ( Wallace Reid starred in a series of them for Paramount ) . The script is fast and furious until the plot kicks in , with funny titles and sight gags galore .
Horsing Around	This lively Keystone farce from 1913 is cast in the standard mode : it's a triangle caused by the fact that Mabel and Roscoe love each other , but her father likes another boy . A rather sissified young man . So Roscoe and Mabel pretend that Mabel has drowned and while everyone tries to rescue Mabel , the pair sneaks off and gets married . I trust I haven't revealed any plot twists , ruining all possible enjoyment of this movie . It is rather enjoyable because when the Keystone Kops race to the rescue , they ride horses . Or try to . They've got some amusing trick horses and this makes the movie . This is also supposed to be the first Keystone in which someone threw a pie . Roscoe throws it . All in all , a very enjoyable effort .
And alias and alias	Harry Beaumont , MGM's ace B director leads Wallace Beery in a broader than usual comedy performance as the ex-con comes into a lot of money legitimately and tries to go straight . The comedy arrives as Beery coyly tries to impress Dorothy Patrick , who is impersonating his lost daughter and she tries to find his source of money for Leon Ames . Lots of good talent is on display , including Tom Drake , Sheldon Leonard , Gladys George and John Qualen This was Beaumont's last feature for MGM and he is good at directing his actors in off-center performances . I'm not sure why Beaumont gave up directing , but it might have simply been a matter of economy , as movie grosses began their long decline and older , more expensive talents such as Beaumont were replaced under the new influence of Dore Schary . There was no longer any perceived need for talent like Beaumont . How very sad .
Tricks Are For Everyone	As any fan of Pixar's animated films know , when they send a new feature out , they include a short cartoon with it . PRESTO is the film that precedes WALL-E and it is a silent picture . A good part of the publicity surrounding WALL-E is that it is largely a silent film . But PRESTO is wholly one , concerning a stage magician , his carrot-hungry rabbit and a piece of real magic : a top-hot that is connected to a dunce cap . The magician can put his hand into the top hat and draw out things from the dunce cap . And , as is traditional , he intends to pull out the rabbit , but the rabbit , who resembles the rabbit in the TRIX cereal commercials , is upset that he is not getting any carrot , and sabotages the act in various amusing ways using the logic of the set-up . A very amusing cartoon , and Pixar is to be commended for continuing to develop animation talent in its short subjects .
Her Grandmother's Eyes	Director Alan Crosland and star John Barrymore attempt to recapture the the success of their previous effort , THE BELOVED ROGUE , with this story of debauchery and all-conquering love in the ancien regime , from the novel MANON LESCAUT . It was a popular story , made into a couple of ballets and an opera by Puccini . But despite the sumptuous sets and stuntwork , it lacks the essential verve and generosity of Barrymore's performance - - but the movie is not about him . The star of the picture is Dolores Costello , who would marry Barrymore a year later . THe modern moviegoer should be able to recognize her easily enough . Their grand daughter , Drew Barrymore , has her eyes . At first it seemed to me that Barrymore was too old for the role - - a young man studying for the priesthood in his forties ? But the very real chemistry of the two stars more than makes up for that .
A Pete Smith Specialty	Without Pete Smith's sarcastic , nasal narration , this would be an OK short subject about Charles C . Peterson , demonstrating some lovely tricks on a billiards table . . . . . including some useful instruction for beginners on how to put some English and backspin on the ball . But with Pete Smith's narration , as well as the insertion of a bit of a plot in which a guy named ' Homer ' is trying to show up the master and keeps fouling up , it gets better . Pete Smith , originally a publicist for MGM wound up producing and narrating these Pete Smith Specialties for twenty years and they are among the best of MGM's shorts subjects . They turn up on MGM between features and as extras on dvds of MGM classics . Watch for them .
Tod Browning Burlesque	This amusing scattergun burlesque of Tod Browning's crime dramas , such as WHITE TIGER comes off well enough but may be a bit obscure to people who have not seen such works . Charley takes the place of Raymond Griffith in top hat and tails ; Katherine Grant takes the Priscilla Dean role and Bull Montana even manages to look a bit like Lon Chaney in this kid-glove crime drama without the brooding . The result is amusing , but Charley Chase , who is probably the funniest silent comic you've never heard of lacks the delicate touch of Griffith's performance and the other two leads also can't compare to their equivalents . Director McCarey is interested in gags , not atmosphere . Still , the gags are highly amusing , especially the ones involving the top hat and a balloon . You could do a lot worse .
The Queen of Comedy rules	Petite , graceful Mabel Normand stars as gawky , clumsy Maymee Ladd , a beaten down shopgirl who is told that she is possessed by the spirit of a Spanish temptress ( " That will be five dollars , please " ) and goes in search of love and adventure . A star vehicle , pure and simple , it showcases Mabel's talents quite beautifully and has a number of good laughs based on her character's awkwardness .
A Mack Sennett Comedy	When we think of D . W . Griffith , we think of his epic features ; or perhaps we think of the short melodramas . We don't think about the comedies he directed , and this is puzzling to me . Even his unhappiest dramas had their touches of humor . In the four hundred or so films that Griffith directed for Biograph , he turned out a fair number of comedies , often using Mack Sennett . Here , Mack Sennett plays the title role , of a too-loyal friend who hangs around when he's not wanted . Of course it all ends with a chase . Griffith didn't quite invent the movie chase , the rush to rescue whoever it is that needs rescuing , but he certainly perfected it . Here we have a lovely variation , as Adonese keeps trying to run away , but Sennett keeps turning up . Very amusing .
Looking Like Yourself	This typical farce plot - - easygoing George gets his hair marcelled and looks exactly like a South American opera singer , also played by George - - does not sound like Mr . Formby's usual métier , but he shows himself capable of carrying out the minor exigencies of the role , while singing a few nice songs , a typical " The Barmaid at the Rose & Crown " and a less typical swing song . Under the direction of farce director Marcel Varnel , George does a lot more shtick than in his usual vehicles , but it is well within his abilities . His leading lady is Linden Travers , best remembered for his supporting role in THE LADY VANISHES . She performs nicely , but except for George and Felix Aylmer in a small supporting role , it's an unremarkable series of performances . This is not to be sneered at : it is a star vehicle for George , and his usual charm is on full display .
Loyalty	This is one of Keaton's better Columbia shorts . Buster and his brother , played by Monty Collins , enlist to fight in the Civil War . But Buster has enlisted in the Confederate Army and Monty has joined the Union Army . However , before they can start their own civil war , in march Union and Confederate troops , and the two spend most of the movie rescuing each other . They know where their loyalties lie . I am tempted to think that a lot of the material arises from the fact that the writer of this short , Clyde Bruckman , was one of Keaton's gagmen , and was credited as co-director of THE GENERAl , and Monty Collins is the son of the man ( also named Monty Collins ) who played Buster's father in a couple of his movies in the 1920s . However , any discussion of subtext is rendered ridiculous by the fact that the producer and director of this movie is Jules White , to whom a poke in the eye was subtle . So we must take pleasure , instead , in the fact that this is a sharply written movie , tailored for Buster , and that he executes his falls , as always , wonderfully . For those of you who are interested in the subtleties of the pratfall , there is one scene in which Buster and Monty jump out of a window . Buster does a forward roll and landS flat on his back , while Collins lands on his feet . No one working at the time could take a fall like Buster and it's a pleasure to see him do it . . . . and to watch Collins not even try to compete . Continuity issues make this considerably less than a perfect Keaton short , but recall what James Agee said of A NIGHT IN CASABLANCA : second rate Marx Brothers is better than anything else . Well , second rate Keaton is better than anything else also , and this is by no means second rate .
Amusing Novelty	I've enjoyed some pretty strange musical novelty acts over the years , from the South Minneapolis Bassoon Quartet to Peter Schickele's annual presentation of P . D . Q . Bach , but this short about an all-harmonica orchestra , is a pip ! Dozens of harmonicas from tiny ones that a baby could swallow through triplex monsters a foot in length provide a lot of variation and a surprisingly full sound . Visually , director Negulesco shows his usual flair , filling the numbers with blackout productions and a snappy dance to " Begin the Beguine " - - no Artie Shaw , but quite good . and a lot of his signature silhouette shots . Also , notice the way he takes care to shoot the harmonicas to emphasize hand movements .
South of the Border	Snub stars in a better-than-usual effort - - which I credit largely to some funny titles and the direction of Charley Chase - - as a spy sent out to rescue Marie Mosquini - - looking even more fetching than usual in a mantilla - - in a South American country where earthquakes happen every few minutes : the cameraman jiggles the camera , and all the actors and bricks on screen fall down . The gags are mostly based on these two premises and they form a fairly unified plot for a Snub Pollard movies - - plus Snub gets to show some facial reactions instead of the usual deadpan way he was usually directed by lesser directions , through the 1930s , when he played this same blank-faced character as comic relief ina few western , believe it or not .
Michael Maltese	In hiding from Edward Selzer at Warners , I suppose , Michael Maltese wrote about three and a half cartoons for Walter Lantz , doing a better job than most of the scripts that Lantz worked with in this period . Here , he takes the one about Bugs - - or , in some iterations , Tweety - - freezing out in the cold and Granny lets him inside , where he tangles with the current pet . None of the gags are going to startle any one familiar with Loony Tunes , but there is no doubt that this is a superior little comedy . when people talk about the great cartoons of this period they speak of the directors . Certainly there is no doubt that the directors were tremendously important . But everyone in the production of a movie is important , and the writers are crucial . It's too bad that it so often seems that people are unaware of this .
A Rainy Day	Oswald is out on the street in a good mood , but a rainstorm drives him into a Five & Dime store , where he finds songs , jokes and a bride . This is a fine Oswald the Lucky Rabbit . Except for the musical number " I Found a Million Dollar Baby in a Five and ten Cent Store " , it is a silent cartoon , performed with good gags and timing - - almost plot less , but sustained by the gags . This was a genre of cartoon from this period , as movie studios tried ' brand extension ' by producing cartoons based on their song catalogues . Schlesinger's Merrie Melodies were contractually obligated to do this ; the Fleischers produced their classic DID YOU EVER SEE A DREAM WALKING based on the big number from SITTING PRETTY .
Radical Propaganda	Radical propaganda film by Hochbaum shows alternating shots of the rich and poor , along with titles talking about loss of jobs and profits . A short meant to preach to the choir , the point has been made much more effectively - - say , the opening sequence of MY MAN GODFREY .
Jeam Hersholt , the Danish Doctor	Jean Hersholt tackles the role of a country doctor , a role that would eventually metamorphose into Dr . Christian , a series that would occupy him for the rest of his life in a B movie series , on radio , and even in one episode of a television series , cut short by his untimely death . Here , directed by Henry King - - a brilliant jack-of-all-trades , but whose métier was the rural comedy-drama , starting with TOL'ABLE David - - and supported by a great cast including John Qualen , Montague Love , Jane Darwell and Slim Summerville , Hersholt is not precisely the star - - there are the usual youngsters involved with falling in love - - because this was intended as a publicity-driven programmer and the Dionne Quintuplets are actually top-billed . But everyone runs things through expertly and Jean Herholt was born to play this role .
Comics as real actors	Carl Schenstrøm and Harald Madsen were the leading pair of ' Fat and Skinny ' comedians in the movie world until Laurel and Hardy came along . While their characters never shed their movie-comic trappings - - ill fitting costumes , weird mustaches and bad hats - - they remained enormously popular and continued making films until 1940 - - two years after their first and best director , Lau Lauritzen Sr . died and two years before Schenstrom , the skinny one died . Kinowelt , which has had success with its Laurel & Hardy DVD set has produced a seven-DVD set of the comedies , under the name " Pat und Patachon " , the names they were known under in Germany . I have issues . The versions are cut down ( this one is 48 minutes instead of the original run time of 179 minutes ) and a voice over tells you what is going on - - in German , which , alas , I do not speak ) . These are apparently TV versions made in the late 1960s or early 1970s and it is difficult to judge what is missing - - although a lot of the continuity is definitely lost . It is particularly lost here , when about 70 % % of the movie is cut out . Nonetheless , this is a pretty good silent version of Cervantes ' novel . Carl Schenstrøm is well cast as Don Quixote and Harald Madsen makes a fine Sancho Panza . Their makeup is different . Schenstrøm has an old man's hawk nose and Madsen actually has hair and a substantial beard . The special effects , which show you what Don Quixote sees , are particularly good . When the windmills turn into twisted giants , they look terrifying . One interesting point is that the point of view shifts towards the end , from Don Quixote to Sancho Panza . It produces a greater sense of sympathy in the viewer . Of course , it is well nigh impossible to state how the original movie played . Cutting out more than two thirds of a story reduces it to a few highlights . Nonetheless , the two actors acquit themselves well . As someone once noted , if you can play comedy , you can simply slow it down for a fine dramatic turn . This movie is a good example of that .
Adios , Kid	Charles Starrett ends his acting career , having spent seven years as ' the Durango Kid ' , one of the regulars on the Top Ten Western Stars list , with this fairly interestingly set up courtroom drama . Here he is on trial for murder and the events are shown in flashback . . . . an interesting story-telling technique , weakened , however , by the fact that we know Starrett is a good guy and didn't do it . Costs on this one were kept down by using a single courtroom set for half the one-hour film and using footage from an earlier picture for the rest , which is why Jock Mahoney appears in two roles . Columbia , the studio that produced Starrett's movies , was getting out of bread-and-butter westerns . . . . it had dropped most of its B movie series like BLONDIE and THE LONE WOLF and relegated its B production to the cheap Sam Katzman unit . Within a couple of years B movie production would be the province of independents like AIP and the movie western would disappear under the onslaught of TV series . Writer Ed Earl Repp would move to TV , cinematographer Fayte M . Browne would be DP on one more movie and director Fred Sears would move to cheap sci-fi flicks . . . and the long history of genre westerns would end . Too bad .
Superior B Picture	Veteran director Reginald Barker - - whose career included several superior William S . Hart Westerns and Thomas Ince's landmark CIVILIZATION - - directed this near the end of his career and he tells the story with a fluid camera and many visual grace notes . Unhappily , the dialogue is not up to the camerawork , but this first sound version of Wilkie Collins ' classic mystery is well produced and well worth your time .
Generosity : a Director's Virtue	This Keystone ensemble comedy from 1915 owes most of its real comedic value to a fairly realistic - - well , realistic for Keystone - - handling of the situation - - except for the 60-shooters that the House Detective wields . At Keystone bullets never do more than produce a trail of smoke and cause people to jump and clutch their pants ; nor are they exhausted until the target is at point-blank range with his arms raised . Other comments have given a fairly good idea of the plot and story . Despite Arbuckle's star status - - at this point only Chaplin , Normand and Sterling ranked as high in public esteem as he - - he is , as a director , generous . It is amazing to see Edgar Kennedy with a full head of hair , yet clearly Edgar Kennedy in his mannerisms . Only the patented slow burn is missing , but at Keystone , the word ' slow ' is not part of the English language . Very amusing .
Unpretentious , silly and fun	All right . It's not ON THE WATERFRONT . It is , however , several minutes of fast-paced , good-natured humor . The first half is a series of jokes that Arbuckle would elaborate on in ROUGH HOUSE three years down the road . The second half is a warmup for TEDDY AT THE THROTTLE , complete with Keystone Kops and the famous Keystone cyclorama . Roscoe tosses off a joke and gets on to the next one - - none of the elaboration of Chaplin or the grandeur of Keaton , but funnier , perhaps , for not having a fuss made . Look for yourself and see .
In the Oz-one Layer	Another in the under-remarked and fairly good " Willy Whopper " that Ub Iwerks turned out between Disney stints . Willy goes to the dentist and , while under gas , dreams he has been lifted like a toy balloon into a rather Oz-like outer space . Lots of images reappear in Bob Clampett's and Chuck Jones ' more fantastic cartoons .
Well , They Hired The Money	A slow-paced and terrifying film from D . W . Griffith , this film , like A CORNER IN WHEAT and ONE IS BUSINESS , THE OTHER CRIME , concerns itself with the depredations of the rich upon the poor . Griffith offers no solution but tells his story with scenes and titles that , in the hands of a lesser director , could be over the top . Indeed , they seem absurdly melodramatic at the beginning of the movie , until you see the policies of the greedy money-lender carried out . Although Griffith directed more than five hundred pictures , almost all of which survive , he has a vast corpus of works that are rarely seen , because so many people concentrate on his best features and perhaps a dozen of his best-known shorts . Kino is to be applauded for including a sizable number of his lesser-known , but equally powerful shorts in their most recent compilation , and for hiring John Mirsalis to do scores .
The Country and the Story	Andre Antoine filmed his silent version of Daudet's work with the sense of awe at the beauty of the city of Arles and the countryside surrounding it that you would expect if you have already seen his LA TERRE . He also slides us into the story in an ingenious manner : here is the a picture of Daudet who wrote it , and here is the mill he lived in where he wrote it , and here is Arles , and the river that runs through it and the farms near it and the person who lives on a farm , played by the actress . . . . and we are in the story . It is the telling of that story , though , I have issues with . It is a story of people and their thoughts and their words , and this is a silent movie . . . . and so takes a lot longer to do than a stage play . And so characters and subplots need to be cut , but Antoine is - - understandably - - loathe to cut them . And so we have the subplot of the shepherd and his lost love raised . . . . and dropped . We have characters who don't serve any purpose , not even the exposition of the character from the original , since their screen time is cut so severely . This is always a problem in the translation of a work of art from one medium to another . A movie is not a novel , a movie is not a play , a movie isn't a poem . Heck , a movie isn't a movie any more : they have sound and color and computerized special effects and even the caterer rates a screen credit . But the problem of translation from one medium to another remains : not only how to translate these words to images - - and Antoine does a superb job of that - - but which words to translate . Here he falls down a bit . Like any fan , he doesn't want to give up any of it , but as a responsible movie maker he knows he must - - and he leaves in just enough to tell us that what we are seeing is not a complete work of art . He belittles own work by not doing a neat job of work , so how seriously can we take it ? Well , there are some lovely images . Enjoy it for that .
All at Sea	A lesser but still funny Charley Chase short from his peak period . All not as tightly plotted as MIGHTY LIKE A MOOSE , it has its amusing moments as Charley and his family - - his wife , Katherine Grant , his useless brother-in-law , Oliver Hardy , and a child they picked up on the dock while losing their daughter take an ocean voyage in an ocean liner built of swiss cheese . That's a non-screaming Fay Wray as a housewife Charley tries to sell a squirting fountain pen to .
Are They Looking at the Camera or Us ?	Mitchell and Kenyon made a nice living for a dozen years by being called in to take moving pictures of events around Birmingham and Manchester , which were then exhibited at tent shows . This is not a pan shot , but a traveling shot - - never mind . The current nomenclature wasn't in use then . We see the palings hiding work sites : the sea's bottom , laid bare by the retreating tide . A child skips along , keeping up with the moving camera and others stop to stare - - all of them with covered heads . After looking at thirty of Mitchell & Kenyon's films , you've looked at tens of thousands of people , and barely a dozen of them are bareheaded - - a man missing a leg walks by . All of them are dead by now . Who are these people ? When they stop to look , are they looking at the camera , ? I'm not sure . I see them looking at me , friendly , puzzled , curious , and some definitely disapproving . We need to do better .
Spooks and Splats	Max and Koko get mixed up with a live action gypsy fortune teller and then caught up with ghosts and monsters in this , as usual , delightful OUT OF THE INKWELL offering . Dave Fleischer always packed his cartoons with lots of gags and I think I see a lot of Melies-style gags - - surprising , since Melies hadn't made a movie in more than a decade at this point and his reputation was at low ebb . . Nonetheless , Koko does a lot of the same sort of tricks that Melies used to do in his pieces like LES CARTES VIVANTE . This may be due to a ' standard ' set of spooky set pieces , or it may be that the Fleischers were fans of Melies . I like to think they were /
The Politeness of Kings	Promptitude , so goes the saying , is the politeness of kings and this short film by Ozon covers that subject , a comedy of manners . As a New Yorker , I am often told by people from outside the City , that New Yorkers have no manners . This , of course is a falsehood . In New York , the assumption is that that people have things to do , places to go and goals to accomplish ; that we have the chance , in this life , to regain many lost things , but not time . Thus , rudeness is the wasting of other peoples ' time . This short subject shows this is an attitude not unique to the island of Manhattan . It is the attitude of one of the men in this three-character short subject , who complains that his girlfriend has , in six months , wasted thirty-six hours of his time in making him wait , enough time for Victor Hugo to have written six important poems . I'm on his side , but he does need to chill . Perhaps he should carry a book with him while waiting , perhaps a collection of poetry . Ozon has shot this simply but classically : long takes with fluid camera movement to maintain composition . thanks to dp Yorick Le Saux , with the length of each shot gradually decreasing in each section to heighten tension . The compositions are simple but elegant and this is fairly typical of Ozon's leisurely pace of storytelling at longer lengths . Color choices are also muted , another hallmark of Ozon's style . In fact , this is a fairly good introduction to Ozon's work . If you're thinking of investigating this director , you could do far worse than try this 30-minute film before essaying works of greater length .
Long con vs . Short Con	This is a very funny little comedy . Bebe and Bud are running a spiritualist racket and take a break . Bebe sees Harold and Snub running the ' gold ring ' con : Snub shows up , looking for his valuable ring , and then after he's gone , Harold shows up , produces a ring and sells it to a mark . Bebe observes this , recognizes the short con , and then takes Harold and Snub's bankroll . Harold and Snub wind up at Bebe's place of business and start making a mess . . . . but Bebe still wins . Atypical and the available print from Grapevine Video is poor . It's also badly chopped at the end , but there are smiles aplenty before you get there .
Silent Movies	A Chaplinesque Officer Pooch is ordered to rescue a kitten caught atop a telephone pole . He is not awfully successful . This was the last non-Tom & Jerry movie that Hanna and Barbera made for 15 years and it shows the same love of silent film comedy that their other MGM cartoons do . Officer Pooch is Chaplin down to his baggy pants and pigeon-toed walk . It is ironic that these two men , who did so much to maintain visual comedy in their work later went on to do some of the most god-awful tv animation imaginable . Still , enjoy this cartoon for what it is : a fine silent comedy in a style that would continue , ever more feebly , until the end of the ' Pink Panther ' series at Depatie-Freleng in 1981 .
Aesop's Fables	Director Chuck Jones and his best writer , Michael Maltese , produce a typically sardonic , funny and undeniably accurate cartoon version of Aesop's fable of the lion and the mouse , in which the mouse - - definitely a cousin of Hubie from the Hubie and Bertie cartoons - - cons the rather stupid lion into releasing him from danger several times , each time , shouting " Sucker ! " On the good side , we also have Jones ' insistence on the consistent and believable psychology of the characters . On the downside , this one has not aged perfectly . There is a reference to wartime rationing in one of the gags , but the inventiveness of the variations on a theme will delight most cartoon fans .
Show Biz	Carl Schenstrøm and Harald Madsen were the leading pair of ' Fat and Skinny ' comedians in the movie world until Laurel and Hardy came along . While their characters never shed their movie-comic trappings - - ill fitting costumes , weird mustaches and bad hats - - they remained enormously popular and continued making films until 1940 - - two years after their first and best director , Lau Lauritzen Sr . died and two years before Schenstrom , the skinny one died . Kinowelt , which has had success with its Laurel & Hardy DVD set has produced a seven-DVD set of the comedies , under the name " Pat und Patachon " , the name they were known under in Germany . I have issues . The versions are cut down ( this one is 48 minutes instead of the original run time of 95 minutes ) and a voice over tells you what is going on - - in German , which , alas , I do not speak ) . These are apparently TV versions made in the late 1960s or early 1970s and it is difficult to judge what is missing - - although a lot of the continuity is definitely lost . In this one , they play a couple of small time performers with ambitions . Schenstrom imagines himself a dancer ; Madsen is a dab hand with any aimed weapon , including bow , gun , slingshot and spit . They have a cabaret act in which Madsen shoots an apple off Schenstrom's head . Interestingly , in character , they remind me of Abbott and Costello , although Schenstrom is not a straight man . The situations are well constructed , the gags are well performed and if the movie seems episodic with the occasional sudden twist , well , chopping out half the movie can't have helped . Still , this is a strong and interesting comedy and worth a look for any fan of silent - - or indeed , any sort of film - - comedy .
Evelyn Brent	Well , it's a movie with Louise Brooks , so we're supposed to talk about Louise Brooks . She plays a major supporting role as Evelyn Brent's sister , lifting the money from the dance fund for a flyer on the horses and , like most of her roles in this period , sleepwalks through the part , at least until she gets to the dance , where she does a few seconds of a fast Charleston and smiles . Wham ! Lord , the camera loves her . It's a masquerade party , so she's dressed like a showgirl , while all the other women wear long skirts . She always seems out of place in these roles . I spend my time looking at her and wondering why she isn't on a chorus line or some fat millionaire's arm . Ah , the joys of miscasting . Evelyn Brent is wonderful , but she is only the star of the movie and she is certainly photographed to her benefit . Still , the difference in acting styles is absolutely clear : Miss Brent knows how to show her character's emotions on the screen , while Louise Brooks comes off as no more than a party girl .
Who's First With First Films	A sketch artist dressed as a clown does a ' lightning sketch ' stage act in which he draws a woman's bust . . . . and then takes the bust and places into on a table . He then draws arms and adds them , until an entire woman is revealed . It's a Melies film , is it not ? Fans of early films have seen various Melies pieces like this . . . . . but did Melies invent this sort of novelty film , or was it created across the Channel , in Robert Paul's studio by ex-stage magician Walter Booth ? Who did what first and who stole it from whom ? Was it even theft , when there was no such thing as copyright for films for more than decade afterward ? It's hard to tell who invented what in this period , but enquiring minds want to know - - and may never find out . Never mind . It's fascinating to watch .
Glad to See You !	After he dropped out as a Chaplin imitator , Billy West floundered a lot . He continued to make very funny comedies - - this is one of them - - but he lacked much of a personality . In this one , we have a perfectly timed series of gags about what happens when the very popular Bill returns to town . Who he is and what differentiates him , except for his lack of make-up , from a white-faced clown , we don't know . There were ways around this : Harold Lloyd simply turned back to single-reelers with a weekly schedule until he could figure out who his Glasses character was . But by the time Billy West tried to become his own man , there was too much competition .
Magic Show	One of Melies ' movie versions of magic shows : in this one he turns fires into women in spangly dresses - - one yellow and one blue in the hand-tinted version I saw - - and then turns them back into a fire . Although this lacks either the elaborate background and miniature work of his well-known pieces from this period - - VOYAGE A LA LUNE for example - - or the elaborate costumery of such works as LES CARTES VIVANTES , this is still a fine little programmer by the standards of 1904 , with Melies ' usual , well-executed camera trickery . It must have been quite a wow for the audience of the period and if , more than a hundred years later , it lacks any oomph that would make you seek it out - - unless , like me , you're a sucker for everything Mleies - - it still is a fine show of what the leading cineaste of the period was doing .
Not a Singing Cowboy	. . . . But a surprisingly good off-kilter Wester as the hero bails out a show of jazz chorines and helps them put on a show . There are some fairly good musical interludes , including the surprisingly sweet " Underneath Montana Skies " and Slim Summerville is in his usual reliable form as comedy relief .
Away , Dull Care	Before Larry Semon's movies became repetitive , increasingly bloated efforts that starred him and only him , he turned out some very nice slapstick with a large crew of comedians who got some good screen time and gags , and featuring some very good cinematography . This is one of those efforts , featuring a loving little zoom shot , a slammed-door farce sequence using cuts - - a technique I have not noticed before but which works very well - - and graceful composition , as well as the sort of work that seems to improve as it gets older - - a chiaroscuro that comes out in multi-generational prints . I'm not exactly sure what is going on here , except it involves Semon as a detective trying to deal with some roughnecks but there is some lovely by play with Oliver Hardy , who even does some tie-less twiddling , eight years before he was teamed up with Stan Laurel . You can see some of the rot setting in , the bigger explosions , the near-collisions undercranked to produce greater speed . But for the moment , it is still working .
Superior McKimson	A strong script and excellent voice work by Sheldon Leonard make this a cartoon worth seeing . Part of the short-lived " Dodsworth " series - - I've only seen two of them - - about a fat , lazy cat that keeps suckering a mewing kitten into doing his work for him , Dodsworth somehow turns into a dead ringer for Rodney Dangerfield twenty years before anyone had heard about him !
Disney Influence	One of David Hand's Animaland cartoons , long believed lost , THE CUCKOO plays like a short version of a cross between the " Pink Elephants On Parade " number from Dumbo and some of the darker sequences of PINOCCHIO . This is hardly surprising , as Hand was a Disney alumnus who was brought to England to build a cartoon studio that could compete with American studios . The lush animation makes you expect something much simpler and far more childish than it turns out to be . The problem with this and the other cartoons in the Animaland series is that there is no clear sense of lasting characterization . There is no star for the series to center around . When one was finally produced , it was the rather poorly defined Ginger Nutt and the cartoons declined into oblivion . Yet , even though these are not great cartoons , they are good cartoons and definitely worth a look should they come your way .
The Pride of the Firm	Ernst Lubitsch , later one of the great directors of the cinema , started out in films as a ' Jewish Comedian . ' However , this movie is not a farce , but the story of how a clumsy young man from the sticks - - when we first see him , he is a window dresser in a dry goods shop who breaks the window - - through push and hard work , changes through hard work and the advice of the girl he loves . When we first see him , he is an ugly young man with a mop of unruly hair who does not know how to dress . By the end of the movie , he is a distinguished-looking man on his honeymoon . This is not a farce , but Lubitsch manages to get in a few comic touches , playing his character as sly and cowardly , but sweet . There is some very nice photography , thanks to Danish cinematographer Axel Graatkjaer , and leading lady Martha Kriwitz as charming as Lubitsch's distaff Pygmalion . These make it a better than average picture for the era .
Putting Something in the Skins	After one attempt to replicate Laurel & Hardy's success by doing a female Laurel & Hardy team ( FEED ' EM AND WEEP ) , Roach waited a few years and tried again with Zasu Pitts and Thelma Todd and hit pay dirt . There is nothing in the least Laurel & Hardyish about the teaming of these two women , except for the warm friendship that they show on the screen for each other . But the comedy arises out of their characters . SEAL SKINS , although not the best of their vehicles , does emphasize the basis of their friendship : they fill in the gaps in each others ' characters and support each other : Thelma wanting to get ahead as a reporter , and Zasu trying to act as the voice of reasons . . . . not that either is capable of much reasoning . This one is definitely worth twenty minutes of your time .
Looking for quiet in the talkies	Mack Sennet's first sound film is a hilarious little short . The first half has Johnny Burke trying to propose to Daphne Burke on the telephone while construction workers , boat whistles and a saxophonist across the alley - - played by Vernon Dent - - makes it impossible to hear himself think . The second half , takes place in the country with similar results - - plus he goes hunting rabbits and runs into a lion .
Max's Turn in the Barrel	Before the rise of Charlie Chaplin , the world's favorite film comic was a man whom Chaplin called ' The Professor ' , Pathe's Max Linder . In hundreds of short comedies through the Teens , Max played a Parisian boulevardier , usually in search of love , and , despite obstacles , largely successful . Not , however , in this one . In this one , he is on vacation and wooing a young lady , but she and her cousin decide to play a trick on him , by getting him inside a barrel , and then tossing it into the ocean . There's lots of camera trickery in this one , but what makes this a typically graceful and amusing comedy is Max's sang-froid , on discovering himself adrift at sea . Like almost all of Linder's comedies , short and well worth the few minutes of your time that it asks for .
If you looked at the Allday ' American Slapstick ' DVD . . . .	. . . . and paid attention to the written and spoken commentary , then if you are not terribly familiar with the people involved , you may taken on board a few false ideas : 1 : Syd introduced brother Charlie to Fred Karno and thus produced one of the greatest talents in the movies . Uh , not quite . In fact , Charlie had been a boy actor , quite possibly being in one of William Gillette's Sherlock Holmes productions in 1905 as ' Billy the Page . ' 2 : This is the first appearance of Syd in any home video of any Syd Chaplin movie . Well , there is a seven - or eight-tape set of Keystones that is still floating around in which three of Syd's ' Gussle ' shorts appear . But of course , errors like that are irrelevant to any movie . How good is this movie ? It's a pretty good Keystone three-reeler of the period , chaotic to the modern eye , but very funny . And how is Syd ? Well , you can see he's Charlie's brother and also a graduate of the Karno company . . . . . look for the occasional ' interrupted line of movement ' gag that most people know as seeming to offer to shake hands , that turns into flattening one's hair .
You can always trust a policeman	Although the Internet Movie Database lists this as a Feuillade film , the new collection from Gaumont claims this is a piece by Alice Guy . It's difficult to tell who was in charge , since a year before Miss Guy , he first film director in history , was doing a series of phonoscenes with a still camera and no cuts , and the same year Feuillade was directing things like LA BOUS-BOUS-MIE , with one scene change and a basic mise-en-scene . In any case , this is a fairly sophisticated film as a nursemaid falls asleep in the park and lets her little charge wander away . But while the adult sleeps , the little girl wanders around the park , fetches the police to stop a fight and then , lost , finds a flic , who takes her to the police station and then home . Although the camera does not move , it is shot mostly in middle long shots and cut cleanly to tell a good story . Certainly , this is a solid middle-class film , and reasonable-looking for the era . When I was the little girl's age , a half century or so ago , I had a serene assurance that adults looked out for children . Clearly Gaumont was going for a more prosperous audience .
Without Aid	Although Griffith is best remembered for the racism of BIRTH OF A NATION , his pleas in his works were not intended primarily as statements of the superiority of races , but as pleas for people to be left alone to solve their own problems . In such works as BROKEN BLOSSOMS , INTOLERANCE and , yes , even BIRTH OF A NATION , he argues that people should be left alone to solve their own issues . Here , he makes the point that even when a member of a group violates its structure - - here , when an Indian kills a chief of his tribe - - that group should judge him and stand strong against outsiders - - the renegade steals a horse from another tribe and is rescued by his tribesman who brings him back home to be judged for his crime against his tribes . Visually , this is not one of Griffith's best movies from this period , which only illustrates how fast and how far he had brought movie making in only three years . The compositions are beautiful , but not , for him , ground-breaking and the story is , as might be expected for a two-reeler , straightforward .
The Greatest Terror	Friz Freleng started out his career in Kansas City with Walt Disney , about by the time he died almost three quarters of a century later , he had done almost everything in the field , including directing several Oscar-winning shorts . Yet , despite this , he never achieved the respect accorded directors like Chuck Jones , Tex Avery and Bob Clampett , because all he did was direct great cartoons , beautifully timed with great gags . He also had a specialty of pure music cartoons like SKYSCRAPER SYMPHONY and PIGS IN A POLKA that are , I feel , among his best . This is a very good Sylvester the Cat cartoon from his middle period , and if you look at it you might enjoy it a lot without noticing all the things he does to lift it out of the ordinary : the deadpan of the little girl who tortures Sylvester , the way he pauses occasionally to let the sound effects tell what is happening with a great payoff - - he does that with the washing machine sequence . Unless you loom closely , you'll never see it . You'll simply enjoy it a heck of a lot .
A Big Show in Ten Minutes	It is astonishing to look at this ten-minute western and see a love triangle , an Indian attack , people crawling through the dessert in search of water , the cavalry to the rescue - - enough story , fact , for two John Ford westerns and one Douglas Sirk weeper , performed in ten minutes , with some photography that , even now , is startling in its novelty and beauty . And this is considered one of Griffith's LESSER pictures . Although Griffith directed more than five hundred pictures , almost all of which survive , he has a vast corpus of works that are rarely seen , because so many people concentrate on his best features and perhaps a dozen of his best-known shorts . Kino is to be applauded for including a sizable number of his lesser-known , but equally powerful shorts in their most recent compilation , and for hiring John Mirsalis to do scores .
Dependable	This is another strong entry in the always dependable ' Joe Doakes ' series of shorts that Benchley wrote and starred in for MGM and occasionally Paramount in the 1930s and 1940s . They took two forms : in the first , Benchley would lecture confusedly on some subject that his character would seem to know nothing about , like he Oscar-winning HOW TO SLEEP . In the second , he would play Joe Doakes , who would go about his ordinary way . This is an episode of the second ; the Missus has gone out leaving him alone to do catch up on those tasks he has put off , like destroying the cuckoo clock and filling the house with smoke . As usual , Benchley is low key , befuddled and amusing .
Imagination	Although I usually don't like the Harman-Ising cartoons from MGM - - the combination of high production values made possible by their large budgets and inanely saccharine plots is very off-putting to me - - this one works : it puts you immediately into the imagination of a child to see her toys come alive in a simple plot in which the wind-up horse , ' Black beauty ' must win a race against other toys in order to save the Old Plantation , a doll house . Other people will object , no doubt , to the stereotype of the era . Harman and Ising did a lot of cartoons that today are considered to be too racist to show to easily influenced children - - or their parents who can't tell the difference between a cartoon from more than seventy years ago and real life today .
And Points Between	A typical late silent Sennet programmer starring Billy Bevan and Vernon Dent , each moving to California with his wife and finding their greatest obstacles in their ways to be each other . Bevan was one of the now-forgotten silent screen comedians with a large mustache and no hesitation in doing something stupid , like offering his rear to an angry bull , or standing around while an enraged Vernon Dent - - who went to Columbia and the Three Stooges - - swings an axe . Australia seems to have produced a bumper crop of them and many were exported to Hollywood . Bevan's individual shtick seems to have been a hearty manner and nervous laugh in the face of troubles . Bevan worked steadily up until the 1950s and was still listed in the credits when he retired , unlike some . Although he would not be on anyone's Top Comics list until you got fairly far down , he was pretty good nonetheless . Although he never quite made the grade as a lead comic , he is in a number of good comedies paired off with Andy Clyde ( CIRCUS TODAY , SUPER-HOOPER-DYNE LIZZIES ) . And this one too . Del Lord knew how to direct a Sennett comedy - - he had been one of the original Keystone Kops , and he , too went to Columbia and the Three Stooges in the sound era . In the meantime , he was still with a prosperous Sennett , producing a solid comedy .
A New Contract	When Chaplin , Fairbanks , Pickford and Griffith were setting up United Artists in 1919 , William S . Hart almost went along with them . But Paramount offered him a brand new contract , and he stayed with them . . . . . and found the studio sabotaging him almost from the beginning of the new contract . He wanted to get away from his standard cowboy story and came up with this railroad story . They shelved it , got him to do something more usual , and then demanded a new ending for this movie . This was not unusual for Paramount . They invented block booking , and worked their stars very hard - - on one or two cases , to death : Wallace Reid , for example . So , what is the net result for this William S . Hart programmer ? It's an excellent piece . You get a lot more close-ups of Hart than usual , as he tones down his usually broad characterizations except when he is dealing with the fact that he has lost the girl he loves . There's a lot more stillness in his acting than usual , and , if takes a good long while before his cameraman , Joe August , gets to show us some good scenery and action , well , the story of conflict between old and new , of sense and compassion , love and honorable behavior is a well told tale , like all the Hart movies I have seen .
Cures for Hypochondria	Another amusing social comedy in the Fairbanks corpus as he reforms a bunch of hypochondriacs - - including the woman he loves - - by stranding them on an island and making them take exercise before breakfast . Script by Fairbanks and Anita Loos . It's also the movie debut of character actor Gustav von Seyffertitz .
Pushing Leather	Reginald Denny first came to the attention of the movies in the ' Leather Pushers ' series of shorts about a young boxer and his associates and this story of a young boxer who is comically corrupted by New York night life and a young woman down on her luck is handled in a very amusing and telling manner by director Fred Newmeyer . Newmeyer had been a director on the Roach lot , part of Harold Lloyd's crew and knew how to direct a silent comedy with a real story at its heart . With the coming of sound , Denny would be revealed not as an American , but someone with a good English accent , and he would specialize for the rest of his career in upper-class twits , in roles like ' Algie ' in the Bulldog Dummonds series . His career would extend into the 1960s , with a lovely turn in CAT BALLOU . But he is particularly good as the lead in this movie and you should not miss a chance to see it .
Eat Hearty !	Chaz Chase - - not to be confused with Charley Chase - - eats a variety of interesting items , including a lot of cardboard . Absolutely bizarre : this sort of act , which used to prosper in vaudeville , wound up going into the carnivals after vaudeville died . Apparently the diet agreed with Mr . Chase , since he was doing the same act thirty years later
Strong Performances	The strong cast - - including Spanky McFarland away from the Hal Roach studio - - really shines in this well-mannered , but definitely Pre-code drama . Richard Dix ha rarely been better as a man slowly unraveling in prison , but Una Merkel is terrific in a straight role .
The Silent Serial You Must See	If you have to see only one silent serial , then this is the one you have to see . Not because it is clearly the best one - - although it's a lot of fun , there are others , such as Feuillade's LES VAMPIRES with as good or even better claims - - but simply because it is a ripsnorting bunch of fun , and , more importantly , the wellspring from which all other movie serials , that cinematic art more fully lost to its makers than the movie musical - - the spring from which all serials sprang . It has all the usual stuff of serials - - scary cliffhanging chapter ends , the intrepid hero and heroine , the awful , hissable villain , tearful deathbed scenes and a host of storied names : Pearl White , Crane Wilbur , Louis Gassnier , George Seitz . . . . . who has not heard of The Perils of Pauline ? And I will repeat in case you missed it : it's a lot of fun . In the original version it might not play well in one evening , but the only surviving version is the 9-chapter version that Pathe released in Europe in 1916 , now available on DVD from Grapevine . The print they located is a bit battered , but complete and in a lovely colored print . Go to their website and order one . Watch it with some friends . You won't regret it .
The Sea Chase	Griffith loved to shoot along the shoreline and on the water . His settings , always so lifelike , take on a poetic quality along the shore , and the sight of the motorboat knifing through the water to rescue Blanche Sweet , with its beautiful wake . . . . . in any case , in this short , Griffith managed to combine his love of the shooting the water with one of his heart-in-your-throat chases , as the captain raises his gun to shoot Blanche's brains out before his mutinous crew can defile her . Yes , it works . Rent the Kino dvd and see for yourself . Although Griffith directed more than five hundred pictures , almost all of which survive , he has a vast corpus of works that are rarely seen , because so many people concentrate on his best features and perhaps a dozen of his best-known shorts . Kino is to be applauded for including a sizable number of his lesser-known , but equally powerful shorts in their most recent compilation , and for hiring John Mirsalis to do scores .
Fast and funny	A fast and funny picture from Raymond Griffith , the top-hatted comic whiz of the mid-twenties , one of the few silent stars whose careers actually was wrecked by a bad voice - - he could only speak in a whisper - - and whose pictures have largely vanished due to the malign neglect of his studio . This time he's the coroner called in to crack a murder - - but he was on his way to the theater and can only spare an hour . Watch for Roscoe Karns and Richard Arlen in small roles . Title cards by Robert Benchley !
Joseph H . Lewis Redux	This stands out as a camp classic of the Joseph H . Lewis variety : there's even a threatening gadget , in this case a steam cabinet . Don't go into this expecting a deep movie and you'll have a lot of fun with the deliberately over-the-top characterizations
Real Gone - - Well , Mostly	Before commenting on this series , I should warn you : apparently only two of these survive in any real form and I've only seen one of them - - Episode Two , titled , appropriately enough , ' Round Two ' , so my comments may or may not be of much use . Well , here goes . This is great . It was made by a bunch of people who had never made films before and they do some very interesting things : Reginald Denny , at the very start of his career , played Americans in the movies - - his accent being inaudible in the silents . Here he plays an ex-college athlete whose father has gone broke , so he must make a living as a prizefighter ; and his manager is a nice enough guy , but he likes to get into crap games and make unhappy wagers . . . . . so things are at a low point . There are three points I wish to call to your attention , in case you ever get to see this movie - - and it is available now on DVD . First , the characters rather breezily break the fourth wall - - the manager stops the action early on to fill in newcomers as to What Has Gone Before - - a delightful bit of informality . Second , the people involved have managed to install into this movie some of the real grunge of boxing gyms , something that seems to have been missed by everyone except Robert Wise in THE SET-UP ( 1949 ) and Clint Eastwood in MILLION DOLLAR BABY ( 2004 ) . THat's a long time between authentic grunge , but somehow almost every film maker seems to have missed the low characters and low settings that a boxing gym has , and the marginal characters who can waver between low comedy and pathos . And the story is told in a brisk and interesting fashion by people who seem to not to know that you can't do things that way in the movies - - and it works when they do it . In case I'm being obscure , highly recommended .
Evolution	Although D . W . Griffith is usually honored as the inventor of modern film grammar , most of the groundwork was laid down a decade earlier by George Smith of England . This is one of his early films . But even this particular Athena did not spring fully born from the mind of Zeus , and we can see that Smith is using a lot of magic lantern grammar - - the children dream of Santa and he appears in a small circular image in the upper right corner , straight out of the preceding technology's grammar . This particular technique would not vanish for another decade and a half - - and arguably is still in occasional use in such peculiarities as SHERLOCK JUNIOR and its successor THE PURPLE ROSE OF CAIRO as well as Jeunet's UN LONG DIMANCHE DE FIANCAILLES . Another point of interest is the title of this movie . Although Clement Clarke Moore's poem , ' A Visit from Saint Nick ' was well known and popular , it's a Dutch and New York and hence American phenomenon . What was an Englishman , with their Father Christmas , doing playing with the idea ? It seems to me that Smith may have been a far more important figure in popular culture than even I thought .
My Fair Lady	Shaw's best-known play - - although many people know it only from its musical version , MY FAIR LADY - - is produced for the small screen . The story is given a more feminist handling than it usually is , made possible by treating Henry Higgins as more of a childish bully than he is usually portrayed - - James Villiers tackles the role without a fraction of the absent-minded charm that the two best-known portrayers - - Leslie Howard in the 1938 film version and Rex Harrison in the musical - - used . Lynn Redgrave handles the comedy better than any other Eliza I have seen , and notice should be taken of Lally Bowers as Mrs . Higgins , who is quite believable as an indulgent mother who spoiled her brilliant son for many years and is now regretting it . The other roles , particularly the female roles , are given a lot more pathos and moral sense than they usually are and , of course , Emrys James as Doolittle is wonderful - - it's the standout role of the show . If you have never seen a straight version of this play , this is a good one to start with - - although I have yet to see a poor version .
Black Out in Black and White	A series of black-out gags , the sort of tidbits you might get in the news reels in the era , but sharply written by Warren Foster and beautifully directed by the inimitable Bob Clampett and narrated in the radio-perfect voice of - - - Elmer Fudd ? While a couple fall flat , you might get an idea of how good this is by comparing it to HOBBY HORSE LAFFS , produced by Termite Terrace the same year , but written by Melvin Miller and directed by Norm McCabe , who would disappear into the army later in the year and who would never direct a cartoon again . Schlesinger was moving production towards all color shorts , but there would be a few more through 1943 , mostly directed by Frank Tashlin . By the end of 1944 , all major cartoon production in the US would be in color .
Mother Love Among The Big Trees	Hilarious comic take on Hart's patented Good Bad Man role sees him as a rough tough lumberjack , " Blue Blazes " Rawden - - apparently Hart's cameraman , Joe August , wanted to photograph primary forest , so they set it up that way . When Hart kills saloon-owner-regular-villain Robert McKim , he inherits not only the saloon and McKim's girlfriend , but a mother who comes over from England to see her long lost boy . Soon everyone is in a conspiracy to not let mother know what a scalawag her son was , but when she announces she wants to take Rawden back to England with her , the girlfriend tries to spill the beans . Apparently they didn't know what to do with this , so they tacked on an ending and sent it out . The result is a movie that experts call one of Hart's darkest tragedy . I disagree . Next time , guys , try running it through the projector a little faster and using a lighter touch on the keyboard .
Where Did You Get that Hat ?	Melies gives his audience another variation of his most popular and imitated - - including by him - - story of L'AUBERGE MYSTERIEUSE , as a man tries to get undressed for bed and new clothing keeps reappearing on him , particularly a long series of most unflattering headgear . Melies ' comic agitation as he tries harder and harder to prepare for bed is wonderful . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
The Pen is Mightier Than The Sword	One of the best of Van Beuren's " Tom & Jerry " series in which they pull out a pencil and proceed to draw figures in the air which join the action : an early prefigurement , if you like , of Chuck Jones ' classic DUCK AMUCK . Van Beuren was one of the cartoon factories that flourished from about 1925-1936 . It released through RKO and went under shortly after RKO dropped its contract in favor of one with Disney . Although never the best of studios , its staff worked hard . Probably its best black and white series was " Tom & Jerry " a Mutt and Jeff combo that , like Fleischer's Betty Boop , started as cartoon dogs and evolved into a music-backed series . Disguised in rerelease from Official Films as ' Dick and Larry ' to avoid confusion with MGM's cat-and-mouse duo , a lot of their shorts have survived . A lot of their jokes are out of favor , but some are very amusing and if you wish to give them a try , this and PIANO TOONERS are good places to start .
But Twins Come in Pairs	. . . . or Pares if it shows up on a sign here . The first half of this movie has the gang running an athletic club and raising money for it by a shoe-shine stand with one of their typical Rube-Goldbergesque contraptions or wheels and gears and pulley belts . . . . just the sort of thing I used to design myself when I was eight , where a rocket pack's design was no more difficult than drawing it . And inside the machine is someone with a brush and some shoe polish . wasn't that how the adults did it ? Isn't that the charm of these movies for adults ? For kids , it was more about belonging to a group , of having friends , and that was important too . But the charm of these often plot less and always slightly disjointed stories - - like the sort of tale a child might make up - - was their kindly childlike charm , always on the side of the kids , even when they kidded them . Yes , we knew things were more complicated that a bunch of wheels and someone on the inside of the box doing the work . But there would be time enough to learn these things . in the meantime , we could enjoy things and worry about our small problems while the adults took care of the important things . Then we grew up . Sigh . But at least we can look at these and remember .
Delightful Hogwash	Ah , the bygone glories of the French Foreign Legion story . Almost everyone knows BEAU GESTE , from the 1939 version starring Gary Cooper . This was a lesser brother . Great actors , great direction , great cinematography and a script full of - - nowadays - - laughable bits . Claudette Colbert plays Cigarette , the Daughter of the Legion . Ronald Colman , plays the legionnaire who is trying to forget , and a young Rosalind Russell - - what a looker ! - - play Lady Venezia Cunningham with a posh accent . What can you expect from a movie in which Ronald Colman is torn between Cigarette , daughter of the Legion and Lady Venezia Cunningham with the Production Code in full force ? Well , this one . An amusing way to spend a couple of hours , if you are prepared not to take things too seriously . Or you could look at the Laurel & Hardy BEAU HUNKS .
Good Technique	A convicted spy manages to avoid being hanged from a bridge when the rope breaks and flees for his life and freedom in this short silent film from Charles Vidor , his first as director . Hungarian-born Vidor would go on to become a specialist in big , lush productions , including musicals like Gene Kelly's breakthrough movie , COVER GIRL and Grace Kelly's ( no relation ) final film , THE SWAN . Here , in 1929 , unhampered by bulky sound equipment , he uses only visual images , traveling shots , lots of double exposure and some unfortunately over-the-top emoting by actor Nicolas Bela to tell his titleless tale to pretty good effect . If you wish to introduce someone to dramatic silent film technique , this would not be a bad choice . It's short enough not to risk boredom and interesting enough - - life and death , after all - - to hold an audience's interest .
Lithuanians and Letts Do It	A fine film version of one of Elinor Glyn's silly romances . Miss Glyn founded the genre of what is today variously called the Romance Novel , the Gothic Romance or , in the trade , the Bodice-Ripper , since the heroine always winds up with a torn bodice or blouse . It happens here , too . The excellence of this version can best be understand when you hear that I saw it at the Museum of Modern Art today . The only titles were flash titles in Czech - - no one in the audience knew any of the Slavic languages . There was no script available and yet the story was perfectly intelligible and the movie was interesting , almost all due to fine direction by King Vidor and a very broad and appropriate performance by John Gilbert as a Russian nobleman . Aileen Pringle , as the object of his desire is not so good : she comes off as somewhat butch . But she is a fine actress and the overall effect is excellent . I don't know when you're going to get a chance to see this movie , but if you do , don't pass it up - - or any King Vidor film .
Beautiful Black and White	This cartoon from Digital Meme's excellent four-DVD set of early Japanese animation has a fairly predictable story line , but it is told with some verve and much good humor . In addition , this is taken from a fine print and shows a lot of beauty in its black-and-white drawing and excellent animation - - it shows a careful attention to the details of movement that a lot of Japanese animation lacks in this period . The only American equivalent that I can bring to mind - - and I am much more familiar with American cartoons of this period than Japanese - - is the Fleischer Popeyes , although it lacks the grungy aspects of those fine cartoons , which is pulled from their origins in Segar's Thimble Theater strips . Highly recommended for anyone interested in the history of cartoons .
This is Frank Tuttle	Frank Tuttle was a highly competent house director for many years , working for Sam Goldwyn , Paramount and so forth , turning out well-made movies in which the style served the story . In our day of auteur worship and the insistence that , if a critic can't tell who directed a film without looking at the credits , it is not a good film , craftsmen like Tuttle are considered hacks . I disagree . You may disagree with me . We'll leave that unsettled for the moment and thumb wrestle over it later . This movie has all the earmarks of a Lubitsch picture : the European settings ( Paris , Hollywood , which Lubitsch said he much preferred to Paris France ; Venice , where he had set the opening of TROUBLE IN PARADISE two years earlier ) and is the sort of racy European comedy that Paramount specialized in until the Production Code killed them dead later that year . The setups are all Lubitsch : the recitative number " Madame Has Lost Her Dress " that opens the movie ; The sexual imagery of Cary Grant carrying around a bagful of javelins and reducing Roland Young and Charlie Ruggles to blithering idiocy ; Thelma Todd in her underwear ; and into this mess lands Lily Damita , an honest girl reduced to sleeping on movie sets : trouble in Paris , Hollywood . Although Tuttle lacks the ability to direct actors in the small , exquisite details that Lubitsch did , he had a fine hand at framing and storyline . The movie is near perfect , except for the miscasting of Roland Young as the love interest . . . . . but perhaps that is the point of the matter : we do not always fall in love with Maurice Chevalier .
You Can't Turn Your Back on Them	Melies most frequently imitated piece - - including by him - - was his L'AUBERGE MYSTERIEUSE . Here , wearing a comic outfit , he enters a room , to be devilled by unseen spirits which move things around , steal his hat and generally make him want to leave the room . It's all done with Melies ' usual flair and good humor and if it's only a variation , it's a wonderful one . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Superior Keystone	One of the excellent and innovative comedies that Roscoe Arbuckle directed and starred in during his last couple of years at Keystone . Although for his own starring vehicles he retreated to simpler plotting and camera work , in these , he experiments with lighting , camera movement . elaborate plotting and fairly elaborate gag sequences , as opposed to his artful toss-them-off technique in his Comique vehicles - - but then , he didn't have Buster Keaton to play against at Keystone . In this one he is well supported , as usual , by Mabel Normand . Ford Sterling , in his Dutch Comic makeup , snarls his way amusingly through the piece also . In fact , Sterling steals the entire movie . . . . or perhaps Roscoe lets him have it .
The Invention of a Grammar	Despite the tongue-in-cheek Marxian film-school analysis of the films in THE MOVIES BEGIN DVD set by Ms . Liddell-Hart and the amiable and seemingly unsophisticated enthusiasms of Snow Leopard , these films retain a fascination for those of us who are interested in old films for their own sakes . For those of us who are not fascinated by history , it is still interesting to see that there was cinema before , say , Adam Sandler . . . and to see things done for the first time is always interesting . There is a freshness about the first time that sophistication cannot repeat . But we can also appreciate these films on their own terms , and further , in their ability to engage us today . It is interesting to put oneself in the mind of someone a hundred years ago , and , given the short lengths of these pieces , thirty seconds can give us a complete film . . . . and is that such a great investment ? If we can appreciate the works of Sophocles and Plautus and Shakespeare , why can we not admire the work done by Mr . G . A . Smith ? And , speaking from a historical viewpoint , Smith's work is amazing , since he seems to have invented the ' grammar of cinema ' as Lilian Gish claimed D . W . Griffith did , ten years before Griffith set foot on a movie stage ! True , his compositions are not as sophisticated as Griffith's , but Smith was an experimental film-maker , while Griffith was trying to use the results of those experiments . He tells little stories that , because of their subject matters , often do not age well . Well then , they are stuck in their times . This year ( 2002 ) saw a new film production of THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING ERNEST , filled , as comedies of manners usually are , by people who would be spending their time in medical wards under heavy dosages of drugs in today's world . Yet we can laugh at Oscar Wilde's comedy and can , I hope , take pleasure from Mr . Smith's .
Symbols	Even when we look at one of Melies ' films and don't know what he is going on about , still , we are carried along by his speed , his good humor and his inventiveness - - after all , his films at this stage rarely last more than a minute . Here , we have a piece that might be called " The Alchemist's Dream . " The old alchemist falls asleep and dreams of finding the philosopher's stone : he dreams of snakes shedding their skins , of young women tossing gold , all the hermetical symbols of the Philosopher's Stone which not only granted the ability to transmute any item into gold , but gave one eternal youth . So this is a sad movie , in a way : an old man dreams of being young . Yet Melies hides behind these symbols , which we don't know about nowadays , and produces a fun little piece .
Tracy Adds Some Salt	This Borzage soaper about the trials and tribulations of a youngster on the edge of being sent to reform school - - Ralph Bellamy plays the juvenile court judge in a relaxed , almost boneless manner . He was a fine actor and before he got typecast as the dull guy who loses the girl to Cary Grant , he gave a bunch of interesting performances in a wide variety of roles . According to legend , he was offered a script with another loser role , saw that the character was labeled as a Ralph Bellamy type , and quit the movies , going back to more interesting roles on Broadway . Borzage manages to get some interesting performances out of the young actors : Tom Conlan , whose character is labeled as the worst boy in town , keeps getting into thoughtless scrapes . In fact , that's the best part of the script : the boys are not bad , but they just don't think of consequences . The other thing about this movie that makes it better than average is , unsurprisingly , Spencer Tracy's performance . In the midst of all the sweet characters and one outright stinker , he adds a lot of salt to the stew as the grouchy pharmacist . His scene with Bellamy in which he continually gets fined for contempt of court is very funny . While not among Borzage's best work , this movie , as always , has enough points to make it worth your time .
War Against Mice	An early Felix the Cat short which has most of the hallmark's of Messmer's fantastic imagination . Felix is working in a barber shop when his boss shows him an extra : the mice have declared war against the cats . Although it does not show the ' playing with light ' touch of the best Felix the Cat silents , there are plenty of good gags that made Felix the most popular cartoon series of the silent era .
More Than A Footnote	Although Edwin S . Porter is well known as the director of THE GREAT TRAIN ROBBERY , the landmark short that combined a good story line , cross-editing and other remarkable techniques for its era , his role in American cinema history has largely been relegated to a footnote : Edison invents the motion picture camera , goes the hagiography , and Griffith comes along and perfected the story-telling of cinema . And , oh yeah , Porter directed this movie in 1902 that is actually all right . But Porter was actually a wildly experimental cineaste . In more than 100 movies , he experimented with cross-cutting , story-telling , breaking the fourth wall - - remember at the end of THE GREAT TRAIN ROBBERY where the robber shoots a gun at the audience ? - - and did lots of camera tricks , particularly here , where there are a couple of shots that have triple exposures . . . . and in an era when everything had to be done in the camera , using masks and stopwatches , he got some remarkable effects , which he used with great good humor . This trick movie is based on Windsor McKay's DREAMS OF A RAREBIT FIEND series of cartoons . McKay did a series of cartoons based on it in the early 1920s , but this is pretty heady stuff for the era . It was Edison's blockbuster for 1906 - - they sold 192 copies of the film !
Pre-Code Nice Girl	One of Wellman's terrific Warner's B movies - - the one before this was HEROES FOR SALES and the next would be THE WILD BOYS OF THE ROAD - - about how nice girl Loretta Young became gangster Ricardo Cortez ' moll and how an over-the-top Fanchot Tone tried to redeem her . Brilliant opening montage keeps things moving until Tone comes onstage , the picks up again . Script by Anita Loos .
Great Pulp	In bygone days people used to read cheap magazines printed on cheap pulp paper . These were full of stories which , if not particularly literary , were full of action , color and plot . Later these moved to the movie serials and B movies , whence they were lifted , in the 1970s and 1980s , as the inspiration for movies like RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK , ROMANCING THE STONE and STAR WARS . This TV movie , third in the series , is in that vein . CURSE OF THE OF JUDAS CHALICE is no ground-breaking movie , but it is enormous fun , with a script full of hip , self-aware humor - - Noah Wyle explains the key plot points as he goes along , and is twitted for always speaking in complete paragraphs - - action and a sexy vampiress . There is nothing in this that is original - - I could do a little digging and produce a list of where the key plot points and shots were lifted from - - but it is done with such good humor , that the viewer will have few , if any complaints about the result . My sole complaint is that Bob Newhart is not on screen long enough with his deadpan delivery . You can't do much better for a dull afternoon's time-waster .
With a Bullet	A typically funny Mr . & Mrs . Sidney Drew comedy , as Sidney falls in love with a charming young widow - - played , of course , by Mrs , Drew - - and , in short order , marries her , only to discover too late her constant obsession on Husband Number One . In desperation he . . . well , that would give away too much of the story . As always , Mr . Drew fills up the screen with his usual sly stage business that keeps these situation comedies at the top of their ranking . Later this year , the Drews would leave Vitagraph for their own production company and Larry Semon would take over direction of Vitaraph's comedies .
Nether Fish Nor Fowl Nor Good Red Meat - - But Very Good Nonetheless	Frank Tashlin was one of the few cartoon directors to make a full transition to live action features - - the other best known one was Gregory LaCava - - but his cartoons were exceedingly realistic in character , gag structure and camera placement , while his live action movies were cartoonish - - think of SON OF PALEFACE or his work with Jerry Lewis . For the moment he was at Columbia whither he had been brought by offers of greater control . There he fought , made the classic THE FOX AND THE GRAPES , a few others , including this fine movie , and then went back to Warners , then onward . A fine cartoon about the problems a conductor suffers while conducting the title piece . Although all the characters are animals , the gags are beautifully done . If you're lucky enough to see this in a Technicolor print as I was , don't miss the chance .
Silent History Done Right	Slow but beautifully-mounted story of the American revolution . Griffith's story-telling seems a lot less heavy-handed than in his earlier historical epics and his tableaux work is fully integrated into the action . Lionel Barrymore is an utter swine , Neil Hamilton is poor but dashing and Carol Dempster is . . . . well , Carol Dempster is most of what is wrong with Griffith in this period , but she doesn't show up often enough to slow the pace and drama . Note that the trivia for this movie says it came in originally at slightly more than 2 hours when first released , but that no cut exists that runs longer than 90 minutes . However , the dvd release has been presented at a slower fps rate that increases the tension and brings it back to a bit over two hours . Far better in terms of story-telling than sound versions , such as THE PATRIOT . While not quite in the league of Griffith's best , such as WAY DOWN EAST and BROKEN BLOSSOMS , an excellent way to spend a couple of hours .
The Amazing Disappearing Derek Jacobi	Another of the fine Brother Cadfael series about a medieval monk who solves the murders that crop up continually around his monastery - - amazing that anyone is still alive in the neighborhood . But I write this review not to bury this series , but to praise Derek Jacobi , who , like the late Alec Guinness , has the uncanny ability to disappear into his roles and still remain utterly entertaining . Whether playing the emperor Claudius , Cyrano de Bergerac or the worldly wise monk of this series , he vanishes into his roles so completely that when one asks who plays Brother Cadfael , my immediate reaction is to say " Why . . . . Cadfael , of course . " Then I do a double take and head to the records . Guinness was something of the same way . I can't think of any other actor of whom that could be said . Even the greats of British acting who rose to prominence in the 1920s were always clearly themselves : Gielgud , Richardson , Olivier . . . . . a myriad of Hamlets , all true and each clearly a collaboration between the playwright and the actor . I never have that feeling about Jacobi . Maybe it prevents him from being at the top of his profession ; other actors will get the roles , but Jacobi will keep on performing . . . . and I will keep on looking for his performances . I suggest you do the same .
And I saw	Another of the great jazz-scored Betty Boops , in this case , Don Redman singing " I Heard " with the cartoon sequence set in a saloon , a mine and a graveyard . Redman isn't well known today . Imagine , if you will , Nat King Cole doing scat with a ' jungle music ' background . Fast , furious and , like all the pre-code Boops , hilariously bizarre .
One Long Arabian Night	Carl Schenstrøm and Harald Madsen were the leading pair of ' Fat and Skinny ' comedians in the movie world until Laurel and Hardy came along . While their characters never shed their movie-comic trappings - - ill fitting costumes , weird mustaches and bad hats - - they remained enormously popular and continued making films until 1940 - - two years after their first and best director , Lau Lauritzen Sr . died and two years before Schenstrom , the skinny one died . Kinowelt , which has had success with its Laurel & Hardy DVD set has produced a seven-DVD set of the comedies , under the name " Pat und Patachon " , the names they were known under in Germany . I have issues . The versions are cut down ( this one is 48 minutes instead of the original run time of 90 minutes ) and a voice over tells you what is going on - - in German , which , alas , I do not speak ) . These are apparently TV versions made in the late 1960s or early 1970s and it is difficult to judge what is missing - - although a lot of the continuity is definitely lost . This one was shot in England for British International Pictures and it shows . It begins with the two comics running a dilapidated bus , with a sequence of beautifully performed bone-breaking slapstick and continues as the two of them get their hands on a flying carpet . The camera-work is also better than most of their Danish work - - lots of moving shots where appropriate , and special effects , It is a pleasure to see these two perform as they rarely seemed to be in their other works .
Early sci-fi	It is frequently and falsely claimed that Porter created the story picture in THE GREAT TRAIN ROBBERY . Melies was creating such films already , most notably in A TRIP TO THE MOON . Likewise , D . W . Griffith did not invent cross-cutting , although he did establish its usage as standard and produced what Lillian Gish called " the grammar of film . " Here is evidence that he was not working alone . This short film , based on a Verne novel , imagines the course of a future war , in which dirigibles are used to bomb cities . Although primitive by today's standards , it is clearly an epic picture and well worth the time of anyone with curiosity about the origins of film .
Mr . Laurel & Mr . Finlayson	There was a Stan Laurel before Oliver Hardy , and this 1927 pairing with Jimmy Finlayson - - who , a year later , would be relegated to the role of brilliant supporting actor in their comedies - - shows the Ollie-less Stan at his best . The direction , by Clyde Bruckman , is brisk . The gags all grow out of situations and character , instead of being randomly inserted . This western comedy is about rancher Finalyson's beautiful daughter , Martha Sleeper - - a real screen beauty if there ever was one - - who refuses to marry the bad guy and how Jimmy and dimwitted cowhand Stan bumble their way into a successful defense of her and the ranch If this shows up , don't miss a chance to see it .
Concerto for Horns and Violence	The Captain , fed up with what he considers slovenly housekeeping on the part of Mama , takes over the housekeeping on a washday , with the usual predictable results . This is the strongest of the Captain & the Kids Series from MGM that I have seen , and the result can be laid squarely at the feet of its director - - or ' supervisor ' as he is titled here , William Hanna . Within a couple of years he and Joseph Barbera would team up to invent Tom and Jerry and you can see what would happen here : bone-breaking slapstick comedy squarely within the bounds of character , here the Captain's mad temper and Billy Bletcher's on-the-spot voice work . But the other characters are also spot on , the Kids - - who make a brief appearance , contemptuously eating pancakes off the Captains head ; Mama , losing her temper and stalking out ; the voiceless Inspector , silent , cowardly and zany ; and a malevolent vacuum cleaner . This was not an enjoyable series for anyone to work on . It drove Friz Freleng back to the arms of MGM , but you can see it is just Hanna's meat . He would build his entire reputation and Barbera's , too , on this form .
" The Usual Sheik Led the Usual Captive Across the Usual Dessert "	So reads a title card in this not brilliant but enormously entertaining comedy-drama from 1923 . Rupert Hughes did the screenplay and the direction from his own novel and he has a great main cast , including Eleanor Boardman , Richard Dix , Mae Busch , William Haines , Lew Cody . . . . well , the list goes on and on , because there are dozens of cameos here , including shots of Chaplin directing A WOMAN OF Paris and von Stroheim directing GREED , in this kindhearted look at Hollywood . It is a feast for lovers of old movies who love to play spot the stars , and everyone seems to be having a fine old time . True , the print is a bit battered , but in compensation TCM has just had a new score commissioned for it , part of their Young Composers series . I must say it is the best score they have had done since they started this , and it does what a score should do : underline and intensify the mood of the movie and , in the sentiments of Charlie Chaplin , give the audience something nice to listen to if the movie is a stinker . It's not a must see movie if you're looking for great film making , but if you're looking for a great popcorn movie , this is one from 1923 . It's well worth the time of any film buff .
What We Do For Others We Do For Ourselves	This is an excellent and heartfelt Hallmark TV movie about a workaholic whose personal life has collapsed around him , who organizes and leads a Christmas choir of men living at a homeless shelter . Working my way through this intellectually , I find a lot of flaws in this picture : its episodic nature , its easy internal parallels , the cleanliness of everything and so forth , but the simplicity of the actors ' performances work beautifully . There are almost no big names involved in this production - - the closest to one is probably Rhea Perlman , who plays the cranky nun who runs the shelter . But it doesn't really matter . Very much worth your while .
A different Stan Laurel !	We're all used to seeing Stan Laurel as the slightly more dimwitted half of Laurel and Hardy in brilliantly-timed gag sequences that play off their characters . This one , produced several years before his regular teaming with Mr . Hardy , is a bit different . The humor lies in the silly and pun-filled title cards and the use of animals - - about like Jules White's awful Dogville shorts of the early 1930s , but without the obvious and uncomfortable cruelty involved in those movies . If you wish to see an amusing Stanley without Ollie , here's proof that he could do other things well , even if he could be brilliant only with Hardy .
Follow the Bouncing Ball	This is one of the earlier Betty Boop cartoons featuring a celebrity artist : in this case , Rudy Vallee . Although it does not measure up to the three great Betty Boops with Cab Calloway , it is very amusing . Notice the use of the Bouncing Ball . This device dates from Fleischer's first musical talking cartoons in 1924 !
Griffith the Comedy Director	Griffith's better-known pieces are either epics or melodramas , but he also turned out a fair number of comedies in his more than 500 pictures , both of the running - around - in - weird - costume farce variety that was later taken up by Mack Sennett ( Sennett was , at this time , an actor and writer in Griffith's troupe ) such as THE CURTAIN POLE , and in more realistic social comedies such as this . SPOILERS BELOWGriffith's use of camera movement and timing is , as usual , exquisite , and the two long comic takes work very amusingly . Griffith realized , as Sennett never seemed to get clear , that action that takes place offscreen , leaving only the reactions of the observers to guide the audience , can be much funnier than watching someone on screen . Thus , when the politician discovers that the satirical cartoonist who has caricatured him is actually a beautiful woman , he decides not to shoot her , and disappears offscreen . He has not put away the gun , judging by the way the newspaper staff is behaving . Having the threat of a loaded gun being waved about placed offscreen mutes the threat and makes the scene play funnier . Highly recommended .
Firsts	A remarkable cartoon for the period . First , it was Carl Stallings ' debut as Termite Terrace's musical director , a position he would hold for twenty years , producing a remarkable body of work . Second , it was Frank Tashlin's second directorial credit - - his first was three years before for Van Beuren - - and his mastery of directing is already obvious . Notice the long panning shot that opens the movie , and the POV ( Point Of View ) shots from the chickenhawk's perspective . Or perhaps it is a vulture ; species are not rigid in the cartoon universe . This is not , I should add , a very funny cartoon . The situations are handled dramatically and the number of gags is not very high . But it is worth your time .
Topnotch Action Comedy Sequel	Gore Verbinski has had a rocky career . Some of his movies have been very funny but commercially unsuccessful , like MOUSE HUNT , and some have just been annoying , like THE Mexican . However , here , aided with a script that never takes itself seriously and topnotch actors - - Johnny Depp repeats his astonishingly engaging off-kilter performance as Jack Sparrow - - he has turned out a fine sequel to 2003's PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN : THE BLACK PEARL . The special effects serve this movie well and the highlight of the film , the three-way sword duel , will keep you laughing throughout . The movie times in at two and a half hours , but you won't notice . SPOILER : The only issue that might affect your enjoyment is that there is a third movie and the last ten minutes sets you up for it . You may feel some annoyance at the lack of closure . But be patient .
With a bullet	An excellent early short comedy for Harold Lloyd's ' Glass ' character . He plays a meek conservatory graduate who wows the matrons and winds up playing in a western saloon , where Snub is the bartender and Bebe the Salvation Army lass . Harold is , of course , confused for a dangerous character and the gags flow fast and free for a while . Even Snub gets one or two funny ones .
Max's American Debut	After Charlie Chaplin left Essannay , they needed a new comedy superstar and who but Max Linder , who had been France's leading comedy movie star - - and the world's - - for ten years ? So Max left Paris and came to Chicago . Here in Max's second American film , we can see him adapting his style from the realistic French style to a more American style . The plot is simple and the complications amusing : Max stands to inherit seven million dollars if he is not married . So he tells his bride they have to get a divorce until the money comes through . In order to get a divorce , though , they need a cause , so Max arranges an assignation and for a private detective to show up . In the meantime , the apartment he has taken is at the back of an insane asylum and his wife disguises herself as the maid in order to make sure no funny business really takes place . . . . The entire situation is far more slapstick than Max usually indulged in , but he is certainly up to the task , behaving just as Charley Chase would a decade later in his great series for Roach . Plus Max manages to insert a few beautiful shots , including a lovely silhouette . If the series was not as successful as had been hoped , this is still a fine two-reeler .
Stan finds his timing	Although he had been starring in short comedies for eight years when he made this movie , Stan Laurel had done little to make it apparent he was one of the great talents of film comedy . Some of his movies of this period are watchable only by the most dedicated of completest . Yet , in this movie , we see he had finally found his own secret to making a funny film comedy : slowing it down . Not for him the frenetic pace of the Keystone imitators , but a slower speed that let him elaborate his gags and let the audience in on the joke : we start laughing as the awful inevitability of the gag becomes apparent and still are surprised at the inventive variations on a theme . This pace is apparent in the very first shot : we see Stan , as a deerstalker-wearing detective , stewing over something at his desk . Eventually , it becomes clear that it is a blacksmith puzzle . A small boy comes in , does the puzzle , reassembles it and hands it back to Stan , who is still confounded by it . No pratfall , no sped-up motion , but a gag that fits the story , the character and Mr . Laurel . The pace continues , speeding up gradually as he is hired by future Roach Studios regular , Anita Garvin , to spy on her husband . I shan't list the gags , but they are good and this movie is an excellent harbinger of things to come .
Flea For Your Life !	A sort of all-star Our Gang comedy , in which all sorts of Roach's regulars and mini-stars - - except Stan Laurel - - appear . The sole gag here is that a bunch of fleas gets loose at the gorgeous Martha Sleeper's wedding , causing all sorts of consternation . See if you can spot Charley Chase .
Sticking to Reality	In an era when American comedy was moving from primitively shot vaudeville scenes towards the brilliantly cut but emotionally retarded efforts of Mack Sennett , and most European comedies were casually tossed off bits of fluff like BOUT LE ZAN STEALS AN ELEPHANT , which may amuse the modern eye with its trained elephant doing tricks , we are confronted with the the exquisite comedy of Max Linder . Max looks like a human being and acts like a human being and lives in an ordinary looking home and world surrounded by other ordinary human beings - - but , oh , does he gets into amusing messes ! In this one , he gets attached to some flypaper in a middle-class home . His mortification is real and so is his comedy . Highly recommended
Excellent Introduction to McLaren - - ignore it	Look at his movies , instead . Our age has somehow gotten the idea that the artist is more important than the art . I don't feel that way . If it weren't for the art , we wouldn't care about the artist more than any random stranger , so let the art be worthwhile . Sometimes these documentaries offer you insight in technique , but according to this film , there's nothing mysterious about McLaren's technique . He just seems to have done things that no one had thought of before , with beauty and good humor . So all you're going to learn is about where McLaren was on several particular days and the fact that he loved what he did . Which is less than you can pick up from his movies .
Excellent Talmadge Soaper	Norma Talmadge stars in a ' Madame X ' story in which the lower-class Talmadge must give up her infant son for his own good and then spends the rest of the movie suffering . When Norma catches her husband cheating on her , he calls her ' a common trollop ' - - no , I don't have that backwards - - and abandons her . After she gives birth and goes to work in a Marseilles boite - - surrounded by women who wear so little makeup they look like bad cross dressers - - her frozen-faced father-in-law appears on the scene with a court order for his grandson - - his son is dead . Desperate to make sure that her son isn't ruined as her husband had been , she gives him to an Anglican Minister's wife who looks a bit like Bing Crosby , since their are leaving their parish in Marseilles and returning to England . Miss Talmadge then spends the next couple of reels wandering around the streets of London , moderately barmy , and it all ends with a Surprising Revelation . Now normally I have little use for this sort of tripe , but Miss Talmadge is simply wonderful in it . She is not tied down , as she so often is , by wearing expensive clothes and exotic hair styles . Insead , you get to see how beautiful she is and how she really inhabits a character and world where she believes this . As a result , I found myself weeping intermittently throughout the entire proceedings . There are a couple of scenes missing from the version I saw - - the road show version seems to have been fifteen or so minutes longer - - and decomposition had struck the leaders and two sections of two or three minutes each - - but the point of this movie is to watch Miss Talmadge act , and that she does . Magnificently .
The Masquers	This short is one of four of the shorts produced by the Masquers Club and distributed by RKO in the early 1930s , now available on DVD from Encore Home Video . This wild burlesque of westerns , directed by Arthur Rosson stars Ned Sparks in his usual frozen-faced performance , as the sheriff , Antonio Moreno as the Mexican bandit - - sort of - - and a host of silent comics and straight performers . It uses every cliche in the book to comic effect and throws in lots of gags while remaining a well-directed and photographed movie . If you love silent movies , slapstick comedy or playing ' spot the star ' this one will be a real treat for you .
Transitional Masterpiece	Iwerks directed this during his brief stay at Termite Terrace , between the collapse of his own studio and his return to Disney . Chuck Jones and Bob Clampett animated , and it's an interesting piece because it shows the hand of all three animators : Iwerks ' strong but predictable story line , Clampett's outrageous gags - - as when an outboard motor goes berserk - - and Jones ' strong sense of humor in character - - Gabby Goat , voiced by Cal Howard , is a loud grouch . Some of the gags are old and annoying - - spark plugs in the stalling car show anthropomorphic features , but with this movie , we can see the Warner Brothers style emerging . There are a few cartoons that stand at the border of styles and remain masterpieces , works like Tashlin's THE FOX AND THE GRAPES and Avery's SCREWY SQUIRREL . . . . this is another . See it .
Bob Clampett	As usual for Bob Clampett in this period , another fine comedy newsreel with an armed forces theme - - with the war going on in Europe and a draft in this country , it was a natural theme and the beginning of the flag waving period . The credited writer is Dave Monahan , the best of Termite Terrace's writers for ' fake newsreel ' cartoons and the jokes have not aged badly . Clampett was one of the two geniuses directing at Schlesinger's cartoon factory in this period - - Chuck Jones ' peak period would start next year and Friz Freleng , although rarely a groundbreaker , just turned out excellent cartoons . But Clampett and Tex Avery were madcaps , Avery slightly better at gag construction but Clampett for his speedy and outrageous animation Don't miss ANY chance to see any of his cartoons .
Fragments of beauty	Only a small part of this cartoon survive , about a minute and a half of lovely images by the foremost cartoonist of the the early 20th century . Several of Windsor McCay's cartoons are considered classics of the art , such as GERTIE THE DINOSAUR and THE SINKING OF THE LUSITANIA , but the draftsmanship and execution of these remnants make it , along with the Fleischer Superman cartoons , make it the most beautiful animation in the history of the art .
Pete Smith	In 1934 , MGM released ten " Goofy Movies " , mostly consisting of " Wotaphony Newsreels " - - a parody of Vitaphone newsreels from competitor Warner Brothers and a cut-down silent from the 1908-1914 era with Pete Smith's sarcastic voice-over on them : in this case " Super-Stupid Pictures presents PASSIONS OF HORSE PISTOL PETE , a Bilious Production . " I usually have little patience with parodies of this type . People always make fun of the style of twenty years before , and what they make fun of may well survive the people who make fun of them . However , Pete Smith , who started out as a publicity man and wound up narrating and producing shorts for MGM for twenty years , including a couple of Oscar-winners , is a very funny man with a sharp eye for the flaws of an era and a delivery to match . And is that Mae Murray in the female lead ? Heavens to Betsy ! As Pete might say .
Regrets	What is Charles Burnett , the director of brilliant , oppressive tales of Black life like KILLER OF SHEEP and MY BROTHER'S WEDDING doing directing a made-for-TV movie on the Hallmark Channel ? The flip and glib answer is that he is a director and can use the work , but watching this movie with its constant level of pain for the first fifty minutes , the answer is : telling the same sort of story he always has . If the settings are cleaner than his earlier work , if the actors are handsomer and more professional , there is still the same sense of anguish and alienation that always suffuses his work . Eriq LaSalle plays Walter , a man who was set to be a professional football player until a knee injury sidelined him . He left his wife , children and hometown and wandered for the better part of a decade until the death of his father brings him back to town for the reading of the will . Anger and resentment suffuse every scene and rightfully and really so . As Walter struggles almost incoherently to try to make some amends for his failures , Burnett and his crew evoke some real sympathy for his plight . However , this being a Hallmark TV-movie , there are some givens : there will be reconciliation , there will be some improvement , and this serves to render the film not banal , but more standard . As a result , this is a very good piece of work , but not a great one . Yet , given the small amount of Mr . Burnett's work over the last forty years , we can be grateful for this . It is a real story , well told and that , alas , is all too rare .
- - See a Peter Lawford Movie	This is a surprisingly strong romantic comedy starring Peter Lawford and Janet Leigh . At first they seem to be playing their stereotypical roles - - Lawford is immensely rich , and annoying : he spends too much , so his fund trustee - - played by the ever dependable Lewis Stone - - hires common , sensible , penny-pinching Janet Leigh to rope in his spending . At first I thought this was going to be another of those unfunny , empty comedies that Don Weis directed Peter Lawford in in the early 1950s , but this is quite different . There is a tremendous amount of character exposition between the gags , flaws and strengths of character together to make this a highly enjoyable movie .
Behind the Closed Doors	Another fine short comedy from Charley Chase's peak period . In reality , this can be said about any Chase short I've seen from about 1926 through his last silent short , MOVIE NIGHT , and wonderful shorts keep showing up from other periods , including the times he directed Billy West in the Teens and well into the sound period . So don't miss any of them . They are funny , well-structured and wise . So what can I say about this movie that might cause you to go look at it in particular , or to notice something that you might not have ? Well , it has Eugene Palette and Anita Garvin , both fine comedians , as Charley's brother and his sister-in-law . . . and their marriage in this movie provide a telling commentary on Charley's marriage to Eugenia Gilbert . Eugene and Anita bicker constantly , breaking Chalrey's crockery , until someone is hurt . . . . and then their love and tenderness come bubbling out . Charley and Eugenia seem to have a perfect marriage , but at the first sign of trouble . . . There is one of Charley's perfectly-timed in-one-door-out-the-other farce sequences . There are very funny gags scattered throughout . And there's Bull Montana in a frilly negligee . That , at least , should make you laugh .
The Girl Friends	One of the best of the ' Girl Friends ' series starring Todd and Kelly after Zasu Pitts dropped out of the series . On the brink of leaving Hollywood forever , Thelma Todd gets to do an important screen test , and the studio is full of comedy veterans doing their shticks , including the always-enjoyable Billy Gilbert doing his famous sneezing routine - - he would later be called on to do the voice of Sneezy in SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARVES .
Camera Tricks	This is a funny variation on a chase farce as a pickpocket escape from les flics by use of a lot of camera tricks . Although they are crude to the modern eye , they are executed with excellent speed and fine humor . More than that , this short subject is an example of a stage of importing Georges Melies ' pure trick film into the film grammar that was now becoming standard . Melies had directed several versions of the Haunted Castle , Inn and Restaurant and his work had already been widely imitated by Edison , Pathe and Walter Booth . Those efforts , however , offered these transformations and left the audience to provide their enjoyment through them alone and the very crude slapstick of seeing a random stranger being baffled . In this variation , however , they serve the purpose of enabling the pickpocket to escape . Thus they become part of the film's grammar rather than the film's subject .
Le Jazz Hot	This is another variation of Melies ' most popular and imitated - - especially by him - - theme first expressed in L'AUBERGE MYSTERIEUSE , as a a composer or music teacher suddenly finds the instruments in his salon running amok , causing much comic havoc These are always a pleasure to watch , especially given Melies ' still uncanny ability to match positions between takes . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Sprightly	One of the last comedies directed by Eddie Cline before he left Keystone to direct Buster Keaton's shorts , this is an excellent little comedy with a fine performance by Ford Sterling out of his Dutch Comic makeup . Nice little gag with Louise Fazenda's hat and one of the funniest title cards I have come across : " You have the grace of a hippopotamus , but lack its charm . "
A League of Their Own	Old-time baseball player Clyde becomes the manager of a girl's softball team in this comedy that plays to his strength as a comic reactor . Lots of good jokes , far more believable situations than most Columbia comedy shorts , probably due to Charley Chase as one of the producers . Highly recommended . Andy Clyde started out in the silent era working for Sennet , but the sound era found him toiling in the short subjects department of Columbia , as well as the usual supporting roles as comic western sidekick , plus good roles wherever a Scotchman was needed - - he is easily found in the RKO version of Barrie's THE LITTLE MINISTER . His number of Columbia shorts is exceeded only by the Three Stooges , and are much better , based on better acting and a wider range of comic takes . They're getting a little difficult to find , but are worth the time of anyone who enjoys good comedy .
Al St . John Underacts !	He screams , he rants , he pulls at his hair , he throws a radio through a wall and dives after it . For Al St . John this is underacting . He was one of the best fall takers in the industry , ranking with Buster Keaton and Lupino Lane , but his idea of acting was to behave like an agile toddler throwing a tantrum . After looking at a sizable portion of his more than two hundred movies over the forty years he spent in the industry , from BANGVILLE POLICE in 1913 to THE BLACK LASH in 1952 - - comic sidekick to Lash LaRue ( Yes , there was an actor who went by that name ) - - I must say that it's also pretty funny for once , because what is he screaming , ranting etc . about ? His wife has been playing contract bridge for three months and the dirty dishes are piling up . This is a very well-made comedy short , directed by Al's uncle , Roscoe Arbuckle under his pseudonym of William Goodrich . The gags are well done and the editing is also carefully handled . Although I strongly dislike Mr . St . John's performances , this is one funny short .
Mabel Normand , Dramatic Actress , Meet D . W . Griffith , Comedy Director	Mabel Normand stars in this comedy-drama from D . W . Griffith in the year 1911 . She would go to Vitagraph , then return to the fold , working for Mack Sennett at Biograph and Keystone . In the meantime , here she is under the direction of the Master , and she acquits herself very nicely indeed . She is wonderful in the first couple of scenes , which are played for light comedy - - all too often her roles in Sennett comedies called for her to stand around while the comics fought over her . She is also very good in the middle , where she blames herself for the death of her mother . She projects real anguish and vulnerability . The ending is a little abrupt , but that misstep can be laid at the feet of Griffith . D . W . Griffith directed over five hundred movies , but all most film buffs know are three or four of the features - - some people seem to think his entire career can be summed up by the rabid racism of BIRTH OF A NATION - - and perhaps half a dozen of the shorts , all melodramas . It is a pleasure to see one of the rarely-viewed dozens of comedies he directed and see his certainty with a lighter touch .
Billy at his best	A truly superior effort by Billy West , most successful of the Chaplin imitators . In this one , he winds up as a waiter at a cabaret and has to take part in a comic boxing match . Although he misses Chaplin's gracefulness by a hair , there is no reason to look down on this effort . While the gags echo Chaplin gags of years gone by and movies yet to come , they are distinctive enough that they are worthwhile on their own merits . Oliver Hardy , made up as he is in Billy's works - - to suggest Eric Campbell , Chaplin's Goliath - - plays . . . well , recognizably , the Mr . Hardy of his peak years : good natured and slightly florid . Credit Charley Chase as director and in a small but amusing role as a manic piano player .
Satchmo !	A rare chance to see a young Louis Armstrong - - in a leopard skin , no less - - sing and play " I'll Be Glad When You're Dead " and other songs during his Hot Five period . The ' story ' , such as it is is a trifle , but does not detract from the performance .
Slick Electioneering Propaganda	This is as slick a piece of campaign film as ever came out of Hollywood - - barring , of course , the anti-Upton Sinclair stuff turned out as newsreels in the 1930s during his campaign for governor of California . President Coolidge is presented as a simple man of the people who helps his cousin with the haying when he is in the neighborhood , works in the building he was born in and lives in the same house his father was born in : just another fellow like you and me . He runs the nation just about as well as we could . Except they don't even use a pronoun , or a name . Surely when someone was reading this off the screen , someone would ask " Who is that ? " " That's President Coolidge . What are you , some damned Bolshevik , you don't even know that ? " Slick .
Everyone loves Mabel	Dogs love her , cats love her , jackasses love her and squirrels love to run up her pants legs . Well , who can blame them , right after a scene where she is shown diving nude . . . . with a suitably long lens of course . Darn it . There is nothing terribly novel about this Cinderella story of a movie , but it is all carried off with a great deal of charm . Mabel even gets to cut a few capers , instead of simply looking charming while the comedians around her make a mess of things . She's not a great physical comedian , but she is a fine actress and under the direction of comedy wunderkind Richard Jones , she gives a fine performance , as does just about everyone in this movie .
Three for Triangle	This is an interesting and atypical short for Triangle . First , Louise Glaum , who was one of the leading vamps of the 1910s - - she usually played the bad girl in William S . Hart westerns - - stars here as the heroine , an atypical good girl role , and she is excellent at it . Second , it is an early leading role for John Gilbert , and he lights up the screen . Why did it take ten years before he became a star ? Third , the director is Reginald Barker , now sadly forgotten , but a fine story-telling director until the mid-thirties - - his best known movie was Ince's production of CIVILIZATION the previous year . and he tell his story with with interesting shots - - the intercutting between the preacher giving his Sunday sermon and the fourpiece band playing at the dance hall across the street is quick , funny and eloquent . In short , this is a fine serious movie . Take a look at it if you get the chance .
No Drag	Max Linder , the most consistently funny and successful film comic before Chaplin came on the scene , did not play a freakish , slapstick comedy . Instead , in film after film , he played a man about town whose stories were punctuated by nice comic bits . His career went into a tailspin after he returned from service in the First World War . In this three-reeler , the young lady with whom he is in love , is sent to a convent to get her away from Max . Max goes after her . While we are not forced to watch the mustachioed Linder in drag , there are some nice gags here as Max manages to get his chauffeur blamed for everything , including an abduction of the girl . A typically very funny movie from a comic with whom every lover of silent comedy should be familiar .
Simple and Funny	This Powers Universal Comedy from 1912 has a very simple premise : a family is going to have the pictures of the two youngsters , a boy and a girl , taken by a photographer . Nothing bizarre takes place , there are no unusual gags , yet this is a very funny comedy : the children torment each other - - and the photographer - - in a highly naturalistic manner . As Mel Brooks has noted , if I cut my finger that's tragedy . If you fall into a manhole and die , that's comedy . Although no one dies in this one , it is comedy . Very little is known about this film besides its release date ( listed as May 12 , 1913 in the Slapsticon 3 ( 2005 ) program book . If the opportunity comes around for you to see it , take a few minutes to do so .
Wit , Wisdom or Words ?	Although THE DEVIL'S DISCIPLES is not one of George Bernard Shaw's best plays , it is a pretty fair historical piece , boasting , as it does , one of his more genuinely witty characters , in the personage of John Burgoyne , sometimes Parliamentarian , sometimes playwright , and always , in this show at least , possessed of a sardonic turn of phrase . The plot of it concerns the relationship between the man of action and the man of thought and their easy ability to impersonate and , indeed , become each other . Shaw's plays are often composed of arguments in which the straw man argues fiercely and well until ultimately simply being unable to stand the blows of his opponents . In this show , when Dick Dudgeon becomes the Reverend Anderson and vice versa , they simply exchange registers and the pair of them become actors exchanging parts in repertory , while Ian Richardson as Burgoyne gets to say all the amusing lines . History becomes reduced to a minstrel show or Shakespearean male actors playing women who disguise themselves as men . Well , if history is farce , then Shaw's witty lines make it n amusing farce . See it for that .
The Community of Eccentrics	A sharply turned romantic comedy as Peter Coke attempts to sabotage an old-fashioned brewery and woo Nova Pilbeam at the same time . Part of the charm of this movie for me is that I see here one of the forebears of the Ealing comedies of the 1950s - - Ronald Neame worked on this , as well as S . C . Balcon , one of the producers of the prototype of the Ealing community of eccentrics , WENT THE DAY WELL ? But is an actually an Ealing comedy ? Well , yes , it's from Ealing , and it's a comedy . But there is more to being an Ealing Comedy than being a comedy and being from Ealing Studios . Will Hays last few movies were not Ealing comedies , even if they were produced by Ealing . So what makes an Ealing Comedy ? Many things , but I will focus on one or two points . In many ways , the Ealing comedies were intensely nostalgic for an England that existed only in the artists ' minds , from the boys'-series-mad gangs of HUE AND CRY to the sentimental murderers of THE LADY KILLERS to Guinness ' betrayed but still still unbowed scientist of THE MAN IN THE WHITE SUIT . The eccentrics find their support in the other eccentrics , here in the workers of the brewery , who include Will Hays ' supporting comics . Undoubtedly I am reading too much into this : blame , if you will , a taste for academic analysis . But this is a fine romantic comedy and if you have a chance to see it , don't miss it .
The Craft of Cartooning	This is , I believe , the best Woody Woodpecker of the 1950s , and I lay the responsibility for this squarely at the feet of the writers , Michael Maltese , taking a break from working a Termite terrace and on his way , eventually , to Hanna Barberra where he would end his career , and Homer Brightman , who spent most of his career working for Walter Lantz . Maltese brings to the script the perfect cartoon logic and timing of gag structure that was developed and raised to its highest pitch at Warner ' - - this is not to denigrate the Lantz cartoons , which were often excellent , but their cartoon universe was a different one than Termite Terrace's - - and Brightman brings his own knowledge of Woody's psychology . As for director Paul Smith , he does a competent job , as always , but he never seemed to show much flair of his own . His talents were up to this task , and thats all any one can ask .
Duke Ellington	Ellington and his orchestra give you a hint of his ' Jungle Period ' music , and then move into " Stormy Weather " sung by Ivy Anderson . Although no one can beat Lena Horne singing this song , it's wonderful to hear a clean recording of Ellington's orchestra at this time , with its lush orchestrations .
Raw Beauty	There is a great power in this movie . William S . Hart abandons his familiar cowboy gear to play the role of a Mountain Man guiding a wagon train across the west while trying to discover the truth about his young brother's murder . If the language veers between the poetic scene-setting titles , and the eye-dialect dialogue , there is great strength in Joseph August's photography and compositions . More than that , in the context of the silent film , Hart is a great actor . A stage star , he understood that the camera catches the smallest movement of the eye , His gestures , while melodramatically overwrought , are never overly wide . He infuses the character with truth . Perhaps this style of movie-making is a mystery to the modern movie-goer . When the shiphands sing ' Weep No More , My Lady ' , and the titles show the lyrics , they obviously have more importance than sound effects added by a Foley artist for artistic verisimilitude . Perhaps the melodramatic plots are as snicker-worthy as the sort of modern story in which villains commit murder for no discernible reason , but because they are crazed mass murderers , and the enforcers of the law catch them , not because it is their job , but because one of the victims is a relative and ' this time it's personal ' . . . but I don't think so . Both sorts of story are mythic in structure , telling us the truths we want to hear , It may well be that the modern movie-goer will have no patience for Hart's movies in general and WAGON TRACKS in particular . If that is the case , alas , they are missing a fine story , beautifully told , with striking black and white photography . Their loss .
Minor Griffith ?	True , there are no big set pieces . We don't see Richard Barthelmess leaping from ice floe to ice floe , we don't see the Little Colonel ramming a Confederate battle flag down a cannon's mouth . What we see are faces : a small boy watching a church elder eat ice cream ; Robert Harron , exultant at getting a scholarship ; and , of course , Lilian Gish . She walks funny . Her outfits are ridiculous and True Heart Susie is , let's face it , not very bright , but she feels deeply and we feel with her . What more , really , can you ask for in a movie ? You get beautifully composed pictures , a fluid story , fine acting . . . . two years later Henry King would tread the same ground with TOL'ABLE David and produce a masterpiece that is not as funny and warm as this . Minor Griffith ? If so , there are few major directors besides Griffith .
Fighting Fire With Fire	This piece marks a return to form for Melies ' story films after several comparatively weak ones in 1907 - - he seems to have been concentrating on the business end of things and leaving matters in the hands of subordinates while Pathe and Gaumont were spending money to eat up his market . Here , however , we have his amazing compositions , back flats that have full dimensionality and some truly fantastic images - - he seems to have added purer tableaux technique to his shots . But how much longer could he stand off the better-financed studios ? This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
The Good News and the Bad	Well , let's get the bad news out of the way first : this very early Charley Chase short - - co-starring Thelma Todd ! - - is missing its soundtrack . Now for the good news : it doesn't need it ! This is essentially a silent movie , and the gags are well-constructed , as you would expect in any Charley Chase movie . Thelma Todd is , as always , wonderful opposite Charley and you can see her almost breaking up a few times . She is also , much to my astonishment , a very good ballet dancer and the main gag of the short - - Charley being flown around stage like Peter Pan - - is strong enough to make the movie , even without the usual Chase touches . So if the opportunity arises to see this Chase subject , even without its soundtrack , don't miss it - - or just about any Charley Chase short subject . And keep an eye out for those old Vitaphone disks .
And , by the way . . . .	In my comments about the Woody Woodpecker cartoon THE BARBER OF SEVILLE , released the same year as this one , I commented on the redesigned Woody . What I did not mention at the time - - and which was brought forcibly to my attention by viewing earlier WW shorts and these two on the newly released WOODY WOODPECKER AND FRIENDS DVD - - highly recommended - - is that veteran cartoon director Seamus Culhane took advantage of the redesigned Woody to produced visually more sophisticated cartoons , beautiful work that is a pleasure to look at as well as funny . All is not simple energy and violence , driven simply by the plot requirements that Woody must do something violent and funny to his foe , which opponent is never completely motivated . Here , instead , he is opposed by Wally the Walrus - - with a Swedish accent voiced by the delightful Hans Conried - - who wants a pleasant , simple afternoon at the beach . In short , this is a wonderful cartoon , , well directed , well written , well drawn and highly recommended for your attention . See it on the DVD if you must , but if you can find a theater that shows in in real Technicolor on a screen - - well , that would be cartoon heaven , wouldn't it ?
Great Film Version of the Radio Serial	William K . Howard was given the task of turning a popular radio serial into a movie , and succeeded . A carefully-written script that actually paid attention to the way cases are tried was the first step . Some great support , particularly Skeets Gallegher and the great Zasu Pitts helps . A restless camera helps keep up speed , and some great sets - - particularly the nightclub set - - make this a fine movie , even if the leads , who became lovers more than twenty years later , had no memory of working together on this one . I wish to call your attention , if you ever have the chance to see this movie - - it is very rare and the one print I saw was a 16 mm . print , blurry as you would expect - - to the swish cuts . A swish cut is when the camera starts to pan away , then the illusion of high speed movement starts and when the camera slows down it is panning into a new shot - - maybe a quarter second elapses . It adds tremendous excitement to a sequence and Howard uses a lot of them here . Unhappily , a lot of editing techniques for shot changes were on their way out . By about 1935 , Hollywood had settled on the now-standard techniques , except for a few movies which attempt to evoke the older movies . A loss to film grammar , but what can we do about it now , except to enjoy these techniques when we see them ?
Lloyd loves Lizzie	Tin Lizzie , that is , a model T . This is a beautifully constructed silent comedy of a Man and His Car . Lloyd Lloyd was the model for later Hal Roach comedians , and his plots and situations were recycled for later comedians . Here , it is done in its pure form .
ka-boom !	Melies had a sense of playfulness about his films , and this is one of the more amusing ones : Melies takes a head - - which is Melies ' head , attaches it to some bellows , and blows it up like a balloon . True , there's no deep thought involved , but there needn't be . It's less than a minute and easily sustains the one joke . Melies was inventing techniques as he went along , borrowing from other media , just as D . W . Griffith shortly would . There is an exuberance in seeing something done for the first time that is sorely lacking in later uses of the same editing effect . I suppose it's because Melies was having fun himself .
The Subtle Brother	Although best known today - - if he is remembered at all - - as the brother of Cecil B . Demille and the father of choreographer Agnes Demille , William Demille was an excellent director in the silent era . He did not make the flashy pictures with the stunning scenes that his brother is best remembered for , but smaller pictures about more ordinary people , filled with humor and insight . This story , about Thomas Meighan's world-weary character treads the line between humor and mockery expertly . Meighan's Conrad seeks to recapture his zest for life by reliving those times he recalls so fondly : the simple enjoyment of a child's picnic , the recollection of a girlfriend and the great love of his life , the woman he loved in an Italian resort when he was 17 - - played beautifully , hilariously , many years later , by Kathlyn Williams . All attempts end in disaster . The story is solid , the acting is wonderful and the cinematography , dimmed a it by the age of the film prints , still works excellently . Highly recommended .
Two hams and some hard-boiled eggs	Superb silent version of the story of Francois Villon . Although remade in the thirties as IF I WERE KING , with Frank Lloyd directing , Preston Sturges scripting and Ronald Colman starring , this version is even better . Barrymore , with a cohort of comedians , plays the comic fool and the wine-depressed Villon with a verve that Colman could not match . The photography is startling in its beauty and innovation and the supporting cast , particularly Conrad Veidt in his American premiere , the incredibly beautiful Marceline Day , and the supporting comics , Slim Summerville and Hank Mann , steal every scene they are in . It is a shame that Barrymore did so few first-rate comedies . Among his sound films , only his lead in TWENTIETH CENTURY and his supporting role in MIDNIGHT can compare to this , and those stand up only because of his superb voice . In this silent movie , Barrymore must tell his tale without benefit of words , and he does so , alternately hilariously unrecognizable as the King of the Fools and tenderly as Villon in love . He even gets to leap around in the swashbuckling style of Fairbanks , most convincingly . He also lets his supporting cast have their share of glory , capering in this ensemble work like any talented comic of the era . Finally , a brief word about Alan Crosland , a director known today only for directing the first talking feature , THE JAZZ SINGER in the same year this was released . Crosland was a careful , innovative , delightfully original director , and it is a shame that more of his works are not known . Perhaps this movie , far more interesting as a movie than his best-known work , will be your introduction to his other talents . If so , you could do far worse .
Lubitsch Without Lubtitsch	Samson Raphaelson , one of Lubitsch's favorite screenwriters , tackles the script of this comedy of manners , Frank Lloyd directs and Janet Gaynor stars , ably supported by an excellent cast - - and they pull it off . First , this is probably Miss Gaynor's most successful venture outside her usual acting vein in the talkies . She's very good at playing hard-working , honest , vulnerable girls . But she starts out with a scene with G . P . Huntley as the two most useless featherbrains in the world that left the tough Museum of Modern Arts audience gasping for breath from laughter , and continues with the plot in place , with the occasional belly laugh that keeps you interested . There are some lovely cameos , including a turn by Ned Sparks that will make you fall out of your chair . Even Lew Ayres , not noted for his comic abilities does a few lovely double takes . Director Frank Lloyd is thought , nowadays , to have been another competent studio hack , useful enough for big productions like MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY but not for anything that required nuance . Here is one of the films that makes that claim a lie . This is still a comedy of manners , but we can see the Screwball Comedy evolving here , with its dual class warfare / war of the sexes themes . If you have a chance to see this , do not pass it up .
Vally's Vish Market	This is an excellent Chilly Willy cartoon as the silent little penguin discovers that Wally Walrus is running a fish market . Jack Hannah , the latest in a long line of Disney refugees , directs Chilly with a series of Chaplinesque movements and gestures and steals one of Larry Semon's best gags along the way . Hannah also bends cartoon reality in a manner new to me : as Willy steals more and more fish , using cartoon cutouts , we see Wally's fantasy of immense wealth parading as he shouts orders for ' more vish ! ' in the form of live-action sequences of fishing ! Hannah also manages some nice movement given the minimalistic detailing and in-betweening that Lantz ' budgets permitted in this period .
I can call gophers from the vasty deep	Topnotch Goofy Gophers cartoon , doing what they do best : pricking the vanity of the inept , in this case , a dog who wishes to give up doing slapstick cartoons for Warner Brothers and do Shakespearian roles instead . Although this cartoon is credited to McKimson , it shows the hand of Art Davis , the most under-rated of the directors at Termite Terrace - - the hambone hound likes to wear a bow tie . Davis had his own unit , but it was folded into McKimson's in the late 1940s . A pity , as he was a much better director than McKimson . Take a look at this one and see .
He'll Stand On His Head For You	Another of Melies ' wonderful little trick films . although to the modern eye it is not difficult to penetrate as Melies splits himself into four Melies and proceeds to hold himself up , one in either hand and the last on his head , there is something here that the modern eye rarely sees ; the joy of the performer . Melies is clearly having a lot of fun , both in the performance and his anticipation of his reaction , and when was the last time you saw that in a film ? This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
A Puzzling Failure	This movie was a fairly famous failure in its day , cut down afterward to a great two-reeler , CHASING CHOO-CHOOS . Many reasons have been offered as to why it failed - - mostly pacing issues - - but taking a look at it , it doesn't wash . It is a well-constructed movie , the gags are funny and heartfelt all the way through , and it doesn't sag in the middle . It is , in short , well worth your time . So why did it fail ? I was struck with one possibility : there was no shortage of good slapstick features in this period , with the leads great comics : Chaplin , Keaton , Lloyd , Raymond Griffith at Paramount . . . . and certainly Keaton was having trouble turning out money-making features . And the four I named were not only top comics , they were also good-looking men too . Looking at Banks in this movie , one is struck by the fact that he looks like an ordinary fellow , obviously Italian , and one , perhaps , who could afford to cut down on the pasta . Whatever its reasons for failure at the time , they don't apply now . If you get a chance to see this , as a cut-down short or in its original released length , don't pass it up .
Pure Westlake : Comedy of Depression	A great adaptation of one of Donald Westlake's sad-sack comedies , in this case about Antonio Banderas , an unsuccessful art gallery owner who ekes out his income by a variation on the Bible Salesman scam . He winds up engaged to a funny , screeching Melanie Griffith , in lust with her sister - - and Melanie's gangster ex-husband is after him . This won't be to everyone's taste : Westlake's humor is a lot like Tim Burton's and it's a shame Burton has never tried his hand at one of Westlake's novels . None of the screen adaptations of his works have served him well , although the hard-to-find HOT STUFF , from his own script works well . But this is about as good as it gets , with a perfect supporting cast , including Eli Wallach , Darryl Hanna , Danny Aiello and the woman who can make you laugh while she's having a nervous breakdown : Joan Cusack . Give this a try . And if you know Tim Burton , suggest he try a Dortmunder novel or two .
Sea Wolf sans Nietzsche	Tourneur's last silent movie shows his full command of the silent film grammar - - much of which he invented - - in his beautiful compositions and still camera , punctuated for excellent effect by purposeful moving and process shots . He never uses the camera to make the viewer gasp at his brilliance , but only to punctuate a psychological point or improve the film's pace . The story , from the novel by Franzos Keremen , is a commentary on Jack London's SEA WOLF . London's Wolf Larsen is a Nietzschean philosopher . The captain , in this movie , is a schemer among brutes - - a correction to London's drunken maunderings that might have served humanity better . It is the gentle cook , played by Vladimir Sokoloff that is the real hero of the story after the crew mutinies and kills the ship's master . The movie also stars Marlene Dietrich , a few months before von Sternberg supposedly plucked her from obscurity . She looks a lot like Claudette Colbert in this movie and shows her command of film acting already . Very highly recommended .
Great WWI Melodrama	An excellent melodrama from World War One , with von Stroheim as an over-the-top Hun who rips the hair from Belgian children , knocks down grandmothers , shoots them , tries to rape women and destroys German soldiers ' musical instruments with the statement " You are here to fight , not to fiddle ! " - - the Man You Love To Hate in full roar . The story itself , is about an aristocratic Long Islander who finds God and a love of his fellow man in the clean dry trenches . It is , in essence , fairly typical of the sort of war film made in the era and its prettying of the battlefield in understandable in the context of propaganda . This movie , sometimes credited as the last release of the Edison film unit , is magnificently directed by Alan Crosland , who would go on to direct THE JAZZ SINGER and other good movies : he is another of the under-appreciated silent directors . I wrote ' magnifcently ' and I mean it . The story is told clearly and interestingly with every shot well composed and fine use of cutting speed to increase tension . If you have any taste at all for silent movies , you need to see this one .
Give It Back to the Indians	I post this review in disagreement with the comments posted by F . Gwynplaine MacIntyre who , I feel , has missed much about this movie . First , a minor factual error : the cowboys that Richard Dix uses to impress Esther Ralston are not bums picked up by the railroad siding ; they are the current crop of cowboys , even though they hail from the Bowery and round up cattle using Ford Model Ts instead of mustangs . That taken care of , let us consider the picture . It is in the mold of the social comedies that Douglas Fairbanks Sr . was highly successful at doing until he switched to swashbucklers with THE MARK OF ZORRO - - there is even one small Fairbanks-style gag when Dix hops over some border greenery . Like many of the successful Fairbanks vehicle of the ' Teens , it is a comedy of manners , in which Fairbanks takes on some current fad and shows how a good attitude will solve most problems . The contrived problem posed by the plot is that Richard Dix is in love with Esther Ralston - - and why not ? - - and her mania centers , as does Oscar Wilde's best known comedy of manners , on the sort of man she wants to marry . He need not be named Ernest , but he must be a man of the West , a man's man , not someone who has been Womanhandled until he is effete . So Dix goes out to his uncle's ranch , only to discover , as Mr . MacIntyre notes , that all the ' real ' cowboys have gone into the movie business , and those who are now doing the work like their creature comforts . Mr . MacIntyre does not like the gags involved , but his mislike of them is largely based on what he calls ' a very contrived comedy . ' Aye , that it is . Very few comedies of manner survive their own era . Oscar Wilde's do because the writing is so very witty . WOMANHANDLED seems to have survived on the basis of its gags : certainly the usually tough audience at the Museum of Modern Art roared at them . . . and some of them were surprisingly subtle . SPOILER : Consider this one : the ranch has a Black ( or Negro , or African American or Colored ) family , she as the cook , he doing odd chores . They have three boys . When Miss Ralston , her aunt and her horrid small cousin come to the ranch , Richard Dix dresses this family up as Indians . " What tribe are they ? " She asks him . " Blackfeet . " The contemporary audience may have laughed at these Black people being forced to pretend to be Indians , but I laughed at Miss Ralston's naive acceptance of them as Indians . . . . and realized , a second later , that such ridiculous casting was standard in that period in Hollywood , and so the gag had three targets . Miss Ralston and Mr . Dix are not comic actors , and that , in my opinion , hurts this movie slightly . Still , the careful construction means that you don't need comedians ; good straight actors will do nicely . That slight flaw makes this movie less than perfect to me , but I still award it a .
An Understandable Failure	Porter's last follow up to LIFE OF AN American FIREMAN is a much better movie with a better sense of story and a definite sense of something to say about what a policeman does . However , while it does have its moments of excitement , like rescuing a drowning woman or overtaking a runaway horse , it lacks the big set piece fire that make the most of the earlier movie . Instead , POLICEMAN offers us a study of individuals who have families like you and me and stand ready to deal with whatever emergencies pop up - - and pop up , they do . If it weren't for Porter's careful attention to continuity , this might have resulted in an episodic mess . It does not . Yet , even so , the calm of the policemen , their ability to deal with the crises as they turn up , make them less exciting . And that is probably why FIREMAN was a hit and this movie was a flop , despite four years of enormous advances in cinematic technique - - that and the fact that the people who made up nickelodeon audiences did not look upon policemen as their friends . This does remain an interesting piece that shows the advances in technique that were occurring at the time . Give this one a look , right after FIREMAN if you can .
Wagon Wheel Joe goes it alone	A lovely little B picture with all the usual Joe Lewis touches . . . . people ripping up pillows and auras of lurking fear . Also , alas , an ending that comes out of nowhere , because , apparently , the auteur has lost interest in the movie , or perhaps because as a B picture it has to fit into a slot .
It veers	Griffith and the best of his stock company - - Lilian Gish and Bobby Harron , Lionel Barrymore in heavy makeup and Alfred Paget - - slew surefootedly from comedy to tragedy and back to comedy - - comedy ? In a story about a lynching ? Yes indeed . Gish and Harron are , as always , wonderful in this western shot out in the west on a visit . With Gish , you watch the whole body , especially the hands . Although he directed more than 500 films of every length and description , not much Griffith is available save for four of his features and perhaps half a dozen of his shorts . If a chance to look at this occurs , take it for a corrective to the one-dimensional view of Griffith that has become fashionable .
Real Gone	Before commenting on this episode series , I should warn you : apparently only two of these survive in any real form and I've only seen one of them - - Episode Two , titled , appropriately enough , ' Round Two ' , so my comments may or may not be of much use . Well , here goes . This is great . It was made by a bunch of people who had never made films before and they do some very interesting things : Reginald Denny , at the very start of his career , played Americans in the movies - - his accent being inaudible in the silents . Here he plays an ex-college athlete whose father has gone broke , so he must make a living as a prizefighter ; and his manager is a nice enough guy , but he likes to get into crap games and make unhappy wagers . . . . . so things are at a low point . There are three points I wish to call to your attention , in case you ever get to see this movie - - and it is available now on DVD . First , the characters rather breezily break the fourth wall - - the manager stops the action early on to fill in newcomers as to What Has Gone Before - - a delightful bit of informality . Second , the people involved have managed to install into this movie some of the real grunge of boxing gyms , something that seems to have been missed by everyone except Robert Wise in THE SET-UP ( 1949 ) and Clint Eastwood in MILLION DOLLAR BABY ( 2004 ) . THat's a long time between authentic grunge , but somehow almost every film maker seems to have missed the low characters and low settings that a boxing gym has , and the marginal characters who can waver between low comedy and pathos . And the story is told in a brisk and interesting fashion by people who seem to not to know that you can't do things that way in the movies - - and it works when they do it . In case I'm being obscure , highly recommended . It is available on DVD from reelclassicdvd . com - - go to the web site and poke around . The proprietor , Mark Roth , informs me he's going to releasing another episode on DVD soon .
Fatty Ham	Yes , I know , Roscoe Arbuckle didn't like to be called ' Fatty ' , but I couldn't resist the joke . This is a fine Lloyd Hamilton short from his peak period , directed by Roscoe . The two work together with lots of good gags and Roscoe's usual attention to the details of shooting the picture in an interesting manner . Most comedians preferred flat lighting and a still camera to make them more interesting . Roscoe uses a couple of long tracking shots and some nice camera trickery to tell his story and to show Ham as a fine actor , as well as a talented comedian . This story plays with some interesting themes , like Lloyd's classic MOVE ALONG : here it's about perceptions of reality and the confusion that movies make of them . Or you might choose to ignore such issues and laugh your head off .
Better than Barbara Stanwyck !	I think Miss Stanwyck was a great actress , but when I look at the version of STELLA DALLAS that King Vidor directed her in twelve years after this silent version . . . . . well , something always bothered me about it . WHY was she supposed to be such a monster ? She was Barbara Stanwyck . All right , she wasn't dressed as beautifully as she was in THE LADY EVE , but being a little bit frumpy isn't against the law , especially when you look like Barbara Stanwyck . But when Belle Bennett dresses up in this movie , she is a well-meaning horror , wearing stripes , frills , lace , feather , rings on her fingers , probably bells on her toes . . . . . and a fat suit . You couldn't have gotten Miss Stanwyck into a fat suit . She had her eye on her career . But Belle Bennett had her eye on making this movie as good as possible , so she becomes a fat monster , loving her daughter and utterly clueless . It's a great performance . Also great is the way Henry King directs the sequences that take place in the mill town . No one had a better eye for the details of small town life than Henry King , from TOL'ABLE David through WAIT TILL THE SUN SHINES NELLIE . Jean Hersholt also has a good role as Ed Munn , and a lovely comic turn on the train into the city . Ronald Colman is fine , exuding the melancholia that he used throughout the 1930s whenever he had to run away to the Foreign Legion or face the guillotine . Alice Joyce is sedate and charming , a fine counterpoint for Bennett . Lois Moran , as Stella's daughter is adorable , and Douglas Fairbanks Jr . , in his first real role , is excellent . There are a number of plot points that must be gotten through and which are better indicated in Frances Marion's script than in the 1937 version . . . even though some points seem to be skipped over , they are butchered worse in the sound version . Something always seems to be missing from these weepers . It may be that it is simply that I am not able to appreciate the fine points of these things , but there you go . However , despite these minor failings , the above-mentioned virtues , as well as the classic final shot of Stella watching the wedding through the window , this is a great film , and it is only my annoyance at some of the minor failings of the translation from book to film that keeps me from considering this perfect . But it is ten times the film that the sound remake is . Even if the voice I hear in my head when Miss Bennett moves her lips is that of Barbara Stanwyck .
Funny !	This short subject , one of a long series of Kennedy's ' Everyman ' series at RKO , somehow manages to be simultaneously typical of the series , amazingly funny , and say something real about the human condition . Edgar and wife - - played by his usual spouse in this series , Florence Lake - - have witnessed the life slowly bubble out of their marriage , and realize it . So Edgar puts on his old sailor suit from twenty years before and courts his wife - - a bit of roleplaying to put the zest back into their marriage - - SEX under the increasing stricture of the newly-enforced Production Code . The cast and crew have a lot of fun hiding in plain sight . And the final gag is a magnificent howler . If the opportunity arises to see this , don't miss it .
Annie's Got Ants in her Pantry	Wonderful , off-kilter late Chase effort has him playing the part of four brothers , with clearly distinct personalities , all of whom meet Betty Mack , causing her no end of confusion . He also sings in this one , a patter song with the refrain " Annie's Got Ants In Her Pantry . " Look out for Stymie Beard in a small part .
The Mystic Power of Love	At his peak in the 1930s and 1940s , to watch Frank Borzage with pleasure , you have to believe in love as something more than a variety of lust . It can be transformative when living ( as in the terrific and subtle A MAN'S CASTLE ) and , in the hands of performers like Janet Gaynor and Charles Farrell , can even overcome death - - although I should caution the observant film watcher that the enormous power of those movies lies in the unequaled abilities of Miss Gaynor , who was a truly great film actor ; Mr . Farrell was a good one and gave many a fine performance , but it finally occurred to the people who made the movies that no one would go out of his way to see Mr . Farrell on his own . Although the influence of Murnau on Borzage is usually cited as key , looking at this movie , made three years before SUNRISE , we can see that the essence of Borzage is already in place : the small figures against the enormous vistas , the seemingly inevitable workings-out of the plot but most especially the way people look at each other : Buck Jones never gave a better performance than as the title character of this piece . As another reviewer has put it , it's all in the eyes . Visually , Borzage has not settled on his signature look , a gauzy effect achieved , according to legend , by filming through a pair of sheer white hose that softened the image and forced the audience to see what was in the viewer's heart . Instead , the print that was used in the Borzage / Murnau at Fox set seems both a little flat - - perhaps from a safety-stock print - - and possessed of a bit of dazzle on the right side of white objects . Perhaps this effect was intended . Perhaps not . In either case , this is a most welcome addition to my collection of silent movies .
Oh , the Places You'll Go	This is one of the best of the wartime ' Private Snafu ' films made by Termite Terrace , usually written by Theodore Geisel ( aka Dr . Seuss ) . Because they were intended only for soldiers , they were usually far more open and frank than movies intended for civilian showings and concerned themselves with humorously designed warnings about how to behave In this case , the movie is about being stationed in the Aleutians and their strategic importance in the war . A fine light curtain raiser if you're looking at a deep-dish world War two movie - - or perhaps as a treat before seeing John Ford's masterpiece , SEX HYGIENE ( both available on Youtube ) .
Definitely On	Veteran Comedy Director Eddie Cline leads Wheeler and Woolsey in one of their best vehicles . They pair off as partners in a pill manufacturing company who can't stand each other and wrestle each other for the company , with the loser to be the other one's manservant for a year . The duo's timing and delivery is far better suited to the Marx-Brothers-like exchange of insults liberally admixed with physical abuse than the odd sort of friendship they demonstrated in some of their other vehicles . Cline starts the show out with a wonderful long sequence in which the two do a dance and abuse each other . Cline , whose career included Keaton's first solo shorts and the best W . C . Fields comedies would watch his career slowly begin to topple about now . If you get a chance to see this one , made while he was still at his peak , do so .
Mutt and Jeff	Mutt and Jeff never displayed much personality in the movies . They were , like many comedians of the silent era , two guys who did funny things and slowly faded away . Pairs like Laurel & Hardy were much more durable because they had actual personalities . Nevertheless . . . Nevertheless , this is the single best Mutt & Jeff cartoon I have seen . The drawing and animation are much fuller than they are for most cartoons of this era , and the jokes sharper and bordering on the absurd : enough to make you burst out laughing . Credit long-time director Charlie Bowers , who was just about the break the confines of the animation studios with his mixed media masterpieces such as A WILD ROOMER , NOW YOU TELL ONE and GOOFY BIRDS . You can see his cartoon sensibilities start up here if you've run out of those .
the care and cares of the nouveau riche	Mr . Hardy inherits a large fortune and takes Mr . Laurel and his dog along to act as his butler - - - Mr . Laurel , that is . The Boys hadn't quite settled into their screen personae when this was made , so there is still a bit of backing and filling as Ollie comes home drunk and in high spirits on his birthday , while Stan tries to get him to bed and preserve his own self-esteem . There are a couple of amusing bits involving a dog and a fountain , but the lack of a common foe for their bumbling - - Charley Hall or Jimmy Finlayson , for example - - means that they wind up squabbling among themselves . Not among their best , but highly amusing on its own terms .
King of Directors	Henry King , who directed this picture , had a long and distinguished career that lasted from 1915 from 1962 . He directed perhaps as many classic movies as anyone , from TOL'ABLE David ( 1920 ) through TENDER IS THE NIGHT ( 1962 ) . Yet if you look at his sound movies from 1935 on , you will see very little camera movement . Like many of his contemporaries , King set down his camera and let it sit for a while , allowing the movie-goer to make up his mind gradually . This , however , is a movie of short takes and moving cameras . It might not be apparent to someone familiar with movies shot only in the past twenty years , but watch what happens when Gregory Peck is in the shot : the camera moves like mad to keep him in the frame and you get frequent point of view shots from the character's perspective . Also watch for the perfectly framed compositions , another hallmark of the directors who started their work in the silent era . A lot of credit , of course , to his regular cameraman , Leonard Shamroy , a great script and marvelous performances . But that moving camera is not his usual style .
Thrilling	This fast-moving , late-silent serial is a model of the form as former Secret Serviceman " Lightning " Hutch " and his pals attempt baffle a gang of bad guys who are after the super-scientific poison gas - - and Clifford Price , who is after his girl . The cinematography by Leon Shamroy is modeled after the classic serials of Feuillade , particularly LES VAMPIRE and is a thing of beauty . Although stylized , the serial form in LIGHTNING HUTCH is not decadent and it still shows its vigor as a competitor against the feature movie for the longer form of cinema .
Best commercial American film ever !	Of course , it's easy to be the best , when you're the only one , and this picture , as the first film released commercially by the Edison company - - there are a couple of test films that date from 1891 - - qualifies . Considering the standards of the time , it's also pretty good , demonstrating motion and composition in a decent fashion .
Termite Terrace Burns the Mouse	In 1935 , Disney's MICKEY'S FIRE BRIGADE was a great cartoon . Three years later , under the direction of Frank Tashlin , PORKY THE FIREMAN took the same subject and did it forty times as well . Clocking in at 40 gags per minute , a sensible plot and excellent animation , this movie marked the end of Disney's domination of animation . Three years later , the Clampett satire of FANTASIA , A CORNY CONCERTO , would seal the issue .
Sprinkle Profusely With Crushed Duck	One of the funniest Daffy Duck movies as Daffy , selling cookbooks door to door , shows up at the Klondike Cabin of starving Yosemite Sam and his brother . Duffy at his brashest is hilarious and the sight gags have never been bettered . Freleng's strength was fitting gags into a story line that made sense . . . . of sorts . This is a prime example .
Flattering himself	L'AUBERGE ENSORCELE is probably Melies ' most imitated single film : a traveler enters a hotel room and things don't just go wrong : thy go terribly pear-shaped as beds vanish and reappear , boots walk off and pants fly away in a side-splitting combination of stage and film magic . I have seen variations from Edison , Booth , Gaumont and Melies redid this at least three times in increasingly elaborate variations . Still , there's always tremendous fun in seeing something done for the first time and Melies ' sense of fun is always great to see . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Harry Just Doesn't Understand	. . . . well , anything . And everything . People are a constant mystery to him . Not that he's been paying attention , but still . People are strange things , and so are non-people . Harry can get into discussions with inanimate objects with as much personal satisfaction as with people - - more , I would imagine , since he has a chance of outarguing them . Not a certainty , of course . . . . Harry plays a World War One prisoner of war who escapes from the Germans on Armistice Day - - they were busy celebrating something and he took his opportunity . He wanders into Bomania - - wherever that may be , but it's all the same to Harry - - where he is an exact double for the King . So Harry plays a clueless Prisoner of Zenda . There are some lovely gag sequences built into this short : Harry gets into an argument with a cow and blows it up into rib roasts - - sure to infuriate any PETA members in the neighborhood . He loses an argument with a suit of armor . Gorgeous Natalie Kingston plays the Queen and there is a very sweet-tempered happy ending . Langdon's career was riding high at this point and he was about to make two excellent features : THE STRONG MAN and TRAMP TRAMP TRAMP . His screen persona , the elfin-faced naif , is not to everyone's taste and may not be to yours . Take a look at this top notch short subject and see if you like him .
Bibbety Bobbety Boo	The earliest surviving of Melies super-productions - - the best known one , of course , is his Trip to the Moon , the story begins right where Melies can strut his stuff with the appearance of the Fairy Godmother . Some of the earliest sequences are beautifully hand-tinted . Of greater technical interest is Melies ' experimentation with film grammar : he uses a fade to get from Cinderella's garret to the ball . And of course , there are lots of his combination of stage and film magic , as mice are transformed into footmen , pumpkins appear out of nowhere and the fairy godmother leaves by being lowered into the stage . Tremendous fun and far more watchable than any other version through the 1920s . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
That Old Devil Georges	A priest is officiating at a convent , when suddenly he is transformed into the devil , who frightens away the nuns and turns the place into a outlet of Pandemonium . Another of Melies ' wonderful combinations of stage and film magic , this tells a fine little story of the triumph of faith . But how did he get into the convent in the first place ? This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Laughing at Comedy	Richard Talmadge has just been thrown over by the seventeenth only girl he'll ever love and his father , who has just invented a clockwork death ray says he needs excitement . So when his father's secretary , who is a spy , steals the key part and Richard has to rescue it and pretty Eva Novak , Richard thinks it's all an act to pep him up - - and goes along with the gag . Talmadge started out as Douglas Fairbanks Sr . ' s stuntman , and his comedies - - of which this is the best - - are peppered with Fairbanks-style physical gags . Later , after his career as a movie lead faded out , he returned to being a stunt man and stunt director , in many ways paralleling the career of Yakima Canutt . But while neither became a huge star , they turned out some good movies and this one is a heck of a lot of fun .
Better But as Funny ?	This was the first appearance of the redesigned Woody Woodpecker , intended to make him more appealing - - no buckteeth . The ongoing competition to turn out the best short cartoons in the business were still on . The Fleischers were out of it , Paul Terry was idling at Fox with his guaranteed contracts , and Disney was distracted by features and the aftermath of a strike . Meanwhile , Tex Avery was being given a free hand at MGM , and Schlesinger had just sold his cartoon factory to Warner Brothers . But to turn out the best cartoons you needed a good character and good scripts . Lantz could buy talent , particularly talent eager to escape from Uncle Walt , but what about stars ? A brief attempt to revive Oswald the Lucky Rabbit turned out too precious to stomach . Andy Panda was too bland and Wally Walrus was a good supporting comic , but nothing more . Woody Woodpecker had color , energy and sound . All he needed was a new look and a couple of vehicles to show him off to best advantage . And that's this movie . Seamus Culhane was an old hand in the field - - he'd been directing cartoons since 1930 , and he directed this one for speed and energy , splitting Woody into five or six images at some points . The whole thing explodes off the screen and is a fine , funny cartoon . Plus it's a wonderful handling of the music from ' The Barber of Seville ' .
Not a Great Movie , Just Great Performances	Yes , this movie has tremendous problems with the script . It would have taken very little to have put in a couple of prefigurements of plot points , such as Harvey's arrhythmia . The subplot with Maggie Walker and the Pole could have actually gone some place , and the issue of who got to give the bride away could have been set up better . Yes , this whole thing has been done a hundred times , and with much better writing , too , as , for example , with BRIEF ENCOUNTER . Yet , in the middle of all these problems , we have at the heart of this movie , two wonderful performances . Emma Thompson is , as always , wonderful , and as for Dustin Hoffman , it has been a long time since he has had a leading role in a movie . . . . . . and the simplicity and realism of his line readings as a man looking at the end of his life as he knows it and suddenly confronted with a choice he will be happy to make is utterly engaging . Yes , it would be better to have a better written movie , but I am happy to have this much in the way of opportunity for two wonderful performances .
The Old Dark House	Edwina Black has died and an autopsy shows she was poisoned with arsenic . Meanwhile , her widower and his secretary ( played by the wonderful Geraldine Fitzgerald ) , who have been waiting for her to die , are preparing to go off to the Continent . While the police inspector ( played slowly and perfectly by Roland Culver ) investigates , they turn on each other in private . Who poisoned Edwina Black ? Who is lying ? Maurice Elvey , one of the great forgotten talents of the British film industry directs this as an Old Dark House mystery , where the spirit of the late Edwina Black is evinced by the low light levels and the occasional tinkling of a crystal chandelier . His use of camera movement is almost undetectable unless you look for it - - it serves merely to maintain composition . Elvey was among the most subtle of directors in the British industry - - he did what he did in support of the movie , lacked any of the immodesty that the auteur-loving writers of the CAHIERS DE CINEMA adored and made an excellent movie in the process . Take a look at this one and see .
Black on white	If you are reading this because you have seen Lotte Reiniger's DIE ABENTUR DES PRINZEN ACHMED and are wondering if this measures up to that movie , the first animated feature , then the answer is yes . It's Cinderella done in Reiniger's exquisite articulated figures , similar in concept to stop motion . The figure of Cinderella is lovely ; those of her step sisters humorously ugly ; and the story you already know . Go look at it . If you don't know Lotte Reiniger's work - - well , I can't think of how you found your way to this review , but here it is : Reiniger's silhouette movies call on you to exercise a totally different aesthetic from any other type of movie you have seen . First of all , they are perfect black and white pictures : the backgrounds are done in shades of grey , but the silhouettes are black , and somehow that draws a discreet shade over the entire movie . One feels as if one is spying on something so beautiful and perfect that it is almost embarrassing , like looking through a keyhole at your parents . There is an intimacy about them that makes you hold your breath , and her silhouettes are so beautifully designed and decorated that they lend an air of delicate beauty to everything about them . So . You know the story of Cinderella and you should go and look at this movie . Right now . Shoo !
General Panic	You're a star of silent short comedies and your first feature is a bomb . What do you you do ? You cut eighty percent of it and leave the good parts . That's what happened here . Apparently his feature , PLAY SAFE wasn't a draw at the theaters , so they cut out almost all the explication and left in just enough to set up a marvellous sequence in which Monty Banks chases after a runaway train in order to rescue his sweetheart . Beautifully timed and shot on site , this has an immediacy and reality that helps make great thrill comedy .
Ah , Nuts !	From the always feverishly cartoon mind of Charley Bowers comes one of his few sound films , a burlesque of the Ripley's Believe It Or Not cartoon strip - - Ripley also appeared in a couple of series of movies doing his drawings . But the point of this review is to tell you about Charley Bowers , who led a weird life and wound up in the movies , first directing Mutt & Jeff cartoons and then starring in some stop-motion films towards the end of the silent era in which weird and weirder things happened . Then he disappeared , raising his head up two or three times for movies like this one and WILD OYSTERS in 1940 . The three subjects in this short concern circus peanuts , autos that lay eggs or perhaps vice versa and a boiled lobster . Has to be seen to be be believed , and even then you don't .
Money is the Root of All Magic	Another lovely series of magic ticks for Melies , as a sneak thief tries to steal some moneybags from old nick - - and all Pandemonium breaks loose ! even by Melies ' standards , there is some excellent stage magic , as imp after imp - - and impishly cute girls they are too - - emerge from the box , step to the floor and walk around , while others come out - - feet in sight all the time ! As always , done in Melies ' typical blend of showmansip and good humor . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
First Arbuckle Masterpiece	Charles Murray is having trouble with his in-the-park flirting , so he goes to see a ' Trouble Mender ' . The answer to his problem is obvious : the trouble mender - - a man who spends his time moving through sliding panels , materializing hillbilly henchmen and himself - - will kill him . No more life , no more problems ! But then Phyllis Allen throws over the other fellow . . . . Although Keystone arguably had the best editing in the business at this point - - the rescue in BARNEY OLDFIELD'S RACE FOR A LIFE is still a gasper more than ninety years later , there had been nothing like these comic materializations before : straight out of Melies pictures , meant to astonish , these effects , including in-camera multiple exposure , were as good as anyone in the business , and probably the first time they were ever done for straight comedy . They make this a fine comedy in 2006 .
There Must Be More to the Story Than The're Telling	The prince breaks into the sorcerer's home and tries to do him in , to little effect as Melies uses his wonderful combination of stage and film magic , until a bunch of women - - presumably a band of good fairies - - come to the aid of the prince . You have some very fluid story-telling , wonderful effects and excellent acting for the period . Melies and his competitor across the Channel , Walter booth , would tell variations of this story many time , Booth in THE MAGIC SWORD and Melies would repeat it , most elaborately , in FEE CARABOSSE . However , there must be something wrong with me : I keep rooting for the bad guys ! This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
To where ?	Surprisingly funny , dreamy little comedy as down-on-his-luck Ham looks for work , gets thrown out of his rooming house and tries to make it on the street - - in the best , gag-filled 20s comedy style . Ignore the early Ham and Bud comedies : this one really works as Ham sourly tries to make the best of things , despite the ubiquitous cops , with their threatening orders to " move along . "
Improvisation	All , right , Goodman was Big Band and not jazz and except for a few small pieces within , his music was rigorously orchestrated . But the thought of improvisation flows from this movie , from the hot , hot score to the fact that the characters and backgrounding are drawn just instants before they go into action - - sometimes to humorous effect when a girl is drawn at first with heavy thighs and sometimes with a tremendous amount of sexuality - - yes , this is a cartoon - - when the teenager comes out of the shower just as the towel on the towel rack is being drawn . It would all vanish within few years as the classically trained musicians who made jazz into Big Band got slammed by rising costs and then the rise of rock and roll . Enjoy the remnants here .
Who Is To Blame ?	Although publicized as a dramatization of Custer's Last Stand , this bears little relation to the events as known . It is a story of . . . . well , it is one of the most morally ambiguous pieces of Griffith's that I have seen . Griffith spent most of his career using his serious pieces to dramatize society's problems , even when he had no solution to offer , from WHAT WILL WE DO WITH OUR OLD to his last credited directorial job , THE STRUGGLE . I think Griffith meant to raise questions and tell an exciting story , as he always did . The first question is : which massacre ? After some setting scenes , we witness a massacre as a cavalry unit attacks an Indian village . We are not told why they are attacking it . Then , when that is over , we see a wagon train moving west . Was the massacre of the Indians intended to leave their lands empty for settlers ? The camera pulls back , and we see a wolf watching the wagon train , then a bear appears and drives off the wolf . Then the bear is driven off by an Indian scout in a bearskin . . . . and he brings the Indian forces that massacre the wagon train , leaving only Blanche Sweet and her baby alive . To which massacre does the film's title refer ? Who is to blame ? Who began this cycle of massacres ? Who benefits ? Was there no beginning and can there be no end ? Although Griffith directed more than five hundred pictures , almost all of which survive , he has a vast corpus of works that are rarely seen , because so many people concentrate on his best features and perhaps a dozen of his best-known shorts . Kino is to be applauded for including a sizable number of his lesser-known , but equally powerful shorts in their most recent compilation , and for hiring John Mirsalis to do scores .
Magical	One of Melies ' elaborate story productions , ranking with VOYAGE TO THE MOON , using camera tricks , sleight of hand , elaborate costumes and interesting model work . Technically it will look primitive to the modern eye - - the sets are clearly sets , the models clearly models - - but it is all done with Melies ' verve and dedication . Certainly , the grotto and underwater sets are beautiful ; he knew how to draw stonework . Melies , I feel , remains the most accessible of the oldest directors , in large part because of the sheer sense of showmanship and joy that is evident in these works . His scenes , when they are not sleight-of-hand magic , are essentially tableaux , punctuated by acrobats . His tableaux are much more elaborate than other directors who use the form , providing a feast for the eye . Working , as he does in this movie , with familiar images , he elaborates them , whereas in VOYAGE TO THE MOON , he invents them and suggest them . The effect is - - there is no other word for it - - magical .
Here's to Love on Our Own Terms	I feel a need to tell you a short anecdote about seeing this movie . When it was restored in the late 1990s , the New York premiere took place at the Ziegfeld . I managed to wangle my way in and saw so much in this movie I hadn't seen before , that can't really be seen except on the big screen . . . . and when I left the theater , I saw couples coming out . . . . . and three or four women slapped the men they were with . Now it seemed to me clear that they felt that they had undergone some of the transformations imposed on the Kim Novak character by the Jimmy Stewart character for the sake of their relationships and bitterly resented it . . . . but it seemed to me that Stewart was also transformed by the relationship . In fact , he was destroyed by the relationship . . . . and was his acquiescence at all voluntary ? Yet people do not see the sacrifices that others make for love , they only see their own , and they regret them bitterly . . . . and that , it seems to me , is that what this movie is about : the forces and twists and turns , the ignoring the clear signs , the self destruction at so many levels that love drives us to . This cynical , manipulative movie about absolute love . Three or four big , hairy men slapped by women . And taking it . Who had been dragged unwillingly into a different personality for the sake of love ?
Someday they'll all be sorry	Here we have yet another rarely-seen and under-appreciated cartoon classic by Chuck Jones . Ralph Phillips ' three fantasies after he gets sent to his room for breaking a window are exactly the the sort of thing that any imaginative nine-year-old would think of , and the script is chock full of screwy lines like " My insurance will pay for the the window and use whatever is left over to buy yourself a catcher's mitt " and " You are being pursued by Martians who all got " A " s in Arithmetic " - - just the sort of vengeful daymares that every child who is regularly laughed at by his classmates would dream . It was so good that Jones managed one and a half sequels . Keep an eye out for this one .
Great Documentary & Great Music	An early and wonderful example of what tv can do when it sets itself to do something good . Stuff like this is now all over the History Channel , but you can't do better than Richard Rodger's music for this . Worth it for the score alone .
It don't add up	The last and craziest of the six Hubie & Bertie cartoons , about two decidedly non-country mice . In this one , the pair have been living in a cheese factory and , having eaten enough cheese for the next two thousand years , decide to end it all , by leaping into the mouth of Claude Cat , their dupe in the Oscar-winning MOUSE WRECKERS . The entire cycles goes on and on , with many a funny sight gag . Highly recommended .
Why Isn't This Movie Better Known ?	Occasionally in looking at old movies , I see something that makes my eyes pop out : a wonderful bit of technique that was used once and then abandoned for no discernible reason , or technique well in advance of its usual dating . Well , such things turn up not infrequently in Danish movies . Nordisk led the world in film technique for the first decade of the 20th Century , until the national industry imploded and moved to Germany . But this short , simple melodrama - - girl loses boy , girl dies of a broken heart - - is possessed of advanced techniques in several fields : restrained acting , careful , beautiful compositions , fine camera movement - - there is one overhead traveling shot that is gorgeous - - even set design : people live in furnished houses , with flowers on the table , not something that shows up in most films for another decade . And this is not a Danish or French film , or even a film directed by D . W . Griffith after he browbeat the bosses at Biograph into giving him some money for sets and costumes - - that would be the following year - - but Spain in 1908 ! This movie is so good that it is better than the version made by the same studio three years later . As it happened , I saw the 1911 version three days ago and found it rather confusingly cut . This version is clear . See it if you can - - I found it on a tape from Facets of ' Historic Early Spanish Films . ' If you're lucky , they'll still have a copy .
Will Rogers , Of Course	This was a big hit in 1919 when Will Rogers was starring in the Ziegfeld Follies and already famous for his easy-going wit . If you're used to his famous quotes like " I'm not a member of any organized political party ; I'm a Democrat " or his sound features , you'd be surprised at how well his personality makes itself apparent on the silent screen . The director of this picture is Clarence Badger . Almost unknown today , he was an important director of silent comedy from TEDDY AT THE THROTTLE to IT with Clara Bow , to the best of Raymond Griffith's vehicles . He has a fine eye for composition and how to let his actors get the most they could out of a role . Take a glance at this some time and be charmed .
We're in the Money	Alan Dwan was sent out in 1911 to find a missing film crew . According to the story , the director was out on a bender and he cabled the home office " You have no director . Suggest you disband company . " Back came a telegram saying " You direct . " With this telegram he went to the crew and said " Either I'm a director or you're out of a job . " " You're the best director we ever saw ! " And direct he did for the next fifty years , sometimes shorts , sometimes prime features with Douglas Fairbanks Sr . and often in the Bs , but always doing his best . This is one of his best Bs , based on a story written by George Barr McCutcheon , which he wrote under a pen name to prove he could write a best-seller without depending on his name to sell it . It was a best seller . The stage play that this movie was based on was also a hit , and this farce , directed at top speed with a great cast . If it ever shows up anywhere you can reach it , go to see it .
Sprightly German Film By Russians	Ivan Mouskojine - - however you choose to transliterate his name - - was a fine movie actor . Starting out in Tsarist Russia , he fled and made a career for himself in France and Germany . One can certainly seem why . Here , playing " The King of the Swindlers " he works his way from Paris to New York with a great deal of confidence and a style of acting that was perfected during the silent era , in which you can see the emotions wash across his face - - and , playing a confidence man , he manages to impart two or three levels to his emotional range . The director of this film , Viktor Tourjansky , was another Russian émigré . One would hardly expect something that has some exquisitely light moments from a German film directed by and starring Russians , but , despite the terrifying ending , when her fate catches up with bad girl Brigitte Helm , it works , running a full emotional range . I credit this , in no small part , to a dazzling , fast-moving camera helmed by Carl Hoffman . Some of the shots in the serious sections may remind you of Lang - - hardly surprising , since Hoffman had worked with Lang on such works as MABUSE .
Charles Farrell : A Revelation	I have said here and elsewhere that in their collaborations it was Gaynor who carried Farrell , a competent actor who would have had a decent career based on his looks and talent rather than genius : think Richard Arlen . It was the teaming with Gaynor that made him , for a while anyway , a star . Or so I thought until I saw this movie . In this one , sitting in a wheelchair , scrubbing Gaynor's hair ( " Why , Baa-baa ! You're a blond ! " ) , and later , Gaynor lets him carry the scenes , and he does it : aggressive , funny , dynamic , angry and thunderstruck . There are the usual Borzage touches , including the surrealistic farmhouse - - attributed to the Murnau influence , but really , Borzage was going that way already . It had everything to do with his mysticism , I think . His impressionistic sets helped create a private world where miracles could happen . Or maybe make it apparent .
Le Marquis de Marignan	This is the keynote role for Adolphe Menjou : he underplays the sophisticated clotheshorse , elegant , disdainful and a bit decadent , a role he played - - when he wasn't playing Runyonesque losers - - from 1917 through 1957's PATHS OF GLORY . In fact , Mr . Menjou was proudest of the fact that he usually made the best-dressed lists and it was as much his witch-hunting testimony before HUAC that caused a disintegrating film industry to decide they could find someone else to play his roles at better rates . In this movie , Menjou is about to be married , and is advised by his prospective father-in-law to give up his euphemistic morning exercises and boxing kangaroos . He is prepared to do so , but when he and his valet discover that among his conquests is the valet's wife , all societal hell breaks amusingly loose .
All in color	Amazing mix of stop-motion animation and live-action little girl , all in color ! I can't identify the process , as Technicolor was not available in Europe when this picture was made and the technique looks lifelike . A certain amount of bleeding around the greens and yellows leads me to suspect this is a mixture of color photography and tinting . As for the story , it is told with Wladyslaw Starewicz's usual charm and good humor . A must for any animation fan . Check it out on Milestone's THE CAMERAMAN'S REVENGE set .
Mary Pickford and Charles Rosher too	I doubt if the costuming involved in this movie fooled anyone for an instant . Mary Pickford is clearly Mary Pickford . But she was playing a role and the audience of the time - - and I - - have no problem accepting her in the part of a boy , any more than I have a problem with the fact that Peter Pan is invariably played by a woman . I think she is perfect in the role . This is a warm and funny version of the story , enlivened by Miss Pickford and a wonderful supporting cast , including Claude Gillingwater as the grouchy earl , D . W . Griffith regular Kate Bruce as an old apple seller and Mary Pickford as Fauntleroy's mother . People may have trouble with the sentimental story and tone , but if you accept the tale then you should have no complaints as to its manner of telling . Again , I have no problem with the story and think it compares favorably with the sound version produced by Selznick fifteen years later . True , no one can top C . Aubrey Smith as a grouchy English aristocrat , but Freddy Bartholomew was always annoying as Fauntleroy - - or , indeed , as anything . No discussion of this movie would be complete without mentioning cameraman Charles Rosher's wizardry . There is a wonderful shot as Pickford as Fauntleroy kisses Dearest on the cheek , done so casually and effortlessly as to make it easy to miss ; but it took 18 hours to film correctly . We are also confronted with the fact that Pickford as Fauntleroy seems to be about four and a half feet tall . Miss Pickford was a short woman , but she was a lot taller than that . Fans of the LORD OF THE RING trilogy are doubtless now familiar with the idea of forced perspective and doubled sets ; but to watch the results done in 1921 without computer aids , optical printing or computer effects to aid the process and you will begin to get an idea of what a genius Rosher was . My warmest thanks to the fine people at Milestone for producing this DVD release . The story is that Miss Pickford was going to have her pictures destroyed at her death because she felt that time had passed them by . She was talked out of this fancy . We can only be glad .
Tear Jerker	Excellent little split reel piece about a beggar and a gambling courtier . Griffith shows his mastery of cutting in this picture , and evidently got his bosses at Biograph to spend some money on costumes for the new year . Griffith begins to put together the rules of his grammar . . . .
Class Reunion	It's Hal Roach alumni day in this excellent entry in Edgar Kennedy's long-running ' Average Man ' series for RKO - - it ran from about 1933 until his death with a fine supporting cast of regulars including Florence Lake as his wife , Dot Farley as his horror of a mother-in-law and Jack Rice - - missing in this outing - - as his layabout brother-in-law . In this one , ex-Roach director and cameraman George Stevens - - yes , that George Stevens - - directs and co-writes , along with fellow Roach alumnus Fred Guiol , and Bud Jamison and Fred Kelsey show up on the screen . Kelsey was so well known for playing comic cops that he showed up in a Tex Avery cartoon in the 1940s . The net result is a short that shows the fine comic construction and execution of a Roach short of the period . If it comes your way , don't miss it .
Moods	There isn't much of a story here . A sailor promises to wed the girl who loves him , then goes away to other ports and forgets about her while she waits . When he finally returns , she has fallen ill and is dying and he pretends he has come back to marry her , to make her last few minutes happier . What makes this piece so very interesting is the way Griffith has it photographed . The outdoor scenes show huddled masses of beached boats , set to make a constrained circle of safety around the sailors ; another shows Kate Bruce , her hair streaming in the wind , while the waves roll moodily to the right . He ends scenes with slow fades to black . This is not so much one of his story films as an exercise in poetry , and he knows how to make the silent cinema sing .
Oh , You Beautiful Doll	People speak of the Lubitsch Touch first showing up in THE OYSTER PRINCESS , but that movie always struck me me as a a good romantic comedy , dimmed by changes in fashion , creaking a bit in age . But this movie is the real thing : a silly story told with much flair and constant surprises . It begins with Lubitsch showing you a model of the set , like Penn and Teller showing you how they do the cup-and-ball trick , followed by a show that dazzles you : pantomime horses , venal monks and a little bit of E . T . A . Hoffman all fall under the thrall of Lubitsch and all of them , and the audience too , end up with smiles on their faces . This movie is too good to more than hint at its wonders . If you have never seen a silent feature , see this one .
Dark Comedy	This is one of the remarkable short comedies that Arbuckle turned out at the end of his contract at Keystone while he was in New Jersey , far from Sennett's grasp : quite possibly the best . Elaborate , realistic sets , varieties of characterizations - - here he plays an irascible doctor who is jealous of wife Mabel's old boyfriend - - and the darkest lighting in a comedy until BRINGING UP BABY combine to produce a comedy far from Keystone's frenetic mold . Add in Arbuckle's casual gags and the result is an excellent comedy that is still highly watchable - - except , of course , when you are trying to make sense of real-life nephew Al St . John's awful mugging and high-speed rowdyism . Still , the man can take a fall .
Tales of Offenbach	If Jacques Offenbach ( 1819-1880 ) is known today outside of France , it is as the guy who wrote the music for the Powell-Pressberger TALES OF Hoffman and also the music they use whenever a cancan is performed or Shopright announces a two-for-1 sale of canned goods - - that number , for those who are interested , is actually from ORPHEUS IN HELL . In the 19th Century , however , Offenbach wrote the music for the best light operas until Arthur Sullivan started to write music with W . S . Gilbert . Offenbach's operettas were usually on classical themes , treating Greek gods or Italian counts as people who seem to get caught with their pants down a lot . However , despite the funny words , these light operas are mostly about Offenbach's music : light , airy and beautiful , even more so that Sullivan , who often held himself in check to permit Gilbert's words to be heard . If you have a taste for classical music and haven't heard any of them , try starting with this one . If you have encountered Offenbach and like him , this is a pretty good production .
Love Grown Cold	One of the better of Lubitsch's rough mountain comedies , with Pola Negri as the wild daughter of the bandit chief ( all of the the bandits ' possessions are festooned with skulls , to show how dangerous they are ) who falls in love with the handsome lieutenant brought in to marry the daughter of the corpulent and ineffectual colonel of the fort . Like his other mountain comedies - - MEYER FROM BERLIN , ROMEO AND JULIET IN THE SNOW and KOHLHEISEL'S DAUGHTER - - it is a very broad comedy , with much falling down in the snow . In those days , Lubitsch would shoot half a dozen films a year for UFA , and one would always be a mountain comedy shot on site in Bavaria , where he liked to take a working vacation every winter . They were not polished and witty pieces like The Oyster Princess and The Doll , but they were very popular .
The Beauties of Nature	This is the old story , familiar to everyone who has seen more than three westerns . What is remarkable about this movie is the contrasts in beauty : superb scenes of nature fill the screen : towering mountains , cattle moving slowly over the sprawling prairies , high waterfalls filling the vistas shot outdoors . In contrast , the shots of ' civilization ' are full of ugliness : broken palings of forts , ramshackle sheds that should fall down and disappear and cluttered interior shots . Even the heroine's home is made only half-decent by the plants that she has growing everywhere . This contrast , between the beauty of nature and the ugliness of the works of man appears throughout the movie and makes the ending - - where Tom Mix pushes over a boulder that will simultaneously make it impossible for the bad men who are pursuing him , his heroine and Anne Shirley - - a child actor at this stage , appearing under the name of " Dawn O'Day " - - and seals them forever in a valley far from the works of man - - not only understandable , but inevitable . It's a silent movie and it works as a silent movie , where all you have are the images . Highly recommended , both as an introduction to Tom Mix and on its own merits .
Everything Worthwhile	Arnold Fanck started out as a geologist , but somehow became a director , first of documentaries , then in the creation of the genre of " Mountain Films " in which people go freeze their patooties off in the winter and thus reach a state of grace . It's a peculiarly German genre , although other people tried their hands at it from time to time . But here , in this semi-documentary about skiing , he certainly shows us everything worthwhile about it : beautiful pictures of snow-covered mountains , skiers flying over the heads of onlookers in slow motion - - everything that you might expect to see on The Wide World of Sports except for that guy who keeps falling off the mountain while the announcer intones " The Agony of Defeat ! " . There's a bit of a story tacked onto it , and thus it's an early stage in the evolution of the Mountain film , but the real point is to see the skiers in action . They're as good as they've ever gotten , and the editing is dynamite .
You better save your confection for me	Fats Waller performs his best song and mugs for the camera with many a sky , risque comment in this 1941 soundie . A rare and impeccable record of one of the greatest showmen of jazz . If you haven't heard Waller sing this standard , you haven't heard it sung .
Mr . Laurel on a bender	An interesting and satisfying movie on several counts . First and most important , it is funny . Second , this was the year Mr . Laurel finally figured out who his movie character actually was : he went back to his days when he was understudying Chaplin in the Fred Karno pantomime troupe and did the solo drunk act , as Chaplin had in ONE A . M . Clearly , the characters - - Chaplin's drunk and Laurel's drunk - - are related . however , if I were to ask which is the best movie of the two , I would have to claim it is this one . Laurel , at his peak , was the better gag technician than Chaplin and he does it with fewer props than Chaplin : no haunted Murphy beds , no clocks with pendulums that obstruct an entire wall , no herd of stuffed animals as Chaplin used in ONE A . M . , just a slightly askew set of evening clothes that shrink in water , a rolled umbrella that seems to be made of rubber and a couple of relatively innocent players to be caught up in the madness . Do yourself a favor . See this one .
Over the top at the bar	So : Charley comes home from Europe and his parents meet him at the dock with the girl they want him to marry , but when they point him out to her , he is standing next to a man who is wearing the same cap . So she thinks Charley is twenty years older than his parents and runs away . Charley meets her as he is struggling with his luggage and falls in love with her instantly - - this is a twenty minute short - - and announces to his parents that he can't marry the girl they want him to . Instead , he's going to marry this girl , who has already left . Eventually he finds her , running a mission on Skid Row . The only way he can get her to notice him is to pretend to be a derelict , and testify in her mission . Simultaneously insane , silly , charming and always uproarious . If you don't know Chase's works , you have a treat in store .
Never Was Such a Movie Since the World Began	You've probably never heard of the Thanhouser Company , nor any of the cast of this film , and if you've heard of the director , George Nichols , it was because a couple of years later he directed several of Chaplin's early movies . But in its heyday , the Thanhouser company was a major force in the advance of the arts of movie making , and this two-reel version of Dickens ' novel is not only an exemplar of their art , it is a highly watchable and understandable version of the Dickens novel that is usually presented as a sprawling mini-series or an eight-hour stage show . The sets are elaborate , the costumes perfect , the actors interesting and the titles work absolutely correctly to link together the scenes into a satisfying whole . Thanhouser had a rocky history . Within a year its founder was kicked out and the company absorbed into the Mutual conglomerate that absorbed Ince , Griffith and Sennett . Its methods were too expensive , its techniques too advanced to make it quite the moneymaker that more conservative methods might have . But the results can be seen : compare this with the " Famous Players in Famous Plays " that were being done at the same time : little more than filmed , stage-bound highlights of theater performances . This is a movie that , more than 90 years later can be watched with enjoyment . What more can you ask ?
A Better Mousetrap	Another of Chuck Jones ' hilarious psychological shorts , about the dangers teenagers are willing to run for romance - - in this case a seventeen-month-old mouse , who is being fed forged love notes by Claude Cat . But what's that note Claude got from the bulldog ?
Philosophic Western	How does an honest man make his way in a corrupt world ? Walter Hill has been investigating this question since his days as a screenwriter , with a couple of stopovers in Dashiell Hammett country ( his dauntingly unsuccessful version of Hammet's RED HARVEST , filmed as LAST MAN STADNING ) , comedies ( 48 HOURS ) , but here , in this leisurely western , he has found a perfect vehicle for this problem , and the right actor for the role in the ever-watchable Robert Duvall . And the answer is that you wind up accumulating a pack of people as wounded as yourself , ducking your head against the storm and slogging on through : a nephew estranged from his mother , your sister , a Virginian who can't stop traveling , five Chinese virgins intended for a mining camp's whorehouse . . . the list goes on . In the midst of a beautiful land - - the magnificent Canadian plains , west of Calgary where they rise to the Rockies - - they slog on , doing their best . To what end ? When death and violence surround you , then the wise man comes to recognize that the effort is all he can offer . It is a pleasure to watch canny old pro Duvall at work , and to watch Thomas Haden Church , as his nephew , play off against him . And the beauty of moving horses across the Canadian plains is the revival of a seemingly lost art ; the westerns , once the myth of America and bedrock of the film industry , are now an occasional production from people nostalgic for the form . But their nostalgia is suffused with a strong sense of film-making and this mini-series should not be missed .
Marvin the Martian	The first and best of the Marvin the Martian cartoons . Although not quite the version he reached in later cartoons - - his voice is not quite as reedy and outer space does not look like it was designed by bad Bauhaus architects - - the joke are sharper in this one than they would be later . Dig the Chuck Jones tennis sneakers !
High Tech Horror !	This thirty-second short from 1903 shows demons burning women alive in . Melies had it hand-tinted and the colors are quite startling and alive . When I compare it to modern scenes of horror - - the hordes of undead in THE MUMMY returns , for example - - it comes off very well . Take a look . Your great-grandparents may not have known anything about Gangsta Rap , but they got to see an occasional good flick .
Dippy Doctors	Hilarious , chaotic burlesque musical short features Billy Gilbert as a German doctor in search of a missing watch . Such touches as cheering sections at operations and musical numbers at " Olivia from Bolivia " . Impeccable timing makes this a not-to-be-missed short .
Preachy , but brilliant	Walter Huston is supposed to be the star of this movie , and he does a fine job , as always . But wait . . . . . watch for the moment when the panic on the bank begins , and in less than thirty seconds , the bank goes from almost empty to a scene of madness , the American Madness of the title . It's one of the most brilliantly choreographed and directed scenes in the entire history of the movies .
No ham in the sandwich	Hilarious ! Joe and his partner are desperate to break into show business - - but no one can be this desperate ! They find themselves out in the boondocks . " You open the show " " We don't open any shows . " " All right , you close the show . " " I think we are the show ! " With Billy Gilbert as the dyspeptic stage manager , it's a good thing the only audience is the janitor .
Wooden Leg-o-phobia	The beauty of Charley Chase's great great comedies of the mid-twenties - - MIGHTY LIKE A MOOSE , CRAZY LIKE A FOX and this , HIS WOODEN WEDDING is that they are first , very funny and second , complete stories . A perfect little farce goes on in twenty minutes , instead of two or three hours . The stories make sense , if you assume the premises , the people do funny , funny things and the stories actually work . Charley is about to get married , and his best man wants two things : Charley's bride and the heirloom diamond that Charley has given her as an engagement present . So he writes Charley an anonymous note that his bride has a wooden leg . Sounds stupid ? Yes , well , it works , and several hilarious sequences ensue . It's twenty minutes of low comedy that will leave you gasping .
Rib Tickling Ineptitude	One is Shaw and one is Lee and I'm sure they knew which was which , but I don't and I don't care . These two vaudeville performers have that wonderful one-on-one timing that is very rare today , a timing born of talent and experience . Abbott and Costello had it in spades , Martin & Lewis had it in their live shows , although it doesn't show so clearly in their movies and the four Marx Brothers had it . After that the list grows short and the evidence is hard to find . Weber and Fields ? Probably , but have you ever seen Weber and Fields or known someone who has ? But Shaw & Lee have it , and you can see it in the way they do their close harmony , idiotic lyrics , the way they gape at each other when they flub a line and the way they end the show . These early Vitaphone shorts are a mixed lot , but this is among the best . A definite 10 .
Topnotch B Western	This enormously entertaining B western , combines sentimentality , mysticism , humor and interesting casting and acting as Buck buys a haunted ranch and turns it into a Dude ranch . The strong story is supported by a liable cast , including silent comedian Gertrude Astor in a funny turn as a society lady who thinks the entire scene too too romantic , and a surprisingly strong Louise Brooks in a near-the-end role and some excellent musical backing . Although her appearance in two late French silent movies made Miss Brooks an interesting star and her memoirs of the Hollywood scene made her important , in truth she rarely gave strong , animated performances . Although the camera loved her , she sleep-walked through most of her roles and was miscast in others . Her blank affect in most silent movies made it impossible for the audience to gain anything from her performances . Indeed , it was this blankness that the Europeans used to produce characters ruled by chaotic circumstances in a crazed world . However , in most of her movies , when called upon to act , she did not . This movie , surprisingly , is different . However , it was too late to save her career . But here , everyone works . This what a Saturday afternoon oater should be and all too rarely was .
The Professor	Max , who usually played a young Parisian boulevardier is newly married and doesn't wish to leave his bride behind when forced to go on a men-only vacation , so he sticks her in a suitcase and off they go ! This is one of the best Max Linder shorts I have seen , full of angst and bumping along , but what makes it even better is that his movements and reactions are exactly like Charlie CHaplin's . Rather , one should say that Chaplin seems to have studied this movie extensively in working on his movie character , because this Linder short came out a year before Chaplin went before the camera . Chaplin always acknowledged his debt - - well , usually - - to the man he called ' The Professor ' and in this one we can see precisely what Chaplin learned .
The Dangers of Cheese	Based on McCay's cartoon strip , DREAMS OF THE RAREBIT FIEND , this concerns a tiny creature that eats everything and grows until it threatens the entire city . A seminal work , its influence shows up in Heinlein's novel THE STAR BEAST , Tex Avery's KING SIZE CANARY and in the final sequence of KING KONG ! Bizarre and brilliant !
Spanky the Star !	A somewhat atypical OUR GANG comedy . The focus is not on the interaction of the gang , but concerns itself with Franklin Pangborn's tribulations in taking a portrait photo of Spanky . Spanky gets to sock Pangborn frequently and hilariously . Look for a quick cameo by Laurel and Hardy .
Les pieds des vampires	Feyder's early feature is a very funny movie , biting the hand that feeds him , or at least that fed his employer , Gaumont . This is a send-up of Feudillade's serials like LES VAMPIRES , with some interesting cameos , including one by Musidora in costume . This movie is nominally the last four of the 1700 or so episodes of the serial THE CLUTCHING FOOT , in which the hero - - who looks like Mack Swain without his mustache - - and his boy assistant continually rescue his beautiful fiancée from a dreadful fate at the hands of the Clutching Foot Gang and their fiendish leader , The Man In The Green Scarf , an evil genius who likes to travel by baby buggy . Everything contributes to the humor , including the elaborately designed sets that are continually jiggling about , and the finale will , if you have any familiarity with these early serials , have you howling . For the serial fan only , but if you are one , absolutely delightful .
Elaborations	Having discovered - - whether purposefully or , as the story would have us believe , accidentally - - the magical qualities of the cut and used it in the previous years ESCAMOTAGE D'UNE DAME CHEZ ROBERT-HOUDIN , Melies elaborated it in this short in which a man suffers a series of terrible nightmares . As in the best of Melies , he can not only see his enormous creativity , but perceive his great sense of humor and sense his playfulness in the new medium . when they're doing Oscars for 1897 , this gets my vote for best foreign film ! This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Ailurophobia	In the days before Charlie Chaplin burst on the screen , there was one great international comedy star : France's Max Linder whom Chaplin called ' The Professor ' and who was the only influence on his screen comedy that he ever admitted to . In this one , Max is engaged to a girl - - called , as in all his shorts , ' Jane ' - - and she loves her pussycat . She loves the lazy , immobile lump of fur in a way that only cat lovers can , and which is a mystery to us normal people . She pets it , she croons to it , she makes it play the piano - - - ' presumably " Kitten on the Keys " and Max just hates it . Max is all reaction takes in this one and up to his usual standards , including one great gag to round off the picture .
A Bedtime Story	Melies turned out a lot of poor movies in 1908 as he tried to compete with Pathe and Gaumont , who could outspend him , by sheer volume . Many of his surviving movies are , by today's standards , primitive slapstick , or unsubtly acted melodramas , shot far too simply to be interesting - - Griffith was learning his craft this year and would soon turn every convention on its head . But in the midst of this mass of poorly digestible slop , occasionally Melies made a beautiful picture , which even today speaks to us from one heart to another , in which his camera tricks and , to our eyes , odd film grammar add to our enjoyment , transporting us into a world that , seemingly , can't exist ; in VOYAGE DANS LA LUNE or VOYAGE A TRAVERS L'IMPOSSIBLE or LE ROYAUME DES FEES and others , he lets us enter this world , again and again . But in order to enter that world , we must set aside our modern , adult preconceptions of what is right and what makes sense . We must accept as truth , as we did when we were children , the fairy tales we were told . Then we can know right and wrong , and travel , with a guardian angel , into the realm of dreams . This was , alas , the final great example of this journey into wonder in Melies ' works . The competition was eating him alive at this point and he would basically shut down production in a couple of years , then be briefly revived for mechanical renditions of wonder only by the financial backing of his rivals , who would never even bother to release his last film . He would lose his beloved theater and his home , watch his primary prints be melted down for silver and to be made into boot heels during the First World War , and burn his backup copies in despair . He would be reduced to running a kiosk in a train station . In the 1920s , when the Parisian film clubs - - run by people like Rene Clair , tried to put together a show of Melies ' movies , they couldn't even be sure he was alive . He had disappeared like a devil in one of his stage magic films and only eight of his films could be located . Somehow , over the years , people have discovered others , in barns , in flea markets . . . fewer than 200 of his five hundred movies . Well , if we are missing much of the magic , at least some survives . Enjoy them all , good , bad , but never indifferent .
Statues Just Wanna Have Fun	The Greek legend of Pygmalion and Galatea get the Lotte Reininger silhouette treatment in this lovely and funny adaptation of the old Greek myth . Pygmalion falls in love with his statue of a beautiful woman and his prayers are answered : she becomes a live woman - - in this case she transforms from part of the painted background into one of Reininger's silhouette figures . But Pygmalion , who has conventional ideas of how women should behave , finds that his creation has different ideas of what she wants . . . . Lotte Reininger's silhouettes may be difficult to follow , since the aesthetics involved are different from standard movies : but the beauties of her details and her sense of humor should be enough to draw you in , should you be fortunate enough to see them .
Stick and Shtick	What a pleasure this is ! No story , no plot , just the results of what happened when Danny Kaye was attending one of Mehta's rehearsals and he asked Kaye if he would like to try conducting . Mehta claimed the orchestra sounded better with Kaye conducting . Certainly , they never laughed as much . Great classical music and great classical burlesque humor .
Jean Gabin Is Dead	And therefore , says Jean Yann's character , they can't make gangster flicks anymore . Except that Claude Lelouch can , in his own , slow , deliberate , quirky way . He introduces you to the principals over the course of ten years and punctuates the movie with all the set pieces except for the big robbery : that happens before the start of the picture and sets off the entire course of events , including a double murder , a lesson on the ethnology of Brazil , betrayal , an exclusive girl's school in Switzerland , the funniest prison escape in the history of the movies - - be sure to read the stickers - - and , of course , an equestrian competition . An amazing mix of genres that keeps moving right along .
Molière	This is an excellent adaptation for the small screen of Molière's farce , with a fine cast headed by Donald Moffat in the title role , Tammy Grimes as the female lead and a young Victor Garber as one of the juveniles . Director Kirk Browning , a specialist in presenting theater on the small screen , keeps up visual interest by careful , slow-paced cuts and judicious , small camera movement to force the viewer's attention . The farce is funny , serious parts clear and if the ending is a deus ex machina , it was just the sort of ending to appeal to Molière's patron , the King of France . Moliere's satires are the glories of the French theater - - particularly if , like I , you have little taste for the solemn bombast of Racine . Here , his target is hypocrisy and the ability of scoundrels to hoodwink the well-meaning : at its premiere it provoked a firestorm of rancor from those who felt it mocked the Roman Catholic Church . Had it been done today , it might have been written with Tartuffe as a televangelist . Indeed , the point could have been made clear by doing it in a modern dress version . Browning and associates , however , decided to avoid cries of outrage by presenting it in period . Wiser , perhaps , than Moliere .
