Someone , anyone , PLEASE make it stop ! ! !	Sitting all the way through " Zontar , The Thing From Venus " can seriously lead to self-mutilation and , in case you have absolutely no experience with zero-budget 60's Sci-Fi at all , maybe even to suicidal tendencies ! You could laugh at the overall incompetence of this TV-production , but I don't suppose it was Larry Buchanan's intention to make a terribly dull & irritating remake of Corman's " It Conquered the World " , because all the actors and actresses desperately attempt to keep a straight face whilst poorly speaking their inept lines and horrid dialogs . John Agar starred in a whole lot of Sci-Fi films that were produced on a shoestring-budget , but the majority of them were very enjoyable & well-made ( " Tarantula " , " Revenge of the Creature " , " The Brain from Planet Arous " ) and " Zontar " is simply embarrassing . Even when people die from getting shot , this movie is dull ! They're hit , reach for the wound and pull a stupid face approximately 5 seconds later and then they fall down on the ground horribly fake . The " plot " is as follows : oddball scientist Keith Ritchie supposedly communicates with an alien from Venus , and he even helps it find its way to earth , because Keith is convinced that this one alien can prevent the entire human race from destroying themselves . How ? I haven't got the slightest clue . Naturally , Zontar turns out to be a mean monster and he sucks the intellect out of people's brains by sending fake bats after them . The special effects and monster designs look as if they were created by a kindergarten class during pottering hour . Zontar itself is a hideous creation , resembling something that emerged from a muck-heap , and his sidekick bats don't even remotely look like bats . The weird dork-scientist who communicates with Zontar is easily the dumbest character I've ever seen in a horror movie ( and that even includes Paris Hilton in " House of Wax " ) and his wife isn't much better . She , imbecile woman that she is , confronts the alien all by herself in his hideout cave and stupidly tells him that she hates his guts . This all may sound funny and cheesy , but it's mostly painful and unendurable to watch . " Zontar , The Thing From Venus " wasted 80 precious minutes of my life and then still it felt like they lasted at least twice as long . Please , don't make the same mistake . Roger Corman's original " It Conquered the World " isn't a very good film neither , but it's an unhinged masterpiece compared to this irredeemably bad excuse for a film .
Luke , I sacrifice virgins . . .	This is a totally unique movie ! Yes ? UNIQUE ! ! And why ? Because it has the most promising and potentially great sounding plot , about the sacrifice of young female virgins to a hideous sea creature on a remote island community , and yet somehow it manages to be an extremely boring and totally uneventful film ! Is that unique or what ? I watched this movie less than 12 hours ago and I already have a hard time remembering what went on , actually . It has a bunch of uninteresting people , among them James Earl Jones , gathering on this peculiar island to search for a missing girl . She's there all right , but so is a freshly resurrected sea monster the natives are forced to feed virgins to ! After that , I kind of lost track of the plot . Though that doesn't really matter , as nothing happens . The characters talk and talk and talk ? and , occasionally , they throw around cats for some reason . There are no gory death sequences or cool sea monster designs , not even a bit of delightful sleaze . The monster is hardly shown on screen and when it is ( for about 5 seconds ) it looks like the most ugliest sock puppet ever . James Earl Jones ' imposing voice is usually joy to listen to , expect when he exclusively talks nonsense like it is the case here . It must have been weird for those few unlucky people who saw " Blood Tide " at the cinema back in 1982 . The Star Wars movies were hugely popular and Jones ' powerful voice was automatically linked to the image of Darth Vader . Can you imagine Vader to jibber about the cheesy sea creatures , ancient Greek myths and virgin sacrifices ? Do your brain a favor and skip this film . . .
The scriptwriter must have been the first who got killed . . .	I have very few to add to what all the other reviewers already made more than clear ! This movie is awful ! Beyond awful . . . In fact , so insufferable that they have yet to come up with a term to describe the awfulness that is " Skeleton Man " . In case you expect your movies to feature a minimum of logic and plot , you should stay as far away from this as humanly possible . Sure , loads of people are getting killed by this skeleton-puppet wearing a ridiculous cape , but nobody ever bothers to properly explain what he is , where he comes from or why he's so angry with the world . He looks like a crossover between Skeletor from " Masters of the Universe " and the horseman from " Sleepy Hollow " and runs amok in some godforsaken wilderness . The setting of " Skeleton Man " is another totally retarded aspect ! For nearly half an hour , I assumed that the movie took place at a small isolated island , but it simply plays at the mainland where fancy highways cross the forest and power plants are located at the end of the woods ! Huh ? Why does everybody pretend to be trapped when there are like a million escape routes ? Anyway , after a couple of totally random killings , a special commando squad , led by poor washed-up Michael Rooker , arrives to come and hunt a monster they don't know anything about . Really hilarious is how every member of this squad introduces him / herself as the expert in a certain field ( we have a sniper-specialist , a tracking genius , a drill instructor . . . ) , yet they ALL die before any of them is able to demonstrate their supposedly masterful skills ! The horror Gods must really hate Casper Van Dien , as he's present again as well , portraying an heroic soldier who steals a truck for no apparent reason , crashes on the highway , but somehow gets catapulted back to the middle of the woods to die there . Right , that makes sense . . . Furthermore the characters steal cool one-liners from " Predator " , the bonehead's horse constantly changes colors , helicopters are brought down with bow & arrows , ordinary bullets cause trees to explode and completely pointless Vietnam flashbacks haunt Michael Rooker . I say we all combine forces and vote this pathetic flick into the IMDb bottom top 100 ASAP !
Welcome to the RANCID Dollhouse !	So you thought " Team America " and " Thunderbirds " were crap ? Then just wait until you see the marginal and totally retarded puppet-farce called " Disaster ! " . It's the ultimate reason for Muppet Show creator Jim Henson to turn in his grave . I guess I must have seen a different movie than the other two reviewers on this site , as I certainly did NOT see a funny Sci-Fi parody with wit dialogs and hilarious effects , but a hugely irritating and infantile 80 minutes homage to fart-jokes . Released in my country as " Apollo 13 " , the plot ( haha ! ) is identical to " Armageddon " , with an asteroid threatening to wipe out mankind upon its collision with earth . All the recognizable sequences from that film , as well as several other ones , are ridiculed in a very un-funny and clichéd manner . The male puppets all are perverted and trigger-happy idiots and the females are dumb sluts with giant plastic breasts . You may anticipate crude humor about handicapped people and racist remarks towards pretty much every ethnic group living on this planet . In good old South Park tradition , the film is very gore and multiple puppets have their heads blown off or their entrails ripped out . But the humor in Trey Parker's films is actually really tasteful & original compared to the pathetic imagination of director / creator Roy T . Wood . This type of crap isn't even funny when you're drunk or stoned and I truly regret wasting the money of a rental on it .
Mean , sick-spirited and stupid war-exploitation .	" Jungle Heat " is an extremely violent but pretty retarded exploitation film , supposedly set during the final months of the war in Vietnam . The American army commanders haven't got many motivated heroes left so they're training local soldiers to fight against the dangerous Vietcong . Three lousy weeks for training and then these men are sent into the jungle where sadistic Vietcong troops play torture games with their prisoners . There isn't the slightest bit of continuity in the screenplay and the only sequences that are remotely worth mentioning involve some ingenious killing methods . For example , one poor soldier is buried up to his neck in the sand , where his head is shaved and subsequently cut open with a nasty razor blade . If that's not enough yet , the sleazy Vietcong fatso pours pure acid on his exposed brains which causes the poor sucker to literally jump out of his skin . I never saw that before ! In another sequence , which I'm sure will be appreciated by members of the Animal Liberation Front , a harmless rat is set on fire and set free amongst prisoners that were drenched in gasoline ! However , don't get too enthusiast over the brief description of these two scenes , as there still remains 85 minutes of dull and completely inept footage to struggle yourself through . The choreography in the jungle scenes is awful , nobody bothered to hire any real actors ( even Sam " Flash Gordon " Jones acts like a sock puppet ) and the poor dubbing continued to hurt my ears long after the film was finished . Some of the exterior filming locations showed great potential for a compelling Vietnam story , but one-time director Jobic Wong totally doesn't know how to use them . If you ever come across this ultra-rare movie in a second-hand store , or something , put it right back on the shelf . I know it looks like a real treat for gorehounds and cult-fanatics , but it's pure garbage .
Worthless junk .	' Legion of the Dead ' was my first movie directed by Olaf Ittenbach and I can't say I'll immediately purchase his other achievements now . Ittenbach is supposed to be a funky , amateur gorehound who stuffs his films with grotesque violence and cheerfully absurd characters . Well , it is gory all right , but even more stupid and pointless . Legion of the Dead seems to handle about all sort of things , but nothing in particular . And in the end , it'll just feel like you've wasted yet another 90 minutes of your precious life . Two main storylines are presented during the first hour of the film . A couple of retarded siblings recruit soldiers for the ' Legion ' by killing , and literally blow them back to life . In the other storyline , a madman suffering from rabies hijacks two lowlife-friends . Both stories are cut off abruptly and the characters come together in a setting that looks an awful lot like the bar in ' From Dusk Till Dawn ' ? Ittenbach even hired an exact Salma Hayek look-alike for this ! The totally ridiculous last half hour is painfully bad and you can consider it an achievement if you sit it through . Every now and then , Ittenbach shows slight signs of ingeniousness through black humor , but the wholesome really stinks . Avoid at all costs !
Let's hope Tim Burton didn't look for inspiration here . . .	As I write this user-comment , Tim Burton's interpretation of the Sweeney Todd tale is making big money at the box office and the film even earned a couple of Oscar nominations if I'm not mistaken . I haven't seen it yet , but I sincerely hope Burton didn't look for inspiration and / or stylish trademarks in good old Andy Milligan's " Bloodthirsty Butchers " . Yes , even though the title distinctively mentions butchers , the main characters in the plot are a barber ( the infamous Sweeney Todd ) and a female baker . Together they form a vile alliance where he kills the customers in his shop and she processes the bodies into her famous London meat pies . In other words , an Andy Milligan premise at his most typical , derivative , delirious and amateurish . I think the IMDb rating for this film speaks for itself . Although the actual story definitely isn't the worst I've ever seen , Milligan somehow inexplicably attracts sheer ineptitude . The production is one gigantic mess , with an incoherent narrative structure , truly hideous photography , poor lighting , lousy acting and directing , laughable gore and zilch tension or atmosphere . More than half of the footage is pure padding and words fail to describe how BORING the film is , even with a running time of a mere 80 minutes . Ed Wood , Ted V . Mikels and Bruno Mattei ; you guys need not fear as none other than Andy Milligan is ? hands down ? the worst director ever , but I don't think he cared . Maybe if you dispose of a really high level of tolerance , " Bloodthirsty Butchers " is worth one viewing .
Irredeemably awful	This movie is so bad I don't even want to joke about it . The only Raison d'être of this review is warn people to stay far away from " Silent Scream " . For a friend of mine it's already too late , as he blind-bought this rubbish on DVD , but you can still be saved if you just manage resist the promising-looking cover image and the pictures of ravishing girls on the back of the box . " Silent Scream " is as bad as low-budget teen horror gets , with a plot that gets more retarded with each minute that passes , the dumbest characters in history ( even though they're supposed to be psychology students ) and dialogs so painful they make your ears cringe . One could state that the body count is remarkably higher than usually the case in slasher films , but even then , the murder sequences are totally uninspired and the complete lack of continuity and / or a plausible plot is simply intolerable . In order to thank the entire class for helping with his dreams-manipulation research , a weak-acting psychology professor rewards them with the keys of his vacation resort on a snowy Michigan island . The first part of the group arrives and have some mindless sex and too much tequila before getting slaughtered the exact same night by an individual wearing a hooded winter jacket . The second group arrives the day after and teams up with the last two survivors of group one . Unfortunately they offer a little more resistance to the killer and even come close to escaping the island . Then comes the hopelessly predictable and imbecile twist-in-the-end . The script is just a non-stop series of stupidities , dire clichés and insufferable stereotypes . The empty-headed characters say the dumbest things at the most inappropriate moments and , as if that wasn't bad enough already , they constantly repeat themselves as well . Especially the male lead Mark is a pitiable character , as he keeps nagging to his ex-girlfriend that he still loves her even though they're being chased by a maniac holding an axe . All the girls are great eye-candy ( except for Melissa Schuman who tries to act too much like Sarah Michelle Gellar ) and some of them even show their ravishing flesh , but they're just too stupid and obnoxious to be likable characters . " Silent Scream " is boring , irritating as hell , ugly to look at , poorly directed and completely unoriginal . Next time you pick it up in a shop or videostore , just put it back .
Makes you want to rip out your eyeballs and EAT THEM !	Ah , the wondrous mysteries of late 70's / early 80's Euro-exploitation cinema ? With almost a 100 % positive certainty , the script of this film was improvised along whilst shooting . Judging by the tone and cheerful atmosphere of the opening sequences , it doesn't even look like the creators ( Alain Deruelle and Julio Tabernero ) ever intended to make a movie about cannibals , but maybe the producers forced them in order to quickly cash in on the gigantic success of contemporary horror-hits like " Cannibal Holocaust " and " Cannibal Ferox " . As you probably know , everything was possible in the exploitation industry , even hiring the notorious smut filmmaker Jess Franco to shoot some additional footage . The film opens with a rhythmic and jolly carnival song , introduces several comical characters and a potentially interesting ( but poorly elaborated ) kidnapping / ransom plot . The cannibal tribe and obligatory grossness only kicks in after about 40 minutes and comes across as totally ridiculous . Three amateur thugs , one voluptuous woman and two guys , randomly decide to abduct the daughter of a wealthy businessman and demand a ransom . When one of their accomplices gets involved in a banal car accident , they flee towards the jungle ( I think the South American ) and seek shelter in the hut of a friend . Nearby there's a tribe of primitive cannibals , but they appear to remain politely within their perimeters . Only when one of the thugs rapes the lady of the house , her husband almost literally feeds them to the cannibals . Meanwhile , the parents of the kidnapped girl have also arrived in the jungle ( don't ask me how , though ) , but they're good people and hence don't get eaten . Needless to say " Cannibal Terror " is an incredibly bad film and I honestly can't name one good element , apart maybe from the jolly theme song . Sure , there's a bit of nasty gore , but there's absolutely no prior tension building and the actual munching goes on for far too long . You know you're in trouble when even the gory bits in a movie are dull . The acting performances are atrocious . The lines of the little girl are practically inaudible and I'm pretty sure an adult woman imitating the voice of a child spoke them . The " jungle " setting is quite hilarious , as the film is clearly shot in someone's home garden and the " natives " are plain white day-players . Several of them even have sideburns and sophisticated haircuts . Oh dear ?
It's Alive ! It's . . . Plantenstein !	Watching an actual plant grow from a seed into a colorful flower would be far more exciting than struggling through this horribly inane and ultimately boring movie about an overworked rocket scientist transforming into a deranged and mad-raving horticulturist during his vacation in Tokyo . Okay , say what now ? I kid you not , " The Revenge of Dr . X " ? most inaccurate title ever , by the way ? revolves on a NASA professor who's forced to take some time off whilst his latest missile project floats around in outer space . Dr . Bragain reluctantly accepts a holiday in Japan , but not before picking up a near-dead Venus Flytrap he intends curing . Along with his personal assistant ( a woman who never should have even considered starting an acting career ) he looks after the sickly plant , but it quickly becomes a new obsession . Dr . Bragain turns into a loony amateur Frankenstein when he wants to offer his plant a human mind and uses thunder and lightening to achieve this . The only remotely fun and oddly curious moments in this movie are the opening credits ? since they belong to another film ! See the trivia-section for more details but , unfortunately , Eddie Romero wasn't involved in this production . It was no one less than Ed Wood who penned down this crazed Fauna & Flora adventure , and that actually makes sense because who else could have come up with such nonsense ? The " monster " resembles an exploded banana-tree , the dialogs and particularly James Craig's one-liners are horrendous and 99 % of the sequences are just plain boring . One to avoid at all costs .
Caucasian : Male . Cause of death : suffocated by FF-watermelons ?	" Deadly Weapons " , along with its sequel / cash-in " Double Agent 73 " , is pretty much the absolute lowest type of cinema , yet there isn't a single exploitation or cult freak out there that can afford him or herself to miss it . Go figure ! This is an awful , awful movie that makes the repertoire of such questionable directors like Edward D . Wood , Bill Rebane or Andy Milligan look like genuine masterpieces , but it's definitely a curiosity to have in your collection and undeniably entertaining , BECAUSE it's so inept . Even the world's biggest bonehead knows that everything exclusively centers on Chesty Morgan's extremely over-sized ( and terribly UN-sexy ) balcony , yet Doris Wishman somehow attempts to make her film look like an emotional and involving revenge / drama . This makes " Deadly Weapons " even worse and a lot more pathetic than its successor " Double Agent 73 " ! At least that movie openly portrayed Chesty as a cheap sleaze-object and even had her jugs function as spy cameras ! In " Deadly Weapons " , they want us to believe her character Crystal is a tender , good-hearted and moreover intelligent ? at one point it's mentioned she's the successful manager of an advertisement agency ? woman , devastated over the death of her thug-boyfriend and on a mission to avenge him . She overhears the conversation between the two petty criminals that killed her lover Larry ( one of them is Harry Reems ! ) and promptly decides to kill them . Crystal uses her charm ( ? ) to seduce them and her humongous breasts to suffocate them . Just when she thinks justice prevailed , poor little Crystal faces the ultimate disappointment ? This motion picture can only be described as a total and utter travesty , albeit a fun one . Even though it only runs for a good 75 minutes , half of the film is pure padding ( Chesty taking an extended bath , Chesty sleeping naked , some random girl swimming naked ? ) and totally lacks direction and acting talent . This is more than just " bad 70's cinema " ? This is an oddity that needs to be seen to be believed . Don't allow the rating to put you off of seeing it .
Is this supposed to be funny ? Or scary ? . . . Or anything at all ?	Oh yeah . . . we have a winner ! This has got to be most retarded movie I've ever seen ! I don't care whether it was meant to be accessible for younger viewers or not , this " spoof " stands for everything that gives the horror genre a bad name ! Amateurish and terribly lame rubbish that doesn't even seem to know what it's poking fun at . Judging by the title , you'd think that the screenplay mercilessly attacks the box-office hit " Friday the 13th " and all its brainless clones , but it's not even mentioning a masked killer . Instead , we have a family of unintelligent souls inheriting a house stuffed with monsters . When Junior opens a book he shouldn't have , the countdown for the end of the world has begun . The only kind of " special effects " are a bunch of idiots who volunteered to dress up like silly monsters in cheap-looking costumes . I counted one remotely funny gag ( " damn owls . . . " ) and all the other jokes and witty lines were embarrassingly dire . I truly hope that cast and crew were really proud to be a part of this turkey . Avoid at all costs .
Kill ' em all , please . . . Slow and painful !	" What a turkey ! " This is a simple line spoken by one of the characters as he's watching a random movie in the drive-in theater , but the phrase is actually much more applicable to the production he's starring in himself ! This is a truly abysmal low-budget horror flick , put together by a bunch of amateurs that know nothing about cinema but simply wanted to cash-in on the success of such contemporary classics like " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " . Two very UN-heroic police detectives investigate a series of murders that all took place in a Californian drive-in movie theater . It looks like some nutbag is practicing his sword-swashbuckling techniques on the horny customers there . The suspects include the theater's owner ( who used to be a carny ) , the simple-minded janitor and the local pervert that spies upon young couples . Apart from some filthy gore ( the best bits occurring in the opening minutes already ) , there's nothing to see here , unless if you're an admirer of bad acting , bad directing , bad editing , bad photography and even worse music . I couldn't understand half of the dialogs because all the moronic characters were mumbling , and the other half just didn't make any sense . The " red herring " climax is overlong and , despite its short running time , there are still way too many boring moments in the script . The concept and set pieces easily could have resulted in a much better ( pre-slasher ? ) horror movie , if only some talent was involved . Incredibly bad film , avoid like the plague .
embarrassing ! !	I don't know why I keep doing this to myself ! ! I keep on defending the Dutch and Belgian cinema and claim that it should get more credit and chances . . . and then they smack you around the head with junk like this ! Intensive Care is a terrible production and probably the worst thing that was ever made in the Dutch-speaking countries . It's a Dutch attempt to create our very own horror franchise , clearly based on mainstrain American slasher classics such as Friday the 13th and Halloween . The producers and writers aimed really high with this , but fell really low . Intensive Care became an embarrassing product to everyone who was involved and therefore a true cult flick here . It's almost impossible to hunt down an original copy of this and it's only showed on special occasions , like " the Night of Distaste " . For exactly 5 minutes , Intensive Care tries to tell a story and even to create a plotline . . . then it changes into a lame and low-brain slash ' n stalk movie with gruesome - yet very hilarious and cheap - make up effects . The acting of the entire cast is abominable , even though there are a few respected names involved . The leading male role is played by Koen Wauters . . . This guy might as well be the most famous and loved artist in Belgium . He's a beloved singer , host of TV-shows and idol of many young girls . He never ever mentions this thing he starred in , though . Like everybody else in The Netherlands , he's trying to convince himself Intensive Care never happened .
This must be a joke . . . A very irritating , BAD joke !	Bela Lugosi , Boris Karloff , Lon Chaney Jr . and all the other classic horror actors are turning in their graves right now ? The powerful , atmospheric tales they once made immortal are totally being messed up by a bunch of boisterous computer-effects freaks here ! Biggest tt of them all is ' director ' Stephen Sommers , who seems to make a career out of destroying horror milestones . But at least his ugly ' The Mummy'-version had a bit of a story and followed some sort of structure . This film has absolutely NOTHING in it ! Nothing , nada ! ! With horror , this hasn't got anything to do ? The film is a whole playground for ( awful ) special effects and the latest computer gimmicks . In an incredibly clumsy way , the story lines of Dracula , Frankenstein , The Wolf Man and even Dr . Jeckyll and Mr . Hyde are being mixed here . Key-figure in it all is Van Helsing , played by Hugh ' Wolverine ' Jackman . In the legendary original , Prof . Van Helsing was named Abraham and he had amazing literature knowledge . Now , he's called Gabriel , he works for the Vatican and I don't think he ever read a book . He has a James Bond collection of gadgets and ? on top of it all ? an irritating and unfunny monk following him around everywhere . Dracula is played by a meaningless fool , Frankenstein's monster all of a sudden seems to have an IQ of 150 and the Wolf Man couldn't look more fake . Sommers is constantly making up new horror-'rules ' and he seems to think he can get away with everything . Kate Beckinsdale also walks around in this film . I'll be the very first to admit she's one good looking lady , but she can by no means act ! Her character Anna constantly smashes with her head against walls , but she doesn't lose one drop of blood . I'm not going to waste further words to this film : It's terrible ! Downright awful and the biggest insult to anyone who ever respected the horror genre . Before it's release already , we knew this wouldn't be a very intellectual approach of the genre , but Van Helsing even goes beneath your lowest expectations . It's irritating from start to finish and you'll more than once feel the need to get up and walk out on it . Death to Stephen Sommers and his entire computer entourage !
It's okay to be gay . It's not okay to make crap movies	Wow , this movie is even gayer than " HellBent " ! What are the odds of that ever happening ? I don't think David DeCoteau ever had the intention of making a horror movie ? He clearly just wanted to surround himself with athletic & handsome twenty-something boys , so he quickly thought up a scenario about a college fraternity of vampires . Instead of action & suspense , we get an whole army of male students parading in their matching tight white boxer shorts and instead of gory massacres we get insecure boys openly talking about their feelings and emotions ? for hours ! Two young losers meet each other on the first day of college . Chris has the body of a regular jock , but he's the sensitive type , so he doesn't want people to judge him based on his appearance . The other one , Dan , never stops nagging about how unpopular he was in his previous school . They befriend a girl with an incredibly beautiful rack ; still all they ever talk about is their mutual friendship . In come the boys of the Domo Tau Omega fraternity ; pretentious little pricks with sunglasses that rule over the university . Their leader ? super gay dude Devon ? wants Chris to join his elite group because he fancies him . Poor Chris doesn't know , however , that they form the gayest coven of vampires horror cinema has ever brought forward . " The Brotherhood " is a terrible film . There's not even an attempt to build up tension or atmosphere and DeCoteau didn't even bother to insert some cheesy horror effects . The vampires suck , all right . But not blood ? They suck at making themselves appear menacing and evil . The dialogs are abysmal and the production values are overall poor , barely disguising the fact that our director is more interested in shooting porn movies . Or maybe put together catalogs for men's underwear . He should do so , and quit misleading fans of horror films . The cast members may be yummy eye-candy ( at least , for certain target groups ) , but none of them has the slightest bit of acting talent . One to avoid at all costs .
Exploitation-Extravaganza !	" Mad Foxes " is what happens if someone grants a bunch of drunken loonies access to a camera and simultaneously offers them $20 to make their very own movie . This whole thing probably started as a bad joke among friends in a sinister bar and after having too much to drink already ? They all wanted to make a movie , none of them had any talent or even any clue how to begin filming and since they couldn't decide what to focus on , they simply processed every imaginable exploitation theme into the film . Oh yes , you name it and " Mad Foxes " has got it ! There's Nazi bikers , foggoty race cars , kick-boxing , castration , the rape of virgins , disembowelment , sailors dancing , scenes from a guy in the crapper , public sex , an Oedipus complex , an S & M Dominatrix , hideously inappropriate metal music by a band named " Krokus " , skinny-dipping , sluts with big breasts , sluts with small breasts , grenades , males that wear girlish panties over their own pants , randomly crashing cars , exploding bikes , suicide bombing , wheelchair catapulting , exaggerated fake laughter , demented dialogs , stabbing , death by hedge clippers , bathtub sex , no coppers , massive loads of pubic hair and the inevitable greatest dubbing job in the history of cinema ! Every new sequence in " Mad Foxes " is literally a new & adventurous journey into a universe of grotesqueness and disbelief . At several times whilst watching this piece of exploitation-extravaganza , you're guaranteed to rub your eyes and wonder : " Is this real ? " Am I really watching this ? Did somebody actually make this film ? ? " . Not a drug in this world can offer you such a dangerously intoxicating and flamboyant trip as Paul Grau's " Mad Foxes " . Now that I've seen this gloriously retarded highlight of euro-trash cinema , I can die a happy man !
Disgusting film ! And I'm NOT talking about the gore .	I know you're not supposed to have any positive expectations towards an 80's film called " Attack of the Mutant Rednecks " but this is really terrible beyond belief . Even when you're familiar with really bad , no-budget amateur film-making , this piece of junk is STILL unendurable ! I usually have a soft spot for enthusiast genre fanatics that deliver their own self-made film with bad acting and over the top gore effects ( like " The Dead Next Door " for example ! ) but this is simply atrocious and I can't mention one reasonably decent aspect about it . Ozone ! Attack of the Redneck Mutants tells the filthy story of a remote town where the retarded inhabitants turn into decomposing corpses after an accident with chemical sprays . On the DVD-cover is stated that this film carries an environmental message . Um ? showing a bunch of idiots ripping flesh out of each other and then blaming it on ozone-problems isn't exactly helping the environment , guys . The people ( I can't really refer to them as actors ) playing in this trash are the most irritating ever ! I'm not demanding outstanding acting performances in this type of cinema but these hillbillies can't even properly speak . You often feel the desire to pull them through the screen and hit them in the stomach for looking so ridiculous . The gore and blood normally would be the obvious reasons to check out this film but it really isn't worth it . The gore is uninspired , lame and gigantically over the top . And when the gore isn't dripping from the screen , the film is very tedious and boring as hell . I take it you're not interested in seeing a group of elderly redneck having a karaoke-evening ? ? Avoid at all costs ? unless you get a kick out of tormenting yourself . Then you should definitely watch it .
The biggest load of 80's slasher-nonsense ever filmed !	Sigh ! Yet AGAIN there's something or someone evil lurking in the woods surrounding a godforsaken town and everyone who dares entering the area will sadistically experience this . Although random people get slaughtered constantly in between , the plot mainly centers on four incredibly annoying campers . " Don't Go in the Woods Alone " features every negative horror cliché you can possibly think of . Stereotypical characters , dark and muddled cinematography , no continuity at all , tame murders , an uninspired villain and irredeemably bad music that appears to be composed by a six-year-old kid on his very first keyboard . I'm pretty sure there never was a script to work with , as the characters just spawn random words that make little to no sense . Heck , there probably even wasn't a director ! The big , fat and totally incompetent town sheriff provides the film with a handful of unintended chuckles , but it's generally a truly sad and pathetic piece of junk that easily deserves to be labeled as the absolute WORST 80's slasher out there . This is the type of crap that gives the genre a bad name , for Christ's sake ! All still remaining copies should be collected into one big pile and burned !
Smile ! You're on candid jugs-camera !	Please don't pay too much attention too the extremely low rating , as " Double Agent 73 " is nevertheless recommended in a very culty kind of way , but I simply can't bring myself to donate a positive number to such an utter piece of amateurish trash ! This isn't really a movie ; this is a weird homage to two enormous and hideous bags of fat that are supposed to look like breasts . I can't possibly imagine that there are men ( or women ? ) out there that get aroused by gigantic cup sizes like this , but this film as well as its predecessor " Deadly Weapons " was a modest cult-hit in the bizarre sexploitation-circuit of the early 1970's . Chesty Morgan is the worst excuse for an actress ever , but her breasts are like smörgåsbords for weirdies and she doesn't mind walking around with them exposed . She's supposed to be a brilliant undercover spy , assigned to clean up a network of low-quality heroine dealers . With a hi-tech camera implanted in her boobs ( ! ) , Chesty sleazes her way through the horny bad guys . This is quite an exceptional piece of distasteful cinema . Whatever is said or done , the camera ALWAYS zooms in on Chesty's chest ( although the nipples are located somewhere in her waist-area ) ! It feels like director Doris Wishman , or any of the producers involved , don't even want you to care about the plot . The incompetence of this film is hilarious . Not only Chesty's acting is embarrassing , but also the rough editing , the dialogs and the handful of gory killings . I suppose this counts as one of those movies you have to see in order to believe , but if you don't have a particular weakness for low-grade cult , I'd say skip it .
Do not watch if you're older than 15 ?	The first Stephen Sommers mummy-movie , released in 1999 , already was a lousy and overly boisterous film that focused on the visual eye-candy rather than to re-tell the classic Imothep-tale properly . Still , it had its compelling moments and enough humor to put the whole production into perspective . Even the more experienced horror fan , who seeks atmosphere instead of excitement , could find a bit of joy in " The Mummy " . This rapidly finished sequel , however , fully aims itself at ( pre - ) teen audiences who never in their lives saw a good movie and waste their days with playing video games ! The script is a mess , revolving on the resurrection of Imothep ( again ? ) and the coming of a new Egyptian bad-boy , namely " The Scorpion King " . Rick and Evelyn O'Connor ( the heroes of the first ) as well as Imothep intend to destroy " The Scorpion King " , but for different purposes . The mean mummy wants to take of command of Scorpion's army and wipe out the world whereas the archaeologists-couple tries to prevent this . There's a giant amount of totally redundant sequences and it looks like they were only added to show good the makers are with computer-engineered special effects . Okay , we got it . . . tell a story instead ! Every dead end or illogical aspect in the script is resolved with another attention-distracting visual trick and ? after a while ? it looks like the writers aren't even trying to be ingenious anymore . The acting is really bad with Fraser and Weisz both thinking about their paychecks instead of their lines and the introduction of cinema's most annoying child-actor in history : Freddie Boath . He's an 8-year-old brat who supposedly has more archaeologist-knowledge than an army of university professors . John Hannah also walks around the sets for no reason . He had a few funny one-liners and grimaces in the first film , but his part here is pretty much pointless . For some incomprehensible reason , this movie is pretty loved among IMDb-members ( judging by the ratings and user comments ) but I can't think of any positive ( or even redeeming ) comments in favor of it . I'm sorry ?
Dull , derivative , dud . . . Like you ought to know beforehand .	Okay , admittedly I wasn't paying too much attention and there probably is a perfectly logical explanation , but there's something about " Alien Lockdown " that I absolutely don't understand . During the opening sequences there's a dull narration about a meteor crashing on earth millions of years ago and bringing forward an emerald-type of talisman that makes whoever owns it invincible ? or something . Then , all of a sudden , we're back in present time ( or even in the future ? ) and the story revolves on mad scientist building the ultimate soldier in a secret laboratory in the Rocky Mountains . What's the connection with the ancient emerald ? Where does the alien tissue come from ? Most important question of all : who the hell cares ? Naturally , the project goes wrong and a military expedition is sent in to exterminate the monster . Yawn ! " Alien Lockdown " is a frustratingly terrible type of horror / Sci-Fi movie . You honestly wonder why they continue to produce movies like this , as the formula has nothing interesting or original to offer anymore . It's just the umpteenth uninspired and dreadful clone of " Alien " and there's really nothing positive to write about . The characters are walking , talking stereotypes , the scenery and locations look second-hand and the atmosphere is non-existent . And the action sequences , well ? You know what they are like : soldiers endlessly wandering around dark corridors with flashlights , then suddenly there's the flashing image of a hideous monster and the next moment the flashlight lies abandoned on the floor . John Savage terribly overacts as the mad scientist , as if he's protesting against all the worthless crap he's starring in lately . Your glorious days of " The Deer Hunter " and " The Onion Field " are long gone , John ? Michelle Goh acts pretentious and wannabe tough , like she's the first female action heroine ever . She probably doesn't realize they only chose her because Lucy Liu is too expensive . Bah , enough time and words wasted on this dud of a film . Just stay away from it !
Surrogate Sense of Shame . . .	A Surrogate sense of shame ? That is the only kind of sentiment " Murder Party " evoked with me . I am literally feeling embarrassed in writer / director Jeremy Saulnier's place for even daring to release such an utterly retarded and infuriatingly dumb excuse for a horror motion picture . What , does really everyone think they are capable of making horror movies nowadays ? This is exactly the type of rubbish to give the entire genre a bad name . For some reason most reviews for " Murder Party " are enthusiast and praising . I figure these critics were either somehow involved in the production or received illicit commissions of some sort , because there's really nothing positive about this movie . At the time of watching , my mate and I were so much under the influence of alcohol and soft-drugs that we even would have found " Not Without My Daughter " hysterical , yet we didn't laugh once at " Murder Party " . Well , with the notable exception of one gag ( the lead character gathering a whole collection of potential weapons only to then just drop them upon seeing his opponents ) but that hardly justifies the price of a purchase . The gags are overlong and often ridiculously over-the-top , the stereotypical characters are insufferable to even gaze at , the gore is really nothing special and each and every tiny aspect about the production is handled incompetently . The lead guy Chris is a big lonesome nerd who finds a personal invitation to a Halloween party on the streets , and since his life is so miserably pathetic , he decides to go and even bring pumpkin bread as a present . He ends up amongst a gathering of the world's biggest lunatics posing as artists and solely invited a random stranger to kill him / her in the name of art . But hey , since they're all crazy , they actually begin killing off each other and forget about the dork in his homemade robot costume . Even with a running time of barely 80 minutes , " Murder Party " outstays its welcome with approximately 75 minutes and it's honestly about time young and ambitious filmmakers realize horror and slapstick aren't supposed to mix , and especially not by clueless amateurs .
It lacks a whole lot of fertility ?	Oh please ? this film really mocks the intelligence of its audience . It's a complete pile of garbage and a giant waste of time . Not one little aspect in this film makes the slightest bit of sense , the acting and directing are abominable and ? which is the worst thing ? it takes itself far too serious . I wanted to give it a change , because I always liked watching Malcolm McDowall . Ever since ' A Clockwork Orange ' , I liked his vicious style and macabre personality . I hope he had fun while shooting this film , because the rest of the world sure didn't . Malcolm plays a genius florist who uses kills young , beautiful women to turn them into plants ! He's on a mission from God to recreate women . Ha ha ha ? It's all in the fertilizer , let's say ? Angie Everheart is the yummy female police officer who's after him ? The whole thing becomes even more stupid when McDowall seems to suffer from a disease that makes him look older than he is ( we're led to believe that is character is only 35 years old ) and that he had a traumatic childhood and depressing collage years . Not only does the story STINKS , Garden of Evil also suffers from the worst casting job in the history of cinema ! Richard ' Booker ' Grieco as the angry , boisterous police-lieutenant ? ! ? What fertile ( ? ) mind came up with that ? Grieco looks utterly ridiculous and his voice sounds like a cheap Bruce Willis imitation . As always , Angie Everheart is gorgeous to look at , but that doesn't necessarily means she has got the required acting skills . Few blood , no comedy , not even an attempt to build up tension ? . All we receive are pointless and endless speeches about Mother Nature and the beauty of flowers . ' Garden of Evil ' ( or The Gardener , as IMDb likes to call it ) surely is one of the worst films I ever saw . I should have known ? it's from the hand of the Hickox-clan . The director's brother Anthony once messed up the Hellraiser-franchise with Hell on Earth . Now he has a tiny role in his brother's piece of junk . Avoid it , people ? I'm doing you a favor !
Everybody , please STOP pretending Larry Clark is a genius ! ! !	Ugh , I should have known better . . . Ken Park - the third installment in Clark's portraits of teenage alienation - is even worse than Kids and Bully . This guy deserves his status and reputation of artistic film-maker as much as I deserve the Nobel peace-price . I hope , when all the hype cools down , more and more people will realize that he's nothing more than an untalented and dull cineast who's only out to shock audiences . When watching his films , I get the idea that his only goal is to get banned and censored in as much countries as humanly possible . . . because that provides him with an easily deserved cult reputation . The story and especially the characters in Ken Park are pathetic , uninspired , empty and not at all that offensive . . . And this film is completely arrogant and egocentric . You can actually hear Larry Clark thinking : " Oh , look at me . . . I'm controversial " . Bah , how pitiful . There's nothing artistic about explicit and outrageous sex scenes ( read : semi-pornographically scenes ) ! When I first saw this film - at a festival - the public spontaneously started to applaud at the close up of a masturbation sequence . . . Why , why . . . WHY , I ask ? ! ? If things like masturbation , sodomy and incest can be considered ' artistic ' , then why is everybody embarrassed to admit they watch porno ? Ken Park is a soporific and utterly annoying anthology that unites a couple of messed up teenagers ( and their even more messed up parents ) you don't care about to begin with , anyway . I surely hope your VCR-player has a fast-forward button ! Yet , the most hilarious statement I keep hearing is that Larry Clark movies are eye-openers and realistic portraits of society nowadays . . . What a load of nonsense is that ? Life isn't like this and surely people aren't as stupid and depressing as Clark pictures them . And if you think they are , you should go out more . . . or at least start to watch better movies .
The Final Embarrassment	Unimaginably stupid , redundant and humiliating closure to the " Nightmare on Elm Street " - series ! Part 6 is so incompetent that it looks like director Rachel Talalay intentionally wanted to turn Wes Craven's initial premise into one big bad and tasteless joke . This isn't just the worst entry in the " Elm Street " saga ; it's also one of the most embarrassing horror movies ever made and it downright offends fans of the genre ! The story is dumb , the character drawings are ridiculous , the structure is all murky and ? most of all ? the special and visual effects resemble those of a Tom & Jerry cartoon . The sequences in which Freddy Krueger murders his victims are endless and very uninteresting . Were we supposed to be petrified when a jabbering Freddy turned Breckin Meyer into a video game-character and pogo-sticked him around the walls of a house ? The story takes us back to Springwood and it appears that Freddy all of a sudden has a middle-aged daughter . You'd think he would mention that in one of his previous adventures , but no ? There's only one teenage-survivor in Springwood and Krueger uses him to get into contact with his long lost daughter . Another reason why this final installment is so awful is the completely illogical structure . The John Doe-boy is introduced as the leading character but then all of a sudden he dies and the plot continues to revolve on two adults ! How about that : Freddy Krueger , who spent five entire films killing nothing but teenagers , eventually gets beaten by two adults wearing 3D-glasses ! Sort of like ruins the whole essence , doesn't it ? As far as I'm concerned , " Nightmare on Elm Street " has always been a dreadfully overrated series but , up until now , even the weakest entries had at least some redeeming elements . " Freddy's Dead " , however , is simply unendurable and nobody should waste his / her precious time watching it .
: The biggest amount of junk you'll ever see . . . and that's a guarantee ! !	I believe the prestige of Troll 2 has gained much more fame than the movie itself by now . This thing is generally considered as one of the worst movies that ever have been made . For everyone who still thinks that's an exaggerated statement . . . you're wrong ! Troll 2 really IS a disaster every way you look at it and a waste of time , pellicle and effort . Forget everything you knew about the original Troll ( 1986 ) . . . Better yet , forget everything ! ! Forget about the fact you have a bit of intelligence in you and forget about the theory that movies are a form of art and cultural entertainment . . . Those are necessary precautions you have to take in you're planning to sit through this entire movie . By the way . . . if you do make it till the end , you deserve a price . . . chances are that you'll give up a lot sooner . What is it exactly that makes Troll 2 this bad ? ? Well , as a short answer , I'd say everything ! ! The characters make you nauseate and the " actors " who're playing them make you aggressive . The story is pretty pathetic and the setting are completely uninspired . And don't blame the low budget for that ! ! I've seen enough quickies where the level of creativity makes up for the lack of money . The cast and crew here just suffers from a lack of talent ! The special effects and make-up in the original Troll were really dumb and cheesy but they were Oscar-material compared to the stuff used in Troll 2 . There where the original movie did an effort make it look like a hideous creature , Troll 2 just uses childish masks and brown bags . . . really sad . The story ? ? Well , if you insist . . . ( small spoilers . . . who cares ) A family of complete losers decides to spend a couple of months in the countryside . A couple of teenage retards follow them in a caravan . They all arrive in a town where they get turned into vegetables and eaten by " Goblins " . . . Little detail by the way : in the entire movie , the word " Troll " isn't used once ! The constantly ramble about Goblins so the complete background that was given to the Troll in the original movie is wasted in this movie . Either way , the idiotic family receives help from the grandfather who's been dead for a half year and a lot of useless things are being said . That's about it . . . A final word of praise goes out to the very talented cast ! You can be sure about the fact that you'll never see a more unique gathering of wankers ! The mother is extremely irritating , the father is just a big joke , the daughter is pretty good-looking but also pretty stupid . . . and - last but not least - the son Joshua . . . man , I felt the urge to choke that little twat ! Anyway . . . Troll 2 is only recommended to fans of bad ( not to say AWFUL ) cinema . And even then you need to have a strong power of endurance
Happy Birthday , Ringu . . . Now beat it !	Even though never a fan of the original to begin with , I once was stupid enough to buy a box set containing all four " Ringu " - films and now I'm stuck with it ! So , like it or not , but here's another negative review on the immensely overrated " Ringu " - series , more particularly about the totally redundant and soporific " Birthday " . Ringu 0 , is it ? Well , that's exactly the rating it can get : . This is a prequel , set approximately 30 years before the murderous videotape events of " Ringu " and revolving entirely on the character of Sadako when she was in her late teens . I have absolutely no idea why , though , because she's an uninteresting and dull person . Several years after her mother's suicide turned Sadako into an emotional wreck , she suddenly decides to join a theater club and become an actress . This all goes well for a while as she seems talented and she even snares herself a boyfriend . It takes approximately ten minutes before boredom similar to the previous two films kicks in and ? even worse ? this installment also suffers from horrible clichés . Sadako turns out the Japanese equivalent of Carrie and her spiritual forces inflict light-bulb implosions and stage machinery falling down by itself . The most embarrassing cliché is kept until the end , when the plot suddenly suggests the existence of an evil-twin sister nobody knows about . Oh please ! Personally , I don't think it's such a great idea to fool your audiences into believing Sadako's spirit represents pure evil during two whole films , only to portray her as a poor and emotionally fragile girl afterwards . Isn't that like ruining the franchise's whole power ? There's no suspense or atmosphere to detect anywhere , acting & directing are mediocre and the few action sequences are way too soft . Forget about " Ringu " and let's watch some REAL horror instead , shall we ?
Like A Virgin ? Alienated for the very first time !	" Breeders " might very well be the absolute most retarded horror movie of the 1980's and that's quite an achievement on itself , since this entire decade ( apart from a couple notable exceptions ) was marked with stupid & pointless horror movies . You can hardly refer to this as a " movie " , by the way , because there's no script , not the slightest bit of continuity and not even an attempt to build up some tension . Then ? why bother ? Because it has boobs ! And lots of them ! ! The entire film is just a very poor excuse to show naked ladies when they're showering , practicing aerobics , changing outfits or bathing all together in a gooey alien-whirlpool ( we'll get back to that later ! ) . For no particular reason , horny aliens ( I'm still not sure whether it's just one or a group ) land in downtown Manhattan and immediately begin to sexually assault the few remaining local virgins . A not-so-intelligent police inspector and an inexperienced female doctor start to investigate , but they discover ? nothing ! Meanwhile , more girls get raped and they're all guided back ? under alien hypnosis ? to the Manhattan sewer system where they all bath together in slime ! What the hell ? Okay , the only positive thing you can possibly say about " Breeders " is that it's an acceptable guilty pleasure ! You can switch off all brain-activities whilst enjoying the explicit nudity and the campy gore-effects , but everything else is simply insufferable . All the cast members deserve to die a most horrible death and it was a very wise career choice for writer / director Tim Kincaid to continue in the gay porn business .
Keep on Tracking , Beastie . . .	Imagine yourself to be in this situation . You're out for a nightly walk , minding your own business and just when you're about to score with that blond chick you picked up earlier that day ? BANG ! You get hit on the head by a freaking meteorite ! Well , that just sucks ! Especially when it turns out that this meteorite is an authentic piece of moon rock , capable of turning you into a prowling , bloodthirsty lizard-creature at night . Okay , I suppose it obvious that " Track of the Moon Beast " is quite a stupid movie ; poorly written and not the least bit suspenseful . The first half is still more or less endurable , thanks to some cheesy meteor effects and a particularly nasty killing sequence , then it becomes a dull and clichéd mess . The Lizardman's girlfriend and best friend ( the obligatory wise Indian guy ) try everything they can to cure poor Paul , but he's doomed ? End of story . The camera-work is hideous and the lizard-transformation effects are downright ridiculous . The acting's pretty bad too , but at least main actress Leigh Drake's gorgeous legs distract you a bit . It looks like it was forbidden for her to wear anything other than a mini-skirt ! She even goes on mountain expeditions wearing a minuscule skirt that is only just long enough to cover her crotch . Oh , and good luck trying to sit through that Godawful " California Lady " country song ! Bad 70's drive-in horror , avoid like you would avoid skin cancer .
No wonder people claim the horror genre is dead ?	If the survival of horror films depends on titles such as this " FearDotCom " , we are indeed facing the downfall of the genre . This is lame , uninspired and repetitive garbage that irritates you from start to finish . Director William Malone's idea of suspense exists out of underexposed and fuzzy images of murders edited together in boisterous flashes that actually show you NOTHING . Add a poorly written script about a murderous website and completely unconvincing characters to this and you've got yourself one of the biggest cinema-turkeys since the new millennium . If the premise of this film rings a bell , it means that you recognize it from the Japanese cult hit " Ringu " ? . Or the slightly inferior American remake " the Ring " . Only , the videotape has been replaced by an internet website and the poor victims have only 2 days left to live after being exposed instead of 7 . Typical for an unscrupulous rip-off ? Faster , louder and modernized ! The elaboration is a mess : weak dialogue , plot holes all over the place , no style or atmosphere and very bad acting . I can't believe class actors like Udo Kier and Stephen Rea were talked into accepting roles like this ? Surely they can still do better even though they both have seen their best times . Stephen Dorff and the leading lady deliver lousy performances in roles that really don't fit them . Dorff as a tough , experienced copper ? Doubtful ? Perhaps what annoyed me most about the cast ( shallow , I admit ) is seeing how one of my all-time favorite B-actors , Jeffrey Combs , is given such a small and insignificant role ! That's Doctor Herbert West from Re-Animator we're talking about , dammit ! Show a little more respect , Malone ! If you love horror , you should avoid " FearDotCom " at all costs ! It's bad for your nerve system .
This phone is DEAD !	Yaaaawn ! I'm so sick and tired of all these wannabe controversial directors and their supposedly ' groundbreaking ' cinema ideas ! Give it up boys ; you're not shocking anybody with your lame crap ! Here we have a new prodigy from the Netherlands ? Theo Van Gogh ? who thought it would be a cool idea to shoot a film about two people nagging over the phone the whole time . A middle-aged divorced man responds to an ad in the paper , placed by a younger woman who offers phone-sex . They make it weekly appointment and they quickly find out their whole lives turns around these weekly conversations now . They masturbate to each other's voice , argue about whether they depend on each other or not ? and then masturbate some more . Very boring and utterly annoying . Maybe it could have worked as a 5 ( or max . 10 minutes ) sketch in an educational talk show or something , but not as a full-length film . And most of all : you get the feeling that you're not supposed to see this ! It's voyeuristic and low ? not the least bit artistic
Don't bury your cat in this quagmire !	Rarely seen a movie so unpleasant as this " Pet Sematary 2 " ? And that's definitely not meant as a compliment ! Although filmed only three years after the original and by the same director , Mary Lambert , the sequel is an entirely different kind of horror film that hasn't got anything to do anymore with Stephen King's successful story . The 1989 - " Pet Sematary " was a scary movie with few gore but loads of atmospheric tension , a fairly solid script and likable characters whereas this sequel goes straight for brainless action and nasty make-up effects . The screenplay is very standard and unexciting zombie-stuff , focusing on a young teenager who witnesses the cruel death of his actress-mother ( during the filming of a fictional horror film that actually looks better than " Pet Sematary 2 " ) . To help him deal with his loss , the boy's father decides to move to the countryside but ? of all the places in rural America ? they settle in the one town that has an Indian burial ground for a pet cemetery ! After a few successful ( ? ) experiments that bring deceased pets back to life , Jeff develops the brilliant idea of resurrecting his beloved mother ? This is a very UGLY and mean-spirited film and the numerous death-sequences will leave you with a bad feeling in your stomach . The few sympathetic characters die in horrible ways while the real scum gets away with everything . And that's just not right , not even if you exclusively watch horror films to see gore . The climax is unnecessarily gross and rock / soft-metal flavored soundtrack is very inappropriate . " Pet Sematary 2 " can also be considered offensive , especially if you're an animal-lover . I bet activists of the ' Animal Liberation Front ' will hate this movie for the sequences in which cute little bunny-rabbits are skinned alive and young kittens are turned into stew .
Beware : Priest at large ! ! !	What's the most frustrating thing that can happen to you in the videostore ? Imagine : you find a box that says ' Prom Night ' with a nice , gruesome cover . You seem to remember that , talking in terms of 80's slashers , this Prom Night is supposed to be a masterpiece . Without hesitating much , you take it and go home . Then you play it and as the credits start to appear on the TV-screen it turns out you've rented something that's actually ' Prom Night 4 : Deliver us from Evil ' . They made a Prom Night 4 now ? ? I've been had ! ! Anyway , since complaining in the videostore is of no use , you just watch this piece of junk . Two young couples , staying in mum and dad's mansion for the weekend , are terrorized by a priest whose thoughts and actions are controlled by the devil . This priest ? father Jones ? killed before , but the Church managed to keep it secret and hidden for 34 years . All this time , Father Jones was locked up in a cellar and tranquillized with drugs . A young , inexperienced priest lets him escape . There's no tension , no background ( how did Father Jones got possessed ? ) and no original deaths . The acting is awful ( or what did you think ? ) and the gore-level is extremely low . Welcome to redundant and stupid sequel n° 5 . 789 ! Oh , one more thing ? it may be a detail but ? where was the Prom ? ?
Would you like fries with that Slasher-crap ?	From start to finish , this is utterly irritating and infantile slasher-fodder of the type that makes you want to poke out your own eyeballs with a rusty spoon . This is the type of junk you've seen six dozen of times before already , and every single one of them was better and less insulting to your intellect . The plot is derivative of approximately fifteen other early 80's slasher films , the soundtrack is nefarious ( for the last time : heavy-metal and suspense rarely mix ! ) , the characters are insupportable stereotypes and the maniacal killer ( yet another evil clown ) is the complete opposite of menacing , with his lame one-liners and overly flamboyant outfit . The film opens with a couple of white trash guys who desperately wish to be black thugs and their arrogant behavior and incomprehensible slang pretty much sets the tone for the rest of the film . Seriously , are American teenagers really this stupid nowadays ? Luckily they quickly get massacred by Horny the Clown , the Ronald McDonald of fast food restaurant " Hella Burger " located in Orange County . The serial killer-clown continues his murder spree in the local high school , but his teenage victims ? and particularly their parents ? appear to have something in common , namely a dark secret about a prank that horribly ran out of control and killed a nerdy kid on his 18th birthday party . The concept is as old as the slasher-film itself , yet the writers pretentiously act as if they re-invent the genre and particularly the comical aspects miserably fail their effect . There's zero suspense , or what else did you expect , and the screenplay stupidly enough often hints at supernatural powers even though there's no logical explanation for this . The film tries to be intelligent , and distract you from all the plot-holes and improbabilities , through its main character Mackenzie Carpenter . She's a rebellious , opinionated and politically engaged teenager and , granted , Leighton Meester's presence and cute on screen charisma is unquestionably the movie's main strongpoint . Yet , she also still makes a couple of stupid decisions and all of her friends , including her horny boyfriend , are more than dim-witted enough to compensate for her cleverness . The gore is pretty decent , I have to admit , but overall " Drive Thru " is a totally insignificant movie .
Blame someone else's penis !	Of all the excessively nonsensical , rancid and imbecilic Sexploitation movies ever made during the decade of the 1970's ( and genre buffs know there are a LOT of them ) , Doris Wishman's " The Amazing Transplant " definitely takes the cake when talking in terms of pure senselessness and sheer incoherence . This doesn't even qualify as a movie ; this is just some crazy lady ( Wishman was the only female smut-director at that time ) showcasing her most lurid and morally incorrect sexual fantasies . The premise appealed to me , since it sounded like a deviant and exploitative variation on the " Mad Love " and " Hands of Orlac " concept . In those classic films the hands of an executed killer become transplanted onto a pianist who lost his in an accident , but the hands gradually turn their new owner into an unstoppable killing machine . " The Amazing Transplant " basically features the exact same plot , but of course we're dealing with a raping penis here instead of a murdering pair of hands . It's a curious and interesting concept for a sleazy and gritty 70's exploitation flick , but the sad truth is that Wishman wasn't the least bit interested in telling a story , as the ( not so ) amazing penis transplant only gets mentioned ten minutes prior to the ending . The rest of film merely exists of sleazy and soft-core padding with atrocious acting performances , painful dialogs and unattractive women . In the opening sequences , Arthur Barlen strangles his fiancée ? and what a fight she puts up ? and flees . His uncle , who's also a police detective , goes after him using Arthur's address book as the only lead . Whilst the sleazy fat copper checks out the young girls ' legs and breasts , they explain through flashbacks how Arthur changed from a quiet and introvert boy into a perverted and mad-raving sex machine . At those points , we're not supposed to know anything about the penis transplant , but obviously the title and every possible synopsis description on the internet already revealed everything . The film only lasts a mere 70 minutes , yet it's insufferably boring and contains over 75 % of redundant footage . There's an inexplicably large amount of images showing people's legs and feet as they simply stroll over sidewalks . Larry Hunter's character of Bill Barlen the detective is unintentionally hilarious . He displays the weirdest facial expressions when astonished , makes offensive remarks towards lesbians and simply walks away when women clearly need emotional support . This was my fourth movie directed by Doris " Sultana-of-Sleaze " Wishman ( after " Deadly Weapons " , " Double Agent 73 " and " Let Me Die a Woman " ) and she never ceases to " amaze " me . Not necessarily in a positive way , but you have to admit she dared to exploit pretty much every controversial topic .
Walk The Other Way !	BIG spoilers , but you shouldn't care . . . Skip Schoolnik's Hide and Go Shriek is a strong contender for the price of absolute WORST slasher-movie of the 80's . Simply every aspect of this is film is very wrong and downright pathetic , which makes it all the more surprising to see that all my fellow reviewers on this site are so mild in their opinions ! This thing is hopeless right from the start , with the introduction of the most insufferable ensemble cast ever ! These teenagers don't only look stupid ; their personalities don't make the slightest bit of sense . First we see two males in a gym , weightlifting and driveling about graduation parties . Okay , they're standard high-school jocks that act tough and talk dirty , it seems , but instead they're total wimps ! One of them constantly tells his virgin girlfriend that it's OK to wait with sex until she's ready and the other one is terrified to mess up his daddy's furniture warehouse . The next male that gets introduced is supposed to be the obligatory sex-addict , yet all he ever nags about is his 6$ haircut . The last male looks like a typical dork , and you expect the others to pick on him , but no , he's actually part of the team ! The same goes for all the girls . Judging by their looks and exhibitionist-tendencies , you're expecting a troop of sluts and bimbos , right ? Wrong again , because these ladies talk about how sacred marriage is and they're even giving away their own sexy lingerie to a chubbier girl so that she's more likely to have sex with the aforementioned dork . What kind of teenagers are they ? The stupidity of these youngsters is made complete when it turns out they have their very own friendship dance-ritual to Aerosmith's " Walk this Way " . The gang has finally finished high school and they plan a wild celebration in the furniture store owned by John's dad . Their idea of a graduation party is � get this - to play hide & seek ! How old are they , twelve ? ? After the game , and ignoring the fact some of them already vanished , they all have dinner together and go to bed early . I stand corrected ; they're actually seven years old� Then , of course , there's the homicidal maniac who � thank God � consistently murders our teenagers one by one . The death sequences are the only redeeming moments and you should enjoy the elevator-decapitation scene as much as you possibly can because the denouement is totally retarded again . Naturally I'm not going to blab the killer's identity here , but you better prepare yourself for the most ending in low-budget horror EVER ! One of the many reasons why 80's slashers are so popular is because you can participate in guessing who the killer is . You simply can't do that here and people who carefully paid attention to every small detail will feel cheated and furious . Total laugh-riot .
Phew ! Back to the 80's with this trash !	For some incomprehensible reason ? it's actually one of the biggest mysteries of our time - director David DeCoteau has quite a large share of loyal fans and especially his 80's and early 90's movies have gained a undeserved cult status . Nevertheless ALL of his movies are extremely inept and ridiculous trash , with loads of dull moments , gratuitous sleaze and lousy special effects . I always thought " Creepozoids " was the worst of the bunch , but now that dubious honor goes to " Sorority Babes in the Slimeball Bowl-o-Rama " . Appealing title , isn't it ? Well , it's the best thing about it . Here we have the umpteenth 80's horror movie revolving on a fraternity initiation ritual that goes a runs a little out of hand , only here it's not scary or gory , just stupid ! So far , the hardest ordeals Taffy and Lisa had to endure to get into the sorority were getting butt-spanked and covered in whipped cream , but now they have to break into the local bowling alley ? along with three nerd prototypes boys ? and steal a trophy . Whilst doing that , and also running into Linnea Quigley who plays a female burglar ( ? ) , they accidentally free a mythical monster from it's resting place . This thing is not quite a Djinn , not a demon and it's not really a Gremlin , neither . Apparently it's an " Imp " . These . . . um . . . Imps don't do very much apart from talking crap , seemly through the voice of a washed-up Blaxploitation-star . Some teenagers die , other teenagers take their clothes off and good old Buck Flower plays the exact same character as he did in 150 previous movies . Poorly directed , with absolutely no attention to tension or continuity , and atrociously acted by an impressive collection of brainless bimbos . The 80's brought forward a lot of great things in the horror industry , but even more irredeemably bad garbage . For DeCoteau fans and Quigley-groupies only !
Wicked witches and bad movie scenario's . . .	SMALL SPOILERS COMING UP . . . . . Let's start to discuss the GOOD aspects about Darkness Falls . The basic character idea of the " villain " . It's based on the ancient myth / fairy-tale of the tooth-fairy . I like that sort of things . . . ancient creatures that are raised in a modern time to continue their killing spree . And , you can't deny it , this tooth-fairy thing has a macabre ring to it . So , the whole movie opens with a voice over who tells us the story of a lonely woman who was sentenced to death for killing innocent children . Naturally , she didn't do it and cursed the town and everybody who lived there . . . We've all seen this before but what the heck , it's entertaining and it sets the right mood instantly . Unfortunately , that's where the good news stops . After the intro , Darkness Falls becomes one of the most annoying things I've ever seen and it proudly enlarges the list of terrible new horror movies made during the last few years . The plot idea gets ruined and the script is filled with mistakes and illogical twists . A little boy in a town called Darkness Falls is being haunted by a witch and the only person who survived this witch ' terror 12 years earlier returns to come to the rescue . I think it's their own fault by the way . . . who the hell would want to live in a place called Darkness Falls ? ? You can put money on the fact something will go terribly wrong in such a place sooner or later . Anyway , the guy who returns to Darkness Falls is suspected of a whole series of murders , his first and true loves believes he's innocent , they have to convince the rest of the town and bla bla bla . . . what else is new ? Absolutely nothing . . . As the viewer , you never feel related to any of the characters , there's absolutely no humor in the script ( not even a bit of self-mockery ) and the horror effects are surprisingly cheap for a 2003 movie . It more looks like a low-budget 80's production . This thing contains no tension , it's extremely predictable , stupid and it's a waste of your money . Avoid it ! !
Three classic horror fables ruined at once ! Bravo , Senõr Franco ?	I guess your name simply has to be Jess Franco if you shamelessly steal the sagas of no less than three immortal horror icons ( Count Dracula , Frankenstein's Monster and the Wolf Man ) and still manage to make a dreadfully boring and incoherent piece of cinematic garbage out of it . How does one man pull it all off ? I caught myself staring at the TV screen for several whole minutes before all of a sudden realizing there's actually nothing happening at all . There's something remotely resembling to a storyline , but you'll have to cut and edit the pieces together yourself , as good old Jess clearly didn't bother about continuity , periodic accuracy , tension building or even just plain common sense . The most astonishing thing , however , is that during the opening sequences , our director almost tricked me into believing " Dracula : Prisoner of Frankenstein " could actually become a worthwhile effort ! The movie opens with atmospheric images of ominous dark castles and creepily isolated landscapes , guided by an unsettling Bruno Nicolai score . It suspiciously looks as if Franco carefully watched and studied the contemporary Hammer highlights ( including the entire Dracula and Frankenstein franchises ) and took notes on what scenery to use and how to create a setting . Unfortunately he quickly turns into his incompetent self again shortly after the opening credits and comes up with a totally ludicrous plot . The nauseatingly pale body of Count Dracula lies died in his coffin ( perhaps that is because all the vampire attacks take place in broad daylight , duh ! ) when no less than Dr . Frankenstein invades the castle turf . The power mad doctor ? NOT Baron this time ? instructs his homemade monster to abduct a strip dancer and subsequently uses her blood to resurrect a bat . I think the bat is meant to represent Count Dracula or at least some vampire , as it is Frankenstein's intention to raise an army of vampires under his command and then overtake the earth . After this series of retarded plot twists , I just lost all further interest , so don't even ask me at what point the Wolf Man joined in . This is just an incredibly retarded movie and I honestly can't fathom that nobody who was involved in this production seemed to notice so as well . Wasn't there any of producers , cast or crew members courageous enough to step up and say something like : " Sorry Jess , no offense but ? this is absolute rubbish we're filming here ! " No ? Anyone ? Although it's probably a good thing , there are hardly any lines or dialogs in this movie . It takes nearly twenty minutes before anyone speaks and the characters that do open their mouths only talk nonsense . The sleaze factor is disappointing , the amount of gore and bloodshed is weak and the make-up effects are embarrassing . The Frankenstein creature looks like a cheap mannequin doll from a bankrupt Halloween store , the Wolf Man is just some Spanish bloke with a severe body hair problem and Dracula ? well ? Howard Vernon looks pathetic in his umpteenth collaboration with director Jess Franco . Personally I think Vernon owed Jess Franco a lifetime of favors for borrowing money once , or something , and therefore was forced to star in each and every dud the director ever made .
Two Zuccos for the price of one . . . . and STILL boring !	Ultra low-budgeted 40's quickie that pitifully tries to cash in the successful Universal horror movies by telling a familiar vampire theme and casting washed-up actors like Dwight Frye , who totally reprises his Renfield-role from " Dracula " . It's my own fault I'm slightly disappointed , because I expected a more entertaining movie simply because George Zucco is the main star ? in a double role , even ! This guy had an amazing horror-charisma , and I still respect him for his work in " The Mad Monster " and " The Black Raven " , but even he can't save this dull mess of a film . Georgie-boy stars as the twin brothers Lloyd and Elwyn Clayton , eminent doctors in a little rural village . Lloyd recently killed Elwyn , for his own good however , because he was getting too involved with black magic and sorcery . But apparently Elwyn learned enough magic tricks to rise from his grave and bug his relatives . " Dead Men Walk " is very boring , with a lot of endless dialogues but almost no action . Zucco appears to be very restrained and not really comfortable in his double role . The end sequences are quite good , but it's far too late by then . Contemporary movies like " The Monster Maker " and ? again ? " The Mad Monster " proved that high budgets weren't an absolute necessity in order to make memorable horror gems , but this film fails on every possible level . Avoid !
Going down with all hands and hairy legs on board . . .	The first " Spiders " is one of my guiltiest guilty pleasures in the horror genre , simply because that movie is just too stupid NOT to enjoy ! It had grotesque special effects , featured every single cliché of the freshly revived creature-feature sub genre and it never took itself too seriously , which resulted in a fairly entertaining & campy flick . Part two regretfully is the complete opposite of all that . It tries to be scary and original , which is a pretty bad approach if you're dealing with mutated spiders that look as gigantic as a house ! Despite the remotely promising opening sequences ( featuring an authentic pirate attack ! ) and a lot of gory killings near the end , " Spiders 2 " is also a very boring film and that's really unforgivable for a post-2000 horror production . The sail boat of a young couple sinks during a storm but they're rescued by a huge cargo ship . The exclusively male crew members are insufferably friendly even though it's more than obvious that they're naughty villains , especially the annoying captain of the ship and the stereotypical mad doctor with the white beard . It takes another tedious half hour before it's confirmed that the cargo ship actually is a floating research lab where the sinister scientist feeds human bodies to over-sized tarantulas . The ramshackle old cargo ship forms an interesting location , but crap-director Sam Firstenberg nearly isn't talented enough to make full use of it . The CGI-effects are atrocious , as are the acting performances and it's really pathetic to see how everyone involved in this Nu-Image production takes this thing so damn seriously .
Penis-shaped Candles ! Need I say more ?	Well , there you have it , another disillusion on my account . Two , actually ! First of all , even though I like to think of myself that I know a little something about 70's euro-exploitation and its most prolific contributors , I never heard about Joseph W . Sarno before . Here's a guy who made over seventy rancid and cult-laden exploitation movies and I haven't seen a single one ! How ? Why ? What happened here ? Secondly , and even worse , just when you think to have found a new source for obscure cult movies , that director's most famous and supposed " masterpiece " turns out to be an irredeemably dull and irritating film . Admittedly , lesbian vampire movies form a pretty insignificant sub genre as a whole , but some of them bath in ominous atmosphere and curious sensuality ( like José Larraz ' " Vampyres " or Harry Kümmel's " Daughters of Darkness " ) . Joseph Sarno's film has nothing to offer , except copious amounts of gratuitous nudity and even that becomes boring rather quickly . The events take place in a secluded old castle , hidden deep in the German mountains , where five centuries ago lived a malicious and bloodthirsty ( literally ) baroness . Her loyal disciples still throw naked dance parties in the castle's catacombs , which are lit by penis-shaped candles ? AUCH , and hope to resurrect the baroness any time soon now . Suddenly ( don't even ask how ) the castle is full of young and sexy female guests , so even more erotic rites ensue . Sounds delicious and entertaining enough , but " The Devil's Plaything " contains a massive number of sequences where literally nothing happens and where the cast members ' ignorant facial expressions are simply unendurable ! Sarno isn't capable of creating suspense or building a Gothic atmosphere ( or maybe he just didn't bother to ) and the actresses ' capacities restrict themselves to standing in front the camera topless and pull a really pathetic face . Please do yourself a favor : no matter how desperately you strive to see all lurid lesbian-vampire movies of the 70's , this one isn't worth a penny ! Even the repertoires of Jess Franco and Jean Rollin are pure art compared to this dud .
Beware ? a murderous pizza ! !	Man , I hate the ' House'-series ( and yet , I've seen all four of them ? go figure ! ) . This franchise never really could decide whether it wanted to bring horror ? or comedy . This fourth entry isn't an exception on that . For one thing , this film introduce us to a family dramatically torn apart by a terrible car-accident and for another , it adds absurd elements like bloodthirsty pizza's ( ! ) , dogs with lampshades attached to their head and comic-book style villains . What's the deal ? Are we supposed to be scared or bring out the beer and laugh ? The plot is dreadfully lame involves ghost-house , build on a spiritual Indian ground ? Oh , how original . Yet , if these were the only problems House 4 suffered from , it would still be more or less reasonable . The biggest letdown lies in the entirely illogical structure . I don't know if this ever occurred to cast and crew but ? their story doesn't make sense at all ! By the way ? SPOILERS will follow here , in case you care . At first , the ' spirits ' of the house seem to turn against Kelly and almost even force her to kill her daughter , while suddenly and for unexplained reasons , these exact same spirits start helping her in fighting the bad guys . Did the miserable , two-minute séance cause this ? If so , I must say that is very , very poor ! Dreadful film ? dreadful series ? avoid them all !
Indigestible Franco-crap	This great world is full of mysteries ? One of the biggest of all , however , is why the hell some horror movie buffs ? myself included ? are still showing respect & admiration for Jess Franco , even though he brought us nearly nothing but boring crap and senseless exploitation . Take this rubbish for example ! " White Cannibal Queen " is a hopelessly incompetent and agonizing excuse for a motion picture , and Franco clearly just made it to quickly cash in on the huge success his fellow Euro-cult directors were having with movies like " Cannibal Holocaust " , " Mountain of the Cannibal God " and " Jungle Holocaust " . But those were captivating and eventful films , whereas Franco's movie is extremely dull and stupid from start to finish . Dull because there's almost no storyline and not even a remotely interesting character drawing and stupid because the sequences involving cannibalism and / or savage tribes are hilarious instead of grueling ! The supposedly relentless cannibals hop around with painted faces that make them look like clowns and most of them don't even look like South American natives . They're white ! Franco's cannibals are the least menacing ones I've ever seen and the lack of budget & inspiration even prevents them from eating many people . Whenever the cannibals attack someone , the screen swifts into a slow-motion compilation of dark and blurry images and it's nearly impossible to make out what's happening . It looks as if the same pieces of flesh are repeatedly ripped from a female's stomach , and this goes on for entire minutes ! The plot is a giant rip-off as well , as you've seen it all before ? and better . An adventurous young couple and their 8-year-old daughter travel down the Amazonian river when they get attacked by a tribe of funnily face-painted savages . The wife gets eaten and the young girl abducted , but the father ( Fulci regular Al Cliver ) manages to escape with only the loss of one arm . Years of intense psychiatric help later , he mobilizes an expedition team and re-enters the jungle to rescue his daughter . The girl turned into an incredible hot teenager and ? to get things even more complicated ? she's considered a sacred goddess by the cannibal tribe , so it won't be easy to get her out of the jungle . Does she even want to get out ? " White Cannibal Queen " is slow-paced , dull and poorly made . The acting performances are lousy and the use of music is often completely inappropriate . There's too little gore and sleaze , so even the most tolerant Franco fans are likely to consider this as one of his lousiest accomplishments . Avoid " White Cannibal Queen " at all costs and re-watch " Cannibal Holocaust " for the umpteenth time .
Boring Nazi Doctors	Well , I'm convinced now . They made stupid movies back in the old days as well . . . the Frozen Dead for instance . A very crappy , but especially boring horror movie coming from the 60's . Widely considered as the golden decade for horror , and I surely agree with that , but then we have to ignore this picture . There are about 15 good minutes in this movie . The last ones . All the required tension , creepy atmosphere and horror are in this quarter . All the rest is a waste of time , although it could have been something , I think . About 20 years after World War II ended , a few old-fashioned Nazi officers and scientists are performing experiments on frozen Nazi-leaders . They want to bring them back , of course and they can ! Thanks to the work of Dr . Norberg . Too bad ( for them , at least ) his curious niece ( Jean ) pops up with a friend of hers . She never knew her uncle and her deceased father were Nazi's so the lab of Dr . Norberg has to be hidden for her . To continue their research , Dr . Norberg and his assistent kill Jean's friend . Jean becomes suspicious . That's pretty normal I guess . . . they could've killed anybody , but nooooo . . . Let's kill the friend of the niece . How stupid is that ! ! ! The acting is boring , the action is very limited and there's no feeling at all with the characters . Although I'm glad there wasn't any feeling , actually . After all , the characters were Nazi's . The Frozen Dead is a movie that should be avoided . The synopsis of this film may sound interesting but believe me , further expectations will only lead to huge disappointments . My humble opinion on the Frozen Dead =
Insufferable 80's guff	Oh I'm sorry , was this supposed to be funny ? ! ? " Terrorvision " is another hugely irritating and completely retarded 80's horror " comedy " , produced by Albert & Charles Band under their notorious Empire Studios label . I know that many horror fans list this pile of junk high among their guilty pleasures , and I can accept that , because it would mean that everybody also realizes that the film basically is B . A . D ! We're introduced to an all-American family of which the father clumsily installs a satellite dish in the backyard . Mum and dad Putterman are swingers , grandpa is obsessed by warfare and eating lizard tails , the teenage punk-daughter is in love with an imbecile who uses the word " dude " twice in every sentence and the most normal family member ? the son ? has to take pills in order not to hallucinate all day . Okay then ! Onwards with an intergalactic pet from the planet Pluton that gets teleported through the satellite , eating its way through the Putterman-family and replacing the TV-dinners with exact replicas . " Terrorvision " could have been mildly amusing but the cast members act way too hectic and the script doesn't contain any real gags , just silly creature effects and grotesque situations . The absolute rock bottom moment of the film is an overlong and painfully lame sequence in which the kids educate the monster about earthly values . Good luck trying to sit through that !
Super-sleaze of the rancid 70's	This is the type of movie you get when giving a camera to a bunch of drunken fat guys that watched way too much porno in their lives . They presumably intended to make their very own imitation of Wes Craven's " Last House on the Left " with aggressive sex scenes and violent revenge-action , only they only got around filming the sex footage and completely forgot about the action . Two young girls , surprisingly cute-looking and sympathetic , are picked up by bored rednecks and brought to a remote place where they get raped and beaten for hours ! It's unbelievable how LONG these rape sequences last ! Viagra must have been popular in the early 70's already . When the dirty beer-drinking & pot-smoking farmers have finally satisfied their lusts , the girls try to get back to civilization on foot but ? sadly for them ? they get captured by a pathetic hippie-cult , led by what unquestionably must be THE most annoying guy I've ever seen . The agony of this film ends with two totally unrelated characters having sex with a prostitute in a sleazy motel room . Who the hell are those people ? ? ? Just in case you still have doubts , " Wrong Way " should NOT be watched by anyone who still has some good taste left in him / her . The absolute low point was when the camera zoomed in on the girls as they were washing their vagina after being raped several times . At that point , I was really wondering why I was still watching this crap . The editing is lousy and the choice of music couldn't be more wrong . None of the cast members starred in another movie ever again and that's probably for the best . Rating ; a point for the girls each because I honestly felt sorry for them .
Have-been Horror Directors Hotline , how may we help you ?	Ring ! Ring ! Have-been horror directors hotline , how may we help you ? Um ? yeah ? Pronto ! I mean hello , my name is Rugge ? err , call me by my initials R . D ! Okay Mr . R . D , what seems to be the problem ? Well the reviews on my latest movie " Dial : Help " were all negative and harsh and , frankly , I myself feel like my career has seen better days as well . Okay Mr . R . D , and why do you suppose that is ? Well , I gained fame and a well-deserved cult status thanks to my controversial and shocking movie about savage tribes of cannibals devouring a film crew and another one about relentless thugs terrorizing wealthy people in a house at the edge of the park , for which I borrowed the idea from Wes Craven , but " Dial : Help " revolves on ? err ? never mind ! No no , Mr . R . D , go ahead and tell me what the film is about . Um , it's about a spiritually possessed phone line stalking a sexy model and killing the people surrounding her . Ah , I see . That premise does indeed sound a little silly and not as petrifying as cannibals or rapists , but I suppose there are deeper themes in your film , right ? Oh yeah , sure ? Um , what do you mean by that ? Well , isn't the phone line symbolism for another kind of terror ? Or perhaps it's all just happening in the mind of your female heroine ? Um , nope ? It's just about a phone going berserk and murdering people with the cord , vibrations , electricity or even ordinary coins . Interesting , Mr . R . D , but how do you explain all this supernatural stuff to the viewer at the end of the movie ? You see , I figured the slowly unraveling phone-mystery plot wouldn't be that important or relevant , so I just concentrated on processing all possible phone-gimmicks I could think of . Phone gimmicks ? What do you mean ? You know , like wind blowing through the horn , mind-penetrating dial tones , and turn-tables catapulting into the air ! Very original , Mr . R . D , but not exactly horrific and as an experienced director you must know that , in the end , people expect a reasonable clarification of all these events . Oh , but there is ! It all has to do with negative and unreleased energy , if I remember correctly ! It's all a bit fuzzy , I admit . Hmm ? I see . Oh well , as they always say , a good motion picture relies on more elements than just the story . Did you at least process some of your regular trademarks into the film , so that your fans at least recognize your style ? I tried ! Lord knows I tried , but the murders and bloodshed are simply not shocking anyone ! That's a pity indeed , Mr . R . D , but what about sex ? Everyone likes a good portion of sleaze and nudity in their horror films and you said yourself the film centered on a sexy fashion model in peril ! Yes , but ? But what , Mr . R . D ? Well , to tell you the truth , we kind of promoted " Dial : Help " as an erotic thriller with revealing shots of Charlotte Lewis on the cover , but in reality there's no sex in the film and Charlotte even refused to go topless . Mr . R . D ! Now I'm really disappointed , that's just shamelessly ripping people off and lure them with false promises ! I know , I know , and I'm ashamed , but I just wanted everybody to rent " Dial : Help " and love it ! Well , to round up I can comfort you by saying that every major director is entitled to a few erroneous decisions without it affecting his / her career immediately , but be more cautious next time and do some research first , okay Mr . R . D ? I will ; thank you ! You're welcome . Tell me , have you got any ideas for upcoming movies already ? Yeah , as a matter a fact , I do ! I was thinking about making a Giallo with a murderous washing machine ! Doesn't that sound fascinating ? Hello ? Hello ?
Ilsa's final sleazy chapter ?	Dyanne Thorne's last adventure as the busty shrew Ilsa takes place in Siberia anno 1953 , during Stalin's dictatorship . She's the heartless and perverted commandant of ' Gulag 14 ' where political prisoners are getting brainwashed and re-educated in favor of Stalin's ideas . When his reign abruptly ends , Ilsa and her closest companions are forced to flee to Canada . More than 20 years later ? during the Montreal Olympics of 1976 ? she runs into one of her toughest opponents . She runs a chain of luxurious brothels by now and she uses her power to get even with an old enemy . The initial shock-values of ' She Wolf of the SS ' are long gone and Ilsa isn't half as creepy as she used to . On the contrary , her actions become more and more dreadful and this film is overall lame . There are a few ingenious torturing methods present in Tigress ? like a chainsaw / arm-wrestling contest and drowning in ice-cold water - as well as a lot of soft-core action . Ilsa still guarantees a lot of voyeurism and she now even needs two men at the time , in order to be satisfied . The script is filled with unintentionally hilarious lines , like ' Your body is full and warm , like Mother Russia itself ' But ? even a constant series of naked boobs and bloody mutilation becomes tedious after a while . The Ilsa-series sure prove that . These films have a giant cult following and I'm sure the diehard fans will still enjoy this final installment . If you're more like a random cult-film explorer , I advise you to stop after the first Ilsa film ?
Burn your money instead of giving it to this ! ! !	Ugh . . . I've seen this movie in the cinema yesterday and I still feel dirty . The first thing that went through my mind when the end credits rolled was : suckfest ! ! I'll stick to that thought . . . TOTAL suckfest ! You have to know , I'm a real sucker for werewolves and I've been waiting since so long for a new good movie about them reaches the theaters . Ginger Snaps and Dog Soldiers were decent films but they never made it to the big screen ( at least not here ) . So , Underworld contains the first cinema-werewolves since ages but it's pure crap . The best way to describe Underworld is : Blade meets The Matrix with a slice of The Hulk near the end . In other words , this means : too loud , way too much over the top and far from original ( although it pretends to be very original ) . I may be a very old-fashioned person when it comes to matters like this but in my humble opinion werewolves and vampires are ancient , mythical creatures with a long history behind them already . Showing these icons as futuristic , multi-armed warriors is despicable and can be described by one single word : BLASPHEMY ! ! I guess we can point our finger to " director " Len Wiseman . . . Not in ONE part of this movie , this guy proves that he surpasses the level of an average videoclip director . The entire finished product looks like a publicity stunt for MTV or something and above that , Wiseman seems to be proud of that . Oh well , I guess he was to busy thinking about going to bed with Kate Beckinsale instead of filming a good movie . Speaking of which , I honestly have to say I never heard of Kate before this film . That's not a surprise actually , since she starred in Pearl Harbor before this and I'm trying to avoid that movie as much as I'm trying to avoid Leprosy ! The rest of the cast is not worth a mention . . . I only liked Lucian ( the über-Lycan ) up till a certain level . I'm really annoyed by the plot idea of this movie . In case you don't know : Underworld tells the story of a war that is going on between Vampires and Werewolves for centuries already . Although Wiseman claims it to be creative and innovating , it falls into the same old cliché SPOILERS the origin of the war was a passionate matter END SPOILER . . . I hate people who claim to be original while they're in fact telling the same old story in another form ! And here's another provoking aspect : why are , during the whole movie , werewolves shown as the inferior species ? ? Correct me if I'm wrong , but in this movie the vampires are merely shown as lazy and irritating creatures while the " lycans " are far more motivated and dedicated ! Is it because the star herself is a bloodsucker , perhaps ? No , all together , it may look promising and fascinating if you're a 13 year old pimpled horror freak with giant braces in your mouth ( no offense if you are , by the way ) but if you're a bit of a traditional horror fan , this movie will leave you behind with an empty feeling .
Calling Dr . Giggles ! Calling Dr . Giggles to the playroom ! !	After having seen the gory and over-the-top silly " Dr . Giggles " hundreds of times and loving it more with every viewing , it's rather difficult to accept that Manny Coto's debut film " Playroom " is such an ambitious and serious-minded psycho thriller . I surely wasn't expecting to see an attempt for intellectual horror , set in Eastern Europe and focusing on topics like archeology and child-psychology , so " Dr . Giggles " - fans beware ! ! It's not even an admirable attempt , as the screenplay is very uninteresting , tedious and a total bunch of nonsense . An obtrusive reporter convinces his girlfriend-editor to travel to Yugoslavia , more particularly to an ancient abbey where he and his archaeologist-father searched for the tomb of a fella named Ilok . After a couple of days of digging with no results , Chris goes completely nuts , has visions of his former imaginary childhood friend and kills the rest of the expedition crew . Big deal ! " Playroom " is boring , mainly because you never care for Chris or his bad case of split personality syndrome . This is only the first time I see Christopher MacDonald in a lead role ( he usually plays supportive characters ) and he already fails to convince us of his acting capabilities . There's absolutely no tension , although Coto seemly tried hard to create some , and the supportive characters are all insufferable . Well , except for the great Vincent Schiavelli but his role is regretfully brief . There also is an irritating lack of gore and there seemly weren't enough budgets to buy a couple of extra light bulbs , as entire sequences are filmed in the dark . One final piece of advise for young scriptwriters : there's NOTHING even remotely scary about kids ' imaginary friends ! Especially not if these imaginary friends are ordinary looking kids as well .
Blah blah blah ? .	On The third of November 2004 , Muslim extremists assassinated director Theo Van Gogh because of his inglorious portrayals of their culture and beliefs . Did he deserve this merciless fate ? No , of course not . Because everyone in this world is entitled to an opinion and if Van Gogh wished to express his using the medium of cinema , he had every right to it . This " Interview " dates from the year before the controversial filmmaker's death . It's a typical Van Gogh film , entirely set in one interior location and introducing two main characters constantly talking . It actually looks a lot like that other film of his , " 06 " , only the protagonists are now face-to-face , while " 06 " exclusively featured two people talking over the phone . I admit I started ( and continued ) watching " Interview " for the most shallow reason possible : the starring of Katja Schuurman . This ravishing Dutch actress has the face of an angel , the voice of a siren and a booty that would even make the most popular Hollywood actress jealous . In this , she plays the part of a successful actress who gets interviewed by some sort of Bosnian paparazzi guy . They constantly argue , play with each other's feelings etc etc etc ? The script is tedious and nowhere near original or compelling . Although it probably was Van Gogh's intention , it totally doesn't feel like an artistic piece of cinema , as there's no style to detect anywhere . Not even a bit of exceptional camera-work or memorable music . This is a complete failure and I don't really feel obliged to give it more praise simply because the maker is death . Avoid ! Watching a train rush by is more exciting than this .
Satan plays the fiddle !	Yup , here it is . . . another movie that wasted 80 minutes of my life . Paganini horror is a typical and meaningless horror movie . Nothing special , unoriginal and pretty annoying most of the time . It's the kind of movie that is hidden on the lowest shelf at your local videostore , covered in dust . There's a reason why it's down there , by the way . . . Although I do believe Paganini Horror has a bit of potential in it , it fails to show it on every possible level . The story is about a female rock band who uses the old Paganini mansion as the location for their newest video clip . Paganini was a violin player who once sold his soul to the Devil himself , in order to become world famous . Satan is still present in the house and he terrorizes everyone who dares to enter the mansion . . . Pretty dumb of course but some of the aspects that are related to Satan ( like playing the violin - - symphony of the dead ) prove that some tiny elements in this movie show potential . But you cannot believe how cheesy the special effects and the make-up in this movie look ! ! Blue flashy lights stand as most of the " horrific " effects and the blood shed is rather limited . Even though this movie was shot rather recent - in 1989 - it looks incredibly dated and above all cheap ! ! And I don't mean the charming kind of ' cheap ' . . . No , I mean the laughable and pathetic kind of cheap . The use of music is damn annoying as well . The stars are supposed to be talented singers and their hits are shown in the movie very detailed . Those are ideal " fast forward " - moments ! ! The songs suck and they don't really fit in a horror movie anyway . . . I keep on wondering how Donald Pleasance got involved in so many ludicrous horror productions ! ! This guy was such a great actor but he starred in so much crap ! Where does he find these roles ? Does his agent used to tell him stuff like : " Hey Donald , I've got another annoying Italian Cheese ball for you . . . interested ? " " Yeah sure , sign me up " It's really weird . . . I'd like to tell you his performance was the only positive aspect about Paganini Horror , but it's not . His acting is as terrible as the rest of the cast . Furthermore , the movie suffers from an amazingly stupid ending ! The ugliest girl survives and she has to face an utterly stupid plot twist . . . the poor thing . Anyway , you don't care about it anymore at that point . If you managed to sit through it till then , you'll laugh away the stupid ending as well . I always knew Satan was a musician . Can't really explain why but I always figured Him to be a violin player . It has a really spooky effect , if you ask me . . . That simple plot idea is the best thing this movie has to offer . I really advise you to skip it .
That's a big ' F ' on your report card , Kevin Williamson !	I heard this movie was bad ? They even warned me it was terrible , but for some reason ( probably Katie Holmes ) I still watched it when it came on national TV . Watching Kevin Williamson films means torturing ! His scenarios aren't funny , definitely not scary and not the least bit creative . Teaching Mrs . Tingle breathes the same irritating atmosphere as his brainless series ' Dawson's Creek ' and it's probably meant for the same target group as well . Before the credits even started , 5 people already wanted a hug and they stated that eerie ' I love you'-sentence . It doesn't get any better as the soundtrack is filled with annoying pop / rock and the storyline is ultra-thin . Three students on the verge of graduation get caught cheating by the wickedest teacher in school . Every high-school has a teacher like that , you know ? To save their skin , they try to convince Mrs . Tingle that it wasn't their intention to cheat but this attempt goes horrible wrong . The typical high-school humor is completely lost on me , the overdose of sentiment is pathetic and the acting ( with the exception of Helen Mirren ) is abominable . I'm sure Katie Holmes can act ? that's a fact proven by her role in ' the Gift ' ? but she urgently needs to stop accepting frumpish girl roles . As said before , the only positive comments goes out to the brilliant casting of Helen Mirren as the shrew . It's like Kathleen Turner in ' Serial Mom ' ! The role suits her perfectly and you can't imagine anyone else playing her . Other than that , this is avoidable teenage nonsense .
So bad you'll lose your appetite .	Ever wondered what the first ventures into the movie making industry of the director of " Ghostbusters " and " Evolution " look like ? Well , here's your chance but don't be too startled . Like so many other acclaimed directors ( Brian DePalma , Oliver Stone , Francis Ford Coppola ? ) , Ivan Reitman began his career as the young and enthusiast creator of grainy , amateurish and zero-budgeted horror movies that he presumably doesn't like to get remembered of nowadays . However , the name of the director ( and possibly that of lead star Eugene Levy ) is likely to be the sole reason why " Cannibal Girls " still enjoys some sort of modest cult reputation even to this day , as the film itself is unimaginably bad . Somewhat entertaining , maybe , but bad nevertheless . A young couple ? Levy posing as a nearly unrecognizable hippie ? pass through a remote and snowy Canadian region and naturally their car breaks down . They decide to spend the weekend and listen to the locals ' stories about the old town restaurant that used to be run by a trio of cannibalistic girls . But that was a long time ago and now the restaurant allegedly became a fancy tourist attraction where all visitors simply must pay a visit . Needless to say the owners still cherish their appetite for human flesh and seemingly the rest of the town developed the taste as well . " Cannibal Girls " truly is a horribly inept movie from every viewpoint . The screenplay is as incoherent as can be , the stupid dialogs quickly begin to work on your nerves , the intentional funny parts are embarrassingly NOT funny , the acting ( particularly Andrea Martin as this whiny girl Gloria ) is infuriating and the few gory massacres are so damn tacky they wouldn't even upset a squeamish granny . There are some really bizarre and confusing plot twists near the end that'll make you lose interest entirely . At barely 80 minutes of running time , " Cannibal Girls " is a short and insignificant film but I must admit I was glad it was over .
Exorcise All Laughter ?	This is one major disappointing and occasionally even downright insufferable horror-parody . Ironically enough , the funniest aspects about " Repossessed " are the trivia details behind it . Apparently the initial screening tests didn't fail just once , but twice ! At first the script contained almost exclusively jokes and typical situations referring to the 1973 horror landmark " The Exorcist " but , being released no less than 17 years overdue , a large part of the target audience was too young to already have seen that film and hence didn't comprehend the humor . Subsequently , entire parts of the script got replaced with more general and contemporary 80's comedy ( for example : an extended sequence set inside a fitness center with guru Jake Steinfeld ) in order to appeal more to younger viewers , but it still failed because ? well , the movie simply isn't funny ! Writer / director Bob Logan's only remotely praiseworthy accomplishment was that he ( or at least his producers ) managed to trap Linda Blair into playing a mocking version of the one role that made her world famous . But even that you have to put into perspective , as Blair was probably so tired of getting typecast that she considered a comical part her last resort to get rid of her ' that-Exorcist-girl ' reputation . Leslie Nielsen , with his almost naturally comical charisma , narrates the events of " Repossessed " in front of a class of college students . The films opens with a flashback of Nancy's first exorcism in 1973 , but then jumps forward 17 years in time , when she's a married woman with two annoying brat-children . Via the TV-set , the devil takes possession of her body and yet again she spurts gooey green stuff all over her beloved ones . Father Mayii is reluctant to perform another exorcism because of his heart condition , so Nancy relies on the inexperienced young priest Father Brophy and a couple of power-hungry Televangelists that don't even believe in demonic possession . There aren't any truly laugh-out-loud moments in " Repossessed " at all . If you're lucky , you might briefly chuckle once or twice but the majority of jokes are just plain embarrassing . There are numerous lame literal jokes and uninspired puns that'll make you roll your eyes in disbelief . For example , one character says : " The word on the street says that your career is history ? " and at the same moment the camera actually shows a piece of street with the words " your career is history " painted on it . Lame ! The finale is pitiable and seems to go on forever , especially when the entire cast starts imitating the greatest rock stars of the eighties . Remember the intro of " Scary Movie 2 " ( which simultaneously is the only worthwhile sequence in the whole film ) where James Woods does a wacky 10 minutes re-enactment of " The Exorcist " ? Well , it might be crude and vulgar , but that scene is much funnier and more effective as this dud .
Bloody mess !	Bad sequels are especially painful when their predecessors were brilliant and mesmerizing films . Like in the case of " Battle Royale " , which was the most controversial shocker in years and probably the only film of the recent Asia-mania that was worth the hype it caused . BR featured a simply absurd story and exploitative violence , yet it worked . The sequel , for some reason , wants to be more ambitious and turns the premise into a gigantic anti-war campaign . Sole survivor Shuya Nanahara of part one has become a feared terrorized who declared war to all adults but , instead of responding , the government sends a fresh shipment of adolescents with death-collars over to the hideout island of Shuya in order to annihilate him . The only really good sequences are almost exact copies of situations that already took place in part one ( a giant amount of nasty collar-explosions ) but the shock-effect is gone . I normally have sympathy for filmmakers that try something new instead of re-telling the original but in this case the director should have optioned for a screenplay that harped more on the same successful idea . Something's also pretty wrong with the regularity and structure of this film . The first 45 minutes are stuffed with hard-boiled action , featuring for example a Saving Private Ryan-like coast-storming . But then the boredom kicks in and the story begins to live up to its extra title : " Requiem " . Endlessly irritating friendship speeches , tedious morality and unnecessary flashbacks completely ruin the tempo of the film and you literally have to struggle yourself through every remaining minute that's left . 134 minutes is way too long for a film like this , by the way . The whole BR2 project is an incompetent mess and not at all recommended . It's too idiotic too pass for a war epic and far too moralizing to become a controversial cult flick .
Mean but BORING exploitation trash	Okay , I honestly don't know why I watch movies like this . They handle about an unpleasant substance , the production values are extremely poor and the videostore lady always looks at you like you're some kind of dangerous psychopath when you rent them . Yet , these Nazi-exploitation movies have an enormous cult-value and they bring intriguing controversy . Well , usually that is , since this " SS Experiment Love Camp " is an utterly boring mess ! The story is set in a vicious medical camp-base , where the best German soldiers are brought to copulate with resistant enemy women . Supposedly , this serves a higher purpose but they're never actually telling us what that might be . When a stud-soldier unexpectedly falls in love with his mating partner , his body is used for another ? much more vile - medical experiment , namely the world's very first testicle transplant ! " SS Experiment Love Camp " is an infamous video-nasty and , although it really sounds like one , it's hardly worth calling a shocker . The repulsiveness is limited to a few sequences ( a girl gets both boiled an iced in a water tank , another one is hung bleeding by her feet ) while the rest is of the film talkative dullness about the superiority of the Third Reich etc etc . . . The cast of characters features your usual lesbian warden , a perverted elderly guard and a fugitive doctor . The camera-work is weak and the torture devices are pathetic . If you do feel the uncontrollable desire to watch a Nazi exploitation movie , you can never go wrong with " Ilsa , She Wolf of the SS " or Tinto Brass ' " Salon Kitty " . Please , do avoid this garbage at all costs .
Angels as LAME as they Come . . .	The third and final ( as far as I'm concerned , at least , since I won't ever bother to check out the two remaining 2005 sequels ) entry in the " Prophecy " franchise is an irredeemably weak and time-wasting dud . The second sequel to the really intelligent and ingenious 90's horror classic lacks pretty much everything you seek in a horror movie : a coherent plot , diversity between the good and evil characters , suspense & excitement and gory killings . Although Christopher Walken still incomprehensibly stars in the film , the new production crew has taken away the ONE element that made the franchise unique , namely Walken's malicious persona . After his defeat in the second film , Archangel Gabriel remained on earth but gave up on fighting the great heavenly war and became a hermit with long filthy hair . He still wanders around and observes the new angels that arrive on earth to fulfill his old task , but he himself remains on the background and even leans towards the good side . Can you imagine Christopher Walken as a good guy ? What's next , Satan selling Girl Scout cookies for charity ? The plot revolves on Danyael , the now adolescent angel / human hybrid son of Jennifer Beals in part two . He's killed in human form whilst blaspheming God but resurrects again as an angel with a mission . He sets out to the desert for a confrontation with Pyriel , the angel of Genocide , to end the Second War of Heaven once and for all . Meanwhile , there's another mean angel ? Zophael ? who tries to stop him . The main default in part three is the lackluster character development . With Walken out of the picture , the story lacks a strong and menacing villain . Vincent Spano and Scott Cleverdon can't hold a candle to Walken and Brad Dourif is shamelessly wasted in an insignificant role . A proper main character is lacking on the good-guys side as well , for that matter . You naturally don't accept Walken as the hero , but also the Danyael character is too weak and unconvincing . At a certain point halfway through the film , it even looks as if Joseph the pathologist ? who briefly appeared in both previous installments ? is going to become the leading man and that would be a really moronic twist . The special effects are lame and not the least bit satisfying to horror fans . The climatic battle between Danyael and Pyriel looks more like an MTV commercial instead of a horror movie finale . " The Prophecy III " in an incredible waste of time , money and effort . There are only two moments in the entire film that are worth mentioning and , of course , they both involve Christopher Walken . The first shows him visiting the same roadside bar where he went in the first film with Amanda Plummer and the second involves him trumpeting along with The Tornados ' song " Telstar " . Altogether these moments last perhaps 3 to 4 minutes and they're hardly worth the agony of sitting through the entire movie . Skip it .
Dumb and incredibly cheesy	I wonder on which planet the makers were staying around the time " Anaconda " flopped . . . That movie clearly proved like no other that it's a bad idea to make a horror film about a giant terrorizing snake , but at least it had a fairly interesting cast and a neat jungle-setting . " Python " . . . has absolutely nothing going for it . The premise once again handles about a twisted doctor who saw a potentially great military weapon in the hunting & defense mechanisms of this snake-species , so he created an exaggeratedly large and ferocious mutant specimen . The ' animal ' naturally escapes during transport and our doctor allows it to devour an entire remote community , rather than to destroy his unique discovery . " Python " is a rapidly paced and weakly scripted attempt to cash in on the popular revival of the creature-features , but even the least demanding horror fans will consider it a waste of time . The giant snake looks incredibly ridiculous and the make-up effects couldn't be cheesier . The typical hillbillies-gags aren't funny and the forced happy-ending really looks pathetic . The cast is stuffed with have-been B-actors , like Casper Van Dien ( here's a guy who should really consider a career change ) , Robert Englund , Sean Whalen and Will Wheaton . There also is a cameo for Jenny McCarthy as a sex-hungry rich girl . . . Now that must have been a difficult casting choice . Avoid watching " Python " at all costs , unless you're planning to get really drunk first .
Don't look for it . . .	This is another example of a lousy and uninspired 90's sequel that totally ruins the unscrupulous premise of a great 80's classic . " The Hidden " is one of the most entertaining SF thrillers I ever saw while this part two is just . . . crap ! The high action and suspense level of the first has entirely vanished and all we get in return is annoyance and boredom . The film opens with footage of the original , added with a simplistic and repetitive excuse to make the extraterrestrial danger start again . Repetitive , because it's a dog that serves as a temporary host for the alien parasite and that trick already featured in the original . Supposedly fifteen years have gone by since then and the initial hero's daughter now teams up with an outer space nerd who's searching for naughty aliens here on earth . The main problem with this flick is that it takes itself far too serious ! No slick black humor or cool gimmicks this time , while the cast wrongfully believes they're part of something fundamental or something . It's almost embarrassing to witness how hard they attempt to make a sequence in which the alien discovers the art of a toothbrush convincing . The Hidden II is a pathetic film that never should have been made . Do yourself a favor and watch the original twice in a row , instead .
got sleaze ?	I'd love to write a little summary of this movie's plot , but . . . there simply isn't one ! If you just take a look at the plot keywords for this title , you pretty much know the entire content of the film : sex , breasts , exploitation , female frontal nudity and women's prison ! 80 minutes of pure sleaze and nothing more . " Escape of the Island Women " ( an alternate title that isn't even listed here ) clearly wanted to become another notorious and controversial woman-in-prison classic , but it totally lacks the brutality of one . WIP-flicks are meant to blend graphic sexual images with shocking violence , but the violence here has just been replaced with more sex . Director Erwin Dietrich surely can't compete with specialists in the field , like Jess Franco or Joe D'Amato , and he should have sticked to making ordinary soft-core flicks . The only aspects that slightly look like cult-cinema are the resemblance of the tyrant-president with Fidel Castro and the group-rape of a ( minor ? ) girl by soldiers . The girls are ravishing , though , and the Ibiza filming location looks very enchanting .
Stylish yet very boring . A painful combination . . .	I only had one reason to check out this film , actually . . . Michelangelo Antonioni's career ( and Blowup in particular ) heavily influenced the directing skills of Dario Argento , who's one of MY favorites . Argento copied multiple of Antonioni's trademarks for his own giallo-masterpiece Profondo Rosso and he even cast David Hemmings for the leading role as well ! Now , it WAS interesting to see the resemblances in style but that's about it . This whole film is pretty tedious , with only a few moments of brilliancy and excitement . It's supposed to portray a mystery . . . but you're never involved enough to care . All that remains is a decent acting performance by David Hemmings , a few interesting appearances by Jane Birkin ( singer of the French classic : Je T'aime moi non plus ) and a stunning photography . Not enough to keep you awake for 110 minutes , unfortunately . . . .
Please God , exorcise the boredom ! !	Why every horror director wants to imitate " The Exorcist " is a complete riddle to me , as William Friedkin's " classic " is a very overrated film and , in my opinion , not all that tense or shocking . And yet here's another clean rip-off , a Spanish one this time , that shamelessly repeats the story of a young girl that gets possessed by pure evil and turns against her own family . Paul Naschy ( who I must admit looks quite hot here ) plays the honorable priest who gets approached by John Gibson because his sister Leila's behavior changed drastically since she met her new boyfriend . At first the priest doesn't believe it but when John's body is discovered with its neck twisted , Leila's demonic behavior becomes more noticeable . . . " Exorcism " is not only very unoriginal , it's also an insufferably boring film ! Here Naschy and director Juan Bosch had an open opportunity to make a religiously themed exploitation flick full of shocks and gore , and yet the result is a tame and overall bloodless drama that'll nearly put you to sleep ! The last twenty minutes contain some atmospheric moments , albeit very stupid , and there's quite a lot of stylishly filmed female nudity and sleaze . The absolute lack of budget is no real excuse since Paul Naschy already proved before that he has enough imagination to make up for a shortage in money . This is just an awful film , end of story . Other European " The Excorcist " rip-offs are " The Antichrist " and " Beyond the Door " and they suck as well !
Oh jolly . . . Another lame zombie-'comedy '	I think I can safely consider myself to be a fairly open-minded and tolerant horror fan , but there's one thing I honestly can't stand : horror comedies that are not funny , nor gory . And unfortunately we happen to see a lot of those lately , especially in the sub genre of ' zombie movies ' ever since a British instant classic called " Shaun of the Dead " successfully mixed humor with splatter . By now everybody seems to think they're capable of making a horror comedy and this naturally results in a huge pile of stinking , inept , insufferable and redundant straight-to-video crap . All these untalented filmmakers don't seem to realize that " Shaun of the Dead " was actually the exception that confirmed the rule : zombies , people coming back from the dead to hunt the flesh of the living are no laughing matter . Like the case in " The Mad " , there's absolutely nothing even remotely funny about family members getting killed by walking corpses that died after consuming beef infected with the mad cow disease . People will not start to make jokes or have discussions about the definition of a zombie moments after their beloved partners have been reduced to a pile of blood and intestines on the floor ! " The Mad " really tries to be hilarious , with its absurd & stereotypical character drawings and clichéd father - daughter - stepmother - punk boyfriend relationship jokes , but it miserably fails . The other elements to create comedy are either totally pathetic ( spontaneously attacking hamburgers ) or utterly derivative ( inbred farmers and banjo music ) . " The Mad " can't even distinguish itself from the majority of lame-ass low budget horror junk with a good amount of nauseating splatter , as the make-up effects and massacres are nothing exceptional at all . It's not a gore-soaked bloodbath and we're only treated to a couple of mundane zombie-attacks and relatively bloodless annihilations . And then there's Billy Zane , the " famous " name parading the DVD-cover ; hoping to attract more viewers with it . To my surprise I encountered a lot of reviews claiming that his performance was awesome but I , on the other hand , have rarely seen someone acting so uninterested and hammy , and no , I don't misinterpreted the fact his performance was supposed to be tongue-in-cheek . Zane more than obviously wasn't interested in starring in this piece of junk and he can't hide it . For crying out loud , Billy ! Maybe you desperately needed the money , but if you really don't want to star in garbage like this , then don't sign the contract ! " The Mad " is a terrible film , not funny , not horrific , not gruesome , nothing to recommend .
Well , that was weird . . . and bad !	Mostly boring , distant and very weird ? That's the painful conclusion I have to make after watching " Transmutations " . This sure isn't Clive Barker like we know him from " Hellraiser " and even " Rawhead Rex " ( the other lousy collaboration between Barker and director Pavlou ) was ten times better than this . The story isn't very original and ? more importantly ? it never seems to properly take off . Pivot element seems to be a very addictive new drug , developed by Dr . Savary , but the side effects cause people to mutate so that they're forced to live in a secret underground community . The mutants kidnap the fancy prostitute Nicole because she appears to be immune for the horrible side effects . Amateur hero Roy Bain attempts to rescue her ? yawn ! The acting of the entire is truly miserable and the Pavlou's directing is really , really weak . Luckily his repertoire only exists out of two films ! There's no tension at all and the few action sequences are tame and unexciting . You wouldn't know if it was a Clive Barker script if it wasn't for the use of kinky outfits and bizarre sexual undertones . Really , what is the deal with Barker and his obsession for black leather ? The overuse of bad music is really annoying and don't set your hopes on seeing gross-out gore , neither . The only slightly imaginative aspect is the make-up on some of the mutants and even then you get the feeling that they easily could have done more with it . I surely expected a lot more from this film ( especially considering the fact it was so hard to track down ) but I hope to convince people not to watch it ! Transmutations ( a . k . a Underworld ) definitely is one of the worst 80's horror movies ? and that says a lot !
More Wes Craven / Kevin Williamson horror rubbish !	" Cursed " is another new and horrible excuse for a horror movie from the talentless pen of Kevin Williamson . He proves ( again ) that he's the worst thing that could happen to the horror-industry , while director Wes Craven enlarges his list of embarrassingly bad movies ( that actually started right after his 1977 film " The Hills have Eyes " ) . Craven and Williamson's previous collaboration " Scream " actually is a masterpiece compared with this piece of garbage that messes with the ? once marvelous ? myth of werewolves . Set in Hollywood and revolving on characters you couldn't feel less connected with , this movie feels like another dreadful episode of " Dawson's Creek " , only with a wolf instead of James Vander Beek . All the rest is the same : high school popularity contests , glamour-girls battling over the same stud and we even have the classic case of siblings looking after each other due to their parents ' sudden death ! Sigh . . . I'm a great fan of classic atmospheric werewolf-tales and witnessing how these legendary creatures are abused here to serve for childish purposes makes me furious . Werewolves don't care for eliminating sexual competition ! They don't care about how cute boys look ! ! There's absolutely no tension in " Cursed " , the script is predictable and the attempts to scare the audience are lame . The gore-factor is weak and the werewolf-transformation sequences are downright pitiful . Movies like " An American werewolf in London " and " the Howling " are almost 25 years older but the special effects team of " Cursed " surely could have learned something from them on how making a transformation creepy instead of laughable . Christina Ricci looks yummy in her heroine-role but her boring performance definitely can't make this turkey any more appealing . My humble opinion is that you avoid watching " Cursed " like you would avoid getting Syphillys ! There are good recent movies handling about werewolves , like " Dog Soilders " or the " Ginger Snaps " - trilogy , that you can watch instead . Those are good movies , mainly because nor Wes Craven , nor Kevin Williamson had anything to do with them .
Home is where the Retards are . . .	Sometimes when you're watching an obscure low-keyed 80's slasher and the main characters are getting introduced one by one , you simply can't wait for them to die quick and most excruciatingly painful . " Home Sweet Home " is one of them movies that exclusively features two-time loser characters . More specifically we have a big raunchy ranch full of social outcasts celebrating Thanksgiving and one seriously frenzied killer . The latter , played by Jake Steinfield who apparently is some kind of acclaimed health and fitness guru in America , just escaped from the loony bin , ran over a defenseless old lady with a stolen station car ( actually the best scene in the entire film ) and now he's heading for the countryside to feast his maniacal lusts on a Thanksgiving gathering of dorks . It all sounds fair enough , but " Home Sweet Home " is just another dreadful and nearly unendurable stalk-n-slash movie with no suspense whatsoever , abominable performances and ? worst of all ? uninspired and lame killings . The most intolerable characters is actually named Mistake and he annoys everyone , especially the viewer , with his white-painted mime face , awful guitar music , lame jokes and imbecilic magic tricks . The psychopath isn't much better , because all he ever does is showing off his biceps ( impressive , of course ) and laugh moronically . The dialogs are absolutely horrible . Example : " Hey , who's this beautiful bitch ? " " Hi , my name's Jennifer ! " . Half of the film you're staring at a black screen and yet the other half is even more boring . This totally dud and cheesy turkey was the debut of beauty Vanessa Shaw ( " The Hills Have Eyes " , " 3 : 10 To Yuma " ) but , not surprisingly , it took her another decade to find work after starring in this garbage . If you're ever wondering why so many 80's horror movies ended up in total oblivion , watch this junk and just be glad they did .
This monster mash sure ain't no graveyard smash ?	This is only the second film from Tonino Ricci I've watched , but I can already safely say he's one of Italy's worst horror / exploitation directors ! With the other turkey being " Thor The Conqueror " , this sad excuse for a movie called " Panic " is probably all I'll ever watch from him . For the gorehounds among us , this movie features a handful of gross murder sequences and utterly cheesy make-up effects , but it lacks literally everything else like structure , tension or understandable dialogues . Here we have yet another over-ambitious scientist that falls victim to his own stupid research and mutates into a hideous and bloodthirsty monster . It's his own damn fault ! Who the hell , in his right state of mind , experiments with bacteria and lethal viruses anyway ? The smooth & womanizing security officer Captain Kirk ( Captain Kirk ? ? ? ) starts a search for the monster on the loose , while the army forces consider it to be better to exterminate the whole city and its entire population at once . It's a really lame and boring horror effort with an occasional gory killing . However , DO find the courage to remain watching until the very last minutes , as we only get to see the monster's face at that point . It'll be worth it , since the bloke looks like rotting pepperoni-pizza .
Messed up beyond repair . . . .	Once again , my assumptions couldn't have been more wrong ! I really thought this movie would be worth the 5$ I spent on it , because it's the directorial debut of Gabe Bartalos ; who happens to be the regular special effects guy of such brilliant directors as Frank Hennenlotter ( " Brain Damage " , " Frankenhooker " ) and Matthew Barney ( the " Cremaster " - cycle ) . Well , " Skinned Deep " once more proves that people who're talented in the art of make-up effects don't necessarily make good directors , as Bartalos ' own project is an irredeemable lousy gore-flick that hangs together by amateurism . The script , for starters , is highly unoriginal and just the umpteenth " Texas Chainsaw Massacre " - rip-off . But what really irritates about this movie is the total lack of coherence and the overload of stupidity . " Skinned Deep " revolves on a family of bloodthirsty lunatics that fill their days with killing tourists . Their latest preys are the Rockwells , but the multi-brained son insisted on keeping the teenage daughter Tina alive , and even to incorporate her as a crazy family member ! So far , this seems like a reasonably normal horror plot but the depraved family also battles a gang of old and senile motorcycle hooligans as well as a jeep full of chubby woodchoppers , and this is where the absurdity really kicks in . A lot of retarded things are being said and done ( ever heard a midget bringing ode to a plate ? ! ? ) and even the rather cool gory effects can't keep you interested . The acting is really atrocious and Bartalos ' directing is incredibly incompetent . The Surgeon General-character is the only memorable horror villain of the family . He's an unearthly strong mutant with a razor-sharp metal jaw and goofy little sunglasses . Warwick " Ewok " Davis looks pretty imbecile as the pale-faced , plate-flinging dwarf and I don't even want to mention the elderly cast-members . If the acting skills of all these amateurs hasn't given you a headache yet , sitting through the end credits definitely will , as it just features girlish screaming for FIVE WHOLE MINUTES ! Damned , girl ! You could try , like many of my fellow reviewers apparently did , to look at " Skinned Deep " as a typical so-bad-it's-entertaining trash movie . . . That didn't work for me , though . It's just rubbish , period !
Nah-nah-nah-nah-nah-nah-nah BATMAN ! ! ! !	" The Bat People " is a proud resident of the IMDb Bottom 100 . Every once and a while the movie suddenly vanishes from the infamous list , depending on whether there are new movies with Paris Hilton in the lead or documentaries about American Idol stars , but it always reliably returns sooner or later . And why ? Because , unlike the majority of crap in that list , " The Bat People " is a legitimate bad film and it deserves to be on there regardless of any media influences or internet buzz ! This nearly isn't the worst film ever made , since the basic concept definitely has a certain charm and ingenuity , but it's still indescribably difficult to sit through the whole thing . The script is incredibly boring , with absolutely unnecessary padding footage and gigantic gaps in continuity , and yet the main characters still remain total strangers throughout the entire film . Other than a sensible screenplay , the film also lacks spectacular killing sequences and the make-up effects ? although courtesy of a young Stan Winston ? are ludicrously inept and remain largely unseen until the end of the film . The film's title is inaccurate , as " people " refers to a number in plural whereas the story actually just revolves on one Bat Person . Much more than Bruce Wayne , the real Batman plays in this movie and he as well has a genuine Bat-cave and a Bat-mobile ( a stolen ambulance ) ! The plot introduces a young couple on their honeymoon-weekend exploring caves . They wander off from a guided tour group and he gets bitten by a bat whilst trying to protect his wife from the animal's vicious attack . Worried that he might be infected with rabies , he undergoes an intense treatment at the local hospital , but still this doesn't prevent him from slowly transforming into a bloodthirsty bat creature . He kills random people at night and toys around with the suspicious police sergeant whilst his loving wife is still vastly convinced the awkward behavior is exclusively due to allergic reactions to the rabies treatment . Sure , honey ! The script never explains why a bat would attack people and how come John always changes back into a normal human being at the dawn of a new day instead of gradually turning into a permanent state of bat-guano . So basically , " The Bat People " is a variation on the good old werewolf-theme , but obviously not a very interesting one . The concept showed a lot of potential , but somehow the sub plots center on whiny drunks and perverted Sheriffs instead of on ghastly monsters . Some of the settings and exterior filming locations look impressive , the misfit song playing during the credits is strangely catchy , there's a nice bit of gore during the climax ( finally ! ) and main actress Marianne McAndrew is ravishing to look at ( though not to listen to ) . This truly bad and boring film's current listing in the bottom 100 is spot number 80 , and personally I hope it sticks somewhere in that region . The list simply wouldn't feel and traditional without " The Bat People " .
Garbage with wings	A piranha ( which is basically a FISH-species and therefore requires water ! ) crawls out of a corpse's chest that has been lying in the morgue for an entire day ? grabs a new victim by the throat ? devours her entirely ? and then cheerfully flies through the window , back to the sea . Hmmm , it's imaginative ; I'll give it that . But it is even more ridiculous and stupid . Piranha II actually is an exact copy of the original , but without the slick satire and wit characters . James Cameron ( Yes ! The James Cameron of the Terminator films and Titanic ) retells the story of ignorant resort-owners who refuse to give up their profits when tourists on a sunny island start to die . The piranhas are a military experiment gone wrong ( figures ? ) and the characters are downright embarrassing . The make-up effects are cheap and nasty , but not highly efficient . Lance Henriksen wasted his talent on yet another meaningless numb nuts horror movie .
Perfect example of a sequel that shouldn't have been made . . .	We've could have guessed it . . . The Dentist was brought out in 1996 and gained rather much success . That was quite normal because it was a relief in the disappointing decade of the 90's ( disappointing for the genre of horror , that is ) This film was original , funny in a black kind of way and very disturbing ( because . . . it could happen , you know ! ! ) So , it became a small success , especially in the rental market . You know what that means in Hollywood . . . sequel ! ! ! the sooner the better ! ! This film really should be skipped , I think . It's exactly the same story , only a different setting . Dr Feinstone changes his name , travels to a small village ( called Paradise . . . hmmm ) falls in love with local blond babe , takes over the practice of the old dentist ( this person died in a horrible " accident " ) and then he snaps again . That's it . More from the same , except a whole lot worse . Corbin Bensen returns as the freaky dentist and also his wife from the first film still has her part . She still wants revenge for what he has done to her and sends a private detective after him . All the fun has gone . The only interesting scene in the Dentist 2 is the small part of Clint Howard . In the first film , you actually felt sorry for his victims . Not in this one . . . You want everybody to die as soon as possible . Including the dentist himself . But he doesn't of course . Very stupid ending , by the way . . . I can't believe Brian Yuzna did this . I really respect him as a director but this is low . I guess he couldn't resist the big bucks . Oh well , who could blame him , everybody there does it . NEXT ! ! !
Play it Again , Saw . . .	These " Saw " sequels reproduce quicker and more merciless than a couple of rats ! With each next visit to your local video store , there's a new " Saw " movie on the shelves and for some reason you feel the need to blindly purchase them although you know it's going to be a bunch of nonsense . This fourth entry in the series should have been titled " The Legacy of Jigsaw " , as John Kramer is undoubtedly dead but his sick and sadistic torture-porn games continue . With each new entry , the character of the Jigsaw Killer also proves to be more intelligent and undefeatable . Here we have a guy with an intellect and general knowledge so immeasurable that he easily could have developed a cure for his own terminal cancer , but instead he wasted his time making the lives of ungrateful people pure hell and subjecting them to complex physical ordeals and puzzles they can't possibly solve . Now he's finally and irreversibly dead ? unless he's strong enough to survive an autopsy ? but the dissection of his corpse results in the discovery of a recorded tape in his intestines . The whole bloody race against time starts over , as the tape reveals that several more people are facing horrible upcoming deaths in Jigsaw's previously prepared traps . SWAT commander Rigg is put to a test challenging his obsession to save people , there appears to be another Jigsaw accomplice at large on the streets ( other than the equally deceased Amanda ) and the script draws a portrait of John Kramer's ex fiancée and the unborn child they lost together . Like all parts in the Saw franchise directed by Darren Lynn Bousman , number four is an incredibly incoherent miscellany of semi-processed ideas and derivative themes . The writers have one major advantage here : the target audiences for this type of film simply crave for loads of blood and sickening set-pieces , so this provides them with extra space to camouflage inexplicable twists and completely screw up logical thinking patterns . The script is full of holes , far-fetched absurdities and plain stupidities . How could Jigsaw punctually predict his new victims ' moves and reactions or even be aware of the sinister facts of police investigators that were charged with the case AFTER his death ? The biggest omission is an acceptable explanation regarding the personality and motivation of Jigsaw's new accomplice , but I suppose this was done to lure the fans to cinemas for Saw 5 , 6 , 7 and God knows how many more sequels . The gore and bloodshed is adequate , I suppose , but it's no longer shocking or involving since none of the characters are likable and / or properly introduced . The nightmarish atmosphere of the original Saw ? written and directed by James Wan ? has entirely vanished and the franchise simply revolves on grotesque yet meaningless human suffering . It's a sad evolution but , admittedly , one that is brought on by the expectancy patterns of nowadays horror fanatics .
Hilarious for all the wrong reasons !	The only thing slightly intriguing about this painfully bad flick is figuring out what came over writer / producer / director / leading-actor Bill Hinzman in order to actually release this . You'll surely recognize him from George A . Romero's sublime " Night of The Living Dead " in which he had a modest ? but very memorable ? role as the zombie with whom it all begins . Aside from a few other jobs in the business , he never really meant anything but he suddenly felt the urge and ambition to make a nonsense movie that completely focuses around him . In the exact same suit and make-up ( he hasn't even aged a day in over 20 years ) Bill rises from a grave in the middle of the Pennsylvanian forests . He goes on killing a group of ultra-stupid teenagers who're picnicking nearby . The ineptness Zombie Nosh is funny for about 15 minutes . After that it becomes simply unbearable and impossible to sit through . Here is a quick summary of all the amateurish events that occur during the first half hour : - When the zombie grave is opened and the undead Bill opens his eyes , the discoverer just stares at him for a good 10 seconds . No screams , no frights . . . not even an attempt to flee . He just looks at him and awaits an attack - During that same sequence , zombie Bill supposedly throws the victim's corpse away from the grave but you can clearly see the cable that pulls the actor up . - A ( not so ) attractive girl seduces a dude to have sex with her in a shed , but instead of being sensual , she sounds like she's ordering a pizza . - The editing looks like it was done by blind monkeys - The gore , although plenty of it , is laughable . The zombies bite entire portions of flesh out of their victims ' throats and that strangely resemblances to eating hamburgers at McDonalds . There's plenty of more idiocy where that came from , but you get the picture . If you happen to be on mission to purchase all the stinkers in horror , make sure you add Zombie Nosh to your list . In any other case ? avoid !
Crap meets bigger crap	One of the taglines of this film says : Hannibal Lector meets Freddy Krueger . . . Well , that's misleading . It should say " Crap meets utter Crap " or at least " We ripped off Hannibal Lector and Freddy Krueger . " To put it in a few words : this film is very very bad . Beyond Bedlam tries sooo hard to be a strong psychological thriller but it fails in every possible way . There are too many pointless twists and sentimental crap that you don't care about anyway . There even isn't ONE good scene or original element in it . I've seldom seen such a horrible film . I was tired of it after the first 15 minutes . But I still watched it till the end credits rolled . I don't know why neither . . . Normally , when I see a piece of junk like this , I try to seek at least one good point in it . In this case this isn't even possible . OK , I could name the gorgeous body of the delicious Elizabeth Hurley . . . But that's hardly worth renting isn't it ? You can find her in all her glory over the net on more than 1 . 000 . 000 pages . I really like to believe that she CAN act . She doesn't prove it in this film , though . Liz is like the whole film : inferior . WARNING : HERE MAY BE TINY SPOILERS . . . yeah , like you care : - ) A horrible psychopath ( appearance obviously stolen from Anthony Hopkins ) is being treated with a new drug . It's supposed to " cure " him but of course it has the opposite effect . . . He becomes more evil . This psycho , Gilmore ( bad choice of name by the way ; even the Gilmore girls themselves were scarier ) now has the gift to enter his victims dreams and to terrorize them there . . . now , where have I heard that before ? ? ? He uses this new mind-toy to play with the doctor ( Liz ) and the cop who once caught him . Gilmore faces them with their lost relatives and they don't like that of course . Also I would to aim a little word to the writer and director of the junk . What the hell was that ending about ? ? ? That's not what we call and open ending . . . That's called an UNFINISHED PROJECT ! the rules are rather simple : you get the idea that the villain dies once or maybe twice and then you end the whole thing by suggesting he might come back . Not like this ! ! You have to check that out for yourself , ladies and gentlemen , it's too stupid for words . In conclusion : I wish I could say this is one of those " so bad its good " - films , but no . It's just bad . Period . My humble opinion on Beyond Bedlam : 2 / 10 . One point for each of them lovely Liz Hurley breasts . . .
Unpleasant and pretentious	" Walled In " definitely looked like a horror movie with massive potential and several aspects about the synopsis immediately appealed to me , like the guaranteed horrific theme of claustrophobic death , isolated buildings with a macabre past , lunatic architects and a slowly unfolding serial killer plot . I became even more convinced of the potential after witnessing the terrifically uncanny opening sequence in which a small child is trapped between four walls and screaming her lungs out whilst cement slowly filling up the concrete grave . This is a harsh and nightmarish sequence that you don't expect to see in modern day horror movie , so I started to feel very confident this could become a gem of a film . Unfortunately I shouted victory way too early again , as the walls of the productions literally come crashing down promptly after the opening credits . The screenplay is adapted from a graphic novel written by Canadian writer Serge Brussolo , and I certainly don't doubt the idea makes an absorbing book , but the film version is unstructured , confusing , preposterous and utterly implausible . Furthermore , the film itself is extremely unpleasant to look at what with its grainy photography , grim ambiance and vile characterizations . " Walled In " is one of those movies that make you nervous and uncomfortable without actually scaring anyone , so I was really glad when it was over . Sam Walczak is a freshly graduated engineer and the heiress of her family's destruction company . Her father offers her the opportunity to be in charge of her very own project : organizing and supervising the demolition of a remote and sinister apartment building , originally designed by the notoriously eccentric architect Joseph Malestrazza . The building has a dark past , as reputedly over 15 previous tenants were entombed in the walls , and Sam quickly experiences there's truth in the rumors . Together with the slightly offbeat teenage son of the evicted caretaker , she develops a theory that the mysteriously vanished architect might still be entrenched in the building . Pretentious and lethargic , " Walled In " is basically a totally absurd movie with an overload of transparent red herring and atmosphere building elements that are boldly stolen from other ( and much better ) genre classics . The ending is downright pathetic and actually a direct insult on the viewer's intelligence . Don't expect any gore or bloodshed , neither , just a whole lot of wannabe shocking undertones leading absolutely nowhere . The performances are very much below par and the overall conclusion regarding the film is , simply put , embarrassing . If these walls could talk ? they would advise us to throw all copies of this movie in a hole in the basement and subsequently blow up the building .
How do they continue to get worse ?	The concept of the " Scary Movie " - series is beginning to look more like a tragedy instead of a comedy . The first film was a very entertaining hit because it really felt like a silly idea that started as a joke between brothers but unexpectedly turned into a huge success . The second already sucked because it had to be written in a very short time and this showed . Then the third entry in the series promised some improvement , with the change of director to David Zucker , but it was every bit as disappointing . The fourth part simply continues the trend and presents a spitfire of inane gags , dumb characters and completely uninspired satire . The plots of pretty much every successful recent horror and Sci-Fi movie of the past few years are tacky blend together into one giant ridiculous storyline . Cindy Campbell , " heroine " of the previous three films , encounters in one day all the horrors of " Saw " , " The Village " , " War of the Worlds " , " The Grudge " , " Million Dollar Baby " and " The Amityville Horror " . In between , there's even some time left to radically spoof " Brokeback Mountain " and even Tom Cruise's idiotic behavior on the couch at Oprah's show . The humor is crude , vulgar and totally tasteless , yet this doesn't bother me at all . The fact that it's also not at all funny irritates me a lot more . The only couple of modest chuckles are provided by good old regular Leslie Nielsen as the nearly senile President of the United States . It doesn't look like the " Scary Movie " crew plans to stop making sequels any time soon , so we're all doomed to see many more of these inept turds . Now , I know what you're thinking ! " If you're so annoyed by these movies , then simply stop watching them ! " . And you're right , too !
There's a big phony rat in me kitchen . . . what am I gonna do ?	Another new-age creature feature flick with awful . . . better make that . . . REALLY awful computer-engineered effects , lousy acting performances and an ultra-thin storyline . Hungry and overly aggressive rats are once again revolting against the bastard doctor who performed scientific experiments on them and all this is taking place at Brookdale ; institute for juvenile delinquents , drug addicts and suicidal teenagers . The funky red-eyed rodents are commanded by a ridiculously fake mega-rat and , for some reason , the institute's nerdy janitor can communicate with them . There aren't many aspects in the script that make much sense , like we're supposed to believe that two teenagers are capable to go undercover in the US ' most heavily secured rehab facility . The film is also remarkably boring despite endless cargoes of silly-looking rats and irritating teenagers getting eaten . Of all the crappy , exaggeratedly computerized angry-animals movies that came out since the new millennium ( and the list is really endless ) " Rats " surely is one of THE crappiest . Director Tibor Takács scored a few hits in the late 1980's , like " The Gate " and a personal favorite of mine called " I , Madman " but he should consider a slight career change now . This was just irredeemably bad .
Oh Sinthia , how thy vices art dull !	" Sinthia the Devil's Doll " was my first acquaintance with the oeuvre of Ray Dennis Steckler , whose other horror movies do enjoy a modest cult reputation . Nobody claims that titles like " The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies " , " Rat Phink a Boo Boo " or " The Thrill Killers " are masterpieces of the genre , but supposedly they hold some kind of irresistible charm and entertainment value . This is NOT something that can be said about this film , however . Maybe it's my own fault and I should have chosen a Steckler movie where he actually uses his own name on the credits instead of an alias , or maybe ? and most likely ? it's just a seriously retarded film ; period . The best aspect about the entire movie is the play upon words in the title . The lead girl's name is actually Cynthia , but Sin-Thia is pronounced exactly the same , so there you go . Clever , huh ? " Sinthia , The Devil's Doll " is a typically late 60's Sexploitation movie without anything that even remotely resembles a plot . To compensate for the lack of substance , Steckler attempted to insert wannabe controversial themes ( a teenage girl in love with her father ) and psychedelic hallucination footage ( an orgy with the Devil himself ) . The finished product is far from exciting , just plain boring and irritable . The film opens with a flashback of young Cynthia killer her parents and setting fire to the house ( off-screen , obviously ) because her beloved daddy treats her too much like a daughter instead of a mistress . Fast forward to six years later , when the adolescent Cynthia visits her psychiatrist who intents to find out what exactly happened that night . From then on , " Sinthia " is one long and incoherent hallucination sequence that does not seem to end . She endlessly wanders over secluded beaches , descents into hell and has sexual conversations with Lucifer himself . For all you cult-fans out there : Lucifer is depicted by Herb Robins , who also co-wrote the script ( what script ? ! ? ) and went on to directed the oddball 70's flick " The Worm Eaters " . The sex footage is beyond dull and Shula Roan ? in her first and last major film role ever ? isn't even attractive or voluptuous or anything . Personally , I fell asleep multiple times during this short movie but I couldn't even be bothered to rewind and see what I missed . One to avoid , there are so many better exploitation trash movies out there to discover .
Expecting to see a good , solid thriller ? Dream on . . .	You absolutely WON'T hear me say that Stephen King is a bad or untalented author but , come on people , the man is definitely overpraised ! I mean , if he'd write a simple grocery list down on a piece of paper , I bet directors would stand in line begging to make a film out of it . " Dreamcatcher " is a fine example to state this and I sincerely doubt it ever would have reached the theaters if King's name hadn't been attached to it . The story is unoriginal , mediocre , largely incoherent and yet Hollywood immediately had a big budget and eminent names ready to produce a film version . The result is easily one of the worst thriller / horror films of the new Millennium so far . Decades of King experience taught us that his movie-adaptations are the most effective and creepy when they're straightforward and not overly mysterious , like " Carrie " , " Stand By Me " or the downright petrifying " Misery " . " Dreamcatcher " is the exact opposite of this . Scriptwriters William Goldman and Lawrence Kasdan desperately attempt to uphold the mystery elements until the very end and the whole film eventually raises a numerous amount of questions instead of bringing clarity . On top of that , it's ridiculously implausible , badly acted and stuffed with schlocky yet redundant gore scenes . Four thirty-something buddies , " blessed " with bizarre psychic powers since their childhood acquaintance with a peculiar kid called Duddits , come together for a hunting trip in the winter-wonderland of Maine . Their cheerful childhood memories are brutally interrupted when the world is threatened to be destroyed by evil aliens that spawn from people's asses . Yes , you read that right ! It's never really explained what planet they come from ( if any ) or why they opted for this snowy location to invade earth , but they surely seem to hold a grudge against people . The presence of Henry , Jonesy , Beaver and Pete can't be a coincidence and it looks like it's up to their special powers to save humanity , even though the angry army Colonel Curtis ( Morgan Freeman ) circles around the aliens in his helicopter as well . With a runtime of no less than 134 freaking ' minutes , " Dreamcatcher " is at least half an hour too long ! Although the best and most atmospheric parts of the movie , the introduction sequences and flashbacks feature way too many unnecessary details and sentiment . The sudden chance from tacky drama into gruesome Sci-Fi horror is difficult to stomach and the climax ( which is a combination of both ) is rather idiotic . The four main actors ( Thomas Jane , Jason Lee , Timothy Olyphant and Damian Lewis ) try their hardest but fail , whereas the more experienced stars like Morgan Freeman and Tom Sizemore give away terribly wooden performances , like they're the only ones realizing the whole film entirely sucks . Not the least bit recommended !
Invade , Mate & Alienate !	Hard to believe that Peter Medak , a talented filmmaker who made stylish films such as " The Changeling " and " The Krays " , signed to direct an overly gore and dumb sequel to the already very mediocre " Species " . At least the original 1995 film featured some impressive visual effects and playful nudity , whereas this sequel only has mean-spirited gore and gratuitous sex scenes . Remotely interesting is that the screenplay isn't just an identical re-telling of the original , but a fairly new Sci-Fi story . . . . albeit a very BAD one . Once again , the scripting team behind " Species " associates alien life forms with insatiable sexual hunger , only this time the outer space monster is a male and thus even more determined to copulate all humanity to death . The first successful Mars expedition returns to earth but something awry happened to the three astronauts during the seven minute radio-intermission . The same extraterrestrial monster that provided yummy Sil with her alien DNA entered the bodies of the astronauts . One of them is immune , the second is destroyed fast but the final alien-carrier ; the handsome and very popular Senator son Patrick Ross , quickly becomes an unstoppable killing machine . Beautiful Natasha Henstridge plays the clone of her own original character , who's telepathically linked to the new alien / human hybrid . Michael Madsen and Marg Helgenberger both return , but their characters ' personalities seem to have changed drastically . The respond to certain situations different than before and the script doesn't even bother to enlighten us why they failed as a couple . These are still acceptable shortcomings . . . Much worse is the total lack of tension , the provocative dialogues and the exploitative portrayal of women . This movie will probably be enjoyed the most by younger and inexperienced horror & Sci-Fi fans that disregard a good , plausible plot on their search for graphic gore . We're really served a lot of that : exploding heads , spontaneous alien-births , exaggeratedly long tentacles and torn open torsos . Yuck .
Me - Pervert Jess Franco . . . . You - Jane !	Good old Jess Franco ! The always-reliable choice of director in case you're looking for undemanding sleaze , shameless exploitation and 200 % gratuitousness . Jess once again really surpassed himself with this utterly trashy piece of jungle " adventure " . Let's face it , this film is basically just an excuse to have the ravishingly hot ( and underage ? ) actress Katja Bienert parade around topless . It's actually a rather disturbing thought that an innocent 16-year-old girl had to walk around a film set naked in front of a whole crew and particularly before the gazing eyes of pervert Franco ! And it wasn't even the first time , since the duo previously already made " Linda " together . Anyways , just in case you wondered : YES , " Diamonds of the Kilimanjaro " does have a plot , albeit a very imbecilic one . During the opening sequences a plane , carrying aboard a wealthy Scottish guy and a girl child , crash amidst an African tribe of vegetarian cannibals . I say vegetarian because they never at one point in the film so much even attempt to consume human flesh . The obnoxious Scot declares himself the Great White Leader and the girl grows up to become the beautiful and scarcely dressed White Goddess . Several years later an expedition reaches the middle of the jungle to get the girl back to civilization and ? even more importantly - to steal some of the tribe's legendary diamonds . This could have been a compelling and action-packed adventure movie , but Jess Franco obviously couldn't be bothered . Why shoot jungle chase sequences or bloody cannibalistic rites when you can just as easily aim your camera at a hot young chick sitting naked in a tree ? Most of the jungle settings simply appear to be filmed in someone's garden and there's a massive amount of clumsily edited National Geographic wildlife footage in order to fill up the gaps in continuity . The back of the DVD describes " Diamonds of the Kilimanjaro " as an ingenious , feminist and adult orientated version of Tarzan . Yeah right , they just put that sentence there because Katja Bienert's character swings from one tree to another using a a couple of times .
" What's your favorite scary movie ? " Definitely not this one !	I usually make it a personal rule never to watch a remake before having seen the original version but , in my defense , I needed a free fourth title after already renting three movies and this was the only one that was still available . And now I definitely have to find and watch the original 1979-version , if only to see for myself that it can't possibly be as BORING and insignificant as Simon West's remake ! What a dull , redundant & lame film , this is ! We all know not to expect too much from a PG13-rated " thriller " , but this is absolutely ridiculous ! There's no action , no identifiable or amiable characters , the supposedly unsettling phone conversations are endlessly stretched just to increase the running time a bit and the whole psychopathic murderer denouement is totally implausible and retarded . The first five minutes , just for as long as the opening credits run over the screen , are undeniably the best and only atmospheric moments in the entire film . Whilst witnessing images of a small town carnival , we overhear someone with a deep masculine voice harassing a young woman over the telephone . Moments later , her lifeless body is dragged out of the house and an elderly frustrated police officer looks into the distance . Naturally you expect him to fanatically hunt down the killer , but hell no ! He doesn't even reappear again . Instead , the story swifts to an entirely different town-setting and the first hour exclusively revolves on typically irritating high-school characters and soporific romance sub plots . Cute , easy-on-the-eyes Jill Johnson is punished by her father for spending too much time on the phone with her cheating boyfriend , and so she has to baby-sit instead of attending her friends ' party . The house is gigantic and luxurious , but poor little Jill then receives alarming phone calls from someone who appears to observe every move she makes inside the house . There's very little to say about " When a Stranger Calls " , actually . The plot is painfully predictable and unsurprising ; the slow-moving attempts to build up tension are continuously interrupted with false scares ( the house cat popping up every now and then , for example ) and there's a total shortage of carnage and excitement . The rudimentary script is still full of holes and illogicalness ( the girl's father can hardly find the address of the isolated villa but her bimbo friend can ? ) and Simon West doesn't even grab the opportunity to make the phone conversations obscene or creepy . At least the notorious opening sequence in Wes Craven's " Scream " , featuring Drew Barrymore , offered some neat dialogs . Camilla Belle is a pretty girl but nearly not talented enough to build up a further career as talented scream-queen and none of the supportive cast members are even worth mentioning . " When a Stranger Calls " perfectly embodies why remakes are gradually ruining the great genre of horror . Avoid at all costs .
Plan 9 from Tobe Hooper !	Quintessentially nostalgic science-fiction ( involving ill-natured aliens taking over our planet ) was a genre born in the 1950 , with such classic titles like " Invasion of the Body Snatcher " , " The Thing From Another World " , " The Day the Earth Stood Still " and " War of the Worlds " . " Invaders from Mars " was another influential film from that decade ( released in 1953 ) and focused on hideous Martians that secretly landed on earth in a remote American town and took over humanity bit by bit . The original was a poorly made but nevertheless creepy milestone with a brooding tension and a handful of excellent sequences illustrating paranoia and mass hysteria . For unspecific reasons , director Tobe Hooper thought it was fun to do a remake , providing the Martians and their spaceship with a typical 80's look . The story stayed exactly the same but the special effects and monstrous designs now look cheesy and the complete opposite of scary . Hunter Carson stars as the little space-freak who wakes up in the middle of the night and witnesses the landing of a giant spaceship over the hills . The rest of the film revolves on him and school nurse Linda ( Karen Black ) escaping their own alienation while the rest of the town is getting brainwashed by the goofball-Martians . " Invaders from Mars " is an overall lousy film with many tedious moments , unintentional laughs and miserable dialogues . Some of the visual effects are imaginative but they never provoke feelings of fright . Tobe Hooper also regretfully retained the only aspect of the original that was actually open for improvement , namely the dire ending . He should have learned more from John Carpenter when he made his 80's version of " The Thing from Another World " .
A Long Way from London . . .	Abandon all hope to have stumbled upon a worthwhile and entertaining belated sequel to John Landis ' horror / comedy landmark released in 1981 . This little and insignificant production only borrows the classy title and shamelessly recycles the most successful comedy gimmicks for its own benefit , like the restless victims returning in gradually worse states of decomposition . Otherwise this film has no originality of its own , the werewolf transformations and make-up effects are weak ( and actually look more dated already than the ones of the early 80's film ) and particularly the portrayal of the French population is frustratingly stereotypic . All local characters , perhaps with the exception of the beautifully cherubic Julie Delpy , are aggressive and loud-mouthed troublemakers that detest foreigners and physically appear to be Nazis . The plot revolves on three American students touring around Europe and pulling reckless stunts for kicks . Andy is about to bungee-jump from the Eiffel Tower when he notices a beautiful girl with the intention to commit suicide . He saves her and becomes obsessed with her , but the poor girl has a big burden to carry . She and her friends are vampires and organize underground parties to lure victims . " An American Werewolf in Paris " is a horror-comedy but suffers from two major essential defects : it's NOT scary and it's NOT funny . The scenes where Andy chases his blond muse around Paris occasionally evoke some harmless chuckles , but particularly the interactions with the rotting corpses are embarrassingly UN-funny . Considering the type of film this is , I was quite surprised to see Anthony Waller's name listed as the director . We only know him from " Mute Witness " , which is a supremely tense and ultra-macabre thriller dealing with topics like Russian snuff-movies . I nevertheless want to finish on a positive note , namely by praising the superior females in this inferior film . Julie Bowen and especially Julie Delpy give away the best performances of the entire cast and they both look good enough to eat ( pun intended )
Sorority Girls just want to have fun ?	" Killer Party " is a pretty dumb and righteously forgotten mid-80's horror-comedy that only gets funny when it's meant to look serious and vice versa . That's quite painful already , and it gets gradually worse with bad acting and total lack of gore or inventive gimmicks . After not one , but TWO ( not even counting the super cheesy music video ) misleading opening sequences , we're introduced to three cheerful girl friends that desperately want to be part of a prominent campus sorority of which the name has already slipped my mind . They're accepted , but only because one of them ? Vivia ? is a master in pulling April fool's pranks . The girls are referred to as " goats " ( quite appropriately ) and they're assigned to freak out the boys of a frat club during a party held at a haunted frat house . What follows next is a series of lame red herrings disguised as fraternity pranks and a handful of bloodless killings , supposedly committed by a student who died in the house 20 years ago . Is it all a set-up ? Will the girls ever bath naked in the hot tub again ? Do we honestly even care ? ? With the exception of lead actress Elaine Wilkes ' portrayal of Phoebe , all the characters are completely insufferable and their deaths nearly weren't painful enough in my opinion . " Killer Party " is boring up until the last fifteen minutes , then it gets over-the-top campy and totally implausible . Not even the spirited guest appearance of Paul Bartel ( " Eating Raoul " , " Death Race 2000 " ) as the grumpy teacher can save this movie from being an utter mess . Check out " April Fool's Day " , instead .
Work that Body , Kill your Brain !	This is quite possibly the most retarded 80's slasher ever realized , but how can you be harsh on a film that features non-stop images of dozens of gorgeous ladies with exhilarating bodies doing aerobic exercises , taking showers and wandering about in tight gym outfits ? Prior to being a horror film , " Aerobicide " is a 90 minutes promo video to encourage the use of steroids , silicons and other body-stimulating fitness products . If you'd leave out all the footage of hunky boys lifting weights and yummy girls wiggling their butts and racks to insufferable 80's tunes , there probably only have about 15 minutes of story left . Plenty of time to improvise a plot about a sadist killer slaughtering young health-freaks with a big safety pin ( yeah ? ) . The film opens with an unintentionally hilarious scene of a girl getting fried between an electric sun-bathing device . Several years later people turn up dead in the same spa . You don't really need to be an experienced horror fanatic or a rocket scientist to figure out there's a link between the murders and the burning incident , now do you ? Investigating the case are a seemingly braindead police officer ( and Charles Napier look-alike ! ) and a beefcake private detective who gets lucky with the bustiest 80's beauty I've ever seen ! Looking through the credits , her name's Dianne Copeland apparently , and she didn't do anything else apart from this turkey and an imbecile Troma-movie called " Surf Nazis Must Die " . What a wasted opportunity ! She may not have been a great actress , but she sure had two other BIG advantages that would help her move upwards in show business . The amount of gore and the quality of the make-up effects are nothing special , neither . We're treated to a couple of bizarre stabbings with a pin and some barbecued human flesh . The plot twists near the end are ridiculous and predictable , but by that time nobody is taking the film seriously anymore , anyway . " Aerobicide " ( a . k . a . " Killer Workout " ) is recommended in case you want to switch of all your brain functions off for one night , but nevertheless feel like watching a film ! It actually would make a terrific double-feature with " Death Spa " . Both films have a lot of sexy and scarcely dressed babes ? and both films are pretty dumb .
The Uninspired Antichrist	Blindly following the annoying trend of remaking classic horror movies , " The Omen 666 " does an GREAT job in . . . adding absolutely nothing at all ! In fact , this might even be the absolute most pointless and redundant remake of them all , since director John Moore somehow managed to copy the original 1976 milestone scene by scene , only without including any of the malicious atmosphere or breathtaking suspense . The story follows the exact same patterns of development as the supernatural murders committed by the evil infant are identical ( all but one . . . ) , yet for some reason this movie is intolerably boring whereas Richard Donner's original was exciting and petrifying . In case you have seen the recent " The Hills Have Eyes " remake by Alexandre Aja , you know that remakes don't necessarily have to be unoriginal imitation , but apparently Moore and company opted for the safe route and failed miserably . Liev Schreiber totally lacks the charisma of a big budget production protagonist , but that's forgivable since he had to fill in the footsteps of no less than Gregory Peck . And although a great actress and a personal favorite , Julia Stiles is badly miscast as the poor terrorized mother . The little kid isn't nearly as uncanny as the one in the original , neither , leaving the supportive characters as the only notable merits . Mia Farrow is occasionally very freaky as the devilish nanny and the always-reliable Pete Postlethwaite impresses as a tormented priest , trying to warn everybody about the presence of the Antichrist . There's no real tension or atmosphere , the amount of gore & violence is extremely disappointing and the story as it is told here is only likely to frighten young horror fanatics that refuse to watch the original because it's " too old " . Bah ! Definitely a movie you should avoid wasting time and money on .
Let's see how far we can stretch out your neck !	Damn you Sergio Martino and your constant re-using of titles ! Here I was under the impression that I finally tracked down a copy of " Case of the Scorpion's Tail " and then it turns out this is an entirely different movie , actually one that is even more rare but also a whole lot worse . Then I wanted to take comfort in the fact this production stars the almighty B-movie legend John Saxon , but he's only in it during the first EIGHT minutes and then he has his neck wrenched around 180 degrees ! " The Scorpion with two Tails " is undeniably a disappointment , mixing too many story ideas and cult sub genres into one overly confusing film . The plot covers typical giallo-elements as well as supernatural forces of evil and even crime syndicates ! However , none of the story lines are properly elaborated and the whole thing is just intolerably incoherent . Mr . Saxon briefly appears as an American archaeologist who phones his wife to announce he discovered a genuine Etruscan tomb during his research expedition in Italy . He then gets killed and the wife Joan instantly travels to Italy to investigate the circumstances of his death . She learns that her own beloved father runs an international hard drugs network , hallucinates about eerie maggots crawling around everywhere and eventually hooks up with another archaeologist that fancies Etruscan tombs . Every once and a while , a redundant character is killed off by a pair of unidentifiable hands that clearly adore twisting people's necks around ! Sergio Martino is a great director , and Ernesto Gastaldi is an even greater scriptwriter , but " The Scorpion with two Tails " totally lacks all their usual trademarks . It's uninvolving , boring , slow-paced , poorly presented and the murder sequences are tame and entirely gore-free ! The neck-twisting modus operandi is interesting to show once , but not seven times in one film ! The search for the killer's identity ? if he / she is even human ? isn't nearly as compelling as in any of Martino's previous gialli and features no ingenious red herrings . Heck , even the music is lame since it's identical to the score in " Hell of the Living Dead " and that film already stole it from Goblin's soundtrack for " Dawn of the Dead " . Nothing to recommend here , not even to die-hard fans of Italian cinema .
Party over at Byron's place , but bring your own monstrous hallucinations !	The pivot character in this undeniably odd horror movie is no less than Mary Shelley , but avid fans of her legendary story won't see their Frankenstein-hunger stilled , as this is a largely FICTIONAL ( let's not forget that ) recreation of the night that leaded her inspirations to invent the story . On paper this is one of the most genius ideas for a movie ever ? it even got copied twice ? but that doesn't necessarily mean it resulted in a great movie . Quite the contrary , " Gothic " is sadly disappointing and pretentious film . You always know to expect a little pretension and a lot of eccentrics in Ken Russell's movies , but here he goes over the top a little too much . Lord Byron and his personal physician Polidori welcome Shelley , his fiancée Mary and her little half sister ( I think ) Claire in an impressive Swiss mansion . They don't really plan on doing much , apart from eat & drink a lot , experiment with all types of drugs and play games that'll mess up their minds for good . Byron's place is filled with " artsy " gimmicks ( women statues with eyeballs on their breasts ! ) and pretty soon his guests are submitting themselves to all kinds of weird acts , like dancing on the roof naked in the pouring rain , watching eerie paintings come to live and spotting nasty leeches in the dining room . This is all a lot less exciting than it sounds , mind you , and the only thing that held my attention was the constant search for elements that would eventually feature in " Frankenstein " . The nightmare ? and hallucination sequences are far too messy ; not petrifying or disturbing , just very confusing . The decors and costumes admittedly are breathtaking , but I'm sure they would have reached a bigger effect if the story had been more coherent . Ken Russell constantly aims at atmosphere of sexual madness , but he only occasionally succeeds in this and then still it's largely thanks to Gabriel Byrne's excellent performance . Byrne makes the most of his weak lines and he provides his Lord Byron character with an effective mysterious aura . The other stars are good as well and they ALL deserved a better script . Particularly the last twenty minutes are terribly lame and I think even Russell himself had lost all interest by that time . Not really recommended .
They Axed For It ? ! ?	My mate and I chose to watch this obvious piece of junk purely based on its tagline ? After nearly 30 years of lousy and rudimentary teen slashers , I can't believe that only just now some nerdy horror brainiac come up with the brilliantly witty slogan " They Axed for it " ! Other than that , " Miner's Massacre " is just as random , annoying and forgettable as all the rest out there ? . Perhaps even more ! The script contains all the typical clichés and features all the dreadfully stereotypic characters you wish a horrible and painful death to . The gore effects are computer engineered and thus beyond pitiable and the obligatory " big " stars ( Karen Black , John Philip Law and Richard Lynch ) are entirely wasted in spite of their top billing . Cursed mines and abandoned ghost towns form an ideal horror setting ? the creators of " My Bloody Valentine " already figured that out in the early 80's ? but his dull film simply hasn't got any innovative ideas or even remotely surprising elements to offer . Bunch of greedy twenty-something losers , which refer to themselves as friends even though they clearly can't stand each other , desecrate an ancient mine in search of the gold that is allegedly hidden there . Of course they unwarily resurrect the zombie miner this way and he just 150 years of rest in order to prepare for a massive teen massacre . Yay ! The cast is exceptionally irritating in this one . The girls all have impressive racks but refuse to show anything . Instead , they all prefer endless whining and the taking of needless risks . The dim-witted blokes clearly just serve as screen fillers . In her barely five minutes of playtime , Karen Black still manages to make an utter fool out of herself by depicting the most prototypic and hysterical local nut woman ever . The zombie has a stupid and very unconvincing face , but he looks okay and reasonably menacing when shown in the distant shadow of the moonlight whilst swinging around his pick-axe . Since the best thing about " Miner's Massacre " concerns the aforementioned tagline and you can read that on the box in the video store itself , there's very little else to recommend here . Director John Carl Buechler scored a few modest hits during the eighties , like notably the original " Troll " and a fair " Friday the 13th " sequel , but it's obviously time to retire now .
Awful horror movie !	I haven't seen the 1979 original yet , although I must say that neither this sequel , or the mediocre part 3 encourage me much to track it down any time soon . Amityville II is a very very UGLY film . . . Gross , sickening and I don't think we're meant to care about the " horrible " events shown here . It all starts with a very bad case of character drawing . The new tenants arriving at the evil mansion are the most antipathetic characters in cinema ever and you couldn't feel less involved with them . They're a boisterous and aggressive family of Italian emigrants and they constantly argue and harm each other . I even wonder what they're looking for in a large Long Island villa in the first place . . . Upon their arrival , the house begins to act weird . Furniture moves around the house by itself , blood comes out of the kitchen taps and vile pictures appear on the bedroom walls all by themselves . The oldest son then gets possessed by evil spirits ( through his Walkman , for Christ's sake ! ! ) and the film becomes unimaginably ridiculous . Apparently , being possessed leads to incestuous behavior ( ! ) and the boy eventually commits a felony so abysmal I was shocked and offended by it ( merely because this kind of " horror " regretfully often features in the daily news ) . The entire last half hour is a little too obviously stolen from William Friedkin's " The Exorcist " , only it's gorier and without any form of tension . Burt Young is very well-cast as the loud-mouthed father but that about concludes the positive comments on this turkey . The photography is dark , yet not unsettling , and the directing is messy and very unprofessional . Damiano Damiani ( cool name , though ) should have sticked to filming insignificant Italian crime-movies instead of popular Hollywood horror . The overload of violence and filth in this movie might impress unexperienced horror buffs looking for thrills instead of suspense but the more trained horror fanatics will be left behind with an empty and unsatisfied feeling in their stomach . Avoid .
Blame it on the nameless Quarterback !	This strangely offbeat and unusual late 80's slasher starts off vile and promisingly , but soon degenerates into a prototypically dumb and exaggeratedly implausible flick . Some people ? more specifically its very small but devoted fan base ? tend to describe " Raging Fury " as reminiscent to the gritty revenge-themed exploitation efforts of the late 70's , but I hardly see any connections . Nope , this is merely just another cheap and uninspired flick that actually insults the viewer's intelligence with all its impossibly far-fetched story twists . The highly entertaining opening sequences show a little girl " accidentally " killing a young biker couple in the swamp near her parental house because they destroyed her dolly . Enjoy this intro with its nasty make-up effects and glorious sleaze as much as you can , because it's all downhill from here ? 18 years later , the little girl ? Brooke Storm ? grew up to become a biology teacher in a standard American high school , but she obviously still suffers from a very unbalanced mental condition due to her traumatic childhood experience ( which makes you wonder how she ever managed to finish her own teaching studies ) . Elsewhere in the school , the popular jock all of a sudden decides it's time for a personality change and joins the school's gang of bad kids ( again , the most common thing in the world ) . As some sort of initiation rite for Jon-Jon , the clique decides to terrorize Miss Storm in her own house . They even set up a plan to frame the football team's quarterback in case anything goes wrong ! Needless to say the nightly attack causes Miss Storm to go totally bonkers again and the thugs get a whole lot more than they bargained for . " Hell High " is a bunch of senseless nonsense without tension or horrific atmosphere . The film only evokes unintentional laughs ( when the police actually do come to arrest the quarterback , my mates and I were laughing tears ) and sentiments of pity . Not surprisingly , the cast and crew list only exists out of nobodies . Director Douglas Grossman as well as most of the actors and actresses never worked on any other film again . Lead star Christopher Stryker even died of AIDS before the film's release . I know it's not a very nice thing to say but I doubt it was a big loss for the cinema industry .
Serial Boredom	" The Secret Life " starts with the worst possible narrative intro : " The crimes committed by Jeffrey Dahmer are too horrible to make a film about . . . " . Okay , so what are you suggesting ? That we shouldn't bother to continue watching as the film won't be accurate or bloody , anyway ? And they were right , too ! The film isn't the least bit shocking and contains almost no blood or gore at all . Although I think that's mainly due to the low budget production values and not because of Dahmer's crimes being too horrific . Basically , " The Secret Life : Jeffrey Dahmer " is just one sequence repeated over and over again . Young , pitiful and mentally confused Jeffrey picks up victims ( always males , as he was a homosexual ) , kills them and then talks about how it wasn't his intention to hurt them and about how lonely he is . This gets boring really quick and even the admirable performance by unknown actor Carl Crew can't save this movie from being a total dud . Still , this version is much better than the pretentious and hopelessly muddled " Dahmer " that got released in 2002 .
Occasionally grim . . . but mostly dull	" Grimm " is a remotely original and well-intended Dutch re-working of the famous Hansel and Gretel fairy-tale , updated with nowadays social issues like violence , sexual perversion and even the mafia-like trade in human organs ! Siblings Maria and Jacob are left behind in the Dutch woods by their father and intend to head for Spain , following a written note of their mother . The road to Spain , as well as the actual residence , is a series of obstacles and encounters with weird characters . The first half hour is really good , alternately comical and compassionate with some absurd ( but ingenious ) ideas , like Jacob's acquaintance with a farmer who forces him to have sex with his corpulent wife . The rest of the film is totally illogical and very , VERY pointless . The two go from Holland to Spain on a moped and , upon arrival , they still have the 10 euros they left ! If you think that's nonsense , don't even bother watching the rest of the film . . . Most of the time , you're wondering why the hell you should care about the dreadful tale of these two weirdos and even the beautiful Spanish settings become boring after a short while . Director Alex Van Warmermeer has the reputation of being a pseudo-artistic and gifted filmmaker , but so far I haven't enjoyed ANY of his films I've seen ( others being " Abel " and " De Noorderlingen " ) .
Far BELOW the British horror standard from that time . . .	You'll have to agree about one aspect of this movie ? these British scriptwriters sure knew how to think up appealing titles ! Look at this : blood + beast + terror ? Separately , these three words already make every horror lover slaver . Together , they form the title to a seemly indispensable horror film . Sadly , this is a very wrong perception . The Blood Beast Terror is not a vital British horror picture . Especially not compared to so many other titles from that era . Although the plot of this film features a few promising and creative aspects ( the still unknown universe of insects ! ) , it develops itself very slow and tediously . The twists near the end don't really offer any surprises or innovative elements . Certainly not if you're familiar with the more famous Hammer monster movies like ' The Reptile ' . Peter Cushing stars as a cop investigating murders that are seemly committed by a giant death's head moth . Dr . Mallinger ( Robert Flamyng ) and the stunningly beautiful female resident in his mansion are behaving suspiciously , so Cushing goes undercover in rural Britain . His cute daughter and a bug-worshiping nerd accompany him . There's absolutely no tension to detect in this film . Maybe that's partially due to the far-fetched plot , but I rather blame the tame directing-skills of Vernon Sewell and the truly limited depth of this film . The characters in ' Blood Beast Terror ' are weak and uninteresting , while the make-up effects are downright ludicrous . The transformation-sequences that turn wench into moth are really , really cheap ! And yes , I do keep in mind that the film is over 35 years old now . Even then , the special effects look stupid , mind you ! In the same year of 1968 , the production company ( Tigon Productions ) released ' The Witchfinder General ' starring Vincent Price . That film is at least a dozen times better and one of the most atmospheric movies I ever saw . A proof that the Hammer studios weren't the only ones who were able to create timeless , compelling horror . My advice : skip this one and continue your search for the more essential golden Brit-horrorfilms .
How many of these " Last Houses " were constructed ? ! ?	Another vile and rapidly edited Italian exploitation effort that just mildly succeeds in cashing in on the enormous ' popularity ' of Wes Craven's horror landmark " Last House on the Left " . Three bank robbers drive up to a remote beach house where they plan to hide from the police after a successful heist . Staying at the house at that moment are an attractive nun and five teenage girls under her supervision . The schoolgirls become the objects of violent torture games , vicious rapes and eventually murder . Bloody vengeance by the remaining girls and the nun is the inevitable consequence . What can be said about this type of cinema that hasn't been said a thousand times before ? It's mean-spirited , sickening and not the type of film to watch if you already feel a bit depressed . Peculiar , however , is that the victims of these rape-flicks continue to get younger and more innocent . I suppose it's some sort of competition among the directors to be the sickest bastard of all ? How else do you get the crazy idea of exploiting sexual aggression towards teenage girls ? The girls in " Last House on the Beach " barely look 15 years old , so mission accomplished for director Franco Prosperi , but the overall tone of the film isn't half as offensive or shocking as Ruggero Deodato's " House on the Edge of the Park " or Meir Zachi's infamous " I spit on your Grave " . Not recommended , unless of course if you're on a sole mission to watch every rape / revenge flick ever made . In that case , you can watch this one on par with " Late Night Trains " and " Terror Express " , which are equally bad .
Til Embalment Do Us Part	Ah , the glorious 1980's . . . A nearly inexhaustible source of anonymous and super-cheesy horror movies that are often too atrocious to even mention . " Mortuary " , not exactly blessed with the most unique title , is such a long and righteously forgotten movie that will immediately disappear from your memory again as soon as it finishes . This is textbook high-school horror , with an absurd plot , clichéd twists and only occasionally a gross make-up effect . Although this film has ONE little extra surprise , namely a very young and geeky-looking Bill Paxton in the supportive cast of teenagers ! He now probably tries to forget he ever appeared in this thing and I wouldn't really blame him . Anyway , the titular mortuary is located in a small village and run by a spooky guy who also organizes macabre séances in his basement for some reason . A couple of teenagers with way too much free time on their hands begin to suspect that the undertaker and his cult of black-caped housewives are responsible for a series of unsolved murders committed in town . What a totally pointless film , this is . Okay , I blame myself for anticipating zombie-action ( the title and video cover mislead me completely ) , but even as a slasher movie this is a total waste of time ! The only moments worth mentioning are the ones where bodies get embalmed and prepared for burial . But they're dead already , so what's the point of that ? Exactly like the unrelated 2005 Tobe Hooper film with the same title , " Mortuary " is a total dud and not at all recommended .
May I have this dance of death ?	Lucio Fulci is a usually very remarkable director who moves with the times , that's for sure . Following the huge success of stupid dancing movies , like " Fame " and " Flashdance " , it was an inexplicably popular trend in the early 1980's to insert overlong dancing sequences in horror films as well . Fulci was one of the first foreign filmmakers to cash in on this trend ; moreover , he dedicated a FULL movie to the intrigues and competition issues in typical dance academies ! The saddening result is a tame and boring movie , very much UN-Fulci and definitely not worth being listed among his other contemporary gore-highlights like " The Beyond " , " New York Ripper " and " House by the Cemetery " . Someone is killing off the pretty but very competitive girls of one and the same dancing class , only a couple weeks prior to an important recital . Her / his modus operandi is a lot gentler than usual in slashers , since the victims get paralyzed first and then stabbed in the heart with a hatpin . It's truly incomprehensible why Lucio Fulci , commonly known as the Godfather of Gore , decided to make the murders so soft & bloodless , sometimes even happening entirely off-screen ! What happened to my horror-idol with his normal passion for nastily cut throats or vile eyeball-stabbings ? Perhaps Fulci hoped to reach wider audiences like this or maybe his producers wanted to see a stylish murder-mystery for a change . The hunt for the killer's identity starts off interesting but , due to the repetitive and way too expanded dancing sequences , you stop caring about that pretty soon as well . Italian horror regular Ray Lovelock ( " Autopsy " , " Let Sleeping Corpses Lie " ) gives an adequate performance and most of the academy girls are lovely eye-candy ( showing a bit of flesh , too ) , but it constantly remains a dire film .
Sick , sick , sick ! ! . . . and STUPI	The structure and intelligence-level of this hopeless little gem is so dumb it almost becomes legendary . Here we have God and Satan themselves sitting in train , discussing whether a few bizarre characters belong in hell ? or in heaven . This aspect provides the film with the most bizarre wraparound story ever used in a horror anthology . You could say it's very original and creative ( and in a way , it IS ) but , due to the amateurish and silly style used here , it becomes unintentionally hilarious and pathetic . But you can't really claim that the creators of Night Train haven't got a sense of humor ? God is credited as ? himself ' and a guy named as Lu Cifer supposedly plays Satan . Hahahahaha ? nice try ! The separate stories surely have potential ! Which isn't that surprising because they're actually edited from full-length movies ! Completely ignored 80's quickies like ' Death wish Club ' and ' Cataclysm ' that never received any recognition . Especially the first two short stories are enjoyable ( and very gore ) but the final episode more or less ruins the whole film . That last one is twice as long ( or at least , it felt like it was ) and it's utterly boring and uninspired . Try to look at this film as a perfect example of bad acting and ? most of all ? as a filthy piece of 80's trash ! The make-up and shlock effects are truly nasty and gruesome ( we see people getting slashed their heads off and sliced apart with a bone saw ) and the creature-effects ( like the beetle in ' Death Wish Club ) give a whole new meaning to the word ' cheese-fest ' . Very fun ? without any other values what so ever .
They thought their lives would be a Mardi Gras ; a never-ending party ?	" Mardi Gras Massacre " is a very , very ( very ) bad seventies film ; approximately 75 % retelling of , and 25 % homage to Hershell Gordon-Lewis ' " Blood Feast " . Now , I know what you're thinking and you're correct ! Why would anyone want to remake a movie like " Blood Feast " , let alone pay good money to see it ? Admittedly , it build up a well-deserved cult reputation for being the very first gore film ever made , but it basically remains a poorly scripted and amateurishly put together piece of nauseating trash ! There's nothing even remotely unique about " Mardi Gras Massacre " and , on top of that , it appears to be even poorer than Lewis ' original film . This is purely a tedious 90-minutes-lasting excuse to exhibit cheesy gore and gratuitous full frontal nudity , without any attempt of storytelling and / or creating atmosphere whatsoever . Just a few days before the famous Mardi Gras festival , a clearly deranged self-acclaimed Aztec priest arrives in New Orleans and promptly begins to scour the local bars and strip joints looking for hookers . Not just any hookers , mind you , but EVIL hookers to take home and sacrifice to a hideous statue of a malicious deity . Our mysterious weirdo ties the girl to an altar , rubs brown oil all over their bodies and subsequently cuts their hands & feet before removing a handful of their intestines . This rather repulsive ( but UN-shocking ) ritual killing is repeated four or five times throughout the film and I even suspect you're watching the same damn footage each time . That's the plot ! There's absolutely nothing else going on , unless you consider the hugely annoying love-hate relationship between a sexist copper and a nagging prostitute to be a sub plot . Whatever " Mardi Gras Massacre " lacks in plot , it surely makes up in pointless padding and incompetent directing . The Mardi Gras setting is original but wasted entirely , the dialogs make your ears ache and for some reason there's awful music playing non-stop . The women are beautiful fully dressed as well as naked , but that's hardly a reason to track down a horror film , isn't it ? The film is included in the infamous list of " video nasties " ( as well as its role model " Blood Feast " ) , but honestly doesn't deserve to be on any list except maybe the ' avoid-like-the-plague ' one .
Disney's " Pinocchio " was scarier ?	Nice try ? but that's about the only positive thing you can say about this lackluster attempt to blend psychological thriller with eerie horror monsters . The script desperately tries to be intelligent and innovating but the result is a very poor and tedious movie , even for the already low 90's standards . The story handles about an overly ambitious psychology student who motivates a clique of people to go on a mountain-weekend where he'll finish his thesis about phobias . The point is that all the participants get over their fears by talking about them and , in the meantime , our college boy can process his own childhood trauma . Upon arrival , everyone's fear comes to life in the shape of a life-size wooden dummy . Of course the puppet means trouble ! It's made by Indians ? it's always the Indians with their spiritual evils , I tell you ! ! This movie takes itself way too seriously and the makers actually seem to believe that the subject matter is deep and complex ! It's not ! It's more than obvious that every character hides one of several dark secrets and the viewer figures them all out long before they reveal the " truth " themselves . I've rarely seen a movie so predictable than " The Fear " . The story gets more and more annoying near the end and , the more clever it tries to be , the more ridiculous it all looks . The wooden " evil personified " dummy isn't very impressive and the squeaky stretching-sounds he constantly makes aren't my idea of eerie sound effects . Pinocchio actually was a lot scarier ? at least he could do tricks with his nose . The acting performances are forgettable , even though I'm sure the guy who came up with the idea to offer Wes Craven a small role is very proud of himself . In case you're looking for some really unsettling evil-dummy horror movies , check out " Pin " ( brilliant but disgracefully underrated 80's thriller ) and " Magic " ( staring a young Anthony Hopkins " .
Shania Twain said it best when she sung : " Man ! I feel like a Woman ! "	Some of her previous accomplishments ( like " Deadly Weapons " and " Diary of a Nudist " ) already taught us that Doris Wishman isn't ranked very high on the list of filmmakers with good taste and moral values , but I never thought she would even dare to exploit people that struggled with sex and identity crises all their lives . " Let me die a Woman " is supposed to be a documentary ( better say schlockumentary or even smutumentary ) , but it has very little educational or informative value . The film is a compilation of interviews with a Puerto Rican transsexual ? " Last year , I was a man " ? and allegedly scientific feedback from a sleazy guy I wouldn't allow near my body . Dr . Leo Wollman may perhaps be an authority in the field of sex-change operations , but he clearly doesn't feel comfortable when there's a camera aimed at him . His eyes turn towards everywhere except straight into the lens and his lines sound a little too much like they're being read from a large billboard in front of him . Still , his acting capacities are Oscar-worthy compared to some of the courageous patients that come to tell about their agonizing lives . There's one guy / lady , I think her name's Debbie , whose voice and facial expressions are truly unendurable . " Let me die a Woman " is a rancid and utterly shameless exploitation flick , and cult collectors should only watch it for the sake of morbid curiosity . It's really jaw-dropping how Dr . Wollman unscrupulously treats the transsexuals as study objects , like motionless life-sized dummies , and moves his filthy fingers over their genitals in order to point out how he turned their penises into vaginas . I don't know anything about this type of surgery , and I reckon it must be complicated undertakings , but most of the results looked truly hideous and even quite gross . Actually , they didn't look like vaginas but gateways into hell . The film is fairly short ( 80min . ) but the last half hour feels annoyingly stretched , as Wollman repeats the same old things over and over again and even inserts a totally ridicule story about a guy who committed suicide because he didn't talk about his transsexual desires with anyone . Oh puh-lease !
In the words of the King : ' Return to Sender ! '	Okay , so the title of my little review might be a bit harsh . 3 . 000 Miles to Graceland isn't that bad and , at times , very imaginative and funny . But , let's face it ? despite of the talented cast and a few original ideas , this productions isn't nearly as decent as it could have been . And it's merely the inexperienced director Demian Lichtenstein who's to blame for this . He's over-enthusiast about his first major film project and inserts way too many experimental , cool-looking camera tricks . Lichtenstein doesn't stick to a certain style and therefore the editing of the finished product looks messy and amateurish . Besides , it's not like his cinematography-playground is very original . Fast moving shots of Las Vegas , using a particular theme during the opening credits , multi angled images of the same casino heist ? All this coolness featured in many flicks before already and often better . It's a real shame Lichtenstein ruined his own movie because the rest of the cast and crew surely proved to be worthy of their money . The script ( even though a bit too long ) contains a pretty solid premise and well-developed characters . Kevin Costner's role is a matter of discussion but personally ; I think he's brilliantly anti-cast . Costner should play psychos more often . And ? never get rid of those sideburns , Kevin !
Oh no ! ! Not Kentucky mountain hillbillies again !	It's a shame that this lovely site doesn't feature a poster image of this ' Geek ' , a . k . a Backwoods . The VHS copy I rented showed a mad-raving freak , waving around a butcher's hatchet . It attracts horror lovers and , in all honesty , I have to admit that the cover motivated me to rent it without knowing anything about it . Big mistake , of course ! Backwoods stands as one of the lousiest pieces of trash I ever beheld ? and that does mean something ! This film is a bloodless 80's slasher and that's about the worst idea possible . The makers clearly intended to bring tension and dept instead of blood and gore but they failed miserably . After an hour of viewing , you still haven't seen any of the cast-members dying ( unless you think decapitated chickens are gruesome ) . What other reasons do you have for seeing a slasher besides teen-butchering ? ? ? The heart-breaking story about a lone Kentucky farmer and his deranged son ? The thrilling adventures of a young couple camping ? The only aspect worth mentioning is the eerie opening / end credits song . The slowly sung and chilling lyrics give you the wrong impression that you're about to watch a good film . Check out ' Deliverance ' , ' The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ' , ' Just before Dawn ' , ' The Hills have Eyes ' or even Rick Roessler's ' Slaughterhouse ' instead ! Anything but this turkey !
I Love Your Music But This Movie Is Venomous Poison	Yours truly is one of them sour people who's incredibly annoyed by the trend of inexperienced singers ( mostly hip-hop & pop stars ) getting lead roles in films just because they're immensely popular among teenage audiences . Although this mainly happens nowadays , lame directors have apparently always been recruiting music idols to make their insignificant movies look a little more appealing . No one less than shock-rocker Alice Cooper is the main attraction of this terribly inept yet hilariously amusing werewolf-vehicle , directed by the same guy who brought us the legendary bad flick " Troll 2 " . " Monster Dog " is not much better than " Troll 2 " , though . It's poorly scripted , unimaginably cheesy and almost half of the film is pure padding since there wasn't enough material to fill up a whole screenplay . Cooper's music video for " Identity Crisis " is repeated not once but twice , and there's another entire clip in the middle section of the movie . Alice Cooper stars as ? surprise ? a successful artist who takes his whole entourage with him for a trip to the region where he grew up in order to shoot a new music video . The sinister place brings back traumatic memories , however , as superstitious locals lynched Vince's father because they thought he was a werewolf . When mutilated corpses are discovered once again , the locals believe Vince is a werewolf too and begin to hunt down the entire group . Don't even consider watching " Monster Dog " in case you have little tolerance for lousy acting and horrible dubbing jobs . The dialogs are all irritatingly monotonous and entire cast is wooden as hell . Our good pal Claudio Fragasso ( Clyde Anderson ) doesn't even attempt to build up a suspenseful atmosphere , but at least there's some blood and delightfully phony werewolf-mutations to enjoy . The make-up effects are laughable and about the opposite of shocking , but hey , at least they provide the movie with a handful of memorable shlock-sequences , like the shotgun-head kill . Some of the interior settings as well as the fog-enshrouded landscapes look effectively eerie , but they're largely ignored in favor of the hip music sequences . " Monster Dog " is recommended to either fans of brainless & campy 80's horror , or die-hard admirers of Alice Cooper . This last group is probably responsible for the rather big number of ratings .
Ed Wood deserves a bit more credit for this . . .	SPOILERS AHEAD ! Many years ago , Bride of the Monster was the first Edward D . Wood movie I ever saw . I didn't quite understand what was so terrible about it then and I still quite haven't figured it out . Especially when you're comparing it to most of his other movies , Bride of the Monster is a fairly decent motion picture . Sure it's a bunch of silly and far-fetched nonsense but , if you look beyond that , you may detect a bit of creativity and a miniscule amount of talent in it . If you're really optimistic , you might even say that Edward Wood was ahead of his time ! ! The idea is there but he just misses the essential budget and means to work it out like it should be . I'm really convinced that it looked like a masterpiece in his head . The script even contains a few good dialogues and humorBride of the Monster tells the story of Dr . Eric Vornoff ( the legendary Bela Lugosi ) . He's a dedicated scientist who lives in an abandoned house near a swamp , together with Lobo - a freaking ' huge monster played by Tor Johnson . Near Vornoff's property , men are disappearing . He uses them for experiments to create a new breed of super-men or something . A young female journalist becomes too curious and checks it out . Vornoff sees her as a new volunteer to experimentate upon and captures her . Her boyfriend-policeman comes to the rescue . Vornoff also has an adorable pet ! ! A giant rubber octopus who dwells around the swamp . Sure this thing looks really dumb and cheesy but come on people ! ! The year is 1950 ! ! Ed Wood really made terrible movies ( like the incredibly boring Glen or Glenda ) but Bride of the Monster really isn't that bad . It's merely one of the movies that got marked just because he directed it . Give it a chance . . .
Beauty and the Beast in one ?	I'm writing this review after just having finished watching Cat People and I'm suffering from mixed feelings a bit . . . . I certainly expected it to be better and more valuable than this ? especially because the I heard so much praising on it . Paul Schrader remakes the brilliant 1942 classic with the same title . The original Jacques Tourneur version was terrific because of the simple ? yet very effective ? basic plot story , but Schrader adds so many elements to this that it loses its charm . Also , there were the stress was on the mystery in the original ? Schrader fully goes for the erotic undertones ( like incest , virginity or just plain voyeurism ) . And unfortunately ? the negative elements don't even stop there . As a viewer , you never really have feeling with the main characters in Cat People and the whole film just is too slow ! For a movie that constantly features a black leopard ? it could have used a little more tempo . Still , this film can't be bashed entirely of course , as it still is a stylish and very brutal 80's horror highlight . Nastassja Kinski basically makes every film look good and she's damn sexy here , as the confused beauty torn between incest prepositions ( by Malcolm McDowell ? famous for other cult-hits like Caligula and A Clockwork Orange ) and sincere declarations of love by John Heard ( C . H . U . D ) . Some of the sequences in Cat People are really fascinating and fairly gore ? like for example the thrilling arm-amputation , Kinski's colorful hunting adventure and the descent in Malcolm McDowell's terror dungeon . You can almost smell death in that scene . Unfortunately , the pivot scene are practically copied from the original shot by shot . Like the pool-scene only updated with a little bit of naked Anette O'Toole flesh ? If you're intrigued by the synopsis of Cat People , I strongly recommend to hunt down the original version and most likely the sequel ' Curse of the Cat People ' as well . I haven't seen that one myself , but I can easily imagine it's more than decent . Or , if you want to learn more about Paul Shrader's work in cinema , you'll be better off by renting Mishima , Light Sleeper or even American Gigolo . Cat People doesn't really represent his talent if you ask me .
Time to Re-Animate Jeffrey Combs ' career !	One of the most pathetic and deceitful things a movie producer can do is promote his / her crap film by exploiting the name of a famous and extremely popular veteran actor and then subsequently only cast the popular veteran actor in a role that isn't much larger than a cameo appearance . Jeffrey Combs is incredibly popular among horror fans ? mainly for his role of the demented Dr . West in the " Re-Animator " films ? and he's one of the most regular & prominent actors active in the genre , so linking his name to a new film is guaranteed to attract more viewers . Combs ' name is the first on the DVD-cover and the first one to be displayed during the opening credits , yet all together he only appears on screen for approximately three minutes of playtime in total ! That's quite frustrating , especially because many people ( myself included ) probably feared already that " Satanic " would suck tremendously and hoped that Combs ' performance would be the only worthwhile element . I just hope this isn't saying anything about Jeffrey Combs ' career being in trouble or something . It's easy money , of course , but let's hope his career does not depend on paychecks like this . " Satanic " certainly isn't the worst horror film I ever saw , but it's dreadfully boring and the acting performances are incompetent beyond imagination . The basic concept of the film is somewhat intriguing , and admittedly I was pleasantly surprised by the end-twist , but the low-budget elaboration is very poor and amateurish . Following a disastrous car-accident , Michelle wakes up in a hospital and can't remember a single thing about her past and family situation . She carries around an eerie kind of Ouija-board soon suffers from nightmares in which her dead father comes to ask her bizarre questions regarding events that took place before the accident . Michelle is then moved from the hospital to a home for troubled teenagers where her tainted pas slowly gets unraveled . " Satanic " severely drags in places and none of the characters actually manages to say their lines properly . Especially James Russo and Diane Goldner are both horrible as the obnoxious owners of the Harmony House ; the place where Michelle is sent after her treatment at the hospital . There's very little gore and bloodshed on display and most of the murders are incomprehensibly committed off screen . There's some hot female nudity and ? as said ? the denouement is admirable , but overall " Satanic " nearly isn't good or memorable enough to get a recommendation .
Rotten !	THIS is the long awaited and fresh horror from the new prodigy Roth ? What did I miss then ? Because all I saw was a bunch of irritating , stinking , uninspired and unfunny crap ! Director Eli Roth is the ' future of horror ' as much as I am Mother Theresa ! In an interview , I saw Roth talking about how annoying he thinks it is that horror doesn't feature originality and vision nowadays . Well , where was the originality in his film ? I saw bits and pieces stolen from The Evil Dead , Deliverance , Texas Chainsaw Massacre , Last House on the Left and maybe even a bit the Hills have Eyes but where exactly was Eli Roth's contribution to horror ? And what about vision ? Cabin Fever features the same old stereotype characters and the same overused twists and clichés . Five people in their early twenties rent a cabin in the woods and die . A flesh-eating virus , which origin is never explained , causes their skins to rot and their friendships to end . The people living in the nearby communities form an extra threat since they're completely crazed rednecks and apparently inbred . The jokes and funny situations fail miserably and there isn't one scary moment to detect throughout the entire film ! There's more than enough gore ? but somebody please inform Eli Roth that it takes more than grossness to create a successful horror film . Bottom line : Cabin Fever is a giant disappointment ! Even when your expectations are set low , Eli Roth still manages to disappoint you with his vain nonsense . If he really is the future of horror ( Quentin Tarantino repeatedly referred to him like this ) I'll be glad to continue living in the past . My vote of better recent horror movie goes to ' Wrong Turn ' ? That might be a TCM-rip off as well , but at least the creators of this film were modest and didn't try to sell their product as original and inventive .
Ah . . . delightful 80's crap ! !	Rawhead Rex stands as my purest guilty pleasure ! ! Widely considered to be pure garbage and a complete cheesefest ! I like it up till a certain level , since it's so silly and amateurish . Rawhead is the name of an ancient Irish demon that actually predates the Christian-Church era ! Raising demons seemed to be pretty easy in the eighties . Lightening hits upon a rock and BOOM . a huge , filthy thing is resurrected ! The demon looks like the result of sex between a giant ape and a heavy-metal artist and his rubber / plastic face looks hysterically fake ! Anyway , lil ' Rawhead starts a killing spree and collects the bodies of his victims . Meanwhile , an American novelist settles himself in the village and becomes intrigued by the historical background of Rawhead . I really think Rawhead Rex would have been slightly better if it were just slashing and killing . It actually are the spiritual and religious undertones that bring this film down , since cast and crew clearly couldn't handle this . Rawhead Rex completely tension , story building and logic and it all results in a ridiculous light - and laser show ! The screenplay is a huge laugh , since the ' humor ' totally doesn't work and the characters are empty and uninteresting . Mildly good aspects are the killings ( decapitations all around ) and the typical Irish accents of the villagers . Clive Barker wisely decided to turn his own screenplays into movies himself after this , as George Pavlou obviously lacks a little talent .
Speed it up , Vampire-grandma !	" Crypt of the Living Dead " is an extremely low-budgeted Spanish production that centers on the resurrection of a malicious vampire queen after being asleep on an island for nearly 7 whole centuries . Directors Julio Salvador and Ray Danton sure as hell did their best to make Hannah ( quite a modern name for an ancient vampire ) look like a 700-year-old ! This supposedly " evil " lady walks around her territory even slower than my grandmother would walk down a flight of stairs , and she suffers from a severe hernia ! On the other hand , Hannah sure has a prettier face than my grandma and I wouldn't mind her sinking her teeth into my neck . . . Hannah's resurrection is the fault of a young archaeologist who opened the tomb after his own father ( accidentally ? ) got crushed in the tomb . Initially she's still too weak to kill by herself and so she sends out her pet werewolf to do the nasty and bring back the blood of superstitious villagers . Once she has a little more strength , she endangers the island-population herself , and the sexy school teacher in particular . Hannah's walking pace sort of illustrates the entire film : slow , boring and truly annoying . " Crypt of the Living Dead " isn't at all scary or atmospheric , and this despite all the potentially great decors and locations . The events take place on an island , yet you never experience that inescapable feeling . There's no sleaze or gore ( or what did you think ? ) , the acting performances are weak and the ending is lame . Most definitely one to skip .
Can it be today , please ?	The day the WORLD ended ? Gee , isn't that a little too melodramatic ? Since when do some mildly ominous events in a small town of hillbillies affect the existence of the entire world ? Or maybe this is all just because this film is part of a series of TV-remakes of cheap & nearly forgotten Sci-Fi films , dating back to the 1950's . Roger Corman directed the original version of " The Day the World Ended " and it featured an entirely different storyline . The lame and overly child-friendly plot of this version revolves on a young boy who firmly believes that his real father is an alien . You'd believe him too , if you look at his childhood pictures . The school psychiatrist Dr . Stillman ( portrayed by Nastassja Kinski who's not ageing very well , I must say ) wishes to save him from the social isolation brought on by his father , but then there really does land a slimy alien in town ! This is the first of the HBO's remakes I watched , but I'm already going to pass on the rest of them . It has absolutely nothing to offer , except for an adequate cast that deliver below-average acting performances . The rest is just pathetic . The script " borrows " ideas from several other movies , there's absolutely no suspense and the make-up & creature effects are downright laughable . The alien monster is identical to the one in Corman's original ( as some kind of homage ) but the old creature looked a lot more petrifying . This is simply a sad excuse for a horror film , exclusively intended for younger audiences that refuse to watch black & white cinema .
The Other Side is just as dull . . .	Personally , I hated " Poltergeist " with a passion , but I can't really blame producers for wanting to further exploit a profitable franchise , especially not when I can watch these sequels for free on the television . The original " Poltergeist " , directed by Tobe Hooper but clearly a Spielberg-pastiche , is one of the most overrated and boring movies of all time and the sequels ( this one as well as part 3 , starring Tom Skerritt ) are every bit as lame . At least this film didn't exaggeratedly use Steven Spielberg's name during the promotion campaigns but it IS very docile and obedient to his ideas . This means that part two once again is childish and very UN-spooky horror , filled with visual effects that lack the force of conviction and featuring characters you can't possibly symphatize with . The Freeling family , with their supernatural medium for a daughter , moves into Gramma Jess ' house after the events that made their own house vanish into thin air . Pretty soon a bony old man ( Julian Beck , who's about the only slightly uncanny appearance in the entire film ) comes around to take Carol Anne back to the spiritual dimension . . . Why ? I missed that part . The Freelings do get more assistance this time , from a big Indian fella ( Will Sampson from " One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest " who I like more when he plays a silent character ) and , hooray hooray ! , the ultra-annoying Zelda Rubinstein , whose squeaky voice makes you want to pulverize her whenever she opens her mouth . The extremely boring screenplay and the total lack of humor in order to put thing into perspective a little make this a truly pointless film , only for die-hard fans of the first . The stupid , fairy-tale like ending nearly made me feel miserable . . . especially since you could see it coming from miles away .
Premature monster-ejaculation !	Okay , you've heard about " so-bad-it's-good " movies before , but this demented little thing plays in an entirely different league . " The Terror Within " is so bad it's ? . really , truly freaking abysmally bad ! It's a cheesy and minimally plotted 80's earthbound " Alien " imitation and it's produced by Roger Corman , so that ought to give you an immediate idea about the overall quality of this production . You may prepare yourself for the worst , and then still " The Terror Within " will surpass your most cautious expectations . This is one of them films that gives you absolutely no feedback or background about anything that happens before , during and after the main events in the plot . The script even fails to inform what year the events take place in , what kind of company the 6 protagonists work for or how the breed of gargoyles developed itself so rapidly . All we know is that some kind of " accident " wiped out 99 % of the earth's population and that the few remaining survivors on the surface are continuously threatened by gargoyle-creatures . Six people in a subterranean laboratory , led by the poor & desperate-for-work George Kennedy , attempt to save what's left of humanity , but they clearly don't have a clue what they're up against . Unaware of the fact that the gargoyles mate with regular females , they take a pregnant girl into their lair and numbly observe how she gives birth ( in a sequence shamelessly copied from Ridley Scott's milestone ) to a ravenous and fast-growing monster . Now they're all trapped underneath the earth , with two remaining female employees as potential monster-mommies . Admittedly , the plot description for " The Terror Within " doesn't sound half as bad as initially feared , but honestly the film is stuffed with plot-holes the size of the Grand Canyon , laughably inane dialogs , poor acting performances and tiny stupid oddities that are almost too amusing for words . Here's a brief listing of all the crazy stuff occurring in this film ( extra spoiler warning ) . 1 ) The gargoyles may be tall and strong , but apparently they're quite terrible in the sack . The monster only was a few nanoseconds alone with the girl , but it clearly was more than enough to impregnate her . 2 ) Actually , the monsters look a bit like an over-sized version of Duckman . 3 ) The hero ( Andrew Stevens ) is obviously more upset when his dog gets injured than when his black colleague and even his girlfriend get torn to pieces . 4 ) Presumably the film is set in the future , but technology appears to have taken a huge step backwards . The characters operate the largest walkie-talkies you've ever seen and the only exit out the subterranean lab is through a ramshackle shed . 5 ) At a certain point , the remaining survivors try to attack the creature by blowing on a dog whistle . I guess their next move would have been to throw a banana peel in front of its feet . 6 ) The film probably just took a few days to shoot ; still I think George Kennedy had other , more urgent places to go to . Halfway the story his character just vanishes after an idiotic kamikaze run into the creature . Still , you don't actually see him die so you expect him to return at some point . Guess again . Strangely enough , and despite the rather cheesy & tacky monster designs , the killings are pleasingly gruesome and blood-soaked . The aforementioned birth-sequence may be very unoriginal ; at least it's suitably repulsive and even mildly shocking . The finale is effective as well , since the gargoyle meets his death in a rather nasty fashion . As if you couldn't guess yourself , " The Terror Within " is an awfully crappy 80's cheeseball , definitely worthy of the Roger Corman label . It could be considered " entertaining " , but you'd have to be in the right mood .
The Godfather of Sleaze strikes again !	Generally speaking , I'm a an admirer of Jess Franco's film-making but , for some of this movies , I really have difficulties understanding the motivation behind them or even their reason of existence . Like this sick puppy , for example . " Sadomania " has absolutely no cinematic value , it's poorly made without any sort of plot and featuring some of the most ill-natured sleaze footage ever captured on film . This is another filthy women-in-prison film where rape , lesbian-action and violent torture games are daily routine . The guards are crazier than the prisoners and the institution is protected by an impotent governor who only gets sexually aroused when he spots a girl having sex with a dog ( ! ) . The girls are all very beautiful and naked throughout the entire film , yet you can't really enjoy this sight with all the perversion going on . The dubious highlights include a barbaric hunting game ( you can guess what he prey is ) , a duel-to-death between a guard and a prisoner and the image of a poor girl having a needle injected all the way through her nipple . Auch ! Avoid this sick mess and you'll save yourself the trouble of taking TWO baths in order to wash the filth off .
A painful miscarriage of a film . . .	First and foremost I'd like to state - for the record - that it's incredibly dumb to call your movie " Embryo " when the subject matter exclusively revolves on scientific research performed on fetuses ( animal as well as human ) aged 12-16 weeks . The embryonic stage is over at the end of the eighth pregnancy week and from that moment on the unborn critter enters the fetal phase . Okay , in all honestly , I didn't know all this , but I took the effort of looking it up and that's the also the least thing the creators of " Embryo " could have done . Don't worry ; I'm not just stumbling over details or being exaggeratedly bitter , as there are several more reasons to state why " Embryo " is a huge failure . Actual science can be considered as boring and inaccessible , and thus Science Fiction is a cinematic genre created especially to make the otherwise tedious , yet educational science topics more interesting and comprehensible to larger audiences . By depicting ambitious scientific experiments that go horribly wrong , or space missions that encounter evil aliens instead of light-years of void , filmmakers usually manage to entertain people with spectacular special effects and , at the same time , teach them useful little trivia about science . In order to make a good or at least halfway-decent Science Fiction movie , writers and directors only have to comply with one basic rule : DON'T be boring ! If they can't fulfill this one condition , the viewer might as well read a theoretically accurate book . Something must have gone wrong during the production of Ralph Nelson's " Embryo " . The basic premise is potentially fascinating and even involving , as we're all sensitive about saving the lives of unborn babies . There also were some very prominent names involved in the production , like main stars Rock Hudson ( " Giant " , " Seconds " ) , Diane Ladd ( " Chinatown " , " Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore " ) and director Nelson himself was responsible for the acclaimed classics " Soldier Blue " and " Charly " . Then what went wrong ? Simple . The script is irredeemably boring , clichéd and the whole thing looks incredibly foolish because the lab scenery & scientific equipment is clearly too primitive to achieve any medical breakthroughs with . Rock Hudson , in a very poor performance , plays a doctor who hasn't put any passion in his research work ever since his wife passed away . When his car hits a pregnant dog on a rainy night , his passion returns and he does everything possible to save the dying animals ' fetuses . He manages to keep one fetus alive , impressively accelerates its growth process and trains it to become an extremely intelligent dog . Because his procedure is so successful , Dr . Paul Holliston convinces his friend at the hospital to repeat his tests with the human fetus taken from the womb of a pregnant teenager who committed suicide . The female subject unexpectedly keeps growing at a fast rate , however , and after only a couple of weeks she's a full-grown , ravishing and super-intelligent woman . The good doctor naturally falls in love with her , but the groundbreaking new growth treatment also begins to show horrible side effects . . . Absolute nothing happens during the first 45 minutes of the film , apart from a lot of implausible and overly melodramatic mumbo-jumbo and one or two deeply impressive tricks performed by the dog . That second half of the film does contain a little bit of ( grotesque ) action and suspense , but by then the stupidity of the dialogs and the implausible plot-twists already ruined the potentially fabulous Sci-Fi idea . There are some really cool scenes , most notably the chess-showdown between Victoria and Roddy McDowall ( in a highly memorable and ultra-obnoxious supportive role ) . The grand finale is absurdly grotesque and literally on the verge of ridiculous , and it almost feels like Ralph Nelson put in that final disastrous shot because it was the general rule in contemporary thriller & Sci-Fi cinema . The last sequence , including the horrible freeze-frame shot at the end , certainly doesn't fit the tone of the previous 100 minutes of the film . But anyway , my sincere admiration and respect to the dog and his trainers . An animal with such intellect and talent surely deserved to demonstrate its tricks in a much better film .
" Elsa " is no patch on " Ilsa " and THIS is a boring film !	All aboard the sleaze-train ! Hitler's latest invention to boost the moral among his exhausted and unmotivated SS-officers . Led by killer shrew Elsa , a former prostitute and overly fanatic patriot , a train filled with ravishing ladies rides to the war fronts and the girls offer sexual services in their carriages . " Salon Kitty " on rails , in other words , and that about summarizes the whole movie . " Elsa Fräulein SS " is a complete rip-off of " Salon Kitty " ( they even unmask betrayers and deserters the same way ) and " Ilsa ? She Wolf of the SS " . Elsa has many vile characteristics in common with Ilsa , only she lacks the arrogance and the self-complacency . Also , unlike the above mentioned titles , " Fräulein SS " is boring , tame and it doesn't contain one sequence that qualifies as shocking or even unsettling . There's a lot of nudity , of course , but no obscene sex-scenes or graphic violence . Nazi-exploitation is already a totally redundant horror sub genre as it is , so what's the point of watching another one if there aren't any memorable moments of sickness ? ? The yodel music is utterly annoying and the scenery looks like secondhand attributes , used in other exploitation movies already . Total turkey ! Avoid , unless of course you're on a pointless mission to watch every crappy 70's exploitation movie ever made .
How embarrassing for Uwe Boll . . .	Isn't it strange how crap-movies always tend to be a little better when you start watching them with an attitude like : " boy , this is going to suck harder than few things have ever sucked before " ? It's pretty much impossible for anyone to rent this movie with high ? or even remotely positive - expectations , as " House of the Dead 2 " is a sequel to something that is generally considered to be one of the absolute worst genre disasters ever to be released . The abysmal reputation of the original actually turned out to be a great advantage for director Michael Hurst , as it was really easy to surpass the quality level of its predecessor . And exactly how embarrassing must this be for Uwe Boll , huh ? Having to acknowledge that a straight-to-video sequel without star power or promotional campaigns is MUCH better than his own pretentious video game interpretation ? In case anyone still doubts : NO , " House of the Dead 2 : Dead Aim " isn't a good horror movie at all but , YES : it's definitely better than the first and even worth renting in case you're looking for an undemanding splatter film with loads of gory butchering , sleaze and stupid humor . There's no real connection with the events in the first film ( another advantage ) and this part two opens like a typically rancid sex comedy set in a college campus . The male fraternity club plans to attack a sorority house , inhabited exclusively by blond coeds with enormous breasts , but the party gets interrupted when an insane professor ( Sid Haig ! ) who runs his car over a girl and takes her back to his lab to turn her into a zombie . This is the beginning of a quickly spreading and deadly epidemic but , no worries , as the government is prepared and sends their best scientists & soldiers to the campus to search for survivors and to bring back blood samples for an antidote . Hunting down zombies seems like the most common thing in the world for this squadron , they even named them Hyper Sapiens , but their constantly increasing amount eventually endangers the lives of the most hardened soldiers . Director Hurst thankfully found his inspiration in the more eminent classics of the genre , like James Cameron's " Aliens " and ? of course - George A . Romero's dead-trilogy , particularly " Day of the Dead " . He luckily also didn't made the same mistakes as Uwe Boll , who inserted footage of the actual video game in his movie ( why ? ! ? ) and slightly exaggerated with the use of CGI-techniques . HotD 2 contains heavy images of violence , like chopped up female corpses and detailed amputations , but it never really becomes nauseating or shocking . Naturally , there's isn't the slightest bit of suspense to enjoy and every dreadful horror cliché features here as well . The film is very enjoyable as long as story writer Mark Altman doesn't try to explain the origins of the zombie epidemics . They're walking corpses with their brains hanging out of their skulls , so we really don't need to know what caused their deaths . Especially not when the explanations are given by a blond sorority slut who clearly hasn't got a clue what all the medical terms mean . Just avoid getting bitten , sweetheart .
I'm horny , . . . let's drink some blood !	The opening sequences of this film promptly indicate that it'll be a 100 % silly and immature horror / comedy that requires you to leave all your remaining brain capacities at the door . As Count Dracula rises from his coffin when the night falls over his Transsylvanian castle , he's stung by an ordinary mosquito that sucks HIS blood for a change . The insect then literally fetches a plane to South Korea , where it subsequently plants its blood-infected sting into the neck of the corrupt police detective Kang . As far as horror movies go , I'd say this is by far the stupidest way for any character to transform into a vampire . The campiness grows even larger when Kang doesn't seem to evolve as regular vampires . His fangs don't just grow longer and pointy when night falls , but whenever he's sexually aroused . From the moment Kang gets an erection , his appetite for blood becomes insatiable and dangerous , so he uses his newly gained powers to pick up ladies in night clubs and performs all kinds of macho stunts with a stupid white mask on his face . The actual plot only takes off when his former business partner kills his best friend and kidnaps his girlfriend . Kang teams up with a priest and finally learns to use his vampire skills as advantages to help the police investigation . " Vampire Cop , Ricky " is a pretty lousy and unbelievably incoherent quickie that can't seem to decide what it wants to be . Surely , horror and comedy can be mixed together to a certain degree , but the script also pretends to cover buddy-cop story lines and even martial arts action . Unfortunately for director Si-Myung-Lee , the comedy aspects aren't funny , the horror isn't impressive and the drama elements are downright pathetic . The Kung-Fu sequences are rather entertaining , though they're hardly enough to revolve an entire movie on . With a playtime of nearly two whole hours , " Vampire Cop Ricky " is far too long and inevitably gets boring fast . South Korean movies often tend to be overlong , but at least half of the footage in this film is redundant and should have remained behind in the cutting room . The acting performances are weak ( with the exception of Byung-ho Sohn as the eccentric bad guy ) , there are no particularly memorable stunts or action-highlights and the ending is laughably inane . Feel free to skip this one , but in case you're looking for South Korean horror-comedy that is actually worthwhile , watch " The Host " .
Going deeper underground . . .	This massively incoherent , dumb , cheesy and amateurish Italian early-eighties " movie-thing " rewards itself with the title " Alien 2 " but there's very little , even no relation with Ridley Scott's Sci-Fi masterpiece that single-handedly altered the status of the genre . This is written and directed by Ciro Ippolito . Who , you say ? That's right , even in the gigantic world of Italian rip-off cinema he's an absolute nobody , and then still " Alien 2 " appears to be his best work . Poor guy ? Anyway , this definitely isn't the most blatant & shameless Alien imitation we've ever seen , as Ippolito actually just stole the claustrophobic setting aspect as well as the idea that the extraterrestrial perpetrator initially requires a host-body to grow in size and appetite . The story opens with reports from a spacecraft having encountered severe ' problems ' on their way back to earth . Next thing we know the ship crash-landed in the sea and the nearby area lies strew with intergalactic blue stones . Meanwhile , an 8-headed group of young amateur-speleologists descends a cave with one of them blue stones in their backpacks . Naturally , it isn't just a stone but an alien's egg , and when the critter emerges from it , it goes straight for attacking the face . Oh , and did I mention there's a cautious attempt to a sub plot about one of the lead girls being telepathically gifted and trying to communicate with the alien ? Okay , the cave-setting admittedly was a nifty idea and it's much more original than other Alien wannabes like , say , " Inseminoid " and " Forbidden World " . But the script is so damn stupid and the first 40-45 minutes are dreadfully boring . The gore is good and rather repulsive to behold , but there nearly isn't enough of it ! The schlock-highlights include someone's head slowly getting separated from the rest of his body and , a couple of minutes later , another guy's head gets blown to pieces . That's pretty much it , apart from a few cheesy images of human faces reduced to messy bits of pulp . The ending is fairly atmospheric and tense , even though it doesn't make the slightest bit of sense like so many other parts of the film . Don't expect to receive any explications , neither , because you just get cool-sounding warnings at the end , like " You May Be Next ! " . Next for what ? To have my face chewed off by a blue stone ? The Angelis Brothers ' music is surprisingly good & catchy , albeit quite overused , and there's a nice bit of totally gratuitous nudity as well . " Alien 2 " is a truly bad film , but there still are far worse ways to kill 80 minutes of your precious time .
20 , 000 Leagues of Sheer Boredom !	At one point , still very early in the film , the male lead character can be seen reading a copy of Jules Verne's legendary novel " 20 , 000 Leagues Under The Sea " and even later in the film the book is mentioned several times more . This wasn't a coincidental choice , as the novel ( and even more so the classic 50's film starring Kirk Douglas ) largely introduced and immediately popularized the notorious Kraken-monster . The Kraken , these days primarily known as the thing that swallowed Johnny Depp in " Pirates of the Caribbean " , is a gigantic type of squid that can reach a size of nearly 46 feet and reigns over the darkest depths of the sea . Normally the Kraken only lives in the Northern regions , like the cold seas of Norway and Iceland , but according to the script of this low-keyed and forgettable made-for-TV creature feature , the monster can easily also dwell American ocean stretches and it suddenly even got promoted to being the guardian of ancient Greek artifacts ! For you see , the Kraken's territory in " Deadly Waters " encompasses Desolation Passage because that's where the valuable opal rests in a shipwreck , and the monster attacks everyone who sails in this passage , whether their intentions are bad ( like multiple treasure hunters ) or harmless ( like Ray's parents ) . This may sound like a very interesting concept for a monstrous horror movie , but " Deadly Waters " is dreadfully boring and poorly made . I anticipated the giant squid monster to be entirely computer engineered , but it's even worse that anyone could fear , as it looks like a cute and big-eyed underwater puppy . The Kraken never looks menacing , not even when its tentacles embrace a medium-sized ship . The underwater cinematography is unclear and the monster's attacks are never properly shown , for obvious reasons . At best , we see people getting thrown into the water and pulled down to the depths . With a slight bit of luck , the water even colors a bit red . The acting performances are weak and the characters totally implausible . Nicole and Jenny hardly look like brilliant archaeologists in their tiny bikinis and Jack Scalia is probably the least convincing mafia lord ever . Why did I watch this junk , I do not know . They should make a law against the spreading of TV-movies in video stores , especially when they do not indicate anywhere it's a TV movie ! Director Tibor Takács might consider a late career change , as he hasn't accomplished anything special since the late 80's , when he made " The Gate " and " I , Madman " .
Killer Robot-Chicken	Total & utter trash , this moronic low budget Sci-Fi flick about a genetically engineered army robot that reproduces itself by laying eggs ( ! ) and naturally turns against its creators before it's even properly finished . In some desperate attempts to thicken the unoriginal plot , there's the lame sub plot about a nosy journalist and his ugly girlfriend going undercover in the company and the awkward story about the Corporate Executive ( David Gale from " Re-Animator " fame ) who injects the veins in his neck with the same liquids as the robots need in able to function . " Syngenor " is nearly unendurable nonsense , made on a shoestring budget and featuring no redeeming elements whatsoever , apart from the over-the-top performance of David Gale . The supposedly extraordinary killer robots , meant to replace human soldiers to fight wars in the Middle East , are actually very deficient machines ! They can't deal with fire or water , and they're pretty easy to kill if you just aim well or hit them over the head hard enough . On top of that , they only last 24 hours before incubating their own successors . And these faulty metal things are supposed to be the future of the US Army ? He's dead now , but I'm sure Saddam Houssein wouldn't have been impressed . The first half is still remotely amusing , since the inept dialogs and cheesy massacres supply the film with a handful of chuckles , but then the whole thing gets too stupid to even smile at . The climax battles are exaggeratedly retarded , with a very Terminator-esquire sequence in which the leftover pieces of one of the robots melt together with human tissue , resulting in an ultra-hideous robot-woman creature . What the hell was that ? My rating of is extremely generous , mainly just because David Gale was a cool dude who never got the good roles he deserved , apart from once in " Re-Animator " .
We all DIE in a yellow submarine	Well , sure it isn't a YELLOW submarine but you get the whole picture . I certainly ain't complaining about this movie . On the contrary , I thought it was rather original . This film is a combination of a WWII story and a horror-suspense thriller . It sure ain't easy to bring these genres together and because of that , I say it is a rather well done film . But however , if you choose to see this film , I should strongly advise you to have the whole house or room or whatever for yourself . I is absolutely necessary that you stay focused . The evolution of the story is interesting and good but hard to follow . You can't afford to miss a bit . If you turn your head even once , you might miss an important clue . On the other hand , this of course makes it a great film if you're looking for a little more quality . In these modern horror days , I'm glad already if it doesn't concern high school teen slasher number 10 . 500 . . . . Don't watch it like I did , with young children making noise right next to you . You need every single sense to enjoy it completely . The cast is very good too . I've you've seen the British masterpiece " Lock , stock and two smoking barrels " you'll see a few familiar faces and several actors also appeared in the good war series " Band of Brothers " I can't say I know the name of the director but I sure think it's a name to remember . I recommend this movie if you're , like me , tired of the mainstream horror stories . And , if you loved the claustrophobic atmosphere in films like " Das Boot " , " U-571 " and " The Abyss " I recommend this film as well . . . My humble opinion on BELOW =
Death by . . . Anthrax !	What we have here is another entirely redundant and ineptly processed 80's fraternity-slasher that isn't worth watching at all . Okay , I say it isn't worth watching , but somehow I always end up tracking them down because they usually feature at least some good killing sequences and / or a nice trivia-element . The trivia highlight of " Pledge Night " is that it briefly stars Joey Belladonna , the heavy metal singer whose band Anthrax also provided this cheap B-movie with a totally inappropriate soundtrack . Belladonna's part is small but important , as he appears in a flashback as a fraternity member that accidentally got killed during an initiation prank involving an acid bath . 18 years later , the vengeful spirit of Sid returns ( now played by another actor ) to kill the members of the new Phi-Epsilon-Nu fraternity and protect his own son from getting pledged . " Pledge Night " is a truly typical 80's slasher-picture , meaning that the emphasis lies more on vulgarity and toilet humor than on suspense and a decent script . This movie even exaggerates with its humorous overtone , as it takes nearly 45 minutes before the first actual death scene occurs . Before that it's just a very long series of , admittedly inventive , crazy pranks and demented initiation rites . The new members of Phi-Epsilon-Nu are forced to race with cherries squeezed between their butt cheeks ( and then eat them , of course ) , eat worms & other unappetizing stuff and undergo spankings with a wooden paddle . It's all fun at first , but after half an hour you do start wondering when somebody will finally get killed ! I actually feared that the murderer wouldn't show up at all and that the whole movie would just be a predecessor to such rancid teen-comedies as " American Pie " or " Van Wilder : Party Liaison " . Director Paul Ziller too seemed to realize his film was lacking a point , and suddenly the killing sequences follow each other at fast pace . Most of them are lame and happening off-screen , but there are a handful of deaths scenes that undemanding horror fans might appreciate . One poor girl has a blender shoved down her throat and another guy ( the token black guy ) gets strangled by a human spine . The poorest sucker of them all dies when a cherry bombs is planted up his ass ; ouch ! The effects are incredibly cheesy and especially the whole make-up job on " Acid Sid " wouldn't even scare a five-year-old girl . The ' emotionally touching ' denouement is retarded and completely misfits the comical tone of the overall movie . The acting performances vary from really bad to downright terrible and it came as a real relief to watch some of them insufferable characters dying . " Pledge Night " is a genuine turkey , only recommended in case you absolutely want to see every inane slasher movie made in the 1980's .
" Who you gonna call ? ! Ghost-bastards ! "	Despite being an admirer of the eccentric director William Castle , I sadly never saw his original version of " 13 Ghosts " . Supposedly that's not such a big loss , since Castle's movies were only worth seeing in the theater at the time they came out because they involved a lot of ingenious gimmicks and appealing promotional stunts . During the release of " 13 Ghosts " , for example , the audience received 3-D glasses before the film started . This well-budgeted Dark Castle Productions remake naturally didn't had any imaginative gimmicks and it's an overall bad and imbecile film . Sad widower Arthur Kriticos and his offspring inherit a gigantic and bizarrely decorated mansion from their extravagant uncle Cyrus . Little do they know that uncle Cyrus was an avid ghost-collector and the basement of the house is congested with thirteen restless spirits , each representing a sign of the Dark Zodiac . The premise might sound interesting , but believe me , the film is an ineptly written and poorly directed bunch of pure nonsense . I didn't understand one iota about the whole Dark Zodiac explanations yet all the characters acted like it was the most common thing the world . The acting performances are truly inadequate , with a particularly annoying Matthew Lillard as some sort of spiritual medium and Shannon Elizabeth as a ? surprise surprise ? brainless beauty . In all honesty , I have to admit that the special and visual effects are fairly well mounted and they successfully distract us from the lame plot . Too bad director Steve Beck takes his own job so damn seriously and thus we can't really interpret " Thirteen Ghosts " as brainless kitsch .
Bad . . . and not even in a fun way !	I like to believe I'm quite an open-minded person when it comes to trashy 50's and 60's B-movies and I can even name several titles from that period I truly enjoyed . But , either I was having a bad day when I saw or this " Giant Gila Monster " really is worthless ! An extremely over-sized Gila monster terrorizes a little remote American town ? Well actually , the critter's size is rather normal but they put it in the middle of miniature cars , buildings and trees so that it looks gigantic ! And THAT is what they call special effects here ! You could say this is a charming little movie , made with a lot of heart and goodwill but that doesn't necessarily means it's good . There's absolutely no tension and whenever there's a reasonably good sequence , the atmosphere is undercut by the hero ( Don Sullivan ) himself who starts singing ( ! ) . What the hell is that good for ? ? The person responsible for this junk ? Ray Kellogg ? has far more interesting productions on his repertoire , even though he was merely just part of the special effects department in those , like " The Day when the Earth Stood Still " or " Black Widow " . The only intriguing aspect about this movie is how on earth it managed to frighten audiences back in the 50's ! Even bearing in mind that people weren't that familiar with ' visual effects ' back then , it's still hard to believe that this laughable monster-romp had the ability to scary anybody ?
156 minutes about lousy BEES ? ! ?	One of the countless reasons why horror is such a terrific genre is because the films are usually rather short and to the point , without too many redundant sub plots or pointless sentimentality . Well , apparently that wasn't Irwin Allen's idea of a cool horror / disaster movie , as his director's cut of " The Swarm " runs 156 minutes ( that's ONE HUNDRED and FIFTY SIX minutes , folks ! ) and expands too much on story lines that you normally only expect to see in sappy TV soap-operas like " The Bold and the Beautiful " or " Neigbours " . For example , there's not just one dreadful love story in this film but TWO and we forced to learn about the nostalgic childhood of nearly every character that walks over the set , even the unimportant ones ! Unfortunately , the length is not the only problem here ? The screenplay is stuffed with implausible situations and stupid dialogues and the few remaining action sequences look all but convincing . I'm still not sure what type of bees we were dealing with , by the way . Dig this : African killer bees from Brazil infest Texas through Venezuela . What the hell ? Can someone please make up his / her mind and tell the audience what type of bees is killing the poor people of an adorable little Texas flower-town ? Michael Caine is the annoying entomologist who always predicted a catastrophe like this would happen and thus the government fully authorizes him to command the military and even to assemble an entire crew of biologists that has to come up with methods to exterminate the enormous swarms of venomous bees . Of course , everything fails and pretty soon even the city Houston is endangered . " The Swarm " has an enormous body count , with a number of casualties that easily surpasses 1 . 000 , yet the action scenes are overly grotesque , on the verge of absurd even . Half a town's population dies during an initial bee-attack but the other half still dies in a train crash caused by ? oh yes ? a bee attack ! Then there's also a nuclear explosion that looked even worse than the Chernobyl tragedy so , even if all the bees in the world become extinct one day , millions of people will still die due to radiation . There are some positive notes , like the guest appearance by Henry Fonda and the reasonably decent special effects , but " The Swarm " is overall insipid and extremely tedious . My advice is to avoid but if you insist on seeing it anyway , at least go for the theatrical cut of " only " 116 minutes .
So much potential . . . yet so very incoherent .	I'll be a little less harsh than my fellow reviewers here , who all seem to agree that this ' Incense for the Damned ' is a giant waste of time , effort and film . I can't deny this is a failure in all viewpoints but I'm deeply convinced that the story's potential , along with the talent of the cast , could have resulted in a much better film . Although the screenplay remains faithful to Simon Raven's novel , the film completely lacks feeling and coherence . Small aspects , like the annoying use of voice-over , ruin the horror atmosphere and the occult-aspects are dreadfully overstressed . There's a drug trance / sexual ecstasy sequence near the beginning of the film and it takes WAY too long ! Even Imogen ' the Queen of Cleavage ' Hassall doesn't manage to keep you fascinated during this tedious scene . But I still stand by my idea that the messy ' Bloodsuckers ' ( the more appealing a . k . a of the film ) contains several neat moments of clarity ! Like a brief appearance by Edward Woodward , giving us a little insight on the unusual and slightly perverted sexual fantasies of humans ? Or Desmond Dickinson's brilliant camerawork on location in Greece . I might even say that the entire substance of the story is excellent horror matter ! Richard , a young and respected Oxford student has disappeared in Greece and a group of friends , including his girl , go on a search for him . Richard seems to be under the influence of a beautiful , sexy vampire who even forces him to perform sado-masochism . Believing they annihilated the ravishing bloodsucker , the return to Britain . Yet , Richard's behavior when back at Oxford remains bizarre and alarming ? The plot is promising enough , no ? If ' Incense for the Damned ' would have been directed by Roman Polanski , I might have enjoyed a classic status by now . Erotic morbidity is definitely more his field ! Or , who knows , in the hands of Italian mastermind Mario Bava this could have been one of the greatest horror masterpieces ever . Instead Robert Hartford-Davis directed it and the only appreciation he gets is when people hear he took his name off of this project afterwards . Better luck next time .
Dreadful watch	It seems to be rather popular recently to mix horror elements with the real-life misery of war . Sometimes that works out real well , like in " Below " ( and even " Dog Soldiers " up till a certain level ) but in this case , it ended up being a failure and a missed opportunity . Nine British soldiers are stuck in an abandoned German position during WWI and something evil is getting the upper hand on them . Is there really something evil dwelling around the camp or are these men just going insane due to the cruel and depressing war ? ? ? This riddle is mysteriously kept hidden during almost the entire movie but it lacks suspense and excitement to really care about it . And when the clue is finally becoming more clear , it's an even bigger letdown . Far-fetched and extremely illogical nonsense . And if that isn't worse enough . . . the movie suffers from all the annoying war-clichés . All stereotype soldiers are present . . . The sensitive rookie , the boisterous warrior who doesn't care whether he lives or dies and - of course - the poor prisoner who begs for his life . Fans of realistic war epics won't like it because the script is poorly put together and horror fans will be disappointed because the horror elements aren't used to the max . In fact , the only good comments I can give to this film go out to the use of locations . I'll give them that , the images of the horrible trenches and the spooky camp are well shot . Even the constant rain and dark weather fits the movie well . . . but it's hardly worth to run out immediately and buy ( or even rent ) a copy . Deathwatch . . . not recommended !
Mein ( boring ) Kampf	Never thought that I , as a native Dutch speaker , would encounter irremovable Dutch subtitles on a Region 1 movie that came imported from the USA ! This movie is available in the newly released " Grindhouse Experience " box-set , but since it never officially came out on DVD , the version is clearly ripped from an ancient VHS copy . And that copy must have originally come from either The Netherlands or Belgium , which makes sense , as the lowest shelves of video stores around here are literally packed with this sort of rancid exploitation trash ! I've seen loads of " Naziploitation " efforts and they're all pretty terrible , but in the hands of the infamous Bruno Mattei ( appropriately nicknamed the Ed Wood of Italian cinema ) you get something that is even worse than terrible , namely something downright unendurable ! " Naziploitation " was the most pointless trend of 70's smut-cinema and to this day I still fail to comprehend why it was so damn popular in those days . All these movies practically have the same senseless plot , and so does " Women's Camp 119 " . Beautiful and defenseless young girls are shipped off to vile concentration camps where they get abused & humiliated by sleazy wardens and where they serve as reluctant guinea pigs for idiotic scientists of the Third Reich . In this piece of garbage , for example , the girls are forced to thaw frozen Nazi officers using simply their body heat and " cure " men from their wicked disease called homosexuality . One poor woman even has her uterus removed because the Nazi's decided she should share her fertility with other , less fertile women . Of course there's a lot of full-frontal nudity and sex on display , but it's never once arousing or even agreeable to watch . This clearly was an extremely low-budgeted production and I don't even think Bruno Mattei's cinematographers could afford to buy a couple of light bulbs . Too often you find yourself staring at an almost entirely black screen and even the exterior sequences suffer from bad lighting . There are numerous ( and redundant ) scenes in which people glorify the ideals of Hitler and his book " Mein Kampf " , and I suppose this was done simply to increase the shock-value . The acting performances are atrocious , with the exception of Lorraine De Selle who's adequate as the doctor's assistant . In the 1980's , De Selle would also star in Bruno Mattei's absolute best movie called " Woman's Prison Massacre " ; this time as a warden .
A Giggling Elephant Man ?	Oh boy ? I'm usually a big sucker for Gothic horror fables , especially the Italian-produced ones , but this " Tomb of Torture " is a painful misfire in nearly every department ( except for the delicious title , of course ) . It already begins sort of negatively , with very hectic and seemingly appealing opening sequences in which nothing really happens . Ominous sounds , spontaneously opening & squeaky doors and ghastly background laughter may be very effective routine horror ingredients to use in a Gothic screenplay , but can you at least try to weave them into a storyline ? What follows next is a completely incoherent , unsurprising , exploitative , clumsy , illogical and prosaic story about a cursed château with a supposedly terrifying but in reality ludicrous looking monstrosity hiding in the torture dungeon . " Tomb of Torture " contains every dreadful cliché of every Gothic horror movie ever made previously , but totally lacks the uncanny and foreboding atmosphere of sub genre highlights such as , say , " Black Sunday " , " The Pit and the Pendulum " , " The Virgin of Nuremberg " or " Castle of Blood " . The worst aspect of them all , however , is that director Antonio Boccaci seemingly cannot decide in which time period his movie is set and / or clearly can't deal with jumping back and forth in eras . Two beautiful young girls , local residents of a small countryside village , are found barbarically murdered in a meadow . By whom isn't exactly a secret , as we witnessed how an inhospitable old witch chased them down to the castle's cellar where a heavily malformed geek subsequently tortured them to death . The castle belonged to a beautiful countess who mysteriously vanished several years ago , but some guy with a towel wrapped around his head still searches for her . He's supposed to be an intelligent character and I guess that's thanks to his towel . The town's elderly doctor then returns with his yummy daughter and she happens to be the reincarnation of the missing countess . Go figure , the countess ' death hasn't even been confirmed and yet she already reincarnated ! Anyway , the girl ? Anna ? has recurring nightmares about the castle's dark secrets , so her daddy actually thinks the best solution is to confront the petrified girl with the monsters of her dreams . And you call yourself a doctor ? Or a father ? ! ? Luckily the poor girl needn't worry , as she meets a silly reporter and the very next day they already talk about marriage and true love . " Tomb of Torture " is a redundant and senseless movie that often gets unintentionally hilarious due to its ridicule plot and grotesque make-up effects . The script is full of holes and raises far more questions than it could ever answer . The beast in the cellar is a look-alike of the Elephant Man and I totally don't understand why he stupidly giggles all the time ( especially not after the flashback explaining what happened to him ) . To finish with at least some positive notes , I gladly admit that the black & white cinematography looks nice and the castle itself is a marvelous piece of horror architecture .
An Eye for an Eye , a Kidney for a Kidney !	Director John Stockwell clearly loves beautiful young girls in tight and colorful bikinis . There's absolutely nothing wrong with that ( in fact , can you blame him ? ) , but after " Blue Crush " , " Into the Blue " and now " Turistas " , it's becoming rather difficult for him to convince us that he wants to be seen as the director of serious thrillers and shocking horror movies . The main selling trumps of these three films are scantily clad girls parading on the beach and elegantly swimming underwater , while the thriller elements and bloody make-up effects are seemingly just thrown in for secondary reasons . " Turistas " is the tropical equivalent of " Hostel " ; Eli Roth's 2005 box office hit that almost single-handedly generated the incredibly popular and ongoing trend of so-called ' torture-porn ' flicks . They revolve on groups of young people , preferably party-minded backpackers , suddenly falling victim to sinister local crime networks that gratuitously torture and annihilate people for no transparent reason . " Hostel " took place in Eastern Europe , where torture and death merely served to entertain rich businessmen . In " Turistas " , a six-headed crowd of party animals backpacks through the most remote places of Brazil and gets stranded on a tropical beach between two " safe " areas when their tour bus is involved in an accident . They decide to also skip the next bus in order to attend a wild beach party , yet the next morning , they already wish they hadn't . The group is targeted for kidnapping by Doctor Zamora and he commands his accomplices to lure the tourists towards a secluded mansion in the middle of the jungle . Zamora is a dangerously deranged surgeon who's sick and tired of seeing wealthy Americans coming to Brazil to illegally buy organs of defenseless street kids , so he set up a sinister little business doing the opposite . He actually intends to remove the tourists ' kidneys and livers to rescue poor Brazilian children , so I don't know if I should fear him or award him the Nobel Peace Price ! Of course , Zamora primarily is a very naughty individual who treats his employees like slaves and actually enjoys watching his victim suffer . Multiple sources state that " Turistas " is much better and scarier than the aforementioned " Hostel " , yet I sincerely disagree . I wasn't the biggest fan of " Hostel " , but that film ? at least the second part ? felt much more grim , the violence was far more intense and the characters ( albeit brainless adolescents as well ) were more identifiable . " Turistas " has a strong opening , with the bus trip going awry , but then it quickly descends into a long series of painful clichés and unremarkable death sequences . A lot of sequences inexplicably take place inside underwater caverns , where you can't possibly determine what the hell is going on , whilst the surgical horror scenes appear to be necessary formalities edited in against the will of cast and crew . The payback and climax sequences are thoroughly unspectacular , not to mention weak and disappointing , and practically all of the acting performances go unnoticed . Worse than mediocre horror achievement , not too much to recommend here except for the bikinis .
Excuse me , Miss . . . But your boobs are hanging out the whole time .	Wha-BAM ! Someone surely had fun devouring a whole truckload of acid-mushrooms and then subsequently scripting this crazy excuse for a motion picture ! Writer Howard Cohen expands the " Sword & Sorcery " concept with a couple of extra S's , like Sex , Silliness , ( more ) Sex and Sheer Stupidity ! This isn't just a movie , this is every juvenile pervert's dreams & fantasies come true ! " Deathstalker " has it all : blood , violence , trolls , female mud-wrestling , attempted rape , successful rape , life-sized pigs ( ! ) , awful hairstyles , hideously oiled muscular bodies , multi-sexual orgies , gay warriors , tournaments-to-the-death , delirious witches , dismemberment , laughable villains and boobs , boobs , BOOOOOOOOOBIES ! ! " Deathstalker " literally wipes the floor with its obvious role-model " Conan : The Barbarian " when it comes to terms of cheesiness and sheer flamboyance . The story is , evidently , of minor importance . Lone and gay ( only he doesn't know it yet ) warrior Deathstalker goes on a mission , as commanded by an annoying witch , to gather the three notorious elements of creation ? or something like that . On his journey he combines forces with a troll-turned-human , a fighter who's even gayer than he is and - last but not least - a luscious lady who doesn't really seem to be a big support of the concept of bras . Together they head for the kingdom of the ultimately evil Munkar where they'll participate in a warriors ' tournament and conquer no less than two out of three elements . Munkar is bald guy with half a spider's web tattooed on his skull and an impressive harem that would even make the wealthiest oil sheik jealous . Okay , granted , " Deathstalker " is a pretty damn awful and at some times even unendurable movie . The fight sequences are lame and the costumes and make-up effects are downright pitiable . For a moment , when beholding the opening sequence , I actually feared I was watching " Troll ; the Prequel " . The monsters look incredibly cheesy and the complete opposite as menacing , but it's undeniable entertainment if you're in an undemanding mood . I presume this isn't a favorite amongst feminists , as the overall portrayal of women is somewhat ? um ? discriminating . Most of the gals exclusively serve as eye-candy in the harem . They're allowed crawl over the floor naked and play around in the mud , but strictly forbidden to open their mouths . The two " leading " ladies ( Barbi Benton and Lana Clarkson ) are ravishing but - in all honesty - if it wouldn't be for their continuously exposed racks , they would hardly be worth mentioning , either .
Fiction . . . or reality ? Ah , who cares ! It's all nonsense	Supposedly Carpenter's return to the more eerie , atmospheric ? and most importantly ? story driven horror ! Maybe so , but I don't really share the enthusiasm . Personally , I think this film is a little TOO story-driven and it ends up being an over-ambitious and confusing mess . The typically Lovecraftian themes and atmosphere don't always work and the film can actually only depend on a few powerful sequences and a fascinating performance by Sam Neill . He's a sceptical fraud investigator who's been hired to track down the missing horror author , Sutter Cane . The popularity of this writer is endless and the delay of his new book causes mass hysteria . Along with an editor , John Trent chases the writer ( a spooky Jurchen Prochnow ) to a quite and forgotten little town where reality and fiction completely become merged . Does the town even exist ? Are the people real ? ? The film bears down upon an apocalyptic ending , complete with abandon streets , slaughtering and individual madness . As said before , there definitely are a few sequences that are full of potential ! Like the entire opening with Neill in the asylum ! That one ? and a few others ? are the real proof that Carpenter still is a solid horror director , only a little too sure of himself . The script is too weak for an idea like this . Written down by a completely untalented Michael De Luca ( Freddy's Dead , Judge Dredd ) who clearly cannot handle supernatural matters such as the parallel universe ! In the Mouth of Madness received tons of great reviews and a lot of praising . Often even called Carpenter most compelling film . To me it's just a bearable waste of time with good creature effects and semi-inventive twists . John Carpenter's best work is still found in the low-budget quickies he started out with : Halloween , Assault on Precinct 13 and The Fog .
Wild Beasts - Terrible Film	Brainless , senseless and ? most of all ? pointless Italian exploitation fodder that somewhat enjoys an infamous reputation because director Franco Prosperi supposedly sacrificed the lives of innocent & defenseless animals in order to make his film appear more realistic . I , for one , can't judge if this is wholly true , but you never know with these crazy Italian horror directors , right ? Ruggero Deodato's crew also killed real animals during the production of " Cannibal Holocaust " , but at least that film grew out to become a genre milestone , whereas " Wild Beasts " is obscure , hard to find and honestly not worth tracking down . The most fun you'll have whilst enduring this film is guessing which city the events take place in . The intro sequence only reveals it concerns a North European city , but if you have some language and / or geography knowledge , you can quickly figure out in what city the animals of the local zoo go on a gory murder spree . For reasons I still haven't figured out , the water supply at the zoo becomes poisoned and all the animals ? big or small , friendly or dangerous ? turn into aggressive and uncontrollable killers . It doesn't take to long before they escape the zoo limits and transform the whole of Hamburg ( oops ? ) into their hunting territory . " Wild Beasts " is quite a bad film , with no tension or coherence . It basically is just animals killing people and vice versa , but there's no building up tension or atmosphere at all . There are some hilariously awkward scenes to enjoy , but I'm not entirely sure they were meant to be comical , like when the cheetah attacks a woman driving a beetle with the same colors as the animal itself . There's a lot of gore and sheer nastiness on screen , but whenever something really important happens , the photography is dark and unclear . Overall , a lame film and not really worth seeing . " Cannibal Ferox " and " House on the Edge of the Park " starlet Lorraine de Selle adds absolutely no value to the production , neither .
The Flying ( Teenage ? ) Mutant ( Ninja ? ) Turtle !	What's that there in the skies ? Is it a plane ? Is it Superman ? ? Errr , no ? It's a TURTLE ! ? ! See , that's what becomes of the Cold War ! Nothing but bad news and other issues ! The Americans shoot down a Russian combat plane somewhere over Artic territory and the subsequent explosion defrosts & literally awakens the giant prehistoric turtle-creature named Gammera . He / she is not a very friendly critter as it promptly ensues to destroy everything and everyone on its path . The arguing governments finally decide to kill the ugly bastard with a brand new and super-sophisticated ice-bomb , but Gammera has another surprise in store ? The damn turtle can fly ! The first time this happens results in a tremendously grotesque and hilarious sequence ! Gammera lies on his back looking defeated when suddenly fire blows from his armpits and he skyrockets himself up in the air . How can you not love that ? Then there's also a dire sub plot about an annoying kid who's able to telepathically communicate with the monster , but that's just not interesting enough . Flying turtle , people ! ! There's very little else to write about this Japanese ( and American re-edited ) Sci-Fi effort , apart from that it's an obvious and totally shameless rip-off of such classics like the original Godzilla and The Beast from 20 . 000 Fathoms . The effects and monster designs are extremely hokey and , unlike the aforementioned films , it never succeeds in creating an apocalyptic ambiance . Respectable actors like Brian Donlevy ( " The Quatermass Experiment " ) and Dick O'Neill ( " Wolfen " ) seem unaware of what film set they're on and even the original Japanese mayhem-scenes aren't very convincing . Gammera's very own and personalized theme-song is rather cool , though , so it gets one extra point for that .
Dull and unappealing fan-boy stuff	Brian DePalma's " Body Double " isn't a very good thriller , in fact , the only REALLY disturbing thing about it is the director's own and always-increasing obsession for Alfred Hitchcock's persona . Fans of DePalma ( and I know there are a lot ) will never admit this , but you can't refer to his work anymore as being homages to Hitchcock . What his films really are ? and " Body Double " is the most obvious example ? are desperate supplications to be regarded as Hitchcock's number one acolyte ! The story is an simple re-telling of both " Vertigo " and " Rear Window " ( set in the Hollywood porn scene ) but DePalma's devotion to the Master of Suspense also shows in many other , smaller trademarks like camera angles and characterizations . The actual film is quite fatuous and takes off incredibly slow . . . You can easily skip the first 45 minutes without missing out on the ' essence ' of the story ; namely a loser-actor who's too easily framed for murder because of his many weaknesses like claustrophobia and voyeurism . " Body Double " never becomes compelling and doesn't evoke emotions of involvement , simply because the main character is such an antipathetic and miserable guy . You can't possibly cheer for him , on the contrary , I was secretly hoping that his fate would be merciless . The pivot murder-sequence is inappropriately and tastelessly gore ( beatiful Deborah Shelton is butchered with a huge drilling machine ) and totally doesn't fit in the wholesome of the film . Considering the story takes place in the porn-underground of Hollywood , " Body Double " throws in quite a bit of sleaze and nudity , yet the quality-level of this film never surpasses that of an ordinary soft-core-flick starring Shannon Tweed or , even worse , Shannon Whirry . Remotely positive aspect is the music by Pino Donaggio and the supportive role of Denis Franz as the porno-director .
Snakes ! But not on a plane . . .	Even though it came out much later than anyone expected ( seven years is an awful long time for a horror sequel ) , " Anacondas " has a whole lot in common with the first Anaconda movie that came out in 1997 . In fact , it's almost exactly the same movie . The creators even managed to find a replacement Latina actress for Jennifer Lopez and a villainous character that behaves almost as greedy and relentless as Jon Voight . I don't remember too much about the first " Anaconda " , except that a ridiculously over-sized snake destroyed the boat of an expedition crew and then subsequently ate them one by one . I'm sure that's all I can remember happening in " Anacondas : The Hunt for the Blood Orchid " too in a few days time . This is an extremely simplistic jungle adventure movie ( which kind of makes you wonder why there are seven different names listed in the writing credits ) with a poor excuse for a plot and a cast of characters that are textbook stereotypes . Bunch of people head out to Borneo in search for the blood orchid , or " the pharmaceutical equivalent to the fountain of youth " like some sleazy character refers to it , because apparently this very rare flower contains certain chemicals that form a life elixir . The bad news is that the orchid grows only for six months every seven years and the expedition is already running a bit late . The crew hires a macho boatman who thinks he's Crocodile Dundee and before they know it they all go face down into a waterfall and find themselves trapped in the middle of the dangerous jungle . Just to make things a tad bit more exciting , the crew doesn't just encounter one giant snake , but a whole bunch of them because it's mating season and then the slithering monsters tend to forgot they're supposed to be territorial animals . " Anacondas : Hunt for the Blood Orchid " is a pretty dumb movie , but at least it wasn't boring . It's rather pathetic to behold how everyone desperately tries to remain serious and straight-faced . The cast believes they are involved in some kind of creature feature masterpiece , whereas they should have just considered this as a campy B-movie experience and as a nice opportunity to overact terribly ; like John Voight did in the first " Anaconda " flick . The horror & suspense elements are truly lame . Anacondas swallow their preys in one whole piece . That is like one of the worst imaginable ways to die , so how come this fear isn't translated onto the screen ? And if the makers weren't interested in bringing suspense , then why aren't the snake-attacks gorier and cheesier ? There isn't even any sleaze or nudity ( just a lot of tame insinuations ) and several of the characters are really too cliché to tolerate . Hysterically screaming black guys and hot science chicks ? Oh , come on ! " Anacondas " is , simply put , an irritatingly pretentious yet insignificant flick with ? oh yeah , almost forgot ? terrible computer engineered effects . What they nowadays call an " epic fail " .
The End of My Attention Span ?	Now I know José Mojica Marins ( a . k . a . Coffin Joe ) is pretty much considered a demigod amongst a selected but avidly fanatic group of cult cinema lovers , and I also realize I still have to see more of his work before I can judge properly , but I'm really not the slightest bit impressed so far ! I could only appreciate his experimental and genuinely macabre anthology " The Strange World of Coffin Joe " , but his supposed masterpiece " At Midnight I'll Take Your Soul " and particularly this " The End of Man " couldn't fascinate me at all . My fellow reviewers around here ? whose opinions I usually follow blindly ? compare Marins ' style with the oeuvres of Alejandro Jodorowsky , Luis Buñuel and even Mario Bava . I'm sorry , what ? ! ? He may be a hard-working and versatile filmmaker , but he undeniably lacks the vision and talents of the aforementioned cinematic geniuses . If I had to describe " The End of Man " in just a couple of words , they would be : inventive but dull and totally incapable of dealing with budgetary restrictions . Some directors only just become considered as geniuses when they manage to camouflage their film's lack of funding through ingeniousness and creativity . Marins ' doesn't have this quality , or at least not around the time he made this film . " The End of Man " looks even cheaper than it probably cost altogether and Marins doesn't even bother to camouflage it . It's a very disappointing film with only a couple of noteworthy moments .
. . . And Dead FISH Will Rain Down from the Sky !	This odd , incoherent , cheesy and ridicule late-80's horror feature represents the directorial debut of Robert ' Freddy Krueger ' Englund . And let's be honest , if it wouldn't be for his name on the credits , the film would have been righteously forgotten a long time ago already . " 976-Evil " has an absurdly implausible plot and it takes far too long before the ( tepid ) gore & action kicks in . During the first hour of the film only really weird things ? that largely remain unexplained - are going on , like a totally random biblical omen that exists of a shower of fish-rain . Yes , dead fish falling down the sky like normal rain ! I'm not quite sure about the significance , but presumably it's God's sign to warn the lead characters that they will soon face an unholy type of evil . With reason , because rebellious teenager Spike and his nerdy cousin Hoax frequently call the titular phone number to get their daily " horrorscope " . But the toll-free number is possessed with diabolical forces and turns its customers into homicidal monsters . Spike is strong enough to resist , but the miserable Hoax is an easy victim and he soon begins to mutate . He doesn't mind , though , because now he can finally fight back against his domineering mother , the school bullies and all the girls that rejected and laughed at him . You guessed it , " 976-Evil " is just another lowbrow horror version of " Revenge of the Nerds " and the only good thing about it is the choice to cast Stephen Geoffreys . He's ideal to play a character that is simultaneously pathetic and creepy . In the second half of the film , there's a bit of gore and witty one-liners , but it's too late to improve the overall quality . The plot is unimaginably incoherent . Cousin Spike suddenly disappears at one point but randomly appears again for the finale , the amateur-reporter out of the blue hooks up with the school's headmistress and Robert Picardo's potentially terrifying character is never properly introduced . From time to time , you get the impression that Englund is a gifted director but on other occasions you damn him and his film to hell for being just another disappointing and time-wasting 80's turd .
Mr . Sandman ? Throw me a BONE !	" The Bone Snatcher " starts out extremely promising , with the introduction of a new and original type of unseen evil as well as with the use of the sublimely isolated filming location of the African desert . Whilst checking pipelines out in the desert , three miners are attacked and killed by a seemingly unworldly creature that devours their flesh and only leaves a pile of half-eaten bones . The expedition crew sent to rescue them discovers that the monster is a superiorly mutated ant-queen , and pretty soon they find themselves trapped in the uncanny desert as well . Director Jason Wulfsohn sustains a respectable level of tension just until the nature of the monster is identified . Immediately after that , the film rapidly turns into an ordinary creature-feature with all the characters dropping out of the survival-race one by one . The second half of " The Bone Snatcher " is unendurably boring ; with the inevitable love-story clichés as well as a complete absence of gory murder set pieces . The characters all are insufferable stereotypes that act and say exactly what you predict several minutes in advance . There's the rookie who has to prove himself , the female with brain-capacity apart from her hot looks , the obnoxious experienced guy who redeems himself at the end through self-sacrifice and ? last but not least ? who could forget the wise black guy who refers to the monster using all kind of voodoo names . Wulfsohn tries too hard to make his monster look like the outer space menaces of " Alien " and " Predator " . The ant-creature has infrared-vision and crumbles when shot at , yawn ! The movie actually just benefits from its unique setting and the handful of nasty images of decomposed bodies . This could have been a modest gem , but instead it's less than mediocre . Avoid .
Where's the complementary sample ?	" Shrooms " ? like the title obviously implies ? is a prototypic slasher movie that takes place in Ireland whilst the main characters are experiencing outrageous drug-trips brought on by mushrooms . Well , the distributors should have offered free samples of these psychedelic mushrooms to anyone courageous enough to rent / buy this movie , because the only way to even remotely enjoy " Shrooms " is when you're high on dope ! Admittedly the script has a few positive aspects going for it ( they're merely just details , though ) but the wholesome is just another uncreative , gore-free and disgustingly pretentious slasher picture . Five Americans meet up with their Irish college buddy in his home country and their sole mission is to get wasted on the legendary local mushroom tea . After a night of scary tales around the campfire , they find themselves terrorized by killers that may be hallucinatory or , in fact , genuine relics of a nearby institution with a gruesome history . One of the group's members suffers from eerie premonitions of the murders because she ate a poisonous mushroom , and she desperately attempts her friends to get out of the area . The film's primary purpose is to mislead the audience by constantly suggesting the horrific events may not even be real but just hallucinations brought on by the characters ' bad trips . This intent miserably fails because there simply isn't an atmosphere of suspense present and you don't care about what happens to these dim-witted characters , anyway . Even worse is that practically all the bloodshed occurs off-screen . We only see a compilation of roughly edited and flashy images before the camera zooms out and shows the blond chick's panicky face . Lame ! The ending is pretty much identical to at least two other recently released ( and far better ) horror flicks , so if you've seen your share of genre movies , you'll quickly figure out the denouement and won't be the least bit impressed . Of course I can't reveal the titles of those movies otherwise the ending would be clear to everyone . Oh yes , I did mention something about positive aspects . Well , in all honesty there are some ! There's the urban legend about the institution that is quite creepy , a sadly unprocessed sub plot about two inbred poachers living in the woods and a rather fantastic moment involving a scene with talking cow . Also , the friendships between the lead characters are different than in most slashers . These people constantly bicker , insult , betray and cheat on each other . Interesting and funny little trivia detail , but of course hardly enough to make it worthwhile movie .
Talk about Bad Taste !	Bad-movie lovers , beware ? . Your standards will have to be set extremely low in case you want to remotely enjoy Herb Robins ' " The Worm Eaters " . This movie , produced by one of the über-gurus of crap cinema Ted V . Mikels ? is BEYOND bad ! It has an irredeemably dumb plot , a totally incoherent narrative structure , humorist elements that are horrid and horror elements that are painfully hilarious . It's easily one of the worst movies ever made , and it is truly incomprehensible how the hell it managed to build up a rather solid cult status over the years . Probably this exclusively has to do with the fact that Herb Robins insisted on using real , live worms for the on screen consumption . Much of the footage is just close-ups of people ( often with really terrible dental hygiene ) slurping down & chewing up worms , and the only goal is to disgust and gross-out the audience . Robins himself stars as the dim-witted hermit Umgar , living in a lakeside shed in a corrupted little town . He collects and breeds worms ? and then feeds them to his opponents , like the town's council members that want to evict him and reclaim the lake zone . The consumption of the worms somehow transforms people into man-worm hybrids . " The Worm Eaters " introduces a seemingly endless series of demented supportive characters and ? obviously ? all the actors and actresses overact incredibly . The make-up effects are pathetic , as the hybrid monsters are simply imbeciles tightly wrapped in filthy brown sleeping bags and desperately trying not to use their feet when they crawl through the mud . But , as wrong as it may sound , the film isn't entirely without merit and there really are a couple of positive elements . Like the goofy but cheerful theme music ( " You'll end up eating worms " ) , the creative animated opening credits and some of the gags that look like Benny Hill sketches . In conclusion , " The Worm Eaters " will undoubtedly one of the most bizarre low-budget , Z-grade schlock productions you'll ever encounter , so be careful who you recommend it to .
Awesome opening credits ! ! ! . . . That's it .	This is the type of movie where it actually hurts to acknowledge that it really , really sucks . I normally sanctify stuff like this ! Early 70's grindhouse flicks with scrumptious sounding titles and a schlocky low-budget atmosphere usually ROCK . " House of Seven Corpses " appeared to dispose of even more trumps , since the cast is a gathering of great genre veterans ( including John Carradine , John Ireland and Faith Domergue ) and the filming locations ( the titular house , the graveyard ) are obviously very expedient for a gloomy tale of terror . The film opens with its absolute greatest and most hauntingly memorable sequences , though sadly enough they're the only ones that qualify as such . The credits are a splendid montage , complete with freakish color-effects and eerie freeze-frames , illustrating how the titular house received its notorious reputation . The last seven owners were mysteriously murdered here and the credits montage gleefully exhibits their final moments . Someone falls down the balcony screaming , a lady drowns in her bathtub , and another female body hangs dangling from the ceiling and four more macabre tableaux . Needless to say the house is cursed and the awkward behavior of t caretaker Mr . Price ( Carradine ) only fortify this reputation . In other words , the house forms the ideal turf for the acclaimed director Eric Hartman ( John Ireland ) to shoot his satanic horror film project . The film-within-film structure is what mainly causes " House of Seven Corpses " to be so boring and uneventful . A lot of movie-material is wasted on crew members putting films spools in the camera and dragging around cables or ? even worse ? Faith Domergue and Charles Macaulay portraying horridly intolerable actor stereotypes . The plot finally gets a little interesting ( only a little , mind you ) when one of the characters reads some lines from an occult book and accidentally awakes a rotting corpse in the backyard . The asthmatic ( judging by the noises he produces ) zombie slowly heads for the house and kills the entire movie crew , reminiscent of how the previous seven turned into corpses . After a running time of approximately 60 minutes , the film suddenly turns from humdrum into just plain weird and confusing . I'm still unsure whether the final twist has to do with the concept of reincarnation or just coincidence and all the remaining characters suddenly seem to go undergo vast mental transformations shortly before they die , for some reason . I honestly regret confirming " House of Seven Corpses " is a pretty dreadful movie . The locations and scenery are gloomy chilling , but not nearly used to full effect and there's a serious lack of gruesome bloodshed . Numerous low-budgeted 70's gems were stunningly gross , so the lack of financial means is no excuse and the film-within-film murders really don't count . Even the always-reliable veteran stars deliver hammy performances and Harrison's direction is completely uninspired . Not recommended , unless you think the zero cool four-and-a-half minute playing opening credits montage is worth the effort of purchasing a copy .
It's embarrassing . . . man	If there's one thing I've learned from reading the other reviews around here , it's definitely that " Funny Man " is the type of film that you either praise into the heavens or hate with a passion ; there doesn't appear to be a middle way . Personally I'm tempted to unite with the hate crew , but that is preeminently because the fan-boys are exaggeratedly enthusiast without using real arguments . They merely just claim that " Funny Man " is awesomely hilarious ; period . I even encountered some reviews where people dreadfully stated that the adversaries of this movie simply " don't get " the type of humor . See , I really hate that ? What exactly is there to " get " ? It's a cheesy and low-budgeted 90's horror movie about an ugly jester killing off uninteresting characters whilst firing off lousy and wannabe clever one-liners , so it's fairly safe to say there's absolutely nothing specific " to get " here . I'll be the first to admit that " Funny Man " also contains a handful of ingenious elements and mildly amusing gags . The main problem , however , are the bad ratios . For every brief flash of inventiveness , there's an intolerably large amount of tedious sequences . For every effective joke , there's literally a truckload of embarrassingly lame and painfully misplaced farces . After approximately 50 minutes of running time , you've pretty much seen and heard about as much as any normal person can take and the last half hour is practically unendurable to sit through . " Funny Man " is probably the most atypical British horror movie I've seen . Traditionally speaking , British genre movies implement a distinct and easy recognizable sense of humor , but this one is as vulgar and insipid as any random amateur US trash production . Most likely more than half of the entire budget was spent on convincing the almighty Christopher Lee to make a cameo appearance among an extended cast of untalented nobodies . Lee briefly pops up at the beginning of the film and portrays a sinister guy in a white suit who gambles his ancestral house in a game of poker and loses it to a sleazy drug-addicted record producer . The joke's on him ? literally ? because Christopher forgot to mention anything about the psychopathic buffoon living there . The Funny Man quickly disposes of the producer's family and eagerly awaits the next shipment of brainless victims to waste . They arrive in the form of a van filled with dimwits looking like runaways from a canceled Scooby-Doo episode . Some of the killing scenes are amusing and imaginatively repellent ( like the duck hunting and puppet theater ) , but the majority of them are plain dull and overlong . The Jester may sound like a potentially cool new horror icon , but he's actually rather uninspired and boring . His appearance seems to be based on Jack Nicholson in " Batman " mixed with a " Killer Klown from Outer Space " , with the stand-up comedian talents of Chucky the Good Guy Doll or maybe even Freddy Kruger in the later installments of " Nightmare on Elm Street " . He has no bizarre background or occult myth attached to him and even the house he operates in doesn't have a morbid history . Well , there we have the problem ? " Funny Man " is a movie without depth . Get that ?
Humongous turkey !	This is one of those 80's slashers in which the teenagers are SO stupid that they really deserve to die , and it actually takes way too long until they get wiped out , if you ask me . The movie opens very promising , with a brutal rape-sequence on an island inhabited by a small community of people . This intro fools you into believing that you're about to see a relentless and misanthropic 80's gem . Immediately after this sequence , however , it goes straight downhill . 36 years later , five insufferable teenagers that washed ashore this same island , find out that the place is still inhabited by the cannibalistic offspring of the girl that was raped . Now , I THINK there were some gory death-scenes going on , only I couldn't see it because the photography varies from dark . . . to impenetrably dark ! Most of the playtime , you're just staring at a black screen and it's up to yourself to guess which one of the teenagers is being butchered . Not very interesting for a slasher . . . The sound effects are reasonably good and there's a handful of atmospheric moment . The same Canadian director also made " Prom Night " which is a lot better . When you eventually get to see the monstrous killer ( only briefly , mind you ) it exactly reflects the quality of the film : poor , pathetic and extremely disappointing .
It's true ! The pen ( cil ) IS mightier than the sword !	Raise your hand with pride if your country of origin is Belgium , just like this utterly brilliant ( ahem ? ) and obscure horror movie ! What ? No response ? Well , that's understandable because this movie is , in fact , a complete turkey and probably our country's worst export-product since that cargo of poisoned chocolates . Perhaps if you lived in Belgium all your life and grew up watching all the lackadaisical TV-shows of the 80's , you can still somewhat enjoy the stereotypes and typical clichés , but the awful script has absolutely nothing to offer to foreign horror fans . " The Pencil Murders " is Belgium's very own attempt to make a giallo . This magnificent sub genre is pretty much monopolized by the Italian horror industry , as they brought forward numerous compelling murder-mysteries with convoluted plots , fascinating killers and some of the world's most ingenious red herrings . " The Pencil Murders " is an extremely primitive imitation of the Italian giallo . Oh yes , there's a demented killer on the loose in the big city and the local police detective faces enormous difficulties to catch him / her , but that's it ! Writer / director Guy Lee Thys is completely unable to create tension or even to mislead his viewers with red herrings . The cast of characters is very limited , so you can pick out the culprit pretty early in the film . Even if you don't bother to guess along who the killer is , it's still pretty obvious and you'll pity the ' heroic ' cop for not being smarter . The only interesting element in " The Pencil Murders " is the killer's modus operandi . He / she carefully selects the female victims and rams a pencil up their noses and through their brains . The only thing that connects the victims is that they were all single / divorced women with the reputation of being sluts . Hence , the hunt is open for a deranged woman hater . The murders aren't as bloody as I expected ( or hoped ) and there's only a bit of sleaze , and yet this film somehow totally escaped the attention of the censorship committee ! The use of language is overall very foul and vulgar and the screenplay is unbelievably racist ! At a certain point in the film , the prime suspect is a black guy and the police promptly organize a hostile round up of every colored person in the city . The hero-cop's attitude towards the foreigners in his town is very aggressive and I hope from the bottom of my heart that this isn't an accurate portrayal of my country during the early 80's . Any police officer with such racist convictions would be taken from the job nowadays , and rightly so ! Bottom line : " The Pencil Murders " is a very rare and hard-to-find horror film , but that's okay , since you shouldn't look for it .
The Hollywood Chainsaw Massacre	I haven't got that much of an opinion to share about this remake of the legendary Tobe Hooper film . It's rather well-made , fairly gruesome and reasonably tense . The young and inexperienced actors do a pretty convincing job while older veterans like R . Lee Ermey clearly amused themselves in their roles of deranged hillbillies . Director Marcus Nispel ( ex-director of music videos , of course ) makes the most of out the dark , colorless and depressing settings . The complete lack of civilization is the film's strongest aspect . Which brings me to all the negativity . More particularly : WHY ? ! ? Why ? why was it made ? ! It's better not to wonder about this question too much . I'm one of them weird people who thinks the original TCM was one of the most important American movies ever and the most essential film to watch if you're a horror fan . And , if there ever was one film that didn't require a remake , it's this one ! Still as scary as ever and the raw atmosphere of the original can never be equalled . The Texas Chainsaw Remake is nothing but an attractive money-maker ? which is pretty much okay by me . This type of remakes , sequels and rip-offs is merely intended for young and over-enthusiast horror buffs . I think it's positive because they can find out about the original this way . Although , they better don't claim that this boisterous remake beats the Tobe Hooper original ? That's like openly declaring you don't know crap about horror and you deserve death ? by chainsaw ! !
Oliver Stone should keep his HANDS off the horror genre	All the overenthusiastic movie-junkies who claim that Oliver Stone is a genius and a undeniable master in cinema should watch this early failure and reconsider . Sure , films like Platoon and JFK ( which he directed ) and titles like Midnight Express and Scarface ( which he wrote ) speak to the imagination , but this grotesque and rather nasty horror film is completely uninspired and silly . Actually , it's just a plain rip-off from the classic suspense film ' The Beast With Five Fingers ' starring the legendary Peter Lorre . Small SpoilersMichael Caine plays an entangled cartoonist who loses his hand in an accident . His lost hand comes to life again and seems to start a killing spree ? Is that true , or is our cartoonist just hallucinating and suffering from a twisted , murderous pressure himself ? ? End Spoilers The acting performances of the entire cast are far below standards , especially Annie McEnroe ? I don't know where Stone found her , but she sure can't act her way out of this . . . even though it's a rather simple role . Overall , the whole movie contains exactly ONE scene that is worth mentioning and that is the accident sequence in which Caine loses his hand . Not much , is it ? Oliver Stone might be a master in certain fields but , when it comes to horror , he surely needs a helping hand ? NEXT !
Woof . . . I mean , Woeful !	Yvonne De Carlo ( everyone's favorite Munster ) gives away quite a scary and praiseworthy performance as Hester Ramsey , a rancorous and slightly deranged elderly lady who lives alone in a large mansion with her harshly trained Rottweiler Greta . She holds a slight grudge against her family because she's convinced that her sister stole the one true love of her life and now she developed the fiendish plan to use Greta's killing capacities to get revenge . It's a fairly interesting and original concept for an 80's creature feature , but the film lacks tension and there's too little gore and bloodshed . Greta is an astonishingly trained dog , but her skills are still underused and the script at one point even reveals that black magic is responsible for her turning into a merciless killing machine . Why the hell was that necessary ? Who needs voodoo to explain the aggression of a Rottweiler ? There's nothing as pathetic as wanting to make a horror movie about a dangerous killer dog and then cowardly blame his action and behavior on the black magic powers of his owner . Greta also has voyeuristic tendencies , because she observes a young couple having ( overlong ) sex not once but twice . Instead of doing that , or instead of electrocuting people in their bathtubs , she ought to rip out throats , dammit ! The character of the police inspector provides some comical relief , with his witty remarks and arrogant behavior towards his younger colleagues , but it's just a small positive detail in an overall extremely dull and forgettable movie . Good horrors revolving on murderous dogs are quite a rarity . Top of my head I can only think of " The Pack " and " White Dog " . " Play Dead " belongs in the mediocre-to-awful section , alongside " Rottweiler " , " Devil Dog " , " Dogs of Hell " and " Monster Dog " .
Married ? with Monstrosities !	This movie is ? ahem ? a bit weird , maybe , and it's plain easy to see right away why it divides audiences into two extreme categories . " Possession " is a textbook example of the so-called " love-it-or-hate-it film " and there's really nothing in between ! On the 1-10 weirdness scale , this movie easily gets a rating 20 , as it is a non-stop series of bizarre events , demented characters and incomprehensible plot twists . If you add to that a whole lot of gore AND an attempt to stuff the film with symbolism , you get something that becomes incredibly hard to rate and " masterpiece " or " turkey-trash " purely lies in the eye of the beholder . Personally , I'm a big supporter of strange cinema ( films like " Sweet Movie " or " Santa Sangre " are highly listed among my favorites ) , but even I thought that writer / director Adrzej Zulawski exaggerated with the constant adding of new and always odder elements . There's absolutely nothing that makes sense here and , eventually , the story lines and sub plots begin to contradict each other and the ambitious screenplay simply becomes one giant pseudo-artistic MESS ! The entire story revolves on the troubled housewife Anna who abandons her husband Mark ? upon his return from a very long business trip ? as well as her eccentric lover Heinrich with no apparent motive . Both gentlemen don't handle this rejection very well , but they eventually discover that Anna left them for a piece of homemade fungus that has its own apartment in the center of the city ! Yes , fungus ! Not just any type of fungus , but fungus that feeds on private detectives and their gay lovers . Mark replaces his lost wife with her own doppelganger while Anna has a miscarriage in the subway and floods half of Berlin with blood and pus . Are we confused yet ? ? Well , in case you're not , there's a lot more weirdness where this came from , but I can't possibly bring myself to list it all . If you expect at least a minimum of logic when watching films , I strongly suggest you skip " Possession " . It's either that or continuously asking yourself the question : " Why is this happening " ? Like ? Why are people cutting their own necks with an electric knife ? Why does the self-acclaimed world sex-champion still live with his mother ? What's up with the guy in pink socks ? Why does it look like there are only 5 people living in the whole of Berlin ? ? And about 10 . 000 other why-this & why-that situations , but you get the idea ? " Possession " often succeeds in being confusing and tedious at the same time ( which really isn't a good combination ) and the whole thing is very ugly to look at . It got labeled as a " Video Nasty " shortly after its release in Britain , due to some very explicit and sick gore ( notably the aforementioned miscarriage sequence ) , but don't expect another " Cannibal Holocaust " or " Maniac " , as this is pretentious gore . Pfff ? Isabelle Adjani's monologues seem to go on forever and I'm not quite sure whether Sam Neill knew what he was doing half of the time . Don't worry , Sam ? It's not your fault .
Je Ne Comprends Pas . . .	The one-line summary of this review is French , translates itself as " I don't understand " and actually refers to several aspects of this film ? I read several articles where acclaimed critics and fellow directors reward Réné Clément with the title of " the French Hitchcock " . I sincerely hope they didn't base this recognition on seeing " The Deadly Trap " and , if so , I don't understand . I also don't understand half of what's going on this movie and I most certainly don't understand ( or better yet : refuse to accept ) how anyone dares to deliver such a completely incoherent and deceptively pretentious mess of a film ! " The Deadly Trap " revolves on ? believe it or not ? absolutely NOTHING ! At least until very late into the second half of the film , it doesn't . Faye Dunaway and Frank Langella star as a married couple living in Paris with their two children . He behaves increasingly suspicious and secretive regarding his employment ( and I do mean secretive , as we never get told what exactly he does for a living ) and she portrays the good housewife slowly but surely descending in a downwards spiral of paranoia and insanity . Jill continuously fears that the children will become the target of malignant individuals , but Philippe hardly ever listens to a word she's saying . Then , of course , the children do get kidnapped by an organization that wants ' something ' from Philippe in exchange for the children's lives . Even during this crucial point in the movie , we still haven't got a clue what it is they want ( except for ' information ' ) and the supposedly worldwide and dangerous organization imprisons the children in a nearby house with only one female babysitter to guard them . That's just totally retarded . Réné Clément's direction is flat and uninspired and he doesn't even make full use of the wondrously picturesque Parisian filming locations . The original French title means " The House under the Trees " and refers to the organization's hideout , but the beautiful house only features in the film for approximately 2 , 5 minutes . Faye Dunaway , at the top of her ravishing beauty around that time , is the only positive note I can bring myself to write about this unimaginably disappointing movie . She's quite convincing in her role , even though she probably didn't know what it was about , neither .
Naughty French girls ? big deal !	I never really understood the controversy and hype this movie caused . Especially in French and the neighboring countries ( in Belgium , where I am located , for example ) , " Baise-Moi " was announced as THE most shocking and THE most thought-provoking social drama you could ever experience . Yeah right ! It might be a little shocking , maybe ( how often do you see someone getting shot up the arse ? ) , but the weak and pointless plot surely didn't cause me to think much . " Baise-Moi " is another one of those " blame everything that goes wrong on society " - films and they're generally not very convincing . About 99 % of the people functions perfectly well in this society so why would you blame this exact same society for the vile and hopeless acts of two deranged nymph-girls ? The two main characters and their miserable lives are introduced separately and in flashes . Nadine just killed her roommate ; Manu shot her brother and the two meet in an abandoned train-station , late at night . They decide to travel around France together , leaving a trail of sex and blood behind wherever they made a stop . Although we're constantly exposed to pornography and violence , this film is very boring to sit through . Like the girls are indicating themselves all the time , the dialogues are lame and the people they run into ( and kill ? ) are very uninteresting . If people want to make porno movies , that's fine by me , but please don't pretend that it's art-house film-making . If you leave out the swearing and the hip camera-work , all there is to see is ( not so ) arousing pornography . Cool soundtrack , though !
I wish I got drunk BEFORE watching this film . . .	What happens when a big-shot film producer like Dino De Laurentiis orders to take a low-budget production like " Queen Kong " out of circulation , supposedly because it discredits his own remake of the classic 1933 film ? That's right , " Queen Kong " immediately became an immense cult-hit and probably a lot more popular than it ever would have been if De Laurentiis had simply ignored it ! This is one of the most deranged comedies ever , only you laugh at how ridiculous it is and not so much at the script-jokes or parody situations . " Queen Kong " looks fresh & funny for about 10 minutes ; during the opening sequences in which you unexpectedly witness that women are the strong gender here and men are all just redundant and insignificant wimps . The humor stops right after the " Libertine Lady " song which , I admit , has some of the coolest lyrics ever ( " Burn your bra . . . Burn your panties . . . Call your mum . . . Call your aunties " ) and the rest of the film is amateurish nonsense and actually quite boring . Copying the original " King Kong " bit by bit , the story revolves on a female film crew that sets foot on a tropical island where the ( once again female ) natives idolize a humongous ( oh yes . . . female ) ape , named Queen Kong " . She immediately fancies the male love interest of the film crew ( character name : Ray Fay ? ha ha ! ) . Watching this film is only amusing in case you're severely drunk or under the influence of soft drugs , as it is a series of absurd gags that you simply can't appreciate in a sober condition . The special effects are lousy and the monsters even look faker than the ones in the absolute cheapest Japanese Godzilla rip-offs . It's a real shame that several of the cast members agreed to star in this garbage . They all previously starred in good , solid Brit-horror films . The gorgeous Valerie Léon was in " Blood From the Mummy's Tomb " and Linda Hayden ( luckily , she only has a cameo ) was in " Blood on Satan's Claw " and " Madhouse " . The male lead Robin Askwith played in " Horror Hospital " and the regretfully underrated " Tower of Evil " .
Ichi , the Killer . . . not at all impressed .	I know many people think that the violent and gore movies coming from Japan are the best thing since sliced bread , but frankly . . . I don't share that opinion . At least not when it comes to Ichi The Killer ( popular American release title ) This film is way overrated and can easily be skipped . Not like Battle Royale ( just to give one example ) wich is a whole lot better . It looks like a magna-story and I'm not quite sure if it was meant to be like that . The hero is a funny looking young man with blond hair . At least he's separable from all the other , resembling , characters . This sir is very special to say the least ! There are two long cuts on each side of his mouth . When he smoke a cigarette , the smoke comes out through these cuts ! ! That was pretty funny in a very stupid way . Not cool or anything . He does very weird stuff like cutting off his own tongue . Talking about motivation ! It's meant to be some sort of apology towards a gang-leader whom he almost tortured to death . Anyway , that's what the whole story is about . A gang-leader got kidnapped and his closest and most violent assassin does everything to find him back . He's the only one who's still convinced the leader is alive . . . I agree that Ichi , the Killer contains lots of violence . But I don't think it's artistic or breaking new grounds or anything . I don't even think it's disturbing . . . Disgusting is a more appropriate word . I love a good amount of gore in my movies but there was something wrong with this . It left me ice cold and I don't recommend this movie to anyone . There are a lot better Japanese horror / action-Thrillers to check out , or better yet . . . the nowadays Spanish film beat them all . My humble opinion on Ichi , The Killer . . .
A very poor and lackluster effort .	The unexpected success of " Scary Movie " demanded an immediate sequel and all the Wayans ' brothers could come up with was this uninspired , irritating story that ( attempts to ) spoof Haunted House horror films such as the " House on Haunted Hill " , " Poltergeist " and " the Haunting " . Part two was released only a good 10 months after the original and this clearly resulted in a hack job that never should have come out . Apart from a bearable intro , in which a deranged James Woods performs a wacky exorcism , " Scary Movie 2 " is nothing but a dreadful series of unfunny jokes , exaggerated graphics and gags that show no insight in the wonderful genre of horror . The complete cast returns and a few fresh ones are introduced ( like the sexy Kathleen Robertson and the tasteless Tori Spelling ) for spending a couple of nights in an ancient mansion where spirits dwell , cats become kick-boxers and the indoor plants smoke pot . Tim Curry , once the star of cult-classics , lowers himself to playing the horny college professor . This film is vulgar , tasteless and very offensive ? yet , I couldn't care less about that ! It's not funny and that's pretty bad for a supposedly hilarious parody / comedy . Avoid in case you've got some brain capacity left !
Déjà-vu from the Grave	The eleventh installment in Hammer's House of Horror series sadly suffers from a severe lack of originality as well as an incoherent script that leaves open too much space for plot holes and unanswered questions . Director Peter Sasdy ( " Nothing But the Night " , " Taste the Blood of Dracula " ) creates some effective moments of pure tension and mystery , but you can too easily predict exactly which plot twists will happen and when . Recovering from a period in a mental institution , the American immigrant Penny stays at a remote country cottage belonging to her English husband Harry . One night , when Harry is away for business , a guy who claims to be her husband's former partner breaks into the house and even assaults Penny . She shoots him , but when Harry comes home he's reluctant to go to the police and prefers to bury the body in the woods instead . Soon after Penny suffers from nightmarish visions in which she sees the victim appearing before her and even with the help of a professional supernatural medium she can't exorcise the restless spirit . The story doesn't make too much sense right from the beginning . Penny's husband reacts exaggeratedly peculiar and his reasons to keep the police out of the affair are suspicious . Also , what bothered me most about the whole tale ; Penny's mental issues from the past are never clarified . She keeps saying she doesn't want to go back to the institution , but we never get to know why she was committed in the first place . In case you're familiar with convoluted crime thrillers , you'll be able to guess the denouement ( including the final twist ) rather quickly . Acting performances , choice of filming locations and editing are all pretty mediocre .
The unpleasant return of a depraved maniac	I love ? and I do really mean LOVE ? horror movies and I will always defend my favorite genre against prudish and prejudiced people who keep on claiming it's an overall unintelligent and superfluous type of cinema . Of course , it's very difficult to safeguard a genre and to hold a plea about its strong points when there are mad-raving , block-headed jesters like Coffin Joe out there , whose sole intentions are to shock and repulse audiences with unsettling images of torture , misogyny , mutilation , perversion , blasphemy and even pure hell . " Embodiment of Evil " , the final installment of Coffin Joe's trilogy that started with " At Midnight I'll Take You Soul " and " This Night I'll Possess Your Corpse " over forty years , easily ranks in the top five of most unpleasant and most disgusting movies I ever watched in my life and , no , this honestly shouldn't be considered a recommendation ! José Mojica Marins ' return to the international export market is shamelessly exploitative and sickening just for the sake of being sickening . I've never been much of a fan of the previous films ? nor of Coffin Joe's entire repertoire , for that matter ? but at least his 60's movies could pass off as surrealistic efforts and / or existential experiments . Numerous sequences and isolated shots in " Embodiment of Evil " are genuinely frightening haunting , like the hanging with the meat hooks or a rape scene with a living rat , but they're just so damn redundant and gratuitous . The make-up effects and smutty scenery also looks very realistic , which makes it all even worse . This definitely isn't a low-budgeted production like the first two obviously were , and I honestly think this money could have served better purposes in a country like Brazil . It's also a worrying thought that this is probably the movie Coffin Joe already wanted to make forty years ago , if I only had the budgetary possibilities . What personally upsets and disturbs me the absolute most is that José Mojica Marins clearly knows what he's doing and almost deliberately seems to inflict his madness onto the people . I'm honestly convinced that this is the type of trash that causes mentally unstable and / or easily influenced people to go berserk and do all sorts of crazy stuff . Marins literally glorifies the violence and perversity that his alter ego Coffin Joe proclaims and practices . Purely talking in terms of cinema , " Embodiment of Evil " is a giant disaster . There's not a trace of continuity , script-coherence or building up tension . The performances are weaker than weak and the protagonist's monologues , that seem to go on forever , are nonsensical and boring . The plot is exactly the same as it was forty years ago , namely deranged freak wishes to obtain immortality by carefully selecting the perfect wife who can then subsequently bear him his perfect son . The gravedigger with the hideous and rancid beard spent all these years in jail , but now a leak in the juridical system set him free . It has to be said , however , the old-age Coffin Joe looks at least a dozen times more menacing than young Coffin Joe . He now looks like an authentic old and sleazy pervert , which also happens to be exactly what he is .
I spy with my little eye something that begins with . . . bullocks !	I've wasted yet another precious hour and a half of my life by watching this film and I can only blame myself . I despise the reality-TV concept of series like " Big Brother " and I totally hated " The Blair Witch Project " . So what was I thinking renting a movie that combines the main elements of both formats ? ? " My Little Eye " is a merely irritating new horror film , joining the new genre trend that introduces the Internet as the " villain " . Weirdoes and perverts who hide behind their computers and pay big money to see teenagers getting slashed live on their favorite websites . A similar premise already featured in " Fear Dot Com " , only that film was at least ten times worse than this . Anyway , the events in " My Little Eye " start near the end of an isolation period of six months during which 5 young and greedy people spent in a mountain house . In a few days , they're supposed to leave in triumph and receive one million dollar for their little adventure . But it looks like the " game " is only just beginning now as they receive a loaded gun instead of supplies and food . Things are becoming more and more eerie when the five realize that their daily adventures are nowhere to be found on the easy accessible Internet . The first two thirds of this film are dreadfully boring and really NOTHING happens . Exactly like in the real " Big Brother " nonsense we only see how the horny-for-attention people quarrel all the time and take their clothes off in front of the cameras . The most exciting sequence during the entire first hour is when a crow is strangled because it hurt its wing ? Aww . Nevertheless , I have to admit that the climax makes up for a lot . During a rather disturbing scene , the five discover that they're in deep trouble and the tension only increases from that point . Praiseworthy also is that the makers focused more on eerie atmosphere and suspense instead of gratuitous gore . Some people claim that the positioning of the cameras throughout the house gave ' My Little Eye ' an unsettlingly realistic appearance but I was merely annoyed by the blurry effect this cinematography style often results in . Certainly not the worst entry in a new generation of horror flicks but if this kind of plotting determines the future of the genre , many fans ( including me ) will drop out I'm afraid .
Truly a hilarious experience . . .	Oh , man . . . . I finished watching this movie a couple of hours ago and I'm still laughing hysterically when I think about it . This movie is so bad that it becomes an undeniable must for everyone who's into bad cinema . The worst possible cinema actually , this is stuff like Edward D . Wood made it . Of course , I still respect the efforts that cast and crew put into this but you can't help but roll over the floor and laugh . This is Japanese SciFi cult ( even though they used American actors , they STILL dubbed it . . . badly ) coming to you straight out of the era when cinema actually had evoluated a lot . But The Green Slime didn't join this trend . Prepare yourself for some amateurish cinema , yet made with a lot of love and passion for the genre . The story is about a blob of green mucus coming straight from outer space . It got here as an uninvited visitor when some heroes destroyed an asteroide . By the way . . . forget about Armageddon ! ! The Green Slime really shows you how to blow up an big block of rock . The mucus has the ability to build itself up to green one-eyed midgets with an elephant trunk and they make adorable noises . I assure you , one look at them and you're immediately sold . . . these little critters stole my heart . Naturally , they don't come with good intentions ! ! They go after everything that is human and they suck up energy . . . how ? Don't bother to ask yourself that question . . . The " scriptwriters " didn't bother neither . In between , all the inevitable clichés aren't forgotten . So , as you can see , the special effects and costumes are next to none but it sure doesn't stop there ! Don't forget the space-station and rockets on wires , the cardboard sets and the acting that is really Oscar worthy . coughcoughFinally , They're are the small but highly memorable and hilarious little aspects about it . For example , the theme song is terrific ! ! You'll feel the urge to buy the single of that asap since it's sooooo catchy . And a very honorable mention goes out to Robert Horton's haircut . Heck , I would give this movie a rating if only for his flawless head of hair . No matter how many helmets he puts on and off . . . no matter how many dangerous stunts he has to perform , his hair remains perfectly combed all the time . Truly a haircut you can set your clock to !
Cold Eyes . . . Wide Shut !	Dull and truly disappointing early 70's Italian film that can never seem to decide whether it wants to be a typical giallo or an ordinary crime thriller . The opening is very promising , showing a girl assaulted by a man with a knife whose face we do not see , but that quickly turns out to be a totally unrelated theater performance and that REALLY upset me ! The actual story of " Cold Eyes of Fear " revolves on the pampered nephew of an eminent judge who is , together with a random prostitute he picked up earlier , held hostage by two criminals in his uncle's giant villa . One of the crooks is out for vengeance against the corrupt judge and the other merely hopes to find money in the house . What follows is a totally uninteresting and overly talkative showdown between the two parties without not even the slightest bit of action or excitement . There's some very stylish and creative giallo-camera-work to admire , but the sub genre's most appealing characteristics ( nudity , graphic violence , absurd plot-twists ? ) are regretfully neglected . Everybody else around here seems to love the jazzy music but I personally found it very annoying and it totally doesn't fit the tone of the film . It's definitely one of Ennio Morricone's worst scores ever . During the pretentious yet hilarious opening sequences , London is portrayed like a swinging city , in the trend of Las Vegas , with colorful billboards , casinos and wild nightclubs . What the hell was that all about ? Enzo G . Castellari's directing is rather uninspired and he's no competition for other contemporary Italian filmmakers like Dario Argento , Mario Bava or Sergio Martino . He did return in the 80's with one of my favorite " Jaws " rip-offs , namely " The Last Shark " .
Love hurts . . . like a pick-axe through the heart !	Well it was inevitable , I guess ? After the most obvious calendar days got turned into easy and highly profitable slasher horror movies ( " Halloween " , " Black Christmas " , " New Year's Evil " , " Happy Birthday to Me " , " Friday the 13th " ? ) , the uninspired scriptwriters rapidly moved on to fake and stupid holidays that don't even deserve any commercial hype . Valentine's Day is a pretty pointless holiday so it's only normal that it received a pretty worthless slasher picture attached to it . Although that statement might be a bit harsh , since there are definitely some good elements to find in " My Bloody Valentine " . The whole background of the killer as well as his outfit , for example , is quite terrific . In a little coal miner town with an appropriate name , they plan to have the first Valentine's Day celebration in twenty years . The last time turned into a drama when the mines ' security guards left their posts too early in order to attend the party and a handful of workmen got trapped inside and died . The sole survivor of this accident went crazy one year later and killed the nonchalant security guards , resulting in the cancellation of the annual Valentine's dance . The younger generation now wishes to continue the tradition , even against the will of the mayor , and this naturally starts a new killing spree . The available DVD-version of " My Bloody Valentine " is severely cut and therefore very unsatisfying for fans of early 80's horror . Pretty much every killing happens off screen and we mostly just see the terrified reactions of the others as they're exposed to their friends ' bodies . Very , very lame ! This easily could have been a great slasher , since there are many characters ( = wide selection of ingenious killing methods ) , but instead it became a boring and overall bloodless thriller . The complete lack of bloodshed makes it all the more difficult to forgive the rest of typical slasher-flaws , like dumb dialogs , incompetent acting performances and the really poor twist at the end . Skip it , unless you have the desire to really see every 80's horror movie that ever got released .
Paltry but clever 30's thriller	Most of these 30's thrillers / murder mysteries have been forgotten by now because , let's face it , they haven't got much to offer apart from ? occasionally ? a good story . This little film has a very decent story , fluently written dialogues and some really adequate acting performances , yet it simple can't be called memorable because of the shabbiness of the production . Pat O'Brien ( " Hell's House " ) stars as an obtrusive reporter investigating the vicious assassination of a befriended District Attorney and unravels almost single-handedly an entire network of corruption , blackmail and political scandals . His performance is very good and he gets to say some very slick lines , yet the movie lacks a lot of action and continuity . There's one sequence near the beginning that I found particularly smart , showing how the assignment for murder is passed on to several involved parties and thus creating a complex structure that sadly never gets properly clarified . There are some more ingenious and dared ideas in the plot , but it all looks too poor for you to care . Feel free to avoid this one .
They don't need no education ?	Typical Troma-trash , this smutty 80's flick is considered one of the " highlights " of Lloyd Kaufman's notorious production studio , alongside " The Toxic Avenger " released one year earlier . " The Toxic Avenger " is far superior if you ask me , but this demented splatter-flick is nevertheless endurable as well ; just make sure you leave your full brain capacity at the door . The events take place in Tromaville , a little town that proudly claims to be the toxic chemical capital of the world , and they certainly aren't lying . The safety precautions in the local nuclear power plant are substandard , to say the least ( even Homer Simpson never was this nonchalant ) and toxic waste seeps through to the nearby high school . The first intoxicated victim is the stereotypical nerd , who starts spurting green stuff out of all his body cavities , but his death is believed to be an accident because he had no less than TWO microwave ovens in his house ! Oh , the humanity ! Shortly after , however , the nuclear leaks also affect the school's weed plantation and thing really start to get messy . After smoking a joint at a party , the cutest couple in school produce a gigantic worm monster that settles in the basement and feeds on teenage scum . " Class of Nuke ' em High " is bottom-of-the-barrel horror film-making , with dialogs so dumb they hurt your ears and make-up effects that give a whole new meaning to the word tasteless . If you enjoy watching faces melting away , getting crushed or splitting in half , this is definitely a must-see ! Unlike the aforementioned " The Toxic Avenger " , this film suffers from a couple of really dull and overlong moments where nothing really significant happens , like for example when Chrissy and Warren try to figure out what's wrong with their hormones . The crude humor isn't as effective as in " Toxic Avenger " and the acting performances are unforgivably amateurish . Proceed only if you're an avid Troma-fanatic .
John Saxon makes this a worthy horror viewing	Blood Beach certainly isn't a good film , but it stands for nicely cheap and cheesy horror fun . It's an early 80's horror flick , so you pretty much know what to expect . A plot line that somewhat rips off an earlier made classic horror movie ( in this case : Jaws ) , lots of screaming girls , tension few to none and bad-taste jokes . Blood Beach is about a little seaside town that lives of its tourism . All of a sudden , something evil seems to lurk in the sand ? attacking people and sucking them into the sand , not to be found back . So , like it was the case in ' Jaws ' , the tourists stay away and the local police department is under a lot of pressure to catch whatever horror lives underneath the sand . Blood Beach isn't that gory , actually . Since most victims are just sucked into the sand , no bloody messes overwhelm this film . The good old clichés are present as well , like for example the bizarre and lonely ladyfreak of the town ? Or the return of a long-lost lover ! The music is okay , but a bit too obviously influenced by Jaws and the film has got a very atmospheric open ending . I've got to admit that ! The acting goes from bad to atrocious , but there's one exception ! John Saxon ? this amazingly cool dude stars as the stressed police captain who motivates his men with a great dose of sarcasm and charisma . John Saxon is a great actor and it's always nice to see him show up in little horror fun stuff , like this Blood Beach ! Check it out when you have the chance ! There are worse things to waste your life on , for sure
Jesus Christ , super-sufferer !	All my life , people are looking weird at me for liking vicious and violent exploitation cinema that shows explicit torturing and pain ! Now , all of a sudden , this is brilliant filmmaking just because the famous Mel Gibson made a controversial and offensive film ? ? ? The Passion of the Christ is nothing but a bombastic exploitation flick , people ! It's much closer to the eurohorror shock cinema than any other film I ever seen and the only different aspects are the huge budget and the presence of some famous names . Well actually ? there's another difference ! At least cheap 70's exploitation-films have a story to tell . I fully understand that it was Gibson's idea to put the stress on the suffering and Jesus ? role as a martyr but ? what's the point ? Okay , if Jesus ever existed he sure did suffer ? point taken ! But showing a man getting lashed for half an hour , and then a detailed ' Via Dolorosa ' for yet ANOTHER hour may be a little exaggerated , no ? It sure is bloody and shocking , I'll be the first to admit that ? Bloody and boring , the most ? painful ' combination a film can have . In my opinion , this is a very bad film . It completely lacks depth , range and tact . The few , short flashbacks seem to be dragged into it , in order to put some extra stress on the sentiment . I'd compare ' The Passion of the Christ ' with films like ' Irréversible ' , ' Funny Games ' and ' Benny's Video ' ? Not because of their ? message ' , but simply because all these film show an unhealthy obsession to make the viewer focus on pure agony . My grandmother ( who's a devoted Christian ) wanted to see this film , but I strongly recommended her not to ?
The Satanic Cult of Hypnotizing Dolls and Blond Spinsters !	" The Devil's Hand " is a truly bizarre little horror movie . It's very short and to the point ? But what a point ! Supernatural themes , romantic love triangles and voodoo ! That's all pretty courageous and ambitious for a low-budget horror effort from that time . Too bad it eventually didn't turn out to be a very good movie ? Rick Turner is an ordinary man , with loads of appeal to the ladies , whose dreams are disturbed by the reoccurring image of a beautiful blond girl . The odd thing is that his soon-to-be wife supports him without the slightest bit of jealousy . I wonder how my girlfriend would react when telling her I repeatedly dream of a hot blond calling out to me from the skies ? Rick's uncomfortable situation grows even weirder when he's led to a toy store where they sell a doll with a face identical to the woman of his dreams . It all turns out to be a conspiracy of a satanic cult , ruled by the shop owner , and the blond uses voodoo and hypnosis to conquer Rick's heart . How's that for seduction techniques ? Despite the silly and utterly implausible storyline , " The Devil's Hand " is occasionally atmospheric and several sequences are quite suspenseful , notably the ones set in the cult's headquarters where the members ' loyalty to Gamba ( the evil God ) is tested . Still , there's way too much talking and confusion going on and only the climax contains horrific action . William Hole's directing is very neutral and the only real good performance is given by Neil " Commissioner Gordon " Hamilton . Linda Christian is a beauty , but her acting skills are rather forgettable . Worth a look if you run out of other options .
Some stories are better left . . . untold	I'm probably one of the few people in the world who don't automatically categorize Joe D'Amato's film as ' worthless ' or ' sleazy junk ' . No , I actually support the opinion that he's a filmmaker with vision . With films like ' Buried Alive ' , ' Death Smiles at Murder ' and ' Emanuelle and the Last Cannibals ' he proved that he's capable of combining gruesome horror images and gore with a compelling script . This film , however , completely takes the edge off the above stated opinion . Caligula : The Untold Story is a very ugly and mediocre film about history's most notorious figure . Following Tinto Brass ' controversial cult-epic , D'Amato focuses on the cruel and inhuman reign of the Roman emperor . This film particularly handles about a personal vendetta between a Moor-woman ( whose friend got brutally killed ) and the Emperor . She's torn between her personal feelings and her urge to take vengeance bla bla bla ? Caligula is a non-stop series of uninteresting sleaze , lame gore , terrible acting skills and inferior production values . The film starts out well enough , with a great cameo from Michele Soavi ( later the director of masterpieces like ' Dellamorte Dellamore ' ) trying to kill Caligula but , after this , it all goes downhill . David Cain is an incredibly bad actor and even the gorgeous Laura ' Black Emanuelle ' Gemser doesn't look sensual enough to keep you watching . This film reminded me a lot about history lessons in school . The substance is fascinating enough , but it's brought in such a tedious and dull way . You're way better of watching Brass ' epic staring Malcolm McDowell .
Stick with the Cannibals , Ruggero . . .	Rugero Deodato , not particularly known for his subtle art of film-making ( Cannibal Holocaust , anyone ? ? ) , picks in on the popular 80's trend of slashers ? Quickly produced horror films , preferably without a plot , in which horny and stupid looking teens are slaughtered by the dozen . For the vicious cult-director Deodato this is an excellent opportunity to brings as much repulsiveness to the screen as possible , so he introduces us to over 10 little lambs ready for the slaughter . The ' story ' takes place in the Colorado woods where a group of friends ( well , they're supposed to be friends but all they do is fight and cheat on each other ) go camping and get butchered by a lame killer dressed up like an Indian Shaman . That concludes the highly intelligent plot ? . This film is incredibly ugly to look at . There no tempo , the structure is one major mess and the characters say and do the stupidest things . For example : there's a scene where a girl discovers the mutilated corpse of her boyfriend inside a barn and , instead of running away , she lays herself down on a bed to cry what makes her a very easy new target . Haha ! Like I said , this is an awful film ? and yet it has some cult-value since it was made by Ruggero Deodato and it stars David Hess ( the creep from ' Last House on the Left ' and ' House on the Edge of the Park ' ) , Mimsy Farmer ( ' Four flies on Grey Velvet ' , ' Autopsy ' ? ) and Charles Napier ( ' Supervixens ' ) The cast as well as the multiple violent images make this film worth at least one look . Be advised though ? it's amazingly bad and almost unbearable to sit through .
The umpteenth bad shark movie	What's with all these stupid but fancy looking made-for-TV shark movies these days ? Only a couple weeks ago , I watched something awful called " Spring Break Shark Attack " in which a troop of sharks eat some college bikinis , and here's another one already , this time set in the swamps and revolving on a bull shark . Well , at least " Red Water " is slightly better than the aforementioned " Spring Break " but of course still a long way from being a good shark-thriller . Two crews of people navigate their boats down the extensive swamps of Louisiana . One crew ( with Kirsty Swanson and Lou Diamond Philips on board ) is on their way to drill oil , the other crew are villains ( with rapper Coolio among them ) looking for a lost treasure on the bottom of a lake , but all they encounter is an extremely hungry bull shark . It's rather dangerous to swim with him around , so the bad guys take the good guys ( and girl ) hostage and command them to dive for the money . " Red Water " features one or two well-staged action sequences and the bull shark is an interesting choice of water monster ( finally something different than the Great White or Tiger Shark ) , but overall it's a forgettable thriller with weak performances from a washed up cast . There's no tension , a minimum of bloodshed and the underwater footage only shows brief images of a fake computer-engineered shark . The lovely Mrs . Swanson doesn't even wear on a colorful bikini , for Christ's sake , so why are we still talking about it ?
All Talk , No Serial Killing ?	The very first episode already made clear " Dexter " definitely wouldn't become the greatest show on television ever , but at least it had several things going for it . Michael C . Hall is a terrific actor , there was a lot of blood and gory set-pieces and it had cynical humor and a seemingly fascinating ongoing search for a serial killer that drains all the blood from his victims ' bodies . In between all his forensics work , supporting his cop-sister and upholding appearances with a divorced mother of two , Dexter found the time to personally go after criminals that somehow escaped their legal punishment . " Popping Cherry " is only the third episode , but all the aforementioned good stuff has already vanished . This episode represents 50 minutes of sheer dullness , as all Dexter and his colleagues do is talk , talk and talk . The Ice Truck Killer made a new victim and proudly exhibits her bloodless leftovers in the Miami ice hockey stadium . Debra's supervisors think they found a suspect in the sport dome's night watchman but they're wrong . Meanwhile , Dexter ? suffering from long & tedious flashbacks as always ? observes a youthful criminal who's released from prison but will kill again . There are no blood analyzes in this installment , no pitch-black jokes or witty remarks and no action ! It was boring and the main story lines feel like they're stretched needlessly , because there's nothing else to tell . I hope the show will get better again really fast , otherwise I'm giving up .
High on ambition . . . low on results	The last thing you expect from a low-budget 80's horror film with the word ' demon ' in its title is complexity and confusion , and yet all you get from " Dream Demon " is complexity and confusion . This British production tries to be more intelligent than the classic it obviously imitates ( Nightmare on Elm Street ) with a very intricate " what's - a - dream - and - what's - reality " - structure . The highly ambitious script ( co-written by director Cokeliss ) intertwines the premarital nightmares of young virgin Diana with the blurry childhood traumas of punk-girl Jenny and , most of the time , you haven't got a clue what's really going on . Diana's dreams , revolving on dark secrets inside the mirrors of her house , connect her to Jenny , who lived there as a kid and returned to Britain to find out who her real parents were . In the meantime , Diana's dreams cause the violent deaths of some persistent journalists that are interested in her upcoming marriage with a local army-hero . Maybe if he had a little more budget ( or talent . . . ) , director Cokeliss might had worked out the interesting ideas more carefully . The story really does have potential and there are obvious moments of ingeniousness , but the wholesome is shaky and unappealing . Too bad , because " Dream Demon " definitely has style ! The atmosphere is often uncanny and the camera-work is very inventive . The acting performances are far above average and the gruesome make-up effects ( although nearly not enough in my opinion ) look very convincing . All in one . . . not recommended .
Let's DANCE !	What's the first thing to do when you and seven other friends crash your car into a road block and you're stuck in the mud ? Well , you DANCE ! What's your first reaction when you're attending a rock concert and all of a sudden two gigantically over-sized ducks come waddling in ? You start DANCING , of course . What's the very first thing you must accomplish when you and your friends grew up to a length of 30ft . after consuming a gooey unidentified substance ? Right again , you must DANCE ! I don't think the legendary bad movie director Bert I . Gordon ( BIG , for his friends ) ever intended to make a loyal adaptation of H . G . Well's novel " Food of the Gods " , he merely just wanted to make a light-headed and 60's spirit-capturing musical about the earliest Rock ' n Roll generations . " Village of the Giants " features an intolerably high amount of pointless padding sequences that simply show teenagers ? whether 30ft tall or not ? singing and dancing to Jack Nitzsche's ( admittedly catchy ) music and that's it . Thank God the film never at one point attempts to be a real scary and unsettling Sci-Fi movie , because that would have been really pathetic with all the lousy acting performances , tacky effects and the virtually non-existing screenplay . The annoying former child star Ron Howard portrays the nerdy kid-inventor Genius and accidentally discovers a substance that causes living creatures to grow to enormous proportions . A gang of naughty , outer town kids manage to steal a big slice of goo because they're sick and tired of being bossed around by adults . The adults probably just righteously stated they should waste less time on dancing and get a job ! The goody-two-shoes teenagers in town fight ( and go-go dance ) back , though ! What a totally demented movie this is . I wonder if Beau Bridges would like to be reminded of his role in this film as the nagging and totally uncharismatic leader of the bad pack . Presumably not ? And neither would Toni Basil and Ron Howard . However , it must be interesting to see an X-rated version of this film , since all of the girls are quite beautiful ( particularly Joy Harmon ) and literally bursting out of garments as they feed on the substance . " Village of the Giants " is never suspenseful or interesting , with the exception of one notably engaging gargantuan tarantula scene , and manages to be quite boring despite the short running time . Jack Nitzsche's theme music was obviously brilliant , because no less than Quentin Tarantino borrowed the song " The Last Race " for his own recent grindhouse movie " Death Proof " . Worth a peek in case you're a fan of horribly bad low-budget 60's stuff or in case you have a strange & inexplicable admiration for director / writer Bert I . Gordon , like I have .
Civilisation is extinct , only boredom remained .	Apparently there are good reasons for this film's obscurity status as well as for the low rating on this wondrous website . Richard Harris doesn't nearly whoop as much butt as I expected in this overall dull and completely unmemorable post-apocalyptic Sci-Fi feature from the late 70's . The one strong point this movie benefices from ( set pieces ) isn't nearly enough to overlook the massive amount of weaknesses ( lack of action , miscast players , no script ? ) , but it has to be said the location spotters and set piece designers pulled off an exquisite job . The story may be non-existent and sadly ruining all its potential , at least all the exteriors look very depressing and the scenery appears to genuinely have lived through a nuclear holocaust . The story , as said , is mundane and hardly worth wasting words on . Falk ( Harris ) and his wife are two of the last few civilized people left in the world , all the rest is either extinct or joined Ravagers clans . When a gang viciously kills his wife ( of screen even , damned ! ) , Falk flees towards ? nowhere . On his journey chased by the same scum that killed his wife , Falk encounters an army sergeant who went a little mad due to the loneliness , a community of cave people and the new & highly enlightened leader of mankind Rann . " Ravagers " had copious possibilities and could have become a great film , but nothing justifies the script boredom ! Falk doesn't even want to avenge the death of his wife ? Bah ! There may be some famous names in this American production , but without hesitating I prefer the anonymous but violence & spectacle-packed Italian exploitation efforts instead .
Passable straight-to-video horror	After the events in " Ascension " , Dracula returns to home sweet home Romania with the beautiful Elizabeth being one of his new bloodsucking brides . The country is torn apart by war , Dracuala's minions are everywhere and yet Father Uffizi and his comic relief sidekick Luke are determined to reach the vampire's castle and to destroy him once and for all . Uffizi has become so obsessed with his mission that he even stepped back as a priest . Patrick Lussier somewhat pleasantly surprised horror fans with his original " Dracula 2000 " , but why the hell did he ruin this by making two unrelated and entirely redundant sequels ? " Legacy " has little to offer , apart from some nice gore and an ingenious sequence featuring circus-vampires on stilts . Admittedly , that was pretty cool to look at . The rest of the movie is an unexciting mess with bad acting performances and a severe lack of continuity . The set pieces and filming locations appear to nice , but the lousy camera-work and under-exposure makes it impossible to be sure . Throughout the whole movie , everybody is driveling about how almighty Dracula is , but when he finally makes an appearance ( in the shape of B-movie veteran Rutger Hauer ) , he turns out to be a lame philosopher who prefers to plea instead of to kill . Yawn !
Gabriel : The Terminating Angel	Everybody knows that Gregory Widen's original " The Prophecy " didn't really require a sequel , but you also don't need a degree in rocket science hanging above your chimney to realize that further cash-ins on this profitable horror concept were inevitable . Part two is a very prototypic example of a straight-to-video sequel , meaning the creative and convoluted plot of the original has been simplified a lot in favor of more action , more witty one-liners and a lot more eerie religious scenery . The only good news is that the producers managed to keep Christopher Walken for the role of Gabriel , and he delivers another gloriously brazen performance that promptly justifies the price of a rental . If it wasn't for Walken's performance ( and perhaps a couple of players in the supportive cast like Brittany Murphy and Glenn Danzig ) , " The Prophecy II " surely would have disappeared into oblivion straight after its release . The movie begins with Gabriel literally getting spat out of hell to proceed with his ongoing War of Heaven here on earth . The purpose of his battle this time is to prevent the baby of nurse Valerie Rosales ( Jennifer Beals ) from getting born . For you see , her unborn child is the first ever hybrid between a heavenly angel and an earthly " monkey " and the birth of such a superior being would imply the downfall of Gabriel's evil dominion . Thus , just as in the first movie , he engages a suicidal accomplice to assist him and hunts Valerie all the way down to the Eden for the final showdown . " The Prophecy II " is an endurable and occasionally even entertaining movie as long as you don't make comparisons with the original and as long as you manage to overlook the multiple plot holes and errors in continuity . Whenever the storyline becomes too tedious , the makers luckily enough always insert a near-brilliant Christopher Walken moment to distract you . His interactions with the rebellious Izzy and particularly his ignorance regarding modern earthly technologies often result in worthwhile and memorable sequences . On a slightly off-topic note , I often felt like " The Prophecy II " ambitions to look similar to " Terminator II " ? Gabriel's resurrection looked somewhat like the teleportation of a futuristic cyborg and the Eden location , where the final battle takes place , looks very similar to the steel factory where " Terminator II " ended as well . Coincidence , I guess ? Overall , this is an inferior and passable sequel but still worth checking out in case you're a fan of Christopher Walken's unique acting charisma ( and who isn't ? ) .
Big Snake Yawn .	It's pretty damn difficult to impress even the most enthusiast and undemanding horror audiences with a 40 ft . long animatronic snake that ? apart from looking silly ? also screams at its victims . And yet , strangely enough , the CGI effects & visuals are actually the most pleasing aspects to endure whilst watching " Anaconda " . The hopelessly muddled script and the awful performances ( coming from a prominent ensemble cast , I may add ) form the real disaster here . This could have been a pretty cool big animal creature-feature IF ONLY the creators tried a to make it look less like big-budgeted studio blockbuster and more like an unpretentious and cheesy B-movie ! Jon Voight surely seemed to think he was involved in such a production , as his performance is permanently over-the-top and almost deliberately bad . Voight blinks ridiculously all the time and talks in an unidentifiable accent , while the rest of the cast attempts to speak their lines straight-faced and plausible . It's almost pitiful to behold . A seven-headed film crew sails down the mighty Amazon river , hoping to shoot a breakthrough documentary about a nearly extinct tribe of natives . Instead of primitive savages , they encounter a stranded adventurer who claims to know all the dangers of the Amazon jungle and offers to be their guide . Patiently and strategically , he ( Paul Sarone ) directs the crew towards the territory of the horrific man-eating anaconda . After ( far too ) many lame and predictable false alarm sequences , the big computer-engineered snake finally begins to reduce the number of passengers on the boat . The grotesque action sequences are okay , I guess , but the interactions between the stereotypical characters are totally unbelievable . Eric Stolz ( as the expedition's leader ) lies unconscious most of the time , Ice Cube stares at the animals in the jungle as they were his gangster enemies from the ghetto , Owen Wilson looks like he wants to ride the anaconda as it was a rodeo-bull and ? worst of all ? Jonathan Hyde plays the obnoxious British chap who even carries on golfing after several people have died . As strange as it sounds , Jennifer Lopez honestly plays the most convincing character and gives away the best performance . The plot meanders needlessly and contains several situations that are stupid and inexplicable , like unnatural barricades in the middle of the godforsaken jungle and dynamite-induced snake showers . Luis Llosa's direction is uninspired but at least Bill Butler's camera captures some enchanting images of the South American jungles . Despite having appeared in over 40 movies already , Danny Trejo's role is just a miserable cameo .
Well intended , but painfully bad " revenge " - rip off . . .	Well , I was planning to provide this review with the title " Last Train on the Left " but that seems to be a pretty obvious choice . Nighttrain Murders tries to pick in on the success of Wes Craven's milestone as close as possible . They even managed to find a main villain resembling David Hess , who played the merciless bastard in Craven's film . The film means well and all but , it just lacks the budget , talent and inspiration to become of any importance . The entire first hour ( in which two girls travel to Italy by train , in order to celebrate the Holiday season ) completely lacks suspenseles or depth and it seems to be endless . Eventually , the girls are being humiliated and tortured by two madmen and a nympho-bitch . From then on , everything goes rather quickly and , before you know it , the father of one of the girls already avenged the death of his daughter . Totally " Last House on the Left " in other words . . . only less fascinating and only half as disturbing . Although it looks like a sleazy Italian production , the film hasn't got much violence or bloodshed in it . One scene is pretty disgusting to watch and you'll recognize which one I mean immediately . Besides that , it's nothing more but a waste of a terrific musical score by Ennio Morricone . Avoid ! Unless your a fan of rare cult stuff of course .
The Future is mean , ugly . . . and rather dull .	Well , I guess I must have totally missed the point again . . . I did not see a Sci-Fi masterpiece with astonishingly progressive visual effects and a flawlessly adapted screenplay , but an over-ambitious and difficult to digest drama epic with a lack of action . But hey , " Blade Runner " is ranked pretty high in the IMDb top 250 and all the professional reviews are singing praise , so my humble opinion is probably something you shouldn't bother to read . Although , for the record , the only version I've seen is the original theatrical version and ? supposedly ? only the 1992 director's cut version is a genuine masterpiece . Unquestionably terrific is Ridley Scott's portrayal of our world by the year 2019 , when the cities look exactly like predicted in Fritz Lang's " Metropolis " with immense 300-storey skyscrapers and pure decay down below on the streets . The future is ugly and petrifying and it looks like nobody can smile anymore . In this sad and unappealing universe , Rick Deckard is an early retired " Blade Runner " whose duty was to eliminate android fugitives , called Replicants , that escaped from extraterrestrial colonies . Deckard is called back because four of the most dangerous Replicants are on an earthly mission to increase their miserable life-span of only four years . The film's biggest disappointment ? other than the tiresome voice over by Ford and the dreadful jazzy soundtrack ? are the characterizations of these android Replicants . Supposedly they're relentless villains that already made over 30 casualties on their way over to earth , yet when they're face to face with their enemies ? humans ? they don't look the least bit menacing or dangerous at all ! Neither do they evoke feeling of understanding or sympathy , they just behave like philosophical talkers ; especially the " leader " Roy Batty . The love-story sequences between Ford and robotic beauty Sean Young feel like pure melodramatic padding whereas sublime actors in intriguing supportive roles ( M . Emmet Walsh , Edward James Olmos ) are criminally underused . The film may be rich on themes and symbolism , but the lack of excitement is saddening and the ending is unforgivably weak .
A few good ideas , but overall pretentious and dull . . .	The horror genre's extreme boost in popularity since the year 2000 has resulted in quite a couple of annoying trends . There's the numerous amount of pointless remakes , naturally , but also a nearly immeasurable increase in straight-to-video and intolerably cheap & cheesy B-movies released by brand new and supposedly specialized production companies . These days literally everyone thinks they can put together a horror movie , regardless of how inexperienced or untalented they are , and that's the reason why nowadays the lowest shelves in video stores are full of crap nobody ever heard of . " Brotherhood of Blood " seemed to fit into this description perfectly well and at first I wasn't even planning on ever checking it out . The writers / directors duo Michael Roesch and Peter Scheerer previously just did some random jobs on films directed by Uwe Boll - not the best reference to mention on your curriculum vitae to begin with - and then promptly came up with their own scenario . Also , vampire movies have been a dried out source for years . But since the first reviews I encountered were hugely positive and since I'm still a big fan of former horror icons Sid Haig and Ken Foree , I decided to give the rental copy a chance anyway . " Brotherhood of Blood " is definitely better than first anticipated but , in the end , nonetheless remains a disappointing and unmemorable film . The script is definitely better written and more original than most nowadays B-movies , but the main problem actually becomes that it is too ambitious ( on the verge of pretentious , actually ) and wannabe convoluted for its own good . There are certainly some ingenious elements to find here . Carrie Rieger works for a professional agency of vampire hunters and , at the moment , she's occupied with the protection of a wealthy businessman named Thomas , whose brother is likely to become the reincarnation of the most feared vampire of all times ; Vlad Kossei . Even the local vampire syndicate ? led by Sid Haig ? is after Thomas , as Vlad Kossei is feared by the other vampires as well as by humans . For whatever reason , the duo of directors opted for a rather confusing narrative structure . The action continuously jumps back and forth between the events that happened three weeks earlier , last night and today . Three weeks ago , Thomas ' brother got infected with Vlad's blood in Romania , last night Carrie and her team were torturing a random vampire ( Ken Foree ) in order to obtain information and today they're all trapped and imprisoned in the vampires ' underground lair . The muddled narration adds very little value to the film and actually raises incoherence and a pretentious atmosphere . A lot more surprising , especially considering the bloody stills on the back of the DVD , is the relatively large amount of boring parts and pointless moments . Multiple scenes just show Victoria Pratt prowling through dark catacombs or trying to get out of chains . Then when you finally expect the film to really break loose , it ends with the biggest cliffhanger I've seen in years . They better make a sequel now , or else ? The acting performances are above average , but still I feel those acclaimed names could do better . I wonder if father Sean watches all that junk his son Jason Connery appears in .
Elementary disappointing .	The title refers to a Nazi-broadcaster who petrifies the inhabitants of London with his drivel about the Third Reich and the annunciations of terrorist actions . The defense council hires Sherlock Holmes to discover the identity of vicious radio DJ but , of course , our brilliant detective unravels a lot more , like political conspiracies and high-level betrayal . Practically all the installments in the Sherlock Holmes-series were made during the years of WWII , so there always are references towards the Germans and their vile acts . " Voice of Terror " , however , is the only Holmes-movie that entirely revolves on the war and therefore it's a lot less accessible than other , well plotted murder-mysteries like " The House of Fear " and " Sherlock Holmes Faces Death " . Basil Rathbone remains brilliant as the deductive genius but all the rest is pretty disappointing . Nigel Bruce ( as Dr . Watson ) has almost no lines , there's a total lack of appealing set pieces and all the British patriotism was really , REALLY annoying . Particularly the tedious " your country needs you " speeches in the pub are the absolute low point in over 10 Sherlock Holmes movies .
The oldest gag in comedy refurnished into a fairly entertaining film .	The luggage of mobster delivery boy Tommy ( Joe Pesci ) , carrying 8 human heads , gets mixed up at the airport with the luggage of medical student Charlie who's on a vacation in Mexico to first meet his future parents-in-law . Tommy desperately needs his mob-hit proof back and Charlie already has a hard time making a good impression to his girl's parents . These simple basics , that already were the inspiration for many lame comedies , are completed with further slapstick story lines like the hunt for replacement heads ( when some of the original go missing ) , neurotic mothers-in-law and dumbass mafia guys . The first 15 minutes are so filled with delightful black humor and witty one-liners ( Joe Pesci is in great shape ) that they give you impression you're in for a swell comedy . Unfortunately , 8 Heads in a duffel Bag quickly turns into an overly hectic and unoriginal time-waster , better fit for TV . Joe Pesci can act like his old self again completely and who else could portray a loud-mouthed mob courier ? David Spade also gets to reprise his trusted role of college numb nut and he's always good for a few chuckles . The gorgeous Kristy Swanson is a shamefully underused . 8 heads in a duffel bag is ideal late-night TV material , providing you with a few laughs and modest grins . The day after , however , you completely forgot about it .
Brazilian Ultra - , Mega - , Super-Sleaze !	My oh my , Oswaldo de Oliveira must have had the time of his life whilst filming this ultimately depraved and sleaze-laden Women In Prison classic . There are almost no men involved in this production and all the female stars ? with the notable exception of the nasty lunch-lady ? are stunningly ravishing wenches . Easily one of the most shameless and politically incorrect exploitation flicks ever made , " Bare Behind Bars " has absolutely no substantial content ( or at least very few ) , but proudly offers wall-to-wall lesbian action , nudity and even some X-rated hardcore action . Welcome to the Brazilian all-girls exclusive " Prisão " , where the inmates seemingly enjoy hiding sharp & pointy objects in their most intimate body parts , the wardens ' uniforms only have buttons below the bosom-section , the dumb Marilyn Monroe resembling nurse has a very peculiar interpretation of the term health inspection and fake penis toys are referred to as the Seventh Wonder of the World . Life honestly isn't that bad in this film , as the girls are allowed to play sex games with each other as well as with the wardens and , occasionally , the prettiest ones are sold to rich lesbians for big money . Of course , eventually , a couple of courageous prisoners plan an escape , resulting in violence , torture and death . " Bare Behind Bars " is really the sleaziest and most rancid WIP-movie imaginable . I estimate that maximally five seconds is thee longest period without nudity in this film . There are many extended ( and ridiculously overlong ) shower sequences and pointless girl-on-girl fondling moments , but it's all shockingly boring & terribly UN-sexy . The last half hour is much more exciting and violent , but it's far too late to save the film unfortunately . As said , the women in this film ( inmates as well as wardens , nurses and rich lesbian buyers ) are quite beautiful , albeit speaking in terms of 70's exploitation . This means they're definitely not anorexic and their pubic regions are about half the size of the Amazon jungle . " B . B . B . " is probably a must-see for all fans of the WIP sub genre , but it could and should have been much better . I very much prefer the Italian outings ( " Women's Prison Massacre " , " Women in Fury " ) that are perhaps slightly less sleazy , but feature more action , suspense and better actresses .
Aaargh , it's Fran Drescher ! ! Kill it ! Kill it !	Any horror movie starring Fran Drescher sounds petrifying to me , I don't care whether she stars as the supreme witch of a coven or simply appears in an insignificant supportive role . Growing up with a sister who insisted on watching that stupid show " The Nanny " over and over again , I've come to dread this unholy woman's quacking voice more than I dread all the serial killers in the entire world . My main motivation to watch " Summer of Fear " actually was the devilish bit of hope to witness Drescher die painfully on screen , but alas , this is a TV-movie so there's really not that much suffering going on . " Summer of Fear " is a modest , well-intended and remotely atmospheric little thriller , but it's far too tame to satisfy real horror fans and it honestly would have ended up in oblivion long time ago already if it weren't for the names of Wes Craven and Linda Blair parading the DVD-cover . Craven had already built up a solid reputation with the genuine 70's shockers " Last House on the Left " and " The Hills Have Eyes " , and Linda Blair was undeniably one of the genre's best-selling faces since her unforgettable role in " The Exorcist " . These three titles definitely qualify as rough and mature horror movies unsuitable for squeamish viewers , but here Craven and Blair team up for a " soft " story about a teenage girl who's the only one to realize her enchanting niece is really a deceptive and malignant sorceress . Sounds macabre enough , but the script actually spends most attention to the daily struggles of a prototypic teenage girl dealing with jealousy , ( boy ) friends , parents , sport competition , strict parents and flamboyant 70's hairstyles . The happy happy joy joy Bryant family welcomes an unexpected guest when cherubic niece Julia moves in after the sudden death of her parents in a tragic car accident . Rachel quickly suspects Julia of practicing witchcraft , but the rest of family thinks she's just jealous because Julia filched her lover and best friend and because Julia's butt isn't too fat to fit in a homemade dress . The competitive and notably hostile on screen chemistry between Linda Blair and Lee Purcell keeps the wholesome endurable ? and even a bit entertaining ? but " Summer of Fear " is overlong and unexciting . The conclusive 15 minutes or so are surprisingly effective ( even including a bit of an unexpected twist ) and suspenseful , but still they don't compensate enough for the disappointing foregoing . The infamous Fran Drescher stars as Rachel's ( and subsequently Julia's ) best friend Carolyn and , just in case you're wondering , that hyper-irritating nasal voice sound has been there since the late 70's already .
The girl who cried ? . Lycantrophus	The serious lack of originality in " She-Wolf of London " almost causes you to think that the horror genre was already going downhill in the 1940's ! This is an adequately put together movie with a handful of atmospheric moments and decent acting performances , yet the plot-twists and climax are so transparent that the whole film becomes entirely pointless . It isn't a real horror film , but more like a mystery / thriller with themes like superstition . The beautiful young heiress of a wealthy family is convinced she incurably turns into a werewolf overnight and devours innocent people in the park of London . When several severely mutilated bodies are actually discovered in the park , and Phyllis notices how her gown & slippers are covered with mud , her fears become all too real and she locks herself up in her chamber . Meanwhile , the police as well as Phyllis ' own family members are getting closer to unravel the secrets behind the horrendous murders . The denouement is directly taken from other thrillers that were released a few years prior to " She-Wolf of London " and therefore the red herrings completely miss their effect . Naturally , I can't mention the other film titles , as that would immediately give away the climax of this film . So the script is dire , whatever remains is a worthwhile Universal production . June Lockhart , certainly not a usual casting choice for thrillers , is very likable as the mentally troubled & sensitive girl living in constant fears and she receives good feedback from a solid supportive cast . Dennis Hoey once again plays his clichéd role of witty yet unknowing police inspector , like his always did Inspector Lestrade in the magnificent Sherlock Holmes series .
Not that bloody and definitely not that " deep " . . .	I had really hoped to come here with the announcement that the slasher sub-genre is NOT dead ? That there still are enthusiast young directors with bright ideas and a passion for vicious gore or insane plot twists . " Blood Deep " surely looked like such a promising new horror project but , alas , it disappoints . The story revolves on a gang of childhood friends that come together for a reunion at the parental house of pivot character Kate . During a random hypnosis game , one of them suddenly confesses to a murder that was committed in the area over 20 years ago . The synopsis really appealed to me as it reminded me of classic films like " Stand By Me " or Stephen King's " It " , only with a genuine slasher-twist ! Unfortunately , Todd S . Kniss ( cool name , though ) makes the mistake of introducing too many characters and dedicates too much of his time on detailed but unnecessary character drawings . Creating a background or building up atmosphere is good , but " Blood Deep " eventually features too many pointless flashbacks and dead-end story lines . Then , when the long-awaited killing spree breaks loose , the story regretfully reverts to old clichés and predictable situations . Every character has his / her own repressed trauma or hidden teenage crush that comes to the surface during the reunion . The murder sequences are tame ( sometimes even off-screen , God forbid ! ) and the whole film remains politically correct at all times , which was quite a letdown . Perhaps in order to attain wider audiences , Kniss put a lot of effort in stylish cinematography and a creative use of light . He definitely isn't a bad director , also since the entire cast deliver above-average performances and the choice of music is effectively creepy . Maybe " Blood Deep " was just wrongly promoted ? With a slightly less gruesome sounding title and a more coherent plot , this could have been an acceptable psychological thriller . On a totally unimportant side note : I saw this film at the Belgian horror festival and supportive actress Kelci B . Lowry came along to introduce it . Let me assure you she's one gorgeous looking angel with a smile that nearly makes you melt in your seat .
Jack The Rip-Off Vs . The College Co-eds	This is one of the worst things you can encounter on the lowest horror-shelves of your local video store ; a pretentious teen-slasher ! " Ripper " basically is just another routine and mediocre stalk ' n slash film , but it stupidly also pretends to be a deeply intellectual and psychological thriller investigating the sickening motives that drive serial killers . In theory this means " Ripper " is a film that constantly features college students bragging about their knowledge concerning the modus operandi and trademarks of notorious killers ? Jack the Ripper in particular ? but when they eventually face one themselves , they make exactly all the same mistakes victims usually make in low-brain horror films . Every member in class perfectly knows Jack the Ripper picked up prostitutes or that Ted Bundy aimed at lonely and insecure girls , yet even then they still have random sex with a total stranger at a party and continue to separate themselves from the group even though several of their friends already turned up dead . Are we really supposed to believe these characters are any smarter than the usual ones in post-Scream slashers just because they read a few books about profiling techniques ? On the bright side , however , " Ripper " certainly isn't a total waste of time . The opening sequences and the finale are pleasingly exciting , there's a relatively fair amount of gore and the cast contains a handful of familiar faces , like Jürgen Prochnow ( " The Keep " ) and Bruce Payne ( " Passenger 57 " ) . The latter stars as a prominent FBI-profiler slash university professor , teaching his class to ' expect the unexpected ' when faced with an actual serial killer . They can soon enough put this theory into practice when an actual Jack the Ripper copycat shows up on campus . He / she seems to follow around the class ' outsider Molly , as she already survived a similar massacre party on an island a couple of years ago . Quite annoyingly , the characters are killed off in order of likableness and beauty . The most ravishing scream-queens , Kelly Brook , Emmanuelle Vaugier and Daniella Evangelista , are the first to die whereas the insufferable ones like the class-clown and the obnoxious French import actress hang around till the very end . Much more than on the revived popularity of slashers , " Ripper " attempts to cash in on the success of Hughes ' brothers " From Hell " . Even part of the title is borrowed .
Well , this isn't good at all !	I picked up this film after I got a lot of recommendations on it . Not just here on this wonderful website but also from magazines , friends etc . I was told this is one the typical 80's horror films . Creepy and funny at the same time . Well , the 80's was an excellent decade for the genre , but this film sure doesn't belong in the list of the best . It can't compete to The Evil Dead , Re-Animator or even the Night of the Creeps ( although this last film and House have the same scriptwriter . Fred Dekker proved he was able to pull it off with Night of the Creeps but not with this one ) . I don't know what the main problem with this film is . I think it is very slooooooooooooooow . The story never seems to develop , actually . I did start great though . A big creepy house owned by a weird old lady . She's found hung up . Looked like she couldn't handle the haunted house anymore . Then her nephew moves in . He's a writer of horror stories who lived there before , but his son strangely disappeared and that cost him both his career and his marriage . He wants ' solitude ' to work on his new book now ( about his Vietnam experiences - that's a rather important detail to the movie ) and therefore he moved in to his aunt's house . Well , as you probably could have guessed , strange things happen . Ghosts are dwelling around and are trying to drive him crazy . Like I said , it started out nice . After the guy just moved in he gets to meet his neighbor . And it's NORM PETERSON ! The greatest character from the wonderful sitcom CHEERS . My first thought was : OK , if they want to make a horror-comedy , this guy is the best choice to pull it off . Well , he is the best character in the movie indeed , but his part can't save the movie completely . Neither can the part of the great looking neighbor . A standard woman from the 80's but very pretty . . . his ex-wife too , by the way . Final conclusion : way to slow to keep interested , the script contains many small faults ( SPOILER How could for example the Big Ben zombie know for sure that the guy would move in to the house END SPOILER ) The acting is OK , I guess and so is are the make-up effects . The story is the biggest disappointment . Too bad that is the most important factor of a movie . . . at least in my opinion . The film got three sequels which I also bought . They were in a box for 14 . 99$ . I already regret wasting my money : (
Slashing through the unmemorable valley of Darkness . . .	Forgettable , by-the-numbers 80's slasher in the woods , which is saved from total mediocrity by an unusually high body count and a fair amount of tongue-in-cheek humor during the first hour . The beautiful forest region of Memorial Valley is being turned into a fancy camping site by a rich business man . Various campers begin to arrive , even though the site is far from ready yet , and so does a primitive caveman killer . At first , it simply looks like the scarcely dressed Tarzan Junior is butchering campers because they're messing with the ecological balance in Memorial Valley , but there's also a personal vendetta . He has been living in the deep forests for almost twenty years , and his presumable father ? who just happens to be in charge of the campsite ? never managed to track him down . The murders in this low-budget slasher are pretty imaginative , albeit completely gore-free and rather tame . A couple of insufferable characters are massacred with ingenious booby-traps ( pits with stakes , falling trunks , . . . ) but the cave boy himself is one of the most UN-menacing killers in the history of horror movies . His total lack of evil charisma is even funnier when a supposedly tough and macho biker runs away from him , screaming with fear like a little girl . . . Multiple other reviewers also pointed out already that it's quite remarkable that our Mowgli has the knowledge to blow up a caravan without ever having seen one before in his life ! There are loads of amusing little stupidities in " Memorial Valley Massacre " and they effectively distract you from the total lack of tension , plausibility and gore . Robert C . Hughes ' previous movie , the fascinating survival horror flick " Hunter's Blood " , was a lot better and more tense but still this quickie is recommended to undemanding horror fans . The character of the retired military general ( played by veteran William Smith ) is truly cool .
I suppose a script was too much to wish for ?	Surprise , surprise ! The super-hideous Djinn is resurrected once more to butcher a whole lot of people and ? more importantly ? to further exploit the successful franchise that started with " Wishmaster " two years earlier . The Djinn is awakened and let out of his funky red emerald during a clumsy art-heist by two young and amateurish robbers . The female culprit ( who constantly weeps and frequently visits church ? oh yes , she makes a truly convincing thief ) now only has to make three wishes and the world will come to an end . But , and this is fairly new compared with the original , the Djinn first has to collect a total of 1000 random souls ! So , again shaped like Nathaniel Demerest , he dwells through places where there's a lot of wishing going on , like prisons and casinos . Watching " Wishmaster 2 : Evil Never Dies " isn't a complete waste of time , it's just that it's very redundant and uncreative ! The makers didn't even attempt to upgrade the premise and thus the best sequences are just copies of best parts of the original ( the mass slaughter , the scene inside the emerald ? ) . The plot also shamelessly re-uses the only good gag over and over again , namely the ambiguous interpretation of people's wishes . Whenever the poor suckers speak their deepest wish , the Djinn fulfills it so literally it becomes a nightmare . Example : a Russian mobster wishes the head of his nemesis and moments later his own face mutates into it . Very cool ? . but not if this trick is repeated all the time ! Nevertheless , the film offers some good and very nasty gore , so undemanding horror fans will definitely consider it worth renting . This sequel went straight to video so who expects suspense and / or intelligence anyway ?
Elementary inferior , my dear Watson ?	It was always obvious , even before watching it , that this Sherlock Holmes movie wouldn't be as terrific and compelling as " The Hound of the Baskervillers " ( the other Holmes movie directed by Terence Fisher and starring Christopher Lee ? although not in the titular role ) , but I honestly didn't expect it to be this disappointing . The most major problems are noticeable on the surface already : an international co-production with two directors , a lesser interesting plot outline ( at least in comparison with most of Doyle's stories ) , issues during the post-production phase and English-speaking actors whose voices are dubbed ? in English ! Yup , especially if you're a fan of the aforementioned Hammer film or ? like myself ? swear by the brilliant old Sherlock Holmes movie series starring Basil Rathbone , you might consider skipping this one or least lower your expectations drastically . Still , " S . H . and the Deadly Necklace " isn't entirely without merit , neither . Surely a lot of fans desperately crave to see the almighty Christopher Lee depict the greatest and most intelligent fictional detective who ever lived ? Even though he doesn't sound like himself , Lee's charisma and impressive posture is exactly right for the character . With his inborn aura of superiority and stern grimaces , Lee is like a natural born Sherlock Holmes and it's regrettable that he was only offered to play the role once and in such lackluster conditions . Lee also receives excellent support from Thorley Walters ( well cast as Dr . Watson ) as well as a couple of lesser known performers . The film definitely also benefices from the masterful art direction and enchanting black-and-white cinematography , respectively courtesy of Paul Markwitz and Richard Angst . Last but not least there are some memorable moments to enjoy , including Watson's uncomfortable encounter with a prostitute and the multiple disguises of Sherlock Holmes . Sadly these aspects are merely just footnotes in an overall tedious , suspense-free and incoherent mystery / thriller .
Adequately made but passable .	It's probably a bit unfair to compare this version of the Sweeney Todd story ? as well as any other film version ever made before ? with Tim Burton's film which came out in 2007 , but at the same time also inevitable . Burton's movie is like the ultimate adaptation of the Sweeney Todd story , with the perfect cast ( Johnny Depp , Alan Rickman , ? ) , superior production values , dazzling music and breathtaking art-direction . Naturally all previously released versions pale in comparison , but that still doesn't mean they aren't interesting to watch . Despite being " just " a TV-production , talented names were involved in this movie as well , like director John Schlesinger ( " Midnight Cowboy " , " Day of the Locust " ) and veteran actor Ben Kingsley in the titular role . The plot details here differ with most other versions I've seen thus far and particularly Sweeney Todd's motivations to kill the customers that set foot in his barbershop aren't as convincing as usual . Here , Sweeney Todd is a downright merciless and malignant killer whereas in other versions he's more of a mentally tormented individual with pure vengeance on his mind . He kills random and seemingly lonely people in his barbershop and " donates " their bodies to his associate Mrs . Lovett ; who processes the flesh in her acclaimed and world-famous London meat pies . Their morbid business finally raises suspicion when an American investigator arrives in London in search of a former partner . It turns out the missing person was last seen as a customer in Sweeney Todd's barber chair ? " The Tale of Sweeney Todd " is reasonably entertaining throughout , although there are too many dull sequences and moments of substantial emptiness . The infamous lead character's profile is bleak this time around . You can't feel any empathy for him , but neither is he the intellectual and eloquent master villain that he pretends to be . Mostly surprising about this movie is the high amount of nasty make-up effects and grisly images . There are quite a lot of gruesome murders and their bloody aftermaths on display and some of the make up effects are even TOO repulsive , like for example Mrs . Lovett's dental hygiene . Kingsley's performance is far below his usual standards , but he nevertheless remains a professional chameleon actor . The best performance actually comes from the young Sean Flanagan as the mute barber assistant . It's certainly not a bad effort from the legendary director John Schlesinger , but I wouldn't go through too much trouble to purchase a copy .
Hey , where has the house gone ? ?	Ah , the house that vanished ? This oddball ( alternate ) title alone was more than enough reason for me to purchase a copy of this obscure and relatively unknown horror flick . But unfortunately , and as the case with too many 70's horror efforts , the title is by far the most exciting aspect about the entire production . This is an unbelievably dull film , stuffed with all the annoying genre-clichés and predictable plot-twist you can possibly think of . During the opening sequences , we follow a young couple ? a photo model and her petty thief lover ? as they break into an isolated house during a foggy night . There they witness a murder and only the girl manages to escape into the woods surrounding the house . And , in case you wonder , the title is really accurate ! When the girl ? Valerie ? wants to show some of her friends where the murder took place , she can't locate the house anymore ! ? Like it vanished into thin air ! Anyway , life goes on and Valerie falls in love with a strangely introvert boy who has a peculiar affair with his aunt and classical music plays whenever he's on screen . The murderer hasn't forgotten about Valerie yet and all kind of sinister happenings lead her back to the murder-house . The plot sounds sensational on paper , and I'm convinced it could have been really great , but the elaboration is very poor and way too slow . The only things to admire during the tedious middle section of the film are main actress Andrea Allan's good looks and her smoking HOT body . Yes , I am aware this is a shallow remark to make , but her spontaneous stripteases truly are the only moments that hold your attention . Director José Ramón Larrez seems to realize this too , since the amount of sleaze and nudity gradually increases as the film reaches towards its climax . There's very little suspense and the few murder scenes are tame and as good as bloodless . The more than obvious denouement is almost like an insult to trained horror fans .
What a Circus !	Sigh ? Sometimes the outcome of a movie viewing goes beyond being a mere " disappointment " or just " something you expected more from " . Sometimes it actually HURTS to acknowledge that a certain title wasn't as great as you initially thought or hoped . For me , this was definitely the case with " Berserk ! " . I'm a sucker for British horror movies released during the 60's and 70's , I think a circus or carnival forms the absolute greatest setting to tell a sinister tale ( just think of " Freaks " , " Carnival of Souls " and " Santa Sangre " ) and I'm a huge fan of both Joan Crawford and Michael Gough . Taking into account all these positive omens , I honestly thought " Berskerk ! " couldn't possibly go wrong , and yet it did . You know you're in trouble when the extended padding sequences , which actually don't contribute anything to the overall story , form the highlights of the film . That's like openly admitting to the viewer that the main story lines are too thin to fill up the entire playtime , or that they desperately need the padding in order to distract you from the incoherent and implausible plot . In " Berserk ! " the padding footage serves both purposes . A lot of the circus acts , albeit impressive , are integrally shown ( like an army of poodles performing neat tricks , elephant dancing , a lion tamer and a knife-throwing act ) and the circus ' freaks even sing an entire song from start to finish ! " Berserk ! " nevertheless opens splendidly , with the tense and gruesome death of a tightrope walker before the opening credits even roll over the screen . His death might just have been an unfortunate accident , but when a second and far more eminent member of the circus crew is murdered , Scotland Yard sends its finest agent along on the tour to Liverpool and London . The circus ' owner and ringmaster Mrs . Monica Rivers ( Joan Crawford wearing tights ! ) is a harsh and relentless business woman and it looks as if someone intends to put her traveling circus spectacle in a bad spotlight . The concept literally bursts with great potential and possibilities but the film quickly becomes a tedious , inane and totally illogical mess . After the second murder , nothing even remotely exciting happens for nearly 45 minutes and the screenplay loosely hangs together through weak dialogs and Crawford's naturally uncanny presence . The revelation of the killer's identity as well as his / her motivation is downright imbecilic , and you better not contemplate too much about how he / she was even capable of committing the vile crimes . The carnage should have been bloodier and more grotesque , even considering the limited budget and era of release , and the film totally lacks the mysterious and oddly unsettling ambiance of other contemporary circus-horror efforts . Director Jim O'Connelly also made the fantastically over-the-top demented horror gem " Tower of Evil " and , since both films are rather obscure , I recommend tracking down that one instead of " Berserk ! " .
New-age giallo without surprises . Where's the blood and gore , Dario ? ? ?	I think even the most fanatic Argento fans will agree that the 90's was a rather disappointing decade for the Italian horror maestro . Both ' Trauma ' and ' The Stendal Syndrome ' were below his normal standards and ' Phantom of the Opera ' was simply bad . But the new millennium seemed to bring back Dario's inspiration and he gave us ' Sleepless ' . I love that film ? the violence is outrageous and the plot is deliciously absurd . ' Sleepless ' was an authentic giallo and it made me anticipate the release of ' The Card Player ' with great expectations ? Well , I regret saying Argento's latest film is yet another minor disappointment . It feels like watching a routine , made-for-TV thriller and the typical Argento touches are nowhere to detect . And worst of all ? it's as good as bloodless ! I couldn't believe my eyes when I noticed when some of the murders were shown in swift , unclear flashes ! Some of them even happened off-screen and that's the last thing I expect in an Italian horror shocker . Dario Argento does move with the times , though ! The screenplay of his latest giallo involves online gaming , web cams , forensic examinations and sell phone text messages . There's a killer on the loose in Rome . He kidnaps girls and offers policewoman Anna Mari the opportunity to save their lives by playing online poker games with him . Since the first victim was a British tourist , Anna teams up with the tough John Brennan who works as a police officer for the British embassy . Granted , during several sequences , Argento manages to create suspense and he still knows how to uphold an unsettling tone . But the plot is far too thin and the twists are predictable . It doesn't require a degree in rocket science to figure out what's going on and even the killer's identity isn't a real mystery . Dario Argento is mostly known as a giallo-director . Gialli form a unique sub-genre because of their complex structure and far-fetched plot-twists . And , not to forget , because of the mad-raving gore sequences and perverted sexual undertones . The Card Player totally lacks all these elements .
Very stylish film , but it could have used a little more panache . . .	As much as I'd like to agree with the rest of you cinema-experts around here , I really can't bring myself to call this film a masterpiece and even the genius-reputation of director Guillermo Del Toro is a bit undeserved , if you ask me . His horror movies for large audiences ( " Mimic " , " Hellboy " ) are truly mediocre and even his so-called hidden & personal horror gems ( " Cronos " and this " The Devil's Backbone " ) aren't that impressive , neither . They're both atmospheric and macabre tales with subtlety and charm , but the wholesome eventually turns out empty and rather dull . " The Devil's Backbone " is a beautiful film to look at , but that's pretty much it . The story opens moving and truly emotional ( that's quite logical with a premise set in a orphanage during a devastating war ! ) with identifiable characters and authentic human misery . The Spanish Civil War is largely illustrated through the only partially comprehending eyes of a 10-year-old boy who's dropped in a desert orphanage after the dead of his battling Republican father . Carmen and professor Caseras , the amiable owners of the orphanage , try to take pity on the young Carlos but he continues to face danger even inside the institute . Carlos has to stand up against the obligatory bully-kid , there's the ominous caretaker Jacinto and ? worst of all ? the ongoing rumors about a missing child that still dwells around the orphanage as a restless ghost . The premise is intriguing , almost poetic , and has lots of possibilities . The technical aspects are sublime , with polished special effects instead of gross-out gore , the camera-work is mesmerizing and the acting performances are terrific . And yet , there's something missing which doesn't make this film memorable enough and that's the overly noticeable lack of action . I'm all for atmosphere-driven horror with almost no bloodshed but at least they have to feature a couple of mind-blowing shock sequences . Films like " A Tale of Two Sisters " or " The Others " follow this rule perfectly , but I only counted one pertinent scene in " The Devil's Backbone " ( Carlos ' nightly encounter with Santi ) and the timing ? halfway in the film ? definitely wasn't ideal . The last half hour is unimaginably tedious and totally ruined the promising story idea for me . Films like this only become masterpieces when the story contains several surprising twists or at least ONE perplexing denouement . " The Devil's Backbone " kindly stays within the boundaries of the expected at all times .
In 2079 , the Dome is Home !	Boy , am I glad I'll be long dead and rotten by the time it's 2079 , because these adaptations of Philip K . Dick stories really don't make it seem like it will be a pleasant era to be alive ! In the year 2079 , the people of earth live in a dome ( like in " The Simpsons Movie " only much larger ) and there's the constant threat that evil aliens kill you and replace you with a walking , talking time bomb replica . Charismatic and still severely underrated actor Gary Sinise stars as the successful and happily married ( to Madeleine Stowe ) weapon designer Spencer Olham , who's about to discuss a major warfare breakthrough with one of the earth's most important leaders . Hours before the meeting , however , army major Hathaway ( Vincent D'Onofrio , another underrated class actor ) arrests him under the suspicion of being an alien replica . Olham escapes into the ghetto wastelands , strongly motivated to convince to his wife , his opponents and even to himself that he's still his old human self instead of an explosive android . " Impostor " is an overall mediocre and unmemorable Sci-Fi movie , presumably because it was originally just intended to be 40 minutes segment in an anthology film . The stretching of Philip Dick's SHORT story premise is undoubtedly what ruined the intensity & disturbance-element of the concept , as the whole escape-and-quest-for-truth plot feels too overly familiar and derivative . The set designs and decors are impressive ( although sometimes borrowed from contemporary Sci-Fi flicks ) and often nightmarish , including brightly lit futuristic transportation vehicles and nifty new surgery techniques . Then , on other occasions , it seems like earth's technology and the human mind set hasn't developed at all . In the shower , for example , Spencer sings along with golden oldies like John Lee Hooker's " Boom Boom " that ? in 2079 ? must be more than 120 years old . It's possible , of course , but very unlikely considering the way musical tastes are evolving nowadays . Also , in some of the houses you can still find old-fashioned bathroom tabs and simplistic toothbrushes ! Don't Sci-Fi movies usually go to any length to come up with crazy gimmicks ? " Impostor " doesn't even try , apart from the obvious stuff . Generally , this is a disappointing and forgettable film ; nothing even remotely as classic as some of the other Philip K . Dick adaptations available on the market , like " Minority Report " , " Total Recall " and of course " Blade Runner " . I watched " Impostor " shortly after its theatrical release in 2002 but didn't remember anything about the story when it aired on TV this week . Too bad for Sinise and the rest of the cast , as their vivid performances deserved a slightly better screenplay .
You saw " Predator " one too many times , Bruno ?	This user-comment stands as my last personal homage to director Bruno Mattei , who sadly passed away just a few weeks ago . Even though certainly wasn't the world's best horror director ( he's often even referred to as the Italian Ed Wood ) , but his movies never failed to entertain me , and you could always tell he had great intentions . " Hell of the Living Dead " and " Rats : Nights of Terror " , for example , are both terrible , yet they form essential viewing for fans of Italian horror cinema . Mattei supposedly died from a brain tumor , but after seeing " Cannibal Ferox 3 " , I'm beginning to suspect Arnold Swcharzenegger and John McTiernan killed him for exaggeratedly imitating their masterwork " Predator " . I've seen a lot of ( Italian ) rip-offs of cinematic milestones , but there never was any film that shamelessly borrowed so many key-elements from one movie and repeated them blatantly . Every single memorable sequence from " Predator " is copied here ( from the skinned corpses hanging upside down from trees to the mistaken killing of a wild boar instead of the enemy ) and even most of the dialogs are literally re-used . ( " ain't got time to bleed " ) . Actually , all Bruno Mattei did was replace the intergalactic hunter with a tribe of native Cannibals , and that's it ! A team of heavily trained soldiers is sent into the jungle to locate and rescue a Western girl who's supposedly captured by a cannibalistic tribe . The tribe considers her to be some sort of Goddess , so even if the squad can get her out of there , the cannibals aren't likely to give up without a fight . The script also steals elements from a handful of other movies ( " Aliens " , " Cannibal Holocaust " ? ) but if you've seen " Predator " , you're always several steps ahead of the screenplay . The action sequences are poorly done and there's only a disappointingly small amount of gory make-up effects to enjoy . Acting performances are weak and the total lack of sleaze is unforgivable . Cindy Jelic Matic stripped off all her clothes in " Mondo Cannibale " ( which was shot back-to-back with this one ) , so the least she could do was show some ravishing flesh here as well . Oh well , at least these recent cannibal-exploitation movies don't feature any gratuitous animal killings , I suppose . Unfortunately , I can't give any praise to Bruno Mattei regarding this film , as it really sucks , but at least he kept the Italian horror industry running till the day he died . He directed no less than fifteen movies since the new millennium and I think all his fans should see them ! Call it some kind of paying your last respects ?
The night he came home . . . again and again and again	After episode 3 without Michael Myers ( Season of the Witch , which turned out a marketing-mistake and a giant flop ) the Halloween franchise urgently needed his charismatic knife-wielder Michael back in order to make more cash . So here we see how Myers all of a sudden wakes up from his coma during a transport from a maximum security prison to a normal hospital . While stiffing a few innocent bystanders , he heads back to his hometown Haddonfield where his little niece ? the cherubic Jamie Lloyd ? is his next target . The decrepit looking Donald Pleasance continues to chase him and constantly tries to make people aware that Michael Myers actually is EVIL ? on two legs . For some reason , this fourth chapter is immensely popular among horror fans . I fail to see why as it features the same old elements like the town under siege , dumb coppers and shotgun-swinging hillbillies . In fact , the best parts of the entire movie are the different shots featuring during the opening credits . Here , we see creepy images of Halloween-related scenery on remote locations . Excuse me for saying it but the rest of part IV is dull ! Most of the killings are off-screen and even the ones we're witnessing are as good as bloodless . Michael is tame and the film takes itself far too serious . I easily prefer the Friday the 13th series and Jason Vorhees would beat Myers without even trying .
Give a little bit of Heart and Soul . . .	" Heartstopper " , directed by the always-reliable special effects wizard Bob Keen ( he worked on the effects for no less than " Hellraiser " , " Candyman " and " Hardware " ) , is a sadly forgettable effort that combines the plot of a typical late 80's cheesy flick with the outrageous gore and brutality of nowadays ' Torture Porn ' movies . The concept of a serial killer with supernatural powers who desperately attempts to transfer his murderous spirit into a new body after his own execution is dreadfully unoriginal and already featured ( more or less ) in at least four movies , namely Wes Craven's " Shocker " , the atrocious third entry in the " House " series , the criminally underrated film " Prison " and the overall lamentable film " The Chair " . This movie has absolutely nothing new to tell in its plot , but at least it remains somewhat entertaining thanks to the incredibly high body count , explicit on screen bloodshed and the cast of clichéd characters . A young interracial couple have to defend themselves against the sneering and overly talkative psychopath Chambers ( who enjoys ripping hearts out of people's torsos whilst they're watching ) , and they receive little to none help from an indecisive nurse and from the Sheriff , played by Robert Englund . " Heartstopper " is never really scary or disturbing because the plot is overly grotesque and incoherent . The setting of the nearly abandoned , ramshackle and soon-to-be-closed down hospital adds some morbid atmosphere to the wholesome . The surreal elements in the plot are totally ridiculous and the ending sucks , but hey , I'm sure you've seen newly released horror films that were a lot worse .
Saved only ( and barely ) by stories 3 , 5 and Tom Savini's make-up .	I'm aware of the fact this film has a very loyal and devoted horror movie fan base , but you can count me out . Perhaps because I never actively experienced the glorious high point years of Bill Gaines ' E . C . comics , but I just don't think it's a brilliant idea to shoot an entire film with the deliberate intention of making it look like a comic book coming to life . Previous cinematic interpretations of the exact same comic book series , like Amicus ' omnibuses " Tales from the Crypt " and " The Vault of Horror " , were much more effective simply because they focused on the sinister content of the stories as well as on atmosphere and set pieces . " Creepshow " largely puts the emphasis on comedy ? and , as we all know , horror & comedy rarely ever go well together ? and an overload of irritating cartoonish imagery ( frames , hectic color patterns , whirly lines , text balloons , etc ? ) that only raise weak impressions of childishness and accessibility for mainstream audiences . Not coincidentally , the two segments I enjoyed the most are those that featured the least gimmicks and cartoon characteristics . And still these two finest " Creepshow " stories barely just rise above mediocrity , as their plots are unoriginal , overlong and underdeveloped . Number three stars Leslie Nielsen as a sleazy and rich husband who inventively buries his wife and her lover ( Ted Danson ) to their necks in the sand and then patiently waits until the flood tide drowns them . Of course , the vengeful lovers inexplicably return as watery zombies to settle the score . It's a clichéd and totally unsurprising tale , but Nielsen is a joy to behold as the over-the-top killer . The fifth and final story is also worthwhile , albeit highly derivative . It stars the underrated E . G . Marshall as a boisterous and merciless business tycoon who lives all isolated in a big city penthouse because he's terrified of germs and vermin . But since he's such a mean person ( who just caused one of his employees to commit suicide ) , naturally his tidy white apartment becomes overrun by eerie cockroaches during a power failure . I'm biased because I love insect-horror , perhaps , but this was the only segment that somewhat sent shivers down my spine . The other three segments are hardly even worth mentioning , except maybe in order to accentuate how lamentable they are . We have a family patriarch zombie coming out of his grave during father's day because he wants cake ( funny , isn't it ? ) and a tale about a 147-year-old baboon going on a murderous rampage because someone opened the crate he was in . Adrienne Barbeau stars in this horrendous tale , but her terrific performance deserved a better script . The worst and absolute most pointless story shows respected author Stephen King struggling with extraterrestrial mucus that gradually takes over his body . " The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill " , as this chapter is called , is the complete opposite of funny and King's monologues are indescribably annoying . Also , no offense Mr . King , but you're a horrible actor . " Creepshow " probably was a fun project for Stephen King , George A . Romero and a long list of eminent cast members to collaborate on , but you can hardly call it a genuine classic in the horror genre . As usual , the finest contribution comes from Tom Savini , as his make-up effects are highly imaginative and much gorier than the overall tone of the movie suggests .
Did a cruise ship ever dance with a giant octopus by the pale moonlight ?	A really BIG fishy creature , born from spilled toxic nuclear waste during the Cuba-crisis , is consecutively devouring the crew of an American submarine and the passengers of a fancy cruise ship . Well actually , that's just a sub plot as the main storyline involves a super-nervous rookie CIA-agent trying to escort a feared terrorist to the States ALIVE , despite having blown up the American Embassy in Bulgaria and having killed his best friend . There are about seventeen more redundant plots to find in this movie ( the dubious military past of submarine captain Shaw , the " Devil's Eye " research of sexy female oceanologist of Dr . Lisa , the biggest terrorist rescue-mission in the history of mankind , etc etc . . . ) but they're all very irrelevant since all of us just wanted to see a cheesy monster-flick , right ? The good news is that " Octopus " really isn't as awful as everyone else around here claims . The plot is stupid , the lead character is insufferable and the script contains some of the most atrocious dialogues ever written , still there are also campy fun moments to enjoy and the computer-engineered effects are overall tolerable . This mutated squid sure is big , about the same size as the cruise ship and his tentacles are long enough to reach for the sky and pull down helicopters ! It doesn't look the least bit scary or menacing , but personally I expected to see far lousier effects and more pitiful octopus-attacks . The whole thing doesn't make the slightest bit of sense but if you switch off all brain activities , you might still enjoy it .
Norman , are you being a good boy ?	If Alfred Hitchcock would only know how influential he remained long after his death . . . Especially his film " Psycho " continues to stay the most imitated classic and , with the popularity of slasher-films in the 80's , this cinematic milestone got ' rewarded ' with two totally unnecessary yet entertaining and blood-soaked sequels . " Psycho II " was a reasonably ambitious and cleverly plotted thriller whereas this third part is far more simplistic with gross killings , quite a lot of gratuitous nudity and unsurprising plot-twists . Business is very quiet in Bates Motel until the day Norman homes a runaway nun named Maureen , and she dangerously resembles the murdered Marion Crane . Especially when timid Norman starts to fall for Maureen's suicidal charms , his dominating mothers rears her jealous head again and starts another killing spree . The idea of supplying Norman Bates with a love-interest is nice , especially since the girl is quite nuts herself , and the first half of the film is actually rather atmospheric and tense . The opening shot revolving on Mareen's first and disastrous suicide attempt is even astonishing , despite being unrelated to the rest of the movie . There are several other sequences in which Anthony Perkins proves himself to be an adequate director and his subtle cinematographic tributes to Hitchcock are probably the film's biggest trumps . The murders mommy commits are typically 80's and thus repellent , gory and not caring much about the victim's identity . The set pieces are neat , the music occasionally is very unsettling and the acting performances are decent . Perkins even throws in some humor and witty dialogues , so I can't really say this sequel is a total failure .
Crazy and inept , but somewhat fun .	Forget about the nonsensical other title " The Astral Factor " ? In just two words , " Invisible Strangler " perfectly summarizes what this low-keyed 70's Sci-Fi horror movie is all about ! There's a strangler on the loose and he happens to be invisible , which makes it all the more easier to practice his macabre hobby of killing beauty queens . The lamentable screenplay doesn't really bother to enlighten us about how exactly mommy-obsessed psychopath Roger Sands renders himself invisible or why he goes after five women specifically . All we know is that he spent more than enough time in prison to gain supernatural powers and , after his escape , he uses them against everyone who testified in his court trial . There's absolutely no mystery surrounding the serial killer's persona . For example , macho police lieutenant Barrett ( Robert Foxworth ) doesn't discover the connection between the strangled victims himself ; he just hears that Roger Sands peculiarly escaped from his cell and automatically assumes he's the culprit . And since we're never informed about the crimes that put Roger in prison the first place , it remains unclear exactly how obsessive his quest for vengeance is . Most of all , nobody seems to be really astonished about the fact they're dealing with an invisible maniac ! Like it's the most common thing in the world to witness a woman , surrounded by an army of police officers , getting strangled by invisible hands ! The lack of background info and character drawings makes " Invisible Strangler " a suspenseless and often tedious film , and it's really no surprise it took another five years after finishing the film before it got released . However , it's a not a complete waste of time , since the murders ? albeit gore-free ? are sometimes imaginatively staged . The film is also ( unintentionally ) comical because the characters often say the craziest things at the most inappropriate times . Especially Candy , the luscious girlfriend of lieutenant Barett , appear to live in another universe , as she wishes her lover to have fun catching his maniac . She's also the world's absolute worst cook and doesn't like to wear pants . Candy hasn't got anything to do with the murder investigation , so it's rather awkward Stefanie Powers received top billing for her role . Then again , it certainly isn't the only awkward aspect about " Invisible Stranger " . Why is Roger the killer so obsessed with his mother ? How come becoming invisible is reminiscent to a bad-quality TV broadcasting ? Why on earth does Roger not abuse his power to spy on them naked ladies before killing them ? Why am I asking so much questions about a bottom-of-the-barrel 70's horror production ?
B-movie film school ?	This amateurish but nonetheless spirited gory mess was produced by sleazebag J . R . Bookwalter's company " Tempe " , which offers young ambitious directors like Matthew Jason Walsh the chance to share their enthusiastic horror ideas with a modest but loyal group of B-movie fans . The budget was really really low , resulting in poor editing , only a limited number of set pieces and very bad acting performances . In fact , " Bloodletting " pretty much looks like a rookie project of some film school student , as the story is a simple " Bonnie & Clyde " or " Natural Born Killers " variant ( a serial killer couple in love ) , only with loads of nauseating gore and extra-crazy characters . The idea is okay , but the leads are very irritating and they talk way too much which only makes their lousy acting skills more clear . The gore highlights are quite memorable , including a pleasantly deranged " This Little Piggy . . . " - game and of course the absurd baby-killing sequence . The last half hour is dreadfully boring , though , and filled with totally ridiculous story-twists . Overall , I expected " Bloodletting " to be a lot worse , but that still doesn't mean it's good . " Bearable " is the word .
Deadbeat coeds , chopping malls and giant penis-costumes . Yep , we're in the 80's all right !	Gorgeous sorority girls hunted down by a maniacal killer during their pledge night . Now there's a new and totally original idea for an early 80's slasher movie . . . NOT ! Well , that's also what the creators of " The Initiation " must have thought , and thus they added some other , much more ambitious story lines as well , including reoccurring nightmares & dream-analysis , convoluted family drama and revenge . An admirable effort , but all these sub plots don't hide very well that the basic desire of director Larry Stewart simply was to brutally kill off a handful of scarcely dressed college girls in a shopping mall setting . This all results in a film with an overlong and frequently tedious first half with only one truly great and suspense-laden scene ( set inside a mental asylum ) and a very routine and déjà-vu second half with four girls and some frat-boys stalked by a well-armed killer in a mall . " The Initiation " offers absolutely nothing you haven't seen a hundred times before and that includes uninspired murders , pathetic fraternity ceremonies , stereotypical characters and ? of course ? the obligatory full frontal nudity shots of girls walking out of the shower . Oh no , wait ! There's is one little something you probably haven't seen before ! During a typical costume party , the funny guy of the bunch dresses up like a giant penis ! Complete with hairy balls and veins ! Now that's what I'll remember this movie for . . . " The Initiation " supposedly introduces Daphne Zuniga ( even though she already appeared briefly in a similar kind of movie called " The Dorm that Dripped Blood in 1982 ) as the cherubic Kelly Fairchild , wannabe Delta Ro Kai sorority member and only daughter of a prominent shopping mall owner . If worrying about getting into the elite girls club isn't enough yet , she's also haunted by nightmares in which she witnesses her nine-year-old self in her parents ' bedroom when a stranger sets fire to her poor father . The hunky university professor Peter wants to help Kelly solving this mystery while the leader of the sorority insists on stealing daddy's keys to the mall . During the pledge night inside the abandoned mall it becomes clear that it all wasn't a nightmare but a repressed memory , and there really is a maniac after Kelly and her friends . Oh no ! ! Undemanding slasher-movie fanatics have a brutal axe-killing and some violent stabbings to look forward to , but there's little tension overall and the climax is really stupid . The producers were clearly proud to have Vera Miles and Clu Gulager in the film , but their roles are modest and forgettable . Daphne Zuniga is a sweetheart and Hunter Tylo demonstrates what a ravishing body she disposed off in the early 80's .
House of 0 , 0001 Corpses . . .	I suppose " Burnt Offerings " holds some kind of nostalgic value among many fans of 70's horror , otherwise I haven't got the slightest idea why this film should be regarded as a genre " classic " . Admittedly , this haunted house thriller by Dan Curtis ( whom , I've learned thanks to this wonderful website , passed away very recently ) features quite a tense atmosphere and occasional flashes of sheer brilliance , but the story never really goes anywhere and several potentially interesting sub plots remain entirely unexplained . The basic premise is painfully predictable and when the main ' revelation ' takes place near the end of the movie , you'll be wondering what on earth the big surprise is . The screenplay , adapted from a novel by Robert Marasco , is rudimentary guff about a model family that moves into a large mansion as caretakers for the summer . The location and facilities of the house are incredibly and the family's only real duty is to look after an elderly lady who lives in the attic , so it looks like the Roths made a real bargain here . Naturally , the house soon begins to influence the behavior of its inhabitants and especially mother Marian becomes obsessed with the place , since she spends most of day locked inside the attic room while the old lady remains hidden to the rest of the family . I hate using the words " dull " or " boring " when reviewing horror movies from the 70's decade but , unfortunately , there's no other way to describe the majority of sequences here in " Burnt Offerings " . The house makes too few casualties and even the nightmares it inflicts on Oliver Reed's character are too tame for you to care . Luckily the beautiful art direction ( by specialist Eugene Lourie ) compensates for a lot of flaws in the story and the cast is downright magnificent , with the always-reliable Oliver Reed and Karen Black giving away stellar performances . Overall , " Burnt Offering " ( completely misleading title , by the way ) is a failure , but at least it's an interesting failure .
France of the Dead !	The French and movies about the living dead don't really seem to match together very well , do they ? Remember " Zombie Lake " ? Well , " Revenge of the Living Dead Girls " is almost as awful as that one , only it wasn't so fortunate to hoard a gigantic cult status and became pretty much forgotten over the years . Nevertheless , this is entertaining bad cinema in case all you're looking for is no-budget exploitation , sleaze and a handful of repulsive gore sequences . The film opens like standard zombie guff , with three recently deceased teenage girls coming back from the dead after toxic waste has been spilled on their tombs . The girls immediately go after the management of the local dairy factory since poisoned milk caused their deaths to begin with . Or at least so it seems , because the whole factory hangs together by fraud , conspiracies , scandals and bribery . There's a fairly ingenious plot-twist near the end but , until then , all we get to see is terrible acting , pointless red herrings and completely hilarious dialogues ( " a little bit of necrophilia never hurt anyone " ) . The gory scenes , albeit amateurish , are effectively nauseating and offensive ! Some woman gets her eyes poked out by high heels , another one poor soul gets a sword inserted in her vagina and THE most stomach-turning moment involves a totally random but incredibly bloody miscarriage in the shower . That was just too much ! Proceed at your own risk . . .
Your little jokes aren't funny , Jason . . .	" The Sleeping Car " is a pretty insignificant and worthless horror film that is made endurable by a couple of nice special effects and a neat supporting role by Kevin McCarthy . The plot revolves on an over-aged journalism student Jason ( David McNaughton from " American Werewolf in London ) who rents an old , refurnished train carriage to live in . This carriage ? the sleeping car ? is possessed by the spirit of " the Mister " , the landlady's late husband who was responsible for a huge train crash ten years earlier . The screenplay doesn't make that much sense , but you can hardly consider that an obstacle in early 90's horror movies . There's some nice murdering and the female lead Judie Aronson is yummy . What's really annoying about the " the Sleeping Car " are the constant witty remarks of protagonist Jason McCree . He uses a supposedly funny one-liner every time his character does or says something . Even in the climax , when he's fighting ( ? ) the demon , he interrupts the action for a lousy remark . . . Very annoying .
Incest ? No no , we call it LOVE !	" Schoolgirls in Chains " , with its grotesquely provocative yet inaccurate title , may perhaps thrive on a series of ultimately controversial , shocking and politically incorrect themes , but the low-budget elaboration and lack of talent involved ( fortunately ? ) prevented the film from becoming the nasty exploitation highlight it clearly hoped to be . If director Donald Jones would have been capable of gloriously depicting all the rancidness he suggests in the script ( including rape , torture , necrophilia and incest ) , then " Schoolgirls in Chains " indeed would have been a genuine exploitation classic , but now it's just a mildly offensive & amusingly inept 70's trash-gem . The most demented aspect about this film ( extra spoiler warning ) is that the story's hero is a teacher who actually has sexual liaisons with under-aged female students . How incredible is that ? Normally he'd be thrown in jail for that , but here he ends up saving the day ! The story introduces two middle-aged brothers still living in their secluded parental mansion and filling their days with , well , nothing really ? except kidnapping random young girls and subjecting them to torturous games . Johnny is mentally disabled and doesn't fully realize his victims don't voluntarily choose to play doctor with him . His older brother Frank is more of a silent type , but equally disturbed and at least ten times more misogynist . His behavior was mostly triggered by an awkward mother / son relationship . The flashback sequence in which the mommy colorfully explains to his one and only girlfriend how she and Frank make love ALL the time is easily the best part of the film . The mother is still watching over her boys , by the way , though she can only seen from behind or heard in the distance . In other words , if you know your classics ? cough Psychocoughcough ? it's easy to guess the final denouement . The atmosphere of " Schoolgirls in Chains " is overall sleazy and brute , but the screenplay lacks suspense and suffers from too many dull moments . There's nudity , of course , but no real vulgar stuff .
Lon Chaney dances a mediocre jungle-boogie !	Certainly not a bad little low budget film , this " Bride of the Gorilla " , but nothing special , neither , and not memorable enough to be ranked among the meaningful Sci-Fi efforts of its time . Director Curt Siodmak was an eminent scriptwriter during the 1930's and 1940's and delivered stories for some true genre classics ( " I walked with a Zombie " , " The Wolf Man " ) but , as a director , he obviously lacked the required competences . " Bride of the Gorilla " is similar to the aforementioned " The Wolf Man " in story and atmosphere , but the film looks a lot more amateurish and pitiful . Both handle about cursed men that turn into large animals at night , but the titular gorilla doesn't look half as threatening as the werewolf , even though the film got released a whole decade later . During a cheesy opening speech , actor Lon Chaney tries to convince us that the jungle is an ominous place and hiding many mysteries , but actually there's no real mystery in the plot . It's just handles about a plantation manager who's jealous at his older colleague for having such a beautiful young wife and he kills him . A native woman witnesses his crime and puts a spell on Barney that causes him to transform into a hideously big gorilla at night . . . Or maybe she just wants him to believe he's turning into a hideously big gorilla ? Lon Chaney himself plays the police commissioner charged with the murder investigation while Raymond Burr ( who starred in about a thousand Perry Mason TV-movies ) portrays the greedy plantation manager / nightly gorilla . Siodmak attempts to make the film look like a supernatural thriller ? is it or is it not all just happening in Barney's head ? ? fail miserably and it causes way too much talking and too few jungle-action . Several of the jungle-settings are nicely pictured but the rest of the " special " effects are tacky and poorly done . Still the acting is pretty good , Barbara Payton is looking beautiful and ? although very predictable ? the story is strangely compelling until the very end . Weird movie , it probably voodoo-cursed me ?
Running towards Nothing . . . Again and again and again and again and . . .	The title of this obscure and ( almost righteously ) forgotten 80's slasher inevitably reminds me of The Cure's mega-smash-monster hit song with the same title , hence a piece of the lyrics in the title-section of this user comment . Also , I didn't have anything else to say that was useful , anyway . But hey , " The Forest " isn't totally hopeless and not even that bad , actually . If nothing else , at least it obeys the , admittedly unwritten , first rule of 80's slasher : kill someone within the first 10 minutes of playtime . Sure you've heard about the basic premise of this film a dozen times before , but don't let that discourage you from watching it , as " The Forest " has a couple of things more to offer than just an appealingly sinister cover image . It's actually a bit of an atypical 80's slasher ! The main characters aren't ordinary brainless teenagers and the script has solid ambitions towards supernaturalism . The concept isn't always successful , let alone plausible , but it's more than interesting enough to hold your attention and there are even are a couple of surprisingly strong moments of tension and plot twists to enjoy . Two married couples decide to go camping in the most isolated woods of California , but due to a stupid bet the wives travel separately from their husbands . Barely set up for the night , they receive uncanny visits from a mother looking for her two children , the children themselves and finally the father who's out hunting for human flesh . The demented family may be real or imaginary , but the women are definitely in danger and by the time their husbands arrive , they have already vanished . The men too encounter the family , and they find out more about the slightly dysfunction background . " The Forest " is a weird and unusual film , to say the least . It's not exactly a masterpiece of plotting , but the thoroughly strange atmosphere will certainly appeal to open-minded fans of 80's horror . The murders are fairly gruesome and will-filmed , including a slit throat and a painful saw-massacre , and the filming locations are stunningly beautiful . The more you contemplate about the story and its abrupt twists , the less it makes any sense , so my advice would just be to enjoy this odd viewing experience for as long as it lasts and not a minute longer . The acting performances are just above average , the music is okay and at least director Donald Jones ( also responsible for the 70's exploitation-sickie " Schoolgirls in Chains " ) tried to be a little more creative that the majority of 80's horror films . Too bad it ultimately fails .
Love the scenery ? and the make-up !	Bill Pullman plays a Harvard anthropologist who's sent to Haiti in order to investigate the process of ' zombification ' . Haitian voodoo-priests and sorcerers have developed a method to bring the dead back to live again and have control over their souls . The ' civilized ' medicine world is interested in this method to use it as some sort of tranquillizers before operating on patients . It doesn't take long before Pullman gets caught in a web of voodoo-spells and curses ? . I'm not a giant fan of director Wes Craven . The Serpent and the Rainbow surely is the most original and ambitious film of his career , but I feel like he lacks a little talent to make a memorable movie out of it . The script is often confusing and difficult to follow while Craven's usual style is simple and only meant to shock and entertain . Nonetheless , this film surpasses the average 80's horror level thanks to its inspired locations and often-gruesome make-up effects . The dark , mysterious Haitian graveyards at night look very spooky and Craven's zombies are quite terrifying . The topics of Voodoo and the living dead form a good plot outline for a compelling horror tale , but I would have preferred another director for this . Bill Pullman is a good lead and he gets excellent feedback from the often-overlooked actor Paul Winfield . While browsing through this site , I learned that Winfield sadly past away very recently on the 7th of March ? May he rest in peace and hopefully the voodoo priests will leave his soul at ease .
" Amityville " a classic ? ? Didn't think so ?	For some incomprehensible reason , " The Amityville Horror " enjoys the modest status of being a classic horror film and , moreover , some big shots in Hollywood even considered it profitable enough to remake it in 2005 . Well , maybe I just don't know anything about good horror , but this just a very average movie with a limited amount of thrills and truly antipathetic characters , if you ask me . Supposedly based on the factual events as described in Jay Anson's novel , the story handles about a relatively young family that moves into a giant Long Island mansion with a doubtful past . The previous owners ? a family of six ? were brutally slaughtered by a maniac , who happens to look a lot like the new occupant , George Lutz . The house has a will of its own and it soon starts with terrorizing the entire family and everybody else who sets foot inside , like a bunch of religious people and colleagues of George . " The Amityville Horror " is nowhere near original , since it borrows nearly all its good elements ( including every cliché ) from earlier successes such as " The Exorcist " , " the Omen " and " The Haunting " . The screenplay also contains too many dead-ends and underdeveloped ideas and the weak acting ? although coming from a respectable cast ? undercuts the little tension that's left . There're some atmospheric sequences ( the bleeding walls ! ) but generally speaking this is an unspectacular thriller that won't haunt you in your dreams . The score is really good and the house itself makes a wonderful horror location , yet this is not nearly enough to label this film a horror classic . And ? whatever you do , avoid the dreadful sequels ? All of them !
Rear Windshield	I don't really understand why everybody is so loud in praise about this mediocre Aussie thriller directed by Alfred Hitchcock's biggest fan-boy ( oh yeah , much bigger than Brian DePalma ) ; Richard Franklin . All I saw was a tedious thriller with an unforgivably low body count and only a couple of ingenious surprises in the script . Actually , if it weren't for Stacy Keach's vivid portrayal of the lonesome outback truck-driver , there would be pretty few to recommend , as his one-liners and lively imagination are the film's main " fuel " . Keach plays the overworked trucker Pat Quick , bringing a cargo of frozen meat to Perth . He keeps himself awake by having conversations about poetry with his pet-dingo and thinking up possible backgrounds for the people he observes on the road . " Rear Window " - style , he thinks he witnesses a murder and , due to a series of unlikely events , he becomes prime suspect in the police's search for a wanted serial killer . Overall , this is a poor crossover between the typically 70's road-movie and the most eminent Hitchcock-thrillers . There's the occasional clever remark and nifty camera-moment ( notably the scene where road strips are reflected onto Keach's face ) but there's too few action and suspense . Jamie Lee Curtis , who was immensely popular thanks to her contemporary knife-wielding slashers , stars to attract more horror buffs but her role is really rather limited . Richard Franklin made this film in between " Patrick " and his ultimate Hitchcock tribute " Psycho II " . Both titles are much better than this " Roadgames " .
Bloody Horror , my @ $$ !	I could think of approximately a dozen other and more appropriate titles to name this film , but " Night of the Bloody Horror " certainly isn't one of them . Okay , I realize the creators just picked out of bunch of appealing key words that are likely to raise an interest among horror fans , but any movie title should at least be a bit relevant , don't you think ? None of the main events - not even the finale ? happen during the night , the film honestly isn't that bloody and it definitely isn't horrific . But still I suppose you can't be overly harsh or negative-minded when watching " Night of the Bloody Horror " . This is the third film directed by Joy N . Houck Jr . that I've seen ( alongside " The Brain Machine " and " Creature from the Black Lake " ) , and I can already make some vast establishments & generalizations regarding his entire repertoire . First of all , the good man clearly never experienced the pleasure of working with a halfway decent budget ! All three films that I've watched were obviously made on a shoestring budget and therefore lacked proper editing , adequate lighting & photography and convincing make-up effects . On the other hand I also have to admit that the films don't really suffer that much from their own cheapness . They're all spirited and enthusiastically made mini horror-productions that attempt to cash in on contemporary classic genre titles . " Psycho " heavily inspires this film and it nearly goes over the top in trying to equal the same sinister atmosphere as Alfred Hitchcock's classic milestone . The script introduces Wesley Stuart ; a thirty-something bachelor who clearly has a whole lot of issues to deal with . He has an uncanny & dominating mother ( don't they all ? ) , he spent 13 years in an asylum for accidentally causing his younger brother's death and regularly suffers from excruciating headaches that are illustrated through cheap ' n cheesy blue spirals . When two of his girlfriends are found brutally murdered ( after the strange headaches caused a temporary blackout ) , the police automatically assume that Wesley resumed his old murderous habits again . " Night of Bloody Horror " is an okay time-waster , but it naturally doesn't feature any surprise elements or genuine thrills . The finale is embarrassingly predictable and the murders are substandard . The biggest problem , to me , is that Wesley Stuart is such a boring and faceless protagonist ! Half an hour into the movie , I was still thinking : " Wait ? who's this guy again ? Oh right , he's the main character ! " Gerald McRaney apparently went on to have a very successful career in television , but he totally lacks the charisma to play the lead role here . Another dreadful thing to endure here is the overload of needless and annoying padding material . In order to lengthen the film a bit , Houck Jr . adds pointless collages of Wesley's relationships and ? even more irritating ? endless footage of a rock band playing in a local redneck bar . The band's name is The Bored , by the way . Well , they surely inflect their name on to the viewers . " Night of Bloody Horror " isn't really worth checking out , except maybe if you're a very tolerant fan of no-budget horror .
Game over , already . . . Igor is the winner !	Dumb , dumb . . . dumb horror movie ONLY enjoyable IF you manage to totally ignore the whole concept that is . . . . well . . . rather dumb ! " Brainscan " is the name of a hi-tech video game that places the player inside the mind of a serial killer . Bound to a time-limit , Michael Bower ( Edward Furlong ) has to commit a motiveless murder without leaving evidence or witnesses . All very exciting , of course , until the next morning when Michael finds out that ? surprise surprise ? a real murder took place in his neighborhood , identical to the one he interactively committed . Overcome with fear and denial , he loses all contact with the outside world and becomes more and more dependent on Trickster ; the sinister host of the game . Despite being such a ? oh yes ? dumb film , this " Brainscan " is rather well-made and involving . The eerie tune is excellent , the opening sequences ( showing Michael's returning nightmare of his mother dying in a road-accident ) is atmospheric and the supportive characters are smoothly drawn . I particularly liked Frank Langella's cop-character Hayden . He's a fatigue man who refers to Michael as the class-misfit and never raises the tone of his voice , not even when the killer eventually stands in front of him . The visual effects were too hectic for me , but there is some good old-fashioned low budget gore and sharp black humor . The absolute best gimmick of the entire production , however , is Michael's computer-engineered butler named Igor ! This guy is great ! ! He answers to every command with a monotonous " Yes , master " and he even constantly repeats the message : " Master is busy . . . Master is busy " , when Michael to wishes to hold all calls . I have got to get me one of those ! Anyway , back to the movie : The climax is an obvious giveaway and it only states what everybody already knows . Gamers generally are mentally weak people with difficulties to have mature friendships or relations , ha ha . " Brainscan " is a horror movie especially intended for the Playstation-generation , so you better dispose of a healthy dose of humor in case you're not in this target group . Oh , did I already mention it was rather dumb ? ? Special kudos goes out to actress Amy Hargreaves who supposedly portrays a 16-year-old high-school sweetheart , while in reality 24 years of age already .
Based on a popular Belgian Comic book	Looks like I'm the first person to tell something about this title . No surprises here seeing that this film is based on a comic book that only comes out in my petite country Belgium . " Kiekeboe " is a popular and well written comic series by Merho . It handles about an average family getting involved in all kind of situations . Brought to us with a good amount of humor and sexy drawn females this is one of Belgium's best comics . " Het Witte Bloed " was number 36 in the series and it handles about the family being on vacation in a countryside caravan park . Next to this park lays a private clinic , where a sinister doctor tabs blood off his patients and replaces it by artificial white blood . The original blood of these patients is served to vampires in something that looks like a bar for bloodsuckers . Pretty original isn't it ? This sounds incredibly cheesy , and it is for a movie , but as a comic book story it's a nice little waste of time . In my opinion , they should have kept it a comic book . There isn't much difference though . The movie follows the book in every little detail . Every single action that is drawn in the book is acted by the characters in the film . That's not a good thing , I tell you . Some things look real nice on paper but on the screen it all seems overdone ! You can actually keep the book on your lap and follow the movie . Very few differences shall be seen . The cast contains a lot of great names . In Belgium that is . I'm sure no one will know the names of " Wim Opdebrouck " or " Gerd De Ley " here , but in Belgium television , these are all highly respected actors . They don't show it here though . The acting performances are like stiffs to be honest . That's probably because they had to follow the comic book line by line but still . . . I expect a little more from these actors . In fact the older characters in the story , the grandmother and grandfather give away the best performances . The daughter , Fanny , is supposed to be one of the prettiest girls alive . I assure you , the way she's drawn . . . WOW . But in " Het Witte Bloed " - the movie , she looks like a cheap tramp to put it in a cruel way . The blond wig is hilarious and I don't mean that in a good way . So , if you're from Belgium and you accidentally come across the little film , skip it and buy the comic book . Much better ! Also , a few years ago , another attempt has occurred to make a movie out of this series . " Misstoestanden " was an ever bigger disaster and caused a lot of production troubles . The writes , Merho , turned his back to the film crew .
Same director , same title but a totally different style . . .	Sequels to absolute horror-milestones . . . That's usually a very bad idea ( anyone remembers the stupidity of The Exorcist II and the Howling II ? ) . And the original from 1974 WAS an absolute milestone in the genre . Its cruel and scary style changed the horror industry forever . So keeping that in mind , my expectations towards this sequel were very low . But I must admit there were several elements about this production that made me give it the benefit of doubt . . . First and foremost Tobe Hooper directed again . Most directors don't feel much for making a sequel to their own masterpieces so I thought it was rather positive that Hooper returned . After all , he has proved he's able to make a masterpiece . Then I read Tom Savini himself was responsible for the makeup in TCM 2 . If you know your horror , I don't have to explain you this is a guarantee some for good old gory and bloody scenes . And , last but certainly not least , the castlist was filled up with the name of a star . Dennis Hopper would play Lefty . . . the uncle of some of the youngsters who got killed in the original TCM . WARNING = = = SPOILERS COMING UP ! ! Now , after viewing TCM 2 a couple of times , I still don't know whether I should like it hate it . I'm a huge fan of the original but this is something completely different . I've heard some people saying that this is how Hooper the original wanted to be ! Well , if that is true he made an unintentional masterpiece and he should be thankful for that . This sequel certainly isn't bad , but it's disappointing if you expect something similar to the first . It all starts well , with another introduction by a strong and severe voice over but pretty soon it turns into a gore comedy with loads of blood , guts and crazy one-liners . The whole tight and creey atmosphere ( which made the original so great ) has gone . So has the element of surprise ! There isn't much of a storyline present neither . . . Lefty , a former Texas Ranger hunts down the maniacs while the government tries to cover it up . The psycho Sawyer-family has gone through some changes , though . Dreyton is now a respected citizen and every year he wins a trophy for making the best chili in Texas ( the secret is in the MEAT , he says in his speech . lol ) . Being helped by a radio-dj , Lefty finds their house and starts a little demolition . . . END SPOILERS ! ! ! Bill Moseley as Chop Top is probably the most remarkable character in TCM 2 . He's an hyperactive little maniac and some of his quotes ( " Lick my plate " ) are very popular among horror fans . His background story interested me more and I recommend you to pay attention to that as well when watching it . I've always been a fan of Dennis Hopper , so I'm glad to see him star in a B-horror movie . The girl can't act very well , but she does leave a good scream-queen impression ! The way she yells would even make Jamie Lee Curtis jaleous . . . I have few complaints about the first half of TCM 2 . It's creative and funny and a good change . The second half however is a failure , in my opinion . This half is boring and gore at the same time . . . believe me , that is not a good combination . You won't regret watching it , but if you're a fan of classic and scary horror , you should stick to the original . Everything that came after this sucks harder , though . We've got two more sequels ( among the worst movies ever made ) and right about now , we have an utterly pointless remake of the first . . . which I'll boycot : - ) Favorite " rewind " - moment . . . Dennis Hopper testing chainsaws in the story . He swings them around like they're umbrellas . The expression on the salesman's face is hilarious
These Monks Hunger for pure virgin blood !	Okay , so we've got Roberta Findlay ( " Tenement : Game of Survival " , " Snuff " ) directing a cheesy 80's horror movie revolving on a brotherhood of devilish monks sacrificing young women to Satan himself and drinking their blood in order to remain immortal . How bad could this possibly be ? Correction ; it's unquestionably going to be extremely bad , but the right question to ask should be : How is this not going to be entertaining ? What we have here is pure late-80's trash-gold , with a completely nonsensical and laughably incoherent plot , tacky make-up effects , gratuitous nudity and a whole lot of gibberish about Our Lord Satan ! The script of " Prime Evil " is wonderfully incompetent and aimlessly skips from one theme onto the other without any form of continuity . The film opens in the year thirteen-hundred-forty something with a bunch of monks turning to Satanism because they're angry with God for allowing the Black Plague to kill millions of people . This was obviously a brilliant career move because the story suddenly jumps forward in time 600 years and all the monks contained their same age and virility . But the next winter sacrifice is coming up and one of the cult members suggests using his granddaughter because she's still a virgin . Meanwhile , the leader of the cult engaged a convicted killer to randomly kidnap the granddaughter's best friends and then ? finally ? there's also a sub plot about a devoted nun going undercover in the cult by order of the Catholic Church . This last sub plot is actually the most hilarious , since Sister Angela is hardly ever mentioned anymore after her initiation rites . This is why I personally love 80's horror movies ! There are so many ideas yet they all just loosely connect together . There's no atmosphere of suspense whatsoever and even the whole devil-worshiping concept seems redundant . They're just a posse of bloodthirsty priests craving to cut open voluptuous young girls . There's fairly little gore until the climax arrives and that reddish puppet with horns , supposedly representing Lucifer , is just plain pitiable . The acting performances are horrible , but I don't suppose you expected it any other way . Boring , however , it was not .
Killer Klown from Outer ? Illinois	It was a very temporary yet popular trend some years ago to overflow the horror market with truthful portraits of real-life serial killers . The most notorious American serial killers of the 20th century all received biographies and ? to keep it simple ? these films usually got named after the killers themselves . We got " Ed Gein " , " Ted Bundy " , " Dahmer " and a larger production about the female killer Aileen Wuornos ; entitled " Monster " . This straight-to-video production handles about John Wayne Gacy , a homosexual psychopath from Chicago , Illinois who was active until the late 1970's and killed over 30 male adolescents . The difference between him and more ' typical ' serial killers , like for example " Ed Gein " , is that Gayce wasn't an introvert loner but actually a socially engaged person ! He threw parties for his friends and neighbors , he employed several people and he even entertained children's parties by dressing up like a clown . You can imagine the discovery of approximately 30 bodies in the crawlspace underneath Gacy's house shocked the entire nation and particularly the people around him . Even the constant complaints about stench coming from Gacy's house and the suspicious disappearing of local young men didn't immediately lead to accusations . The facts in the case of John Wayne Gacy are interesting and the screenplay illustrates them pretty damn truthful . Then why exactly is it such a boring film ? In all honesty , I don't really know ? " Gacy " is a dull and slow-moving thriller and I came really close to pressing the fast-forward button a couple of times . Director Clive Sounders obviously didn't have the ambition to deviate much from the documentary-style film-making and even the fictional padding sequences are very sober and monotonous . Certain sequences that easily could have qualified as disturbing or shocking ( like Gacy drowning a boy in his bathtub ) are shown like it's the most common thing in the world , like you're not even meant to care . Mark Holton was an understandable choice to play Gacy ? he looks quite a lot like him ? but he lacks experience as a lead actor . There's absolutely nothing memorable about this production , sadly .
Deep in the Northern Woods . . .	Same concept , different country ? Quite too many nowadays horror movies seem to revolve on friends or colleagues going into the woods for camping and / or team building activities but end up encountering ' something ' evil ( and mostly unseen ) that gradually thins out the group's original number . This film is the Norwegian attempt at making a sinister backwoods mystery thriller . " Villmark " , which is a so much cooler sounding title than the boring international title " Dark Woods " , does benefice from a more ominous atmosphere and gloomier filming locations than most films in this trend , but eventually the lack of excitement reduces it yet another mildly disappointing genre effort . The script ( too ) patiently takes the time to introduce the characters and allow the camera to atmospherically swift through the eerie Kaupanger forests . More particularly the sober lake in the middle of the nearly impenetrable woods is impressively illustrated as the sixth main character in the story . The slow approach results in a handful of powerfully tense and creepy moments , but the film sadly fails to deliver REAL horror . The characters are slightly more likable than your average dim-witted American teen camper , but still they make one too many stupid decision when in peril and they stick around for far too long in an obviously life-threatening place . No matter how badly you want to work for a wealthy TV-producer , if you stumble upon a random corpse in a lake or become tied up over an ant-hill , you get the hell out of the woods ! The arrogant and cocky producer Gunnar is working on a new reality-TV formula and engages four of his docile employees to test the idea and scout the locations . Gunnar turns out to be a sadist and manipulating dictator and even forbids the others to call the police when they discover the corpse of a drowned woman in the lake . But the woman's death wasn't accidental , as something malignant seems to dwell the lake area ever since a German army plane crashed down there during the War . The grim photography and unsettling musical score are clearly the biggest trumps " Villmark " has to offer , as the story and especially the frights are extremely mundane and unspectacular . The climax sequences try really hard to be intellectual and innovating , but it's not likely to impress anyone with a slight bit of horror experience . The comparisons with " Blair Witch Project " and " The Evil Dead " don't make too much sense , except of course for the forestry setting . There are , thankfully , no shaky camera movements but regrettably also no gory make-up effects .
Only enjoyable when you're in a certain state of mind	In case you're NOT looking for a highly intelligent , original or demanding horror movie , I can recommend Piñata Survival Island . The Hillenbrand-brothers know all the genre clichés and they're not afraid to use them ! A group of attractive young teenagers , who make up in hormones what they lack in brains , are very violently slaughtered by an ancient tropical island demon . In all honesty , this film contains enough fun-elements to have you forgive the stupidity and lack of originality . It has a great tempo and quite an atmospheric opening sequence , in which a moody voice-over informs us a little more about the ancient rituals of ? um ? piñata people . The girls are incredibly sexy and not exactly overdressed , which makes productions like this always more bearable . Unfortunately , all the other aspects are terrible beyond belief ! The computer-engineered demon looks like an over-sized gremlin made out of rock . It looks more cute than scary and I can't image the producers decided to replace the initial man-in-a-suit by these digital toys ! The murders are very bloody and cheerful including decapitations and shovel-action . Since there are quite many teenagers dying during the first half hour , the remaining playtime is very uninteresting and only features Jaime Pressly's lovely behind in a jogging pants and ? oh yeah - the last couple survivors trying to flee from the " demon " that has developed Predator-vision . Piñata Survival Island is pulpy crap ? but amusing crap ! Suitable for when you're watching low-brained horror movies with a group of friends . Bring on the beer ! !
Umberto Lenzi & Carroll Baker go " Paranoia " . . . again !	Welcome to Umberto Lenzi's early 70's giallo / crime thriller " Paranoia " starring the unearthly beautiful Carroll Baker ? Hey , wait a minute , haven't I watched and reviewed this movie a couple of days ago already ? Oh right , that was the OTHER Umberto Lenzi early 70's giallo / crime thriller " Paranoia " starring the unearthly beautiful Carroll Baker , more commonly known as " Orgasmo " . Confusing ? Well , maybe a little , but rest assured these are two entirely different movies of which the stories & characters aren't linked to each other at all . The other " Paranoia " is also far superior to this one . That particular movie had tons of suspense , likable characters and convoluted plot-twists whereas this one is painfully boring . This film features TWO worthwhile scenes , both involving wild car accidents , one at the beginning and one at the end and everything in between is one gigantically uninteresting , predictable and overlong love-triangle between three characters . It all starts with Mrs . Baker stars as a rather free-spirited race car pilot who crash-parks her car on the circuit and ends up slightly wounded in a hospital . During her period of recovery , she accepts to stay at her ex-husband and his new wife's mansion . Two attractive women and one incomprehensibly handsome guy ( really , Jean Sorel is way too good-looking ! ) in one house can only result in extended sequences of sexual intrigue , double-crossing and conspiracies to murder . It's all a lot less exciting than it sounds and only the good acting performances keep it endurable . The filming locations and music are stylish , but that's not enough in this case . Easily the most disappointing Lenzi-film I've seen thus far .
Kiss Me , Kill Me . . . Annoy Me ?	Psychedelic soft-erotic exploitation movies were an inexplicably popular trend amongst European directors back in the late 60's and early 70's . This generally pointless sub genre of horror consists of movies that basically don't have any plots , but are stuffed with trendy looking women parading around naked and fetishist escapades that all healthy heterosexual males are supposed to fantasize about . Yeah , right ? I don't know about you , but I surely never dreamed of sadomasochistic rubber dolls or Nazi elimination squads . The list of these oddball movies is long and contains efforts from several acclaimed directors , like Mario Bava's " Lisa and the Devil " , Jess Franco's " Succubus " , Massimo Dallamano's " Venus in Furs " , Umberto Lenzi's " Orgasmo " and Piero Schivazappa's " The Laughing Woman " . " Baba Yaga " also fits into this category , but here the script was inspired by an eccentric comic books series courtesy of Guido Crepax . Basically this means that " Baby Yaga " is even weirder and more flamboyant than all the other psychedelic sex flicks mentioned here above . During a live and personal presentation of his film , at a festival in my home country Belgium , director Corrando Farina explained that he tried to translate as many comic book elements to the screen as possible , but that it certainly wasn't easy due to budgetary restriction and uncooperative producers and censorship . Still , no matter what Farina claims , nothing can divert the attention away from the fact that " Baba Yaga " is a dull and utterly incoherent movie . I didn't spot any artistic style elements at all and the hallucinogenic footage is just a bunch of randomly scraped together and irrelevant sleaze . Isabelle De Funès ( Louis ' yummy niece , apparently ) stars as a liberated photographer in Milan . Late one night and following only a brief encounter , she reluctantly becomes the object of obsession of the funnily named lesbian witch Baba Yaga ( Carroll Baker ) . The deranged hag turns Valentina's camera into a murder device , transfigures her best friend into an SM-doll , inflicts eerie nightmares on her and eventually lures the poor girl to an abandoned mansion with nasty sewing machines and bottomless pits . In case you're looking for significance , symbolism or possibly even an explanation , I'm afraid I have to discourage you straight away . Everything that happens in " Baba Yaga " happens for absolutely NO reason and the film finishes just as void as it begun . To round up with at least a couple of positive remarks , I really liked the music and both Isabella De Funès and Ely Galleani are stunningly beautiful ladies to look at . George Eastman ( as the heroine's clueless boyfriend ) is good too , but I definitely prefer the roles he played in his later career as they were practically all villainous .
" Based on a True Story " is such an easy excuse . . .	Not a terribly hopeless movie , this Australian " Wolf Creek " , but it sure as hell won't ever be regarded as a horror movie classic . The main problem with this nevertheless ambitious production is that it constantly looks incomplete and ? even more importantly ? takes too easily advantage of the " based on true events " premise . Basically , " Wolf Creek " is just another completely unoriginal slasher movie , like they're making 50 of them each year ( and double that number back in the 1980's ) , only here Greg McLean doesn't even bother to look into the killer's identity , background or motivations , just because it's all based on a true story . Well that's a very cheap excuse , isn't it ? This is the tale of two girl friends traveling through Australia when they're offered an extra sightseeing trip to the famous " Wolf Creek " crater by a local nice guy . Then of course their car breaks down in the middle of nowhere and naturally they're rescued by a seemly helpful redneck who evidently turns out to be a sadistic serial killer . The facts of the actual Australian murder case always remained very vague and McLean cleverly uses this to leave many questions unanswered . So , if you're hoping to see a horror film with quite a few scares and some brutal special effects , " Wolf Creek " will do just fine but , talking in terms of story , this is just as dull and forgettable as every other low-budget slasher movie ever made before . The acting performances are quite good , considering it's not the most experienced cast , and there are several sublime shots of the Australian outback to admire . The often explicit sound effects are genuinely disturbing and ? for the fans of gory horror ? there's a handful of memorable gross moments .
Who's Alice ? What Mirror ? Who or what is broken ?	There are certain horror directors for whom I've built up so much respect & admiration over the years , that they can't possibly disappoint me know matter what garbage to decide to put on film . Lucio Fulci is surely one of them , but damned , he's trying to disappoint me with his later efforts ! You can easily afford yourself to skip most of the films Fulci directed or produced during the late 80's and simply watch " Cat in the Brain " instead , because that one title gathers and repeats the best and absolute goriest footage of no less than SEVEN other Fulci-flicks , including the sickest murders sequences featuring in " When Alice Broke the Mirror " . As a whole , this movie definitely ranks among our director's weakest and most pointless achievements . The script is incoherent as hell , the basic premise is totally implausible and somewhat stupid and there's absolutely no suspense to enjoy . I love the title , but it's actually quite meaningless . There is a character named Alice in the story , but it's only a supportive role and she certainly doesn't break any mirrors . I suppose she could break stuff simply using her voice , as she's an opera singer , but she doesn't . The plot revolves on a middle-aged and gambling-addicted playboy who spends his days seducing wealthy widows and killing them for their money . Lester Parson butchers the ladies ( as well as unwelcome witnesses ) in gruesome ways , makes steaks out of their juiciest body parts and feeds the remainders to his cat . There's also a silly psychological sub plot in which he thinks his own shadow is responsible for the murders instead of him . The difference between " When Alice Broke the Mirror " and some of Fulci's greatest horror films ( " The Beyond " , " City of the Living Dead " , ? " ) lies in the fact that he totally doesn't bother to create a horrific atmosphere . The characters , Lester included , are colorless and boring and the murders are ordinarily depicted ; like it's the most common thing in the world to put a woman's head in a microwave or repeatedly run back and forth over a human body with a car . The lighting is poor , the cinematography super-ugly , the editing clumsy and amateurish and the acting performances are downright miserable . If I didn't know any better , I would think Lucio deliberately made a lousy film in order to protest against all the harsh critics that dislike his repertoire no matter how much spirit and effort he put into it . The obvious element to enjoy here is simply the outrageous gore & bloodshed , because even the attempt to blend in black comedy doesn't work properly . As long as Lester swings around his chainsaw and cuts off women's feet , " When Alice Broke the Mirror " is an undemanding piece of horror entertainment , but other than that , there's isn't a whole lot to recommend .
There's no business like porn-business	This film kind of is Emilio Estevez ' comeback after a dreadfully slow decade of kiddies ' stuff and inferior TV-productions . Estevez and his brother Charlie Sheen portray the Mitchell brothers , Jim and Arnie . From the early 70's until the early 90's these boys ruled the Californian porn industry and opened their own San Franciscan nudie theater and strip club . As usual in this type of biopic films , we first get to see a whole series of highlights ( like their big breakthrough porn film ' Beyond the Green Door ' ) before the ' drama ' kicks in . Both brothers put industrial amounts of dope up their noses and their relationships all go to hell . This isn't an immensely impressive film because you've all seen it before ? slightly better ? in epics like ' Boogie Nights ' or even ' The People vs . Larry Flint ' . Still it's worthwhile thanks to the performances of Estevez , Sheen and a few members of the supportive cast like Terry O'Quin ( The Stepfather ) as Mitchell senior . If you're a fan of Sheen or Estevez ( or both ) this is definitely worth a peek . They both look deliciously rancid . Not highly memorable , but amusing while it lasts ? which is a bit too long by the way .
Harry Potter and the Troll in the dungeon ?	Small spoiler alert . . . Troll is an incredibly silly and cheesy movie . It's actually too dumb for words but yet I feel like I can't be too harsh on it . After all , it's just a meaningless attempt to create a morbid fairy tale and the cast and crew obviously showed a lot of enthusiasm and goodwill . It's about an unintelligent family that moves to a new apartment . Both father and son are named Harry Potter . . . Now , where have I heard that name before ? Hmm , I wonder if J . K Rowling found a bit of inspiration in this movie . Anyway , there's a Troll in the dungeon of the apartment and he takes over the body and personality of family's daughter . How does the Troll come there ? Who knows . . . Why of all places did he chose that apartment ? ? Who cares . . . The troll doesn't just kill people , he turns them into complete forests by one single touch . Out of these forests come new trolls and lots of trees . So basically , this is just a very environmental movie ! ! I bet it's an absolute favorite among members of Greenpeace ! ! And it doesn't stop there , the new breed of Trolls even sing stupid songs . Go figure , that must be one of the cheesiest sequences in the history of cinema . Other than these brilliant aspects , Troll contains talking mushrooms , an ancient witch ( who turns into a beautiful princess in the blink of an eye ) and intelligent midgets . There even is an authentic witch in this movie . She goes from old , wrinkly granny to hot blond babe in blink of an eye . If you really haven't got anything better to do with your time ? give Troll a chance . The charm and amateurism of it may touch you . But , whatever you do , avoid the sequel like the plague ! ! Troll 2 is a real disaster and generally considered to be one of the worst movies ever made .
Dump the Broad , damned !	I was only cautiously enthusiast when renting " All the boys love Mandy Lane " , as I instantly remembered hearing & reading a wide variety of opinions ? both positive and negative ? in the short period of time between its brief cinematic release and the distribution towards videostore shelves . Supposedly this was the most ingenious and refreshing new horror film in years , with non-stereotypical teen characters and unpredictable plot twists for a change . Okay , the basic concept may perhaps sound reasonably innovative but inevitably the screenplay quickly reverts to the same old and irritating slasher clichés , and once passed that point even the nifty stylistic trademarks can't save the film from dreadful mediocrity . The opening sequences are indeed terrific and literally bath in a moodily melancholic ambiance , which actually makes it all the more painful to witness the film sink towards the " ordinary " level of rudimentary slasher flick . After the sublime intro , showcasing a drunk macho kid miscalculate his jump off a rooftop in order to impress the titular beauty , " All the Boys Love Mandy Lane " turns out to be just another textbook and uninspired horror movie about a bunch of idiotic kids getting stoned and horny on a secluded ranch before getting killed off by a not-so-unidentified maniac . The film's entire pretentious set-up collapses faster than a ramshackle house of cards : we never get a proper explanation why Mandy herself behaves so frigid and haughty towards all her admirers ( because she grew up an orphan , perhaps ? Oh , boo-hoo ) , the boys soon enough illustrate they'd settle for sex with any random bimbo and not exclusively with the " divine " Mandy and the final twist ? albeit undeniably offbeat ? is just plain senseless . The middle section of is rather boring and doesn't even offer any genuinely horrific excitement ( shotgun killings ? Please ! ) or authentic rancid sleaze . My generous rating entirely goes to the grainy and unsettling 70's filming style ( with faded colors , bizarre but beautiful photographic images ? ) and the surprisingly marvelous soundtrack . Director Jonathan Levine opted for the classic Bobby Vinton song " Sealed with a Kiss " to play during the trailer and end-credits , whereas I initially was convinced the film would inevitably feature Barry Manilow's cheesy love-song " Mandy " .
Really ? Isolation causes mental instability ?	It took me no less than five attempts in order to watch this film straight from start to finish . This primarily has to do with my personal bad habit of always wanting to watch movies when I should be doing something else ( like ? sleeping ! ) , but it also has to do with the subject matter , which inarguably isn't the most exciting stuff ever told on film . " The Mind Benders " is a mature , sophisticated and fascinatingly intellectual thriller - but let's remain honest - it's also a tiny bit boring and too often just stating the obvious . Even in 1962 , scientists must have been aware that phenomena like isolation and brainwashing are likely to negatively affect the test subjects ' mental condition and social skills ? The supposedly prominent doctors appear genuinely astonished when Dirk Bogarde's character emerges from a water tank and behaves disorientated and unearthly . Well , what do you expect he acts like ? Do a little dance ? Make a little love ? ? Get down tonight , perhaps ? The script is coherent , albeit very slow-paced , and the character drawings are likable as well as realistic , but the obviousness of the depicted events inevitably causes your attention to wander off . The opening five minutes are absolutely magnificent ( and , personally , my sole motivation to not give up on it ) and sets the exact right tone for a thoroughly sober film . Whilst on a moving train and amidst a carriage full of passengers , a clearly confused Professor stands up and ? jumps off the train ! The investigating Major is convinced Professor Sharpe acted like a Communist spy with remorse , but his young acolyte Dr . Tate refuses to accept this verdict and seeks the help of Sharpe's former colleague and friend , Dr . Longman . The latter volunteers to undergo a devastating experiment and the scientists quickly learn that eight hours of isolation in a water tank has the same nightmarish effect on people as eight months of intense brainwashing methods . They decide to take the test up to an even more dangerous level and make Dr . Longman believe he doesn't love the wife he's been married to since 12 years and has 4 children with . With a slightly more progressive and perhaps more venturous screenplay , " The Mind Benders " could have been listed alongside the most disturbing thrillers of the 1960's ( like " Carnival of Souls " , " Seconds or " Blow Up " ) but now it sadly falls a little short . It's certainly a stylish effort , with wondrous cinematography by Denys Coop and a staggering by George Auric , but unfortunately director Basil Dearden can't materialize the story's immense potential . Heck , even the fantastic opening sequence are nearly ruined by the compulsory happy-ending . " The Mind Benders " isn't fundamental viewing in my humble opinion , but definitely interesting . If you do decide to see the film , make sure you're wide awake and / or high on caffeine .
It's Alive ! ! ! . . . And it's crap !	Of course you can't expect too much from something that proudly presents itself as a low-budgeted hybrid of two entirely different classic film genres and their main icons . Director William Beaudine was clearly exploring the possibilities of exploitation cinema and considered it a great idea to shoot two films back-to-back ( the other one being " Billy the Kid Vs . Dracula " ) that blend legendary horror premises with gunslinger heroes of the Wild Wild West . The result is neither fish nor flesh , but I must admit I expected this film to be a whole lot worse . " Jesse James Meets Frankenstein's Daughter " is a bunch of silly nonsense , but it's fairly well made and the acting performances are far superior than you usually see in this type of productions . The title is wrong , for starters , since it isn't really Frankenstein's daughter Jesse James encounters , but his granddaughter . She ? Maria - emigrated towards the States , along with her cowardly brother , to continue her experiments of resurrecting lifeless human tissue . Their unsuccessful tests already wiped out an entire community of poor farmers that lived around their castle and only the adorable Juanita and her family are left . Meanwhile , the wanted outlaw Jesse James and his strong but simple-minded sidekick Hank escape from an ambush and seek refuge in Lady Frankenstein's castle . She sees in the severely wounded Hank the ideal guinea pig for her demented experiments , while Jesse falls in love with the poor farmer's daughter and battles some bounty hunters . There are absolutely no horrific sequences in the script ? Frankenstein's victims are resurrected by placing colorful motorcycle helmets on their heads ? and the western aspects aren't exactly spectacular neither . All of a sudden , Jesse James is a noble outlaw who steals from the rich to give to the poor ( give me a break ! ) and risks his own freedom to go out and buy medication for his dying partner . Right ! Narda Onyx is a joy to observe as the mad scientist who clearly has no idea what she's doing and the Cuban born actress Rodriguez is sweet in her role of Jesse James ' love interest . She died prematurely in the same year as the film's release .
Pimp My Mary Shelley !	Nothing's sacred in the world of exploitation cinema , not even Mary Shelley's legendary novel or the classic Universal make-up effects on Boris Karloff . And thank the heavens for that , otherwise we never would have seen this wondrously demented Blaxploitation interpretation of Frankenstein . " Blackenstein " is a delightfully inept movie , some would even categorize it under so-bad-it's-great , and the script goes far beyond simply copying the original Shelley tale . There are even flashes of " The Island of Dr . Moreau " to be found here and there's another mini sub-plot about a rejuvenation serum . The actual Frankenstein plot is moderately altered as well , since the mad doctors ( yes , two in this case , black & white brotherly messing with Mother Nature and God's creation together ! ) don't intend to re-insert life into dead body parts , but supply a wounded Vietnam veteran with new arms and legs . The procedure doesn't go as planned , due to the sabotaging of a jealous assistant , and a monstrous creation arises from the operating table . The genetically altered Brutha goes on a murder rampage but his endearing wife still doesn't give up on him . " Blackenstein " is original and funny because of its ineptness , but after a while it nearly becomes unendurable to sit through . The pace slows down fast and the story reverts to boredom , the dialogs are horrible , the make-up effects are miserable and the acting performances are lamentable . Especially Roosevelt Jackson , as Malcomb the assistant , is the hammiest performer I've seen in a long time . The DVD states that the operating sequences were shot with the same and carefully persevered scenery and sets of the original Frankenstein film . That's quite difficult to believe but , as said , everything's possible in the 70's exploitation industry . " Blackenstein " is definitely not a good film , but nevertheless recommended to people with a morbid & insatiable curiosity for weird film-making .
Bring back the John Waters of " Pink Flamingos " and " Polyester "	John Waters became a cult-cinema hero in the 70's instantly after delivering the bad-taste milestone " Pink Flamingos " and he continued pleasing his trash-horny fans ( including me ) with extraordinary and incomparable movies like " Female Trouble " , " Desperate Living " and " Polyester " . True , Waters ' movies were offensive , shocking and often repulsive but they simultaneously were unique outsiders in an overall politically correct American film industry . Nearly twenty years later , there's very few ingeniousness left inside Water's mind and it also looks like he has developed morality and grew a consciousness . He still pretends to be controversial by portraying his beloved Baltimore as an antipathetic wasteland where the people are shameless and eccentric , but he sure ain't provoking anybody . The plot of " Pecker " is very ordinary and basically just a reworking of two of the oldest ' lessons ' in storytelling . 1 ) success and wealth do not equal happiness and 2 ) home sweet home . . . even if it is Baltimore ! Pecker works in a snack bar but he merely is obsessed by photography and spends his days stalking friends , family and neighbors with a camera as the extension of his eyes . During a local presentation , he's discovered by a fancy New York art dealer and , all of a sudden , every eminent art critic is interested in Pecker's portrayal of the ' culturally challenged ' ( like described beautifully in the film ) models . The dialogs are dull , the script is unoriginal and most gags are so tasteless that they seem to come straight out of a Farrelly-brothers movie ( sex in a cubicle ? ) . The acting isn't very good neither and especially Christina Ricci was a bad choice to play the neurotic laundry-shrew . Thank God there also are some positive things to mention ! The little Chrissy character , for example , Pecker's hyperactive and sugar-addicted kid sister . Or the " shopping for others " game , which really looks like fun .
Gustave welcomes you to . . . Hotel Burundi !	Back when I was a kid in kindergarten , we always used to sing a song about a crocodile named Sophie and , according to the lyrics , her jaws were never closed because she always gossiped about the rest of the animal kingdom . Well now , the croc in " Primeval " answers to the name Gustave and his jaws are never closed neither , but for a completely different reason . Since the beginning of time , he reigns over the swamps & rivers in the poorest regions of Burundi and he supposedly devoured over 300 people already . Gustave normally just feeds on locals , so nobody in the Western world cares whether he lives or dies , but he now made the terrible mistake of eating a female white reporter and his quiet and peaceful days of over for good . A prominent American newspaper sends out an expedition , complete with reporters , local guides and a professional crocodile hunter , to capture Gustave alive . " Primeval " only just came out a couple of months ago , but it already earned itself a spot in IMDb's bottom 100 and receives one harshly negative review after the other . Quite undeservedly if you ask me , because it really isn't such a terrible movie and even benefices from a handful of good aspects , like a solid cast and engaging CGI-monster effects . The scriptwriters simply made one incomprehensible and unforgivable mistake ! Why on earth did John D . Brancato and Michael Ferris had the ambition to use the premise of a low-brained monster feature to alert us about the disastrous political situation in Southern Africa ? There's a 25-foot-long crocodile running amok and yet this movie mainly criticizes how the Western world shamelessly turned its back on the poverty & civil war issues in Burundi . If they wanted to make a harrowing and insightful follow-up to " Hotel Rwanda " that's perfect by me , but please don't pretend it's a non-stop gory and exciting creature-feature ! It's like the characters in the film say themselves : nobody cares about politics as long as there's a croc involved ! Mixing big-animal-horror with political drama topics , as well as the supposedly heart-breaking sub plot revolving on an African adolescent who'd do everything ( literally EVERYTHING ! ) to enter the USA , is probably Hollywood's worst spontaneous decision to date , and it's really no surprise the pubic hates this movie for it . If " Primeval " simply had focused on the bloody crocodile-hunting mission , everything would have been a-okay and it definitely would have ranked on the list of above average monster films . All the necessary ingredients and stereotype characters to make a delightfully cheesy and entertaining creature feature are present . The crew exists of a reluctant reporter who considers his trip to Burundi as a punishment for ruining a previous assignment , a new and ambitious female reporter who desperately wants to prove herself , the ' token-black-guy ' cameraman , the overly self-confident expert who thinks he's even better than Steve Irwin ( RIP ) and of course the introvert guide who has a personal score to settle with Gustave . Director Michael Katleman patiently waits a good 45 minutes before properly showing the crocodile ? and hence effectively builds up tension ? and it has to be said the animal looks very impressive . Gustave is big , but not over-the-top big , and he looks genuinely menacing when speeding through the swamps and destroying cages of solid steel . But then , completely out of the blue , the cameraman accidentally witnesses a political execution in the middle of nowhere and suddenly the Americans have to flee from local crime-networks instead of from Gustave . The sudden change in tone & message is impossible to cope with and the rest of the film is giant disaster . Not even the fairly spectacular finale can undo the damage . The cast is good , with Dominic Purcell ( " Prison Break " ) , Brooke Langton ( " The Replacements " ) , Orlando Jones ( " Evolution " ) and a typical supportive role for B-movie veteran Jürgen Prochnow .
The Børing Bødy Snøtchers	If the myth regarding broken mirrors would be accurate , everybody involved in this production would now face approximately 170 years of bad luck , because there are a lot of mirrors falling to little pieces here . If only the script was as shattering as the glass , then " The Broken " would have been a brilliant film . Now it's sadly just an overlong , derivative and dull movie with only just a handful of remarkable ideas and memorable sequences . Sean Ellis made a very stylish and elegantly photographed movie , but the story is lackluster and the total absence of logic and explanation is really frustrating . I got into a discussion with a friend regarding the basic concept and " meaning " of the film . He thinks Ellis found inspiration in an old legend claiming that spotting your doppelganger is a foreboding of how you're going to die . Interesting theory , but I'm not familiar with this legend and couldn't find anything on the Internet about this , neither . Personally , I just think " The Broken " is yet another umpteenth variation on the theme of " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " but without the alien interference . " The Broken " centers on the American McVey family living in London , and particularly Gina . When a mirror spontaneously breaks during a birthday celebration , this triggers a whole series of mysterious and seemingly supernatural events . Gina spots herself driving by in a car and follows her mirror image to an apartment building . Whilst driving home in a state of mental confusion , she causes a terrible car accident and ends up in the hospital . When dismissed , Gina feels like her whole surrounding is changing . She doesn't recognize her own boyfriend anymore and uncanny fragments of the accident keep flashing before her eyes . Does she suffer from mental traumas invoked by the accident or is there really a supernatural conspiracy happening all around her ? Writer / director Sean Ellis definitely invokes feelings of curiosity and suspense in his script , but unfortunately he fails to properly elaborate them . " The Broken " is a truly atmospheric and stylish effort , but only after just half an hour of film , you come to the painful conclusion it shall just remain a beautiful but empty package . There's a frustratingly high amount of " fake " suspense in this film . This means building up tension , through ominous music and eerie camera angels , when absolutely nothing has even happened so far . By the time the actually mysteriousness kicks in , these tricks don't have any scary effect on you anymore . Some of my fellow reviewers around here compare the film and particularly Sean Ellis ' style with the repertoires of David Lynch , Stanley Kubrick and even Alfred Hitchcock , but that is way , way ? WAY too much honor . PS : what is up with that alternate spelling ; the one with the Scandinavian " ø "
The Supernatural South Is Gonna Rise Again . . .	Sigh ? despite my many years of training in horror cinema and countless of previous bad experiences , I still get suckered into watching lousy movies because of their appealing and juicy looking VHS cover artwork ! I knew absolutely nothing about " The Supernaturals " , but purely based on that drawing of a toothless skull wearing a civil army soldier's hat , I simply had to see it ! Way to go , Mr . Horror expert ? Oh well , at least it isn't the worst genre movie of the 80's , that's for sure . " The Supernaturals " is a mediocre horror outing with a relatively original concept and setting and a handful of memorably worthwhile sequences , but ultimately it lacks the necessary suspense and panache in order to rank among the better achievements of the 80's decade . As stated already in numerous other reviews and user comments , the film effectively borrows the settings and characters of Walter Hill's " Southern Comfort " and H . G . Lewis ' " Two Thousand Maniacs " . Unfortunately , however , it features neither the claustrophobic atmosphere of the former and nor the outrageously delicious gore effects of the latter . What remains is a nonetheless interesting movie about a platoon of soldiers out on a training excursion in a Southern forest area and suddenly having to battle against seemingly spontaneously resurrected zombie soldiers from the Civil War . Ironically enough , the supernatural elements in " The Supernaturals " are the only ones that don't work . The promising flashback at the beginning hinted that a kid soldier saved his mother thanks to a sudden outburst of supernatural powers on this exact same location during the year 1865 , and now he ? Jeremy - as well as his mother and the long-dead members of the platoon he was part of still guard over the place . The explanation given to the presence of the zombies is unsatisfying and feels incomplete . This would have been less of a problem if there had been more gory murders and / or straightforward suspense to distract you from the plot . Now , there's little else left to do but wonder about how Jeremy obtained his powers , how exactly does he resurrect the dead and how come he's still alive after more than a century ? The middle section is plain dull and I simply cannot comprehend why Armand Mastroianni decided it would be a good idea to make an 80's zombie movie with only a minimum of gore .
Beware of Dude Who Walks Behind The Rows . . .	Horror movies based on Stephen King's writings are often very overrated and especially the ones inspired by his short stories are difficult to endure . It's pretty logical , I suppose . . . King made it a SHORT story , so a long-feature film handling about the same matter is likely to be tedious ! " Children of the Corn " is an excellent example to state this ' theory ' : the idea is good and the atmosphere is creepy but the script is far too weak to make the film memorable . Vicky and Burt are a young couple on their way to a new life when they're driving through the lonely state of Nebraska . They strand in the grisly town of Gatlin ; a place where the children murdered all the adults and formed a satanical cult that gathers in the immense corn fields . The premise contains many good aspects , like the isolated filming location , the compelling musical score , the appellation of the supernatural ' evil ' character ( He Who Walks Behind The Rows ) and the casting of the town's two main freak-boys Isaac ( John Franklin ) and Malachai ( redhead Courtney Gains in his debut ) . But , regretfully enough , there are too many clichés and predictable twists that ruin everything ! The cheap visual effects during the finale destroy all the suspense which was build up rather ingeniously . " Children of the Corn " certainly wasn't the first horror picture handling about murderous youngsters and by no means it is the best ! In 1976 , there was this creepy Spanish gem called " Quién Puede Matar a un Niño " , which easily qualifies as one of the most disturbing horror efforts ever made . The reason why this film is so successful compared to " Children of the Corn " is partly because of the evoked feelings of total hopelessness AND because it constantly remains unclear why the children suddenly became violent .
Weak little Wolverines . . .	I anticipated the episode following the masterful " Silent Scream " to be a lot weaker , but " Children of the Full Moon " is more than just weak ; it's an actual disappointment ! This short movie directed by Tom Clegg ( " McVicar " ) is senseless , incredibly predictable and far too implausible to evoke any feelings of fright or disturbance . I love a good old-fashioned tale about werewolves & full moon curses , but Murray Smith's screenplay lacks the bright ideas to become one . The plot centers on a young couple as they're traveling through a remote area when their car suddenly breaks down and nearly crashes . Tom and Sarah seek for help in the only house for miles around , where a friendly old lady and her eight ( ! ) children welcome them with open arms . Tom loses consciousness during a nightly attack by a strange looking monster and wakes up in a hospital bed and Sarah tries to convince him it was all just a bad dream . Still , she's pregnant now and mysterious forces draw her back to the isolated house she claims doesn't exist . The pre-credits intro looked promising , as it showed a little girl with blood on her lips devouring a lamb , but the rest of the story made little to no sense at all . It's obvious that the old lady ? Diana Dors ? and her partner are breeding an army of junior werewolves , but for what purpose and why implicate strangers in their fiendish plan ? The answers to these questions are never given , and the story doesn't even focus on the eight children that much . A horror short about werewolf-children would have been quite original , yet we never see them transform in hairy little monsters with huge fangs or sharp claws . In fact , there's just one transformation-sequence in the whole episode , yet the special effects were laughable and far below usual Hammer standards . Oh well , they can't all be winners I guess ?
Children Shouldn't Play with Dead Daddies . . .	Here's another gloriously absurd and grotesque horror movie concept that only could have sprung from the mind of delirious early 80's scriptwriters . Dig this : A father and his two psychically and telekinetic gifted children lives isolated atop of a mountain , because daddy is worried the government will come and kidnap the children for examination . One day , however , the happy family receives a visit from a gang of nasty biker thugs and they kill daddy right in front of the children . Rather than to use their powers to rescue him , Beth and Michael prefer to resurrect his corpse later on and employ it as a tool of vengeance against the bikers . Meanwhile a social worker ( Marilyn Burns of " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " ) and the new local deputy ( Fabian Forte the singer ) attempt to visit the family without finding it strange the father is never available . " Kiss Daddy Goodbye " is likely to be the only movie ever in which children toy around with one of their deceased parents and even instruct him to dig his own grave . However , this ultra morbid storyline aspect is probably the only reason to check out this otherwise boring , unexciting and amateurishly put together film . The death sequences are dull and bloodless , the pacing is intolerably slow and the acting performances of the entire cast rank among the worst I've ever seen in 80's horror ; and that is saying quite a lot . Especially the child actors are terrible , but they are director Patrick Regan's offspring and they look exclusively modeled after the uncanny kids of " Village of the Damned " . Apparently only cute-faced kids with white hair and pale skins are allowed to have telepathic powers . This rare and curious piece of 80's trash is probably not worth tracking down , but still I can't say I regret having seen it . There's a certain something about this movie which fellow cult fanatics will notice and appreciate as well .
Certainly not a " high-flier "	Small SPOILERS . . . I can't really explain why , but I always stood rather distrustful towards this movie . Although I'm very interested in the topics it handles about ( Dragons . . . apocalypse . . . FIRE ! ) , I've waited a long time before I actually saw it . I've seen it now and it looks like I was right , Reign of Fire didn't satisfy me at all . First of all there's the ( always growing bigger ) problem of the CGI . I mean , do they really have to do everything with a computer nowadays ? I realize this is to satisfy the younger and more enthousiastic crowd , but I so much preferred the dragons ( and other monsters ) in those lovely B-movies from the 50's . Sure you saw they were hand-made but hey , these flying puppies in Reign of Fire don't look very realistic neither , do they ? At least the old movies had much more love in them . . . I must be getting very old . But , if this would have been the only negative element about it , I wouldn't consider it a total disaster yet . Too bad there ARE more problems with it . The script totters in every possible way and the climax ? ? ? Well , I'm sorry to say this if you were stunned by seeing the ending but you can actually see it coming from a mile away . . . As soon as the boy discovers the first dragon in the mine , a bell should start ringing . Reign of Fire suffers from an enormous lack of originality . It all may look very impressive but we've all seen it multiple times before . . . and better . The only real positive comments I've got are for Christian Bale . No , not Matthew McConaughey because I've seen him acting a lot better already ( in the recent Frailty for example ) . McConaughey is an average actor , his career is a mixed combination of good and bad roles so far . . . This is most certainly a bad one . Christian Bale on the other hand rarely gives away a bad performance . He really broke through with American Psycho but also his earlier films are surely worth a look . If you consider him handsome , cute or whatever ( or maybe you just think he's a great actor ) I recommend to see this movie . . . only for him . If not : avoid it . My humble opinion on Reign of Fire :
Totally inept , but cheesy good fun	Trashy , sleazy , campy , exploitative and ? of course ? extremely pointless Italian version of the classic Frankenstein story . It's a variation on the traditional Mary Shelley tale , with some deranged additional ideas and awkward erotic undertones . The Italians tried to achieve this sort of concept before already with " Lady Frankenstein " and admittedly that was a much better and more memorable film than this cheap and amateurish attempt at making a motion picture . But still , that doesn't mean this piece of junk isn't good entertainment . The plot actually isn't too bad . Dr . Schwarz ( which , I'm sure , is German slang for Dr . Penis ) just invented a breakthrough serum that prevents donor organs from getting rejected by the patient's body after a transplant . This happens to be exactly what his vicious colleague Dr . Frankenstein needs in order to fix up his pet monster Mosaic . The serum disappears from Dr . Schwarz ' laboratory and corpses start to pile up as Mosaic goes out on nightly strolls . The local police commissioner forbids his men to smoke until the case is solved ( ! ) and another guy ? a reporter who assigns himself private investigator ? search for the serum to save his dying sister . " Frankenstein 80 " is a hilariously amusing film , but probably not like its creators intended it . Ferdinando De Leone ( although I suspect it was actually Fernando Di Leo ; a prominent name in the Italian horror industry ) and director Mario Mancini penned down a truly ludicrous script with the most one-dimensional character imaginable , absurd plot twists and the utmost imbecilic dialogs ever . Technically speaking , this is a laughably inept production as well . More than three quarters of the film is poorly lit , the make-up effects clearly cost less than a dollar and the editing appeared to have been done with a blending machine . The pacing is unspeakably uneven ! The entire story is pretty much told after an hour already , but then still comes a lot of tedious filler-footage , like an overlong and dull striptease act , a full formula one race and even the complete development of a romance . The monster stumbles around until he literally passes his due date , which is interesting but not very thrilling .
Surfers ' Smörgåsbord	I had to browse through my own user comments in order to double-check whether or not if I saw the original " Shark Attack " . I must have deliberately banished it from my memory , because apparently I have seen it and ' rewarded ' it with the lowest possible score you can give here on this site , as well as a not-so-praising review . Gradually whilst watching this sequel , my memory started coming back and bits and pieces of that horrible , horrible dud starring Casper Van Dien flashed before my eyes . The good news , however , is that part two is slightly better and a hell of a lot more entertaining than the first . " Shark Attack 2 " still is a terribly tacky and nonsensical movie ( full of atrocious acting , lousy effects , etc ? ) but the screenplay at least respects the good old formula of numerous shark killings and hot girls in bikini purposelessly parading on sunny beaches ! The first film revolved on genetically altered sharks used for the development of a cancer vaccine . Okay ? . Boring ! Luckily the genetic aspect is just a small footnote in the second film , and the plot mainly follows the story of some people ( mega-stereotypes ) trying to kill a school of great white sharks before they devour all surfers in Cape Town ; South Africa . The unofficial ' leader ' of the fierce shark-bunch already escaped from a brand new Sea Life aquarium and ate an employee in front of several kids ( haha ! ) and now he and his ravenous pals are ready to brutally interrupt the annual surfing contest in Cape Town . After some bickering and typical macho contests , one heroic doctor , one dumb Steve Irwin wannabe and one cute but incredibly blond sister of the shark's last victim join forces together and hunt the animals down . All sequences exhibiting the great white sharks are hilarious . They're either borrowed footage from all kind of National Geographic documentaries or , during the actual attack-related scenes , mechanical devices that don't look the least bit convincing . The use of CGI isn't much better , neither . The dialogs and acting performances are arguably the weakest aspect of the film , but it's definitely fun to observe . The hero's heart-breaking story of how he was once the victim of a shark attack and the complementary moral of ' all animals deserve to live ' is likely to evoke more laughs than anything else you've ever heard before in any movie . The Steve Irwin bloke is just pitiable , especially because he occasionally forgets he's supposed to talk with an Australian accent . Nikita Ager is unquestionably a ravishing woman , looking like a crossover between Baywatch-babes Pamela Anderson and Erika Elaniak , but she has limited acting skills and the world's most irritating voice . Luckily enough , she just nods most of the time and shows off her very impressive balcony in tight tops and even tighter diving outfits . Quite a large part of the film exists of pure and gratuitous padding footage , presumably to promote the touristy areas of Cape Town ( Table Mountain , Camps Bay , The Waterfront ? ) Nothing wrong with that ; I've been there and it truly is one of the most beautiful places on earth .
Despicable fish sticks !	Why anyone would want to remake a gory and filthy exploitation gem from the early 80's is a mystery to me . The original Humanoids was a nice viewing and a good change to observe , but it hasn't really got the potential to be re-told in a 90's sort of atmosphere . Yet , they did and I don't really have a problem with that ? but it really drives me mad that the local shop sold me a copy of this ? straight to video ' version instead of the original ! Damn , the DVD has the same cover and credits-list as the original but the DVD itself is the remake starring Carradine ! Pay attention to this if you'd ever plan to buy it . The less interesting remake could be disguised as the original gore stuff ! That said , I have to admit that even this version is more or less satisfying and certainly worth sitting through . Same story is told , only less explicit and more mainstream ? Meaning that the violence and nudity is severely cut . An aspect that'll most likely lower the interest of fans of the original . Still , there are more than enough bloody and nasty sequences to sicken the inexperienced horror population . A guy's head is blown off , for example , and there's a woman giving birth to an ugly fish creature on a filthy bar-table . The costumes of the fish-people on the other hand are laughable and idiotic looking . They could have paid a little more attention to that , because it sorts of ruins the whole idea of the ' horrible ' mutations that they are supposed to be . The acting is overall decent and some familiar faces are included in the cast . Robert Carradine is a very decent B-actor who still is overlooked often ? . The same could be said about Mark Rolston , by the way . Danielle Weeks just looks adorable while she's on-screen and Clint Howard walks around in this movie for no particular reason ? as he does in most of the films he stars in . In general ? you'll be better off when watching the original this thing is based on , but it's not an entire waste of time . Humanoids is easy to watch and overall entertaining with some good gory stuff and funny sequences . If you've seen the original , you'll also have quite some fun with discovering the references and the spoofs towards it .
A weaker link in the giallo-team	The brief synopsis of this film promised quite a lot of sadistic murders and and intelligent , convoluted plot twists , but it's actually one of the most boring giallo-efforts I've encountered so far . The plot is uninvolving and introduces too many superfluous characters that like to behave suspiciously even when they have absolutely no reason to ! Take the hero's girlfriend , for example ! She's a blond girl , but occasionally wears a black wig without saying why . Anyways , we're looking for a killer in a world of wild sex parties , blackmailing , astrology and really confused journalists . It all starts with the assault at an Australian doctor on new year's day and many victims follow , although not right away . The killer isn't exactly in a hurry ( he only commits like one murder per month ) and why should he / she be ? There hardly seem to be any police officers investigating the case and the biggest danger comes from an alcoholic journalist with quite a few personal issues . The murders aren't particularly spectacular or imaginative and some of the players couldn't possibly give more careless performances . Like always when his name appears in the credits , Ennio Morricone delivers the best work , with his staggering musical score that provides even the most daft sequences with an undeserved portion of suspense . Franco Nero is truly cool dude , but he obviously feels much more at home wearing his cowboy hat ? preferably that of Django ? an makes a very unconvincing lead star . None of the supportive cast members are really worth mentioning . Trust the general opinion on this one , there are about 50 to 60 Italian gialli that you should give priority over " The Fifth Cord "
The . . . Shark Whisperer ? ?	This film proudly opens with the following announcement : " The producers wish to express their sincerest gratitude to the members of the underwater crew who risked their lives to film the shark sequences without the benefit of cages or other protective devices " . Hell yeah they should be grateful ! Especially because , at that point , the cameramen probably didn't yet know anything about how tepid the story lines and how ridiculous the plot of " Mako : The Jaws of Death " actually were ! I'm secretly convinced that these people severely regretted the life-endangering efforts they made once they got to see the finished product . " We risked our lives for this piece of crap ? ! ? " And they would be right , too . Anyways , let's start with a bit of good news first ! Despite the title and the big virulent white teeth parading the VHS-cover , this is NOT a rip-off of Jaws at all . Writer / director William Grefé only eagerly cashed in on the popularity of sharks in horror movies , but he was ambitious enough to come up with an entirely original and personal story-idea , albeit an incredibly silly one . Sonny Stein has a great understanding with sharks and refers to them as his friends . That is to say , he feeds the sharks and protects them against greedy fishermen , and in exchange they don't eat him when he goes for a swim . The kind of relationship Willard had with rats . Through a flashback , Stein explains to a random striptease dancer how an old & anonymous shaman handed him a peculiar amulet , and since then the sharks obey him . Stein is also extremely naive and dumb , as he ' donates ' sharks , supposedly for good causes , to a science lab and to a sleazy ( and mega-fat ) bar-owner for an original entertainment act . When both place abuse the animals , Stein immediately avenges his friends . The script is too implausible & idiotic for words , but everyone involved takes it very serious , like it's the most essentially moralistic nature-versus-humans movie ever made . However , there are one or two good sequences to enjoy , notably the one where the shark-whispering hero kills a poacher and drags him behind his own boat ; his mouth attached to a hook . The budget was generally very low , so don't expect too many special effects . Heck , whenever there's supposed to a shark attack going on , you just see a couple of fuzzy images and water mixed with red paint to raise the impression the sea turned red with blood . The acting performances are downright atrocious to observe . Especially Richard Jaeckel ( " The Amazing Mr . No Legs " , " Grizzly " ) really sucks in the lead . Maybe he subconsciously realized that the screenplay was a bunch of nonsense and his acting talent therefore went on a strike . His character also hasn't got a sense of humor , which is a huge mistake according to me . He doesn't use his shark-friends to score with the ladies , doesn't say anything witty when he hunts down shark killers and he doesn't even make a joke about how astonishingly fat and tasteless the owner of the striptease bar is ! He's just a silent , arrogant and asocial loner who cares too much about sharks . How sad . I'm generously rewarding this film with a rating because I appreciate the effort and because I like sharks but , in all honesty , " Mako : The Jaws of Death " isn't worth any rating higher than two .
insert wolf's howl here	Very strange but occasionally elegant exploitation movie with no real story , but benefiting from its stunningly ravishing lead actress and a handful of nice , gruesome make-up effects . Daniella is a beautiful twenty-something girl , carrying with her the trauma of being raped at the age of 13 . Nightmares and hallucinations lead her further into believing she's the reincarnation of a female ancestor who was said to be a werewolf . She kills her brother-in-law during a nightly encounter and gets submitted in a hospital . She escapes again , however , and randomly devours more men whilst on the run for police detectives , doctors and relatives . It's all pretty to look at and listen too ( really great soundtrack ) , but the absence of plot and continuity become irritating quite fast . Luckily enough , leading lady Annik Borel rarely ever wears clothes and she fills up the boring moments by dancing naked around a fire . The film is too long , too weird and too forgettable . The biggest surprise comes at the end , when suddenly and out of the blue , director Rino Di Silvestro tries to make us believe that his movie was based on true facts . Yeah , right . . .
Total eclipse of the brain cells . . .	" Shadow Builder " doesn't only dispose of the ugliest VHS-cover in the history of cinema , it also is one of the most ineptly bizarre films I ever had the ( mis ) fortune of seeing . The film is a little bit based on a short story by Bram Stoker ( you know , the guy who gained some fame with his vampire novel ) but the scriptwriter obviously had a lot of fun adding insane stuff that comes from his own imagination , like a swearing priest who operates 9mm guns ? with laser beams ! Believe it or not , but there are many interesting ideas and ingenious details noticeable in " Shadow Builder " , and with a slightly more coherent script , the film might have been very good . It introduces a quite original monster , in the shape of Darth Vader-resembling demon that can only reign in the shadows . He has been summoned by a bunch of freaks and now he's looking for 12-year-old Chris Hatcher . During the sun eclipse , demon-guy will use Chris to make the world come to an end because he was born with stigmata . Yes , very clever ! ! Michael Rooker stars as the troubled priest who stalks the demon all over the country and Tony " Candyman " Todd has an insignificant role as the town's nut . The film is actually quite enjoyable , but only during the moments when the plot doesn't necessarily have to make sense , like for example the neat sequences of the town in chaos or when the demon possesses random souls in order to gain power . Director Jamie Dixon tries to uphold a constant level of action and most cast members seem to fulfill their job with great devotion . I can't properly judge the use of special effects , though . Some visual gimmicks are quite well done whereas others are lousy and on the verge of pitiful . Definitely not a must-see , but if you're a fan of silly horror , it's worth watching when it comes on TV or something .
Herbie goes to high school !	First and foremost I wish to aim a big & mean middle-finger towards the Troma DVD-distribution crew , who were actually stupid enough to reveal the identity of this movie's pivot killer on the back of the cover ! The synopsis just randomly mentions who's the person responsible for the massacre on graduation day , for Christ's sake ! I don't care how terrible or how predictable an 80's slasher can be ; just mentioning who did it ruins the whole point ! So , a word of advise in case you also purchase the Troma double-feature containing " Graduation Day " and " Nymphoid Barbarian in Dinosaur Hell " , do not ? repeat DO NOT ? turn the box around and read the back ! Watching the film is already a painful experience , but reading the back would really spoil everything . Now , as for the actual the actual movie ? Oh boy ! Personally I'm a fan of the cinematic ' work ' of Herb Freed . Well actually , I don't really know whether I should admire him ? or pity him ! All Herb's films are pretty bad & amateurish , but at the same time you can tell his direction is spirited and full of good intentions ! Unlike with " Haunts " and " Beyond Evil " , he followed a contemporary popular genre trend and tried to cash in on the typical high-school slasher films . Just to offer a minimum of originality , all the victims in " Graduation Day " are promising athletes and members of the same track of coach George Michaels ( awesome name ! I guess Herb Freed is a fan of " Wham ! " ) . During the opening credits , we witness how a young girl dramatically dies on the field , moments after winning a 30 seconds running race . The debate of whether or not her coach and fellow track team-members weren't pushing her physical limits too much is raised , but one particular individual goes one step further and begins to sadistically kill everyone he / she considers responsible for Laura's death . What a demented little movie ! The script must be one of the most incoherent ones I ever beheld , with loads of red herrings and sub plots that go absolutely nowhere and death sequences that are almost too cheesy for words ! There's a bloke impaled by a football attached to a javelin , others are decapitated with an absurdly big sword and the unluckiest bastard of them all even falls to his death on a disguised bed of spikes ! Herb concentrates on the ingeniousness & the fast pacing of the killings so much that he totally forgets about the sub plots he introduced earlier in the film ! For example , Laura's sister returns home from her military training and seemly starts an investigation regarding the circumstances of her death . Halfway through the movie , however , her character hardly appears in the movie anymore . Also , the girls ' stepfather is referred to as a violent drunkard but this interesting given immediately gets ignored as well . Instead of carefully mounted suspense and misleading red herrings , we're served disco-dancing & roller-skating sequences and ? of course ? numerous images of unattractive 80's chicks stripping their tops off . Despite being really bad , " Graduation Day " could count on a respectable cast ! Christopher George ( " Grizzly " , " City of the Living Dead " ) greatly stars as the demanding coach , Carmen Argenziano ( " When a Stranger Calls " , " The Accused " ) briefly appears as a police detective investigating the rising number of missing teenagers and Michael Pataki ( " Dead & Buried " , " Dracula's Dog " ) has a very amusing part as the school's stressed out principal . The teenage beauties on duty include Linnea Quigley and Vanna White . Heck , for some horror fans , the presence of these two ladies is enough reason already to count " Graduation Day " among the most quintessential slashers of the early 80's . It's a dumb film , but entertainment and chuckles are guaranteed !
Engagement and Plausibility Below Zero	" Suspect Zero " is an endurable and occasionally compelling suspense-thriller , but with a far too ambitious and implausible concept , too many unprocessed sub plots and character drawings that easily rank among the least likable ones I ever saw . If this project ever had the intention of becoming the 2000's equivalent of serial killer classics such as " Seven " and " The Silence of the Lambs " ( like multiple reviews claim it had ) , well then it failed miserably . The basic idea of the film would perhaps have worked better in a near-futuristic and politically different climate , for example in the same setting and era as " Minority Report " and " I , Robot " . Without revealing too much , the plot hints at themes that are pure Sci-Fi , like unorthodox methods to brain-train FBI agents into hunting down serial killers , but at the same time the events take place in a nowadays setting . I think the sequences in which both protagonists supernaturally " witness " hallucinating things and note down seemingly unclear clues could be convincing in a not-so-distant future , but not yet in this day and age and certainly not in the New Mexican middle-of-nowhere . Tough copper Thomas Mackelway gets transferred to a small Albuquerque precinct after violating several procedures in order to apprehend a serial killer . There , he instantly receives strange faxes and bizarre visions about murders that are committed all over the country . It seems as if a super intelligent serial killer ? specializing in killing other serial killers ? wants to involve Mackelway into his hunt for the ultimate serial killer , the so-called Suspect Zero who never gets caught because he doesn't have a fixed modus operandi . This pretty much is the plot in a nutshell , but the film unfolds slightly more convoluted like that , believe me . " Suspect Zero " seriously lacks panache in practically all the important departments . The main character Thomas Mackelways is a stone-cold and antipathetic individual , so you honestly don't care too much about his troubles in the past or his devastating hunt for the killer . At some points , the plot seems to try and emotionally link him to two female characters ( his partner Fran and one local Albuquerque assistant ) but that never goes anywhere . Ben Kingsley gives a strong performance as always , but his character O'Ryan is simply too unreal and awkward . Since the actual hunt for the Suspect Zero killer is too implausible , the suspense-highlights of the film include the digging up facts regarding the other three serial killers . Sadly enough , those sequences are too brief . " Suspect Zero " is also listed as a horror film , but there's very little ( on screen ) carnage . Admittedly some of the themes are potentially disturbing , but there's too little excitement shown on screen . Overall , a disappointment , but nonetheless an interesting film to watch once .
Singin ' in the space-rain !	Stanley Donen from the smarmy classic " Singin ' in the Rain " directed this sleazy space adventure ? What's next , George A . Romero remaking ' Dirty Dancing ' ? ? Less surprising than the awkward director choice , however , is how silly and redundant this movie is . . . It totally lacks the originality , creativity and ? especially ? the credibility in order to become memorable science fiction . All it is now is an at times entertaining SF romp with a good cast and a couple of really nice gimmicks , but those hoping for another cool genre milestone will be sorely disappointed . " Saturn 3 " stars Kirk Douglas and Farrah Fawcett as a pretty much carefree space couple , stationed in a control base on one of Saturn's Moons . Their jolly lifestyle is about to end abruptly when the grumpy Capt . Benson ( Harvey Keitel ) comes to build an all-knowing Meccano-robot . In one of the most ludicrous plot-twists ever , the robot ( basically made from pipes and wires ! ! ) becomes obsessed with Fawcett's ravishing body . Not that we can blame anybody for wanting to jump Farah Fawcett ( she's ultra-hot again ! ) but this premise is a little too stupid to build a complete , supposedly ' adult ' science fiction screenplay ' round . Trained genre fans can play a game spotting all the other ( and more successful ) titles that heavily influenced the story . The list is rather impressive , with " Star Wars " , " 2001 ? A Space Odyssey " , " Alien " , " Zardoz " and " Dark Star " as the most obvious ones . Some of the dialogues Kirk Douglas has to produce are terribly cheesy and for some incomprehensible reason , Harvey Keitel seems to talk with a dubbed voice . Watching " Saturn 3 " isn't a total waste of time , but there sure are better SF gems to purchase .
Lie still . . . and sleep tight !	Well here's a movie that probably will be long forgotten before it properly hits the lowest shelves of second-class rental stores ? " Lie Still " , the debut film of Sean Hogan , simply hasn't got anything to offer that makes it memorable . Gorehounds will drop out instantly , as the film doesn't feature the slightest amount of action or excitement . Partly because there wasn't enough budget for special effects but mainly because Hogan clearly intended to bring an old-fashioned atmospheric and story-driven ghost story . Fine by me ! I encourage the revival of intelligent suspense-horror , but the problem here is that the script of " Lie Still " is as superficial and basic as can be . After the painful break-up with his girlfriend , unemployed and soft drugs addicted John Hare moves into a cheap room of an ancient house . He hopes to take a fresh start , but the house soon turns out to be a haunted place where the restless spirits of previous residents still dwell around . A premise like this immediately reminds you of popular films like " The Others " or " The Devil's Backbone " and thus you begin to prepare yourself for a supernatural and totally unexpected twist in the end . The problem with " Lie Still " is that this particular twist never comes ! Okay ? so there are ghosts in the house and all this relates to the vicious history of the house's first owner who's buried in the backyard . That's it ? Where's the climax ? This movie ends exactly like it began : slow , uninteresting and anonymous . The only positive elements I can possibly mention are a handful of atmospheric sequences and only ONE ingenious finding ( the people inside the television set ) . I picked up somewhere that the screenplay was written in only a couple of weeks ( I believe that ) , but that it took another two years before the required budget was raised . What budget ? I bet most of the money was spent on coffee & medication in order to keep cast and crew members awake during filming . The acting performances are fairly satisfying , though , and Hogan's inexperienced approach of the genre occasionally does look charming .
So it has come to this . . . Pinhead is nothing more than an annoying internet pop-up !	Complete horror failures such as " Fear Dot Com " and " My Little Eye " apparently haven't made it fully clear just yet : the internet is NOT scary ! ! And yet in this eighth sequel , Rick Bota ; also known as the dude who doesn't allow the Hellraiser franchise to die peacefully ; presents Hellraiser now as a popular internet game that has nerdy followers and organizes secret parties in isolated mansions . Two years after the tragic suicide of their friend Adam , a group of heavily addicted Hellworld players receive invitations to an exclusive party for Pinhead fans only . The macabre host ( played by Lance Henriksen ) turns out to be the biggest freak of all and his collection of dangerous toys and Lamant boxes is more than impressive . During the party , however , the game becomes reality and Pinhead & his Cenobites occasionally come around to kill the teenagers . Admittedly , " Hellworld " is slightly ? with the emphasis on the word ' slightly ' ? better than the previous two installments directed by Rick Bota . The reason is simply that " Hellseeker " and " Deader " tried to be complex psychological horror films whereas this " Hellworld " is less ambitious and goes straight for some old-fashioned morbid butchering . The murders are quite gory and there some really morbid set-pieces to enjoy , such as a gigantic meat-hook and a nice collection of bottled monsters . Still , you don't care one iota whether the characters live or die and there never is any real suspense in the script . The once legendary Pinhead is barely present and he's pretty much used like a typical pop-up advertisement : pointless , promising but bleak and gone before you know it . Decent ending , though !
Tolerable slasher ?	Another day , another long-forgotten 80's slasher that came to my attention because it looked like it had to offer some decent murder sequences , T & A and a handful of clumsy and not-so-convincing red herrings . And yes , " Night Screams " is a more or less enjoyable horror effort , but only just as long as your expectations are kept to a minimum . We follow the usual crowd of stereotypical and irritating high school teenagers as they throw a graduation party in the football jock's house . However , there are two escaped criminals hiding in the basement and the hunky football star David himself suffers from aggressive behavior when he doesn't take his carefully prescribed pills . Soon after the party-goers are killed off in fairly imaginative ways ( one girl has an axe planted in her skull , another guy's face is literally barbecued ) and director Allen Plone begs us to think the culprit is either David or one of the mad thugs in the cellar . The plot twists don't really work , but I admire Plone for trying and there's at least a little bit of style to find in his film . Although that does not include the tasteless footage of porn movies and another inferior 80's slasher ( " Graduation Day " ) that continuously plays on TV-sets in the background . I guess none of the actual actresses wanted to take her top off , so they needed to steal the padding from other movies . " Night Screams " is a forgettable and truly run-of-the-mill 80's slasher , but we've definitely seen worse already and avid fans of the decade will certainly not regret watching it .
The door to ? the crap-house ? ? ?	Now , " Beyond the Door " isn't a complete dud , but it does suffer from one too many imbecile situations and overly tedious sub plots that go absolutely nowhere at all . Total lack of inventiveness and shamelessly stealing ideas from previous horror-blockbusters is one thing , but why did the duo of directors insist on stuffing their movie with so many incoherent & crappy padding story lines ? There's so much going on in this film's script that never gets explained and only the actual satanic possession story elements ( which hardly cover 50 % of the whole film ) deliver a handful of suspenseful moments and genuine frights . At 109 minutes ( Japanese edition ) , the movie plays for far too long and , combined with the world's most awful dubbing job and insufferable cast members , this doesn't exactly form the most enjoyable viewing . It opens weird , yet mildly intriguing , with a voice-over introduction by no less than Satan himself ! But already this monologue goes on for too damn long and your mind starts thinking stuff like : " Satan , shut up and start playing the movie already ! " Subsequently we're introduced to a supposedly all-American family of four . The children , whose lines are ridiculously dubbed by adult actors , are annoying little brats that drink cold soup right out of the can ( ? ? ) and read twelve identical copies of the same fairy-tales book . What the hell ? Despite this family's weird characteristics , they lead a normal life until mother Jessica discovers she's pregnant again . Quite strange , since she has taken her birth control pill all the time and she and her husband Robert certainly aren't anticipating another baby ( can you blame them ? ) . Satan already informed us in his extended prologue that it will be the devil's baby , and it doesn't take too long before Jessica starts to behave strangely and very aggressive towards the helpful people in her surrounding . Robert and a befriended doctor try to work out an abortion while suddenly Jessica's former lover pops up . He ? Dimitri ? is one of Satan's disciples and insists on the baby getting born . This is somewhat the moment where the whole story inevitably goes to hell ; working its way towards an incredibly dire and laughably pathetic climax . The actual " possession " sequences as well as the obligatory gross make-up effects are embarrassingly similar to " The Exorcist " . Poor Jessica vomits thick green stuff , uses a whole lot of imaginative foul language and her head even spins 180° around . The fetus growing inside her as well as the reactions of Jessica's surrounding , on the other hand , are more than clearly influenced by that other genre classic " Rosemary's Baby " . Although they can't possibly deliver any shocks or surprises , the sequences illustrating Jessica's agony form the only highlights in the film . They're fairly intense with some excellently crafted , albeit low budget , gross out effects . Particularly this one scene in which the two children are trapped in their room and their play dolls come to live with eerie green eyes is rather frightening . Other scenes are redundant and indescribably stupid , like the supposedly infamous " flute scene " where Robert walks down the street followed around by musicians with instruments stuffed in their noses . The wannabe paradox ending is downright lame and makes you feel like you totally wasted 109 precious minutes of your life . Oh well , at least the direction is steady and the music is atmospheric . Other interesting ( and much better ) " Exorcist " clones include " The Antichrist " , " Demon-Witch-Child " and " Abby " . Still , " Beyond the Door " is much better than " The Eerie Horror Midnight Show " .
Destroy all Bunnies !	This fourth entry in Hammer's House of Horror series is definitely the most bizarre thus far , but sadly also the least intriguing one . The whole set-up is good and there are some really creepy moments to enjoy , but it eventually all leads to an implausible and idiotic denouement . " Growing Pains " opens with a young boy dying in his parents ' garden after having consumed poison from his dad's science lab . The father , Terence , is a biological researcher trying to make bunny-rabbits bigger for food sources in the Third World and the mother , Laurie , is a diplomat . After the loss of their son , Laurie adopts James from an orphanage and they try to be a family again . James behaves strangely from the very first moment , however , as he seems to be in contact with the deceased son's spirit . Mysterious events begin to occur , like the family dog becoming wild and uncontrollable all of a sudden ( he eats ALL the cute bunnies ! ) . The climax sequence doesn't work , because ? SPOILERS ? it portrays Terence & Laurie like uncaring and cold-hearted parents , even though they absolutely weren't to blame for their son's death . It's best to focus on the first half hour , as there are a couple of suspenseful sequences and eerie images of a local graveyard . Otherwise a forgettable and disappointing episode .
Dawson Versus The Damned .	Although the premise isn't original or innovating ( " Village of the Damned " , " Children of the Damned " , " Who Can Kill a Child " , " The Children of Ravensbeck " ? ) , I'm always enthusiast about a horror movie revolving on murderous ? and whether or not zombified ? children , but you always have to bear in mind that a concept such as this could be bound to a lot of restrictions as well . Let's face it , the idea of murdering children and / or children getting murdered remains a fairly sensitive topic and especially nowadays filmmakers don't always have the courage to depict everything in great detail . Another big issue is that the scripts are rarely ever strong enough to come up with an explanation that is simultaneously disturbing and plausible . " The Plague " , which is somehow linked to the creative writing mastermind Clive Barker , is fairly adequate and satisfying when it comes to dealing with the first issue ( there are some very graphic child murders here ) , but it miserably fails in the plotting department . I just finished watching the film five minutes ago , but please don't ask me to summarize the plot . The film benefits from a handful of really powerful sequences and an occasionally unsettling apocalyptic atmosphere , but the screenplay is incredibly disorderly , incoherent and it explains absolutely nothing at all . On a seemingly average day , all the children on the earth under the age of 9 fall into a coma . Twice a day , like clockwork , they all start twitching together but the reasons for that are anyone's guesses as well . Then , as spontaneously as they fell into a coma , they all awake ten years later as mad zombies and promptly begin to exterminate all the adults for ? you guessed it ? no apparent reason whatsoever . The film follows a small group of people's quest for survival in a quiet little US town , among them an ex-married couple ( Ivana Milicevic and James " Dawson " Van Der Beek in a totally unconvincing performance ) , a couple of cops and a pair of adolescents who're spiritually linked to the children . The sequences illustrating the zombie children prowling the deserted streets for adults to kill are reasonably effective and creepy , as well as the make-up jobs on their faces , but the film never achieves to be truly terrifying .
Two lousy exploitations for the price of one .	This is one of the strangest and definitely one of the most atypical titles to be found in the whole list of infamous Video Nasties . Judging by the stills on the back of the VHS-cover and based on the narrative during the first half of the film , I would unhesitatingly describe " Delirium " as a crude and misogynistic slasher reminiscent of " Maniac " and " Don't Go in the House " . You know ; the type of sick film that doesn't bother keeping the identity of the killer secret but depicts the violence against female victims extra vile and repellent . There's a maniac at large who slaughters his women relentlessly and grotesque . One of the poor girls even has a pitchfork stuck in her throat ! Whilst the roommate of his first victim teams up with the incompetent police force , the maniac ? Charlie ? gets killed after a failed attempt to make another victim . Then suddenly and completely unexpected , " Delirium " becomes a post-Vietnam war drama . It is revealed that Charlie was a member of a secret network of vigilantes that exists entirely out of bloodthirsty Vietnam veterans and they are hired by a board of eminent & businessmen in order to keep the streets crime-free . Charlie just went a little berserk and started killing women randomly , that's all ! The " leader " of the vigilantes is a fairly short-sized yet menacing guy with a shiny bald head that would make even Telly Savalas jealous and , during the climax of the film , he goes totally bonkers as well . The concept of " Delirium " undoubtedly shows potential , but the elaboration is overly confusion and dull and reverts all too easily to dreadful clichés ( like Vietnam flashbacks and power mad army officers ) . The first slasher half is rather exciting , with a couple of truly nasty murder sequences and the most laughably inept police investigation ever , but the second half is painfully tedious and derivative of much better films . I can't really bring myself to recommend " Delirium " to anyone , but I suppose it holds some interest if you're a cult movie freak .
Lucifer be not proud . . .	I'm really puzzled about one thing ? HOW is it possible to take such an intriguing and exciting topic like Satanism and make such a BORING movie out of it ? ? ? Because that's exactly what happened with this ' Satan's Slave ' ! Bad writer-director combination , I guess . Norman J . Warren already annoyed the hell out of me with ' Inseminoid ' ( a . k . a . Horror Planet ) , while author David McGillivray previously was responsible for stinkers like ' House of Whipcord ' and ' Schizo ' . Although I have to admit his ' Frightmare ' was quite enjoyable ! The premise of ' Satan's Slave ' contains more than enough potential but it completely lacks feeling and it's so damn sloooooooow ! It's about a young , beautiful girl ( Candy Glendanning from ' Tower of Evil ' ) who goes to stay at her uncle's mansion , along with her parents . Before they even arrive there properly , her parents are killed in the lamest car-accident ever . The girl stays to recover from a shock at her uncle's , only to discover he actually is the leader of a satanic cult , out to achieve the rebirth of Camilla ? an ancient priestess ( or something , I don't really cared ) . Candace Glendanning is a beauty to look at , as well as Barbara Kellerman who plays the mansion's secretary . Uncle Alexander is played by Michael Gough who's known best for his on-going role of the annoying butler Alfred Pennyworth in the Batman films . The last 20 minutes of Satan's Slave are fairly entertaining , with some gruesome horror effects ( even though they're still very cheap ) and enough nudity to let this film pass for a softcore sleaze gem . Too bad you already categorized this film as ' awful ' by then .
Hey kid , you got some red on you ?	This movie badly suffers from the M . Night Shyamalan syndrome , meaning that writer Sheldon Wilson desperately tries to be SO mysterious , SO ambitious and SO convoluted that , when the climax eventually approaches and the time has arrived to finally come up with some adequate explanations , the script can't possibly provide any more surprise twists or revelations that are strong enough to live up to the expectations that got built up . " Shallow Ground " isn't too bad , but it tries to be too much . The construction of a nearby dam has finished since a few weeks now , and almost the entire town of Shallow something is preparing to move out and start a new life elsewhere . The local police force as well nearly finished packing up everything in boxes when suddenly a young box walks into the station , entirely covered in blood . The kid won't stop bleeding the blood of at least three different dead persons ; his fingerprints match those of multiple missing persons and he inconspicuously covers the walls with macabre messages like " No One Leaves " . He appears to be a supernatural entity , the hybrid of several restless souls and unsolved murder cases that combined their strength to return from the dead and help the local authorities solving the mystery . Okay , so we've got a fairly original premise , a thoroughly moody atmosphere and literally gallons worth of blood ( though very little on screen massacres ) . Then what went wrong and why isn't " Shallow Ground " ranked among the finest hidden horror gems of recent years ? Well , partly because it was poorly promoted upon its release , but mostly because the film is incoherent as hell and ultimately fails to deliver . Besides , the basic plot outline may sound potentially fascinating but the story loses at lot of its impact very fast . " Shallow Ground " halfway suddenly swifts from being a supernatural mystery to an ordinary serial killer movie , and not exactly a very plausible or original one , I may add . Also , it's never good for a horror film to raise more questions than it can answer . But there are several positive remarks to make as well . " Shallow Ground " is a low-budget film , but it's nicely photographed and benefits from great make-up effects as well as competent acting performances .
The Devilish Narrator	Back in college I studied marketing and , even though I missed a whole lot of classes and never really paid any attention , I will always remember the main and most essential principle of marketing , namely : it's not what you sell ; it's HOW you sell it ! This principle fully applies to " The Devil's Triangle " , as it's basically a beautifully wrapped and enticing yet empty package . Writer / director Richard Winer knew exactly that he had to divert the viewer's attention away from the major inaccuracies , so he threw in some elements that never fail when it comes to providing a creepy atmosphere , like the sinister voice of narrator Vincent Price and the oddball music of King Crimson . And I'm guessing Richard Winer's dirty little tricks worked very efficiently , as there was a huge Bermuda Triangle hype going on during the mid-70's and literally every movie production ? whether it was an inaccurate documentary or a sleazy exploitation flick ? covering the topic earned big money at the box office . " The Devil's Triangle " overwhelms you with data that is unstructured and often irrelevant , but the severe dramatization of the facts and of course the intimidating stark voice of the almighty Vincent Price generates an ambiance of fright and creepiness . The narration constantly jumps back and forward in time and covers a massive amount of " strange occurrences " and " mysterious vanishings " of ships and airplanes in the Bermuda Triangle throughout a period of nearly one whole century , but the reports remain extremely vague at all times and the eloquent Mr . Price invariably ends every chapter with the sinister words " ? just another unsolved mystery of the Devil's Triangle ? " . After a couple of cases the whole formula simply becomes laughable and almost pathetic , but I guess it caused genuine mass hysteria back in 1974 . The documentary expands a little more on the most notorious Bermuda Triangle mysteries , like the five planes of military Flight 19 that inexplicably disappeared all at once and the peculiar case of the vessel USS Cyclops , but still even in these chapters only a minimum of serviceable information is given . The cameras never at one point go underwater to explore the depths of the Bermuda area , for example , and the testimonies of the supposedly real-life witnesses of the dramas suspiciously look like staged acting scenes . If you're looking for an informative and objective documentary on the Bermuda Triangle , I certainly wouldn't recommend this movie , but in case you want to sit back and listen to Vincent Price's hypnotizing voice for nearly a full hour , this is your chance !
The interstellar pudding's night on the town !	Never once before in my life thought I would say this , but there's actually an 80's horror remake that I enjoyed more than the original ! The 1988 update for " The Blob " , by director Chuck Russell , widely surpasses the 1958 original and that's not exclusively because it got released in a decade when visual & special effects had remarkably advanced . The original simply isn't a very good film , despite being considered as a minor genre classic by several critics and fans . The script suffers from severe pacing problems from start to finish , the character drawings are very implausible and overall the atmosphere completely lacks the typical 50's charm that other Sci-Fi milestones featured . As you probably know by now , " The Blob " revolves on a meteorite that crashes down in a remote American town and its substance ? a thick and funky red kind of jelly ? consumes the villagers in order to increase in size . Teenagers in love Steve and Jane face huge difficulties when trying to convince the rest of the town of what exactly is happening . One of the many reasons why I'm such a sucker for old ( 50's ? 60's ? 70's ) Science Fiction movies is because of the sublime portrayal of mass hysteria and paranoia . Titles like " War of the Worlds " and even " Day of the Triffids " were great because the fear on people's faces looked so real ! " The Blob " doesn't feature this tension , mainly because the intergalactic pudding takes over the earth so damn slow ! It pays a visit to the doctor's office first , moves on to a cozy little restaurant and continues his journey to the local theater , but it pretty much avoids all the obvious public places . That's why it also takes too long before the teenagers can convince the rest of the population of the danger . The blob in the aforementioned 80's remake follows the same path but its threatening presence is much clearer . The blob here appears to be on a sightseeing tour instead of on a conquest to invade our planet . Another negative element here is the casting choice of the hero . As much as I like Steve McQueen , he simply can't pass for a rebellious teenager who spends his Friday nights on lover's lane watching the stars . McQueen was 28 when this film was shot and he already looks older , so his youthful behavior wasn't very convincing . In the 80's remake , Kevin Dillon's character was a social outcast that constantly was in trouble with the law and thus much more plausible . Is there still anything left to recommend ? Yes , of course ! The basic idea of an alien monster looking like shapeless blubber , and thus different than the usual spaceships or Martians , was quite original and special effects are rather engaging . It's not much , but I hate to be entirely negative about an influential movie like this .
Falling Down . . . in the Red Light District .	Well , I expected a lot from " Edmond " , with its provocative sounding plot and brilliant cast & crew , but it turned out a mildly painful and frustrating disappointment . Judging from countless praising reviews and enthusiast forums on websites , I was anticipating a truly shocking , confronting and intense drama , but all I saw was an overrated and utterly implausible portrait of a man struggling with a midlife crisis . I can see that in my own environment as well , and it would be just as boring . I can't imagine anyone being shocked by the content of this film in this day and age , honestly . Surely the dialogs are often harsh and several sequences hint at violence , but I didn't find the tone & atmosphere of " Edmond " to be overly disturbing and / or nightmarish . The story , courtesy of David Mamet , is comparable to both " After Hours " ( less the comedy ) and " Falling Down " , only the nightly odyssey of this film's protagonist takes place in New York's red light districts and decaying alleys . On his way home from work on Friday evening , a fortune teller's Tarot Cards inform Edmond Burke that " he doesn't belong " . He promptly leaves his wife and goes into town , where he mainly complains about prostitutes ' high prices and provokes fights with street hoodlums . His personal rants against the injustices in the world quickly escalate into a downwards spiral of racism and crime from which there's no way back . The first half of " Edmond " is quite good and convincing , but after the turning-point scene ( with the lovely Julia Stiles ) , the story rapidly becomes too surreal and ridiculous . Especially the finale , set in prison , is really difficult to process and bad . Technically speaking , the film isn't very impressive , neither . This initially was a stage play , and Stuart Gordon largely tries to maintain the same styles in his film as well . The decors and lighting are sober , the camera-work in monotonous and there's almost no score . Stuart Gordon has always been one of my favorite directors , but particularly because his horror movies were unpretentious and straightforward . His ambitions are admirable , but I don't think Gordon was the apt director for this type of cinema . William H . Macy gives away a stellar performance , but it's definitely NOT the role of his life . The people who claim so urgently have to watch " Fargo " . Loads of great actors and actresses appear in minuscule and unimportant roles , like Joe Mantegna , George Wendt , Mena Suvari and Jeffrey Combs . My guess is that mainly agreed to appear to do Stuart Gordon a favor . Not recommended .
The Dullest Little Whorehouse in . . . Wherever !	Who could ever have predicted that an early 80's haunted house thriller directed by one of America's most infamous porn-horror directors ( Armand Weston ; sick genius behind " The Defiance of Good " and " The Taking of Christina " ) , and actually revolving on the grim past of a secluded whorehouse , could be this ? boring , low on sleaze and totally lacking excitement and bloody make-up effects ? I'm generously rating " The Nesting " , due to some isolated moments of sheer brilliance and the terrific choice in atmospheric exterior filming locations , but the honest truth is that this film doesn't deserve half of that , because the narrative structure is infuriatingly dull and ineffectively complex . Lauren Cochran , a female horror novelist living in the center of New York suffers from Agoraphobia ( fear of crowded places ) as well as from sexual repression and writer's block . She moves into a beautiful octagonal old mansion in the countryside , but promptly starts having nightmares and meaningful hallucinations regarding the place's dubious past . She discovers the house used to a brothel but some tragic event occurred there near the end of World War II , and now it seems as if the restless spirits of the prostitutes are using Lauren as a medium to extract their vengeance . Admittedly , the subject matter is hugely derivative and something you've already seen dozens of times before ( and better ) , but hey , that's horror cinema for you and at least the whorehouse setting could have resulted in something slightly more interesting . The script is full of potential , but director Armand Weston makes the terrible mistake of trying to imitate the ominous atmosphere and suggestive mystery of " The Shining " , which was released one year earlier and scored big at the box office . Multiple scenes are shamelessly copied from " The Shining " , but Weston clearly isn't as talented as Stanley Kubrick and a cheap and anonymous production like " The Nesting " needs more action instead of intellectual tension-building . There are a handful of notably terrific sequences , like Lauren's agoraphobic attack in the streets of London , the death of the sinister handyman in the lake and our heroine getting pursued by a deranged local , but sadly they're just isolated highlights in an overall boring wholesome . Genre veteran John Carradine plays his umpteenth role of creepy old guy hiding dark secrets and Gloria Grahame ? in her last big screen role ? appears in the flashback scenes as the whorehouse Madame . The gory highlights in " The Nesting " are passable , with the exception from one nifty eye-impalement ( which I suspect is stolen from Lucio Fulci's " The Beyond " ) and one uncomfortably gross moment involving a scythe . That's hardly worth purchasing an obscure and probably overpriced VHS-copy , isn't it ?
The thin line between trash-exploitation and art-house cinema	Despite of its reputation and the repulsive sounding title , Abel Ferrara's The Driller Killer is more of a social drama about life in the big city than it is a horror shocker . Ferrara himself stars as Reno , an unbalanced painter slowly going crazy due to financial troubles , the noisy punk-band next door , demanding employers and housemates , and non-stop images of the pauperized city . He buys a tool and unleashes his fury on the numerous homeless in the area . Driller Killer is truly grim and as much shocking as the classic film it's clearly inspired on ( namely : Taxi Driver ) but it lacks a fitting tone and a appropriate background drawing . The film opens with a very confusing sequence in which the protagonist is standing at an altar while being approached by an elderly man . This footage is extra since the 1999 re-release and it looks like Ferrara wanted to supply his film with some kind of spiritual depth . It leads nowhere , though . In fact , take out the killings and you're left with a somewhat boring urban portrait . Driller Killer was included in the infamous list of ' video-nasties ' and therefore automatically received a controversial cult-status without people even seeing it . Although the substance matter doesn't belong amongst the other titles in the list , The Driller Killer often wanders on the thin border between trash-exploitation and art-house cinema , as it features voyeuristic elements ( a gratuitous lesbian shower sequence ) as well as sheer close-ups of blood-puddles and whirring drills . Abel Ferrara without a doubt is one of the most remarkable directors in American cinema history . I'm a huge fan of most of his films like ' The Addiction ' , ' Bad Lieutenant ' and ' The Funeral ' ? It's not that I didn't like ' the Driller Killer ' , I just think that the poor production values really show off and that Ferrara did not yet had the professionalism and talent to make up for it by adding the trademarks that made his later films so brilliant . If you're interested by the repertoire of this often discussed director , you better don't start by watching Driller Killer . You're appreciate it a lot more after seeing some of his 90's films .
The Wild Bunch of Vampires	Twenty years after " Assault on Precinct 13 " , director John Carpenter re-states that he actually prefers making westerns over horror movies . " Vampires " looks like a giant tribute to Sam Peckinpah's " The Wild Bunch " ( even the illustration on the DVD-cover is taken from it ) and handles about a 600-year-old super vampire that operates from the New Mexican desert . Because you see , vampires don't sleep in coffins or live in old castles ; they dig holes in the sand and emerge from them at the break of dawn . James Woods plays Buffy the Vampire Slayer , working for the Vatican and assisted by Daniel Baldwin and a naive young priest as they're trying to prevent bloodsucker Valdek from finding the Cross of Berziers ; a religious relic that gives vampires the power endure daylight . The set pieces are quite impressive and the screenplay definitely contains exciting sequences ( like the multiple spontaneous combustions ! ) , but Carpenter completely ignores building up tension and opts for brainless macho action . Maybe this was meant to be a tribute to Peckinpah as well but " Vampires " is truly women unfriendly and barbaric . Female star Sheryl Lee , who stars as a prostitute slowly turning into a vampire after being bitten , gets slapped , abused and yelled at repellently while the only other female cast members are some hookers that're used as bullet shields for the men ! The aforementioned sequences in which the vampires crawl out of their sand beds are the only real atmospheric moments in an overall disappointing and forgettable horror flick .
Feels like a Russ Meyer film but without the cleavage . . .	This angry female-biker flick was my first acquaintance with the legendary director Hershell Gordon Lewis . I'm much more looking forward to seeing some of his most controversial films like ' Two Thousand Maniacs ' , ' Blood Feast ' or ' The Gruesome Twosome ' but I consider this to be a reasonable appetizer . It's not nearly as shocking or offensive as it might look and the script contains very few material to make a movie of . Loud-mouthed bitches who drink and race all day , while they consider all males to be ? mothers ! They live by strange rules ( for example : when you donate too much attention to the same guy , you're out of the group ) and organize orgies with a cabin full of studs ! A couple of persons get severely mutilated and one of them even loses his head but , other than this , there isn't much gore or action to detect . Best aspects about this film actually are the sleazy-sounding title and the opening song , entitled ' Get off the Road ' . Lewis ' She-Devils on Wheels is a very campy film ! Some of the dialogue is really hilarious , but almost literally impossible to understand . This film decently represents the she-exploitation subgenre . But not nearly as good as Russ Meyer's legendary ' Faster Pussycat , Kill ! Kill ' which was made 3 years earlier . The shrews in this particular film were a lot meaner , relentless and ? most importantly ? sexier .
Forgettable . . .	Erik van Looy's " De Zaak Alzheimer " isn't the least bit groundbreaking or exceptional but , considering it's an entirely Belgian production , it slightly outshines the middle group . The plot is standard cop-thriller material with an all-knowing assassin turning against his instructors and leaving the Antwerp police with a series of corpses of eminent ( but corrupt ) politicians . The story is thickened by some secondary elements such as the killer suffering from Alzheimer's disease and the dreadful cat-and-mouse game he's playing with the coppers . Merely thanks to the cast ( world famous ? in Belgium ) and expensive promotional campaigns , this film was very successful and received much praise . Quite undeserved actually , as it's far too long and featuring too much clichés and stereotype characters . The only real smart element is the unsubtle sarcasm towards the failure of united police forces . But that only works if you're familiar with the Belgian law system that recently implanted collaboration between the different police cells . The competition and venom between these cells results in efficient pranks and sometimes even a bit of tension . The action sequences , effects and settings are okay but , as said before , nothing really spectacular . The thing that irritated me mostly was the director's urge to make this film look so typically Hollywood-like . The camera-work , the cut-and-paste editing , the music ? Van Looy tries too hard and the wholesome eventually looks like a giant wannabe . De Zaak Alzheimer is adapted from a novel by Jef Geeraerts , a famous Belgian writer who wrote tons of similar stories ( trust me ? I was forced to read many of them in school ) . One of his previous novels already was turned into a mini-series called " Diamant " . That series was at least ten times better than this film .
Blame it on the Boogie !	The key question that immediately raises itself when noticing a monster-movie called " The Boogens " is of course : what exactly is a Boogens and what does it look like ? Well , even after just having finished the film I'm still not entirely sure if I can give a proper definition for the titular critters . Apparently the Boogens are some sort of carnivorous and prehistoric ( ? ) monsters that live underneath mines , though seemingly in one sole Utah silver mine exclusively , and they can perfectly survive 70 years without any type of food . As for what they look like , I nearly feared never knowing that , neither , since the things are never properly shown until very late into the film . But try and imagine yourself what the hybrid baby of a sea turtle and an alien would look like and you'll probably come close . Anyways , as much as I admire cheesy and low-budget 80's horror , there's a good reason why this particular film is still so obscure whereas other contemporary genre efforts received fancy DVD-releases in the meantime already . This decade simply has much better outings to offer , like " The Deadly Spawn " , " Night of the Creeps " , " Tremors " and " From Beyond " , to name just a couple of titles . The general complaints regarding " The Boogens " are more than justified . It takes far too long before the excitement kicks in , and when the monsters do eventually begin to devour their victims one after another it's actually too little too late to safe the film . The story nonetheless opens promisingly , with an atmospheric montage of old pictures and newspaper headlines involving an old silver mine located in Utah . The headlines indicate that a continuous series of mysterious occurrences and deadly accidents eventually led to the mine's closure in 1912 . Now , over 70 years later , the new owners plan to re-open the shafts and already hired a duo of young miners to work for them . The works and explosions cause the mine's monstrous inhabitants to awake again and you can imagine the appetite they built up in all these years . The locations are quite atmospheric and , even though they are your averagely babbling and loud-mouthed youngsters , the main characters are somehow amiable . They talk about sex non-stop and make one stupid decision after another , yet for some reason you don't wish for them to die quick and painfully . That's quite odd for stereotypical 80's horror teen-characters , is it not ? Still , regardless of these positive factors , the total lack of excitement during the first full hour is unforgivable . If you have a weakness for obscure and cheesy 80's madness , you might want to hunt down a copy after all . If not , it's really not worth browsing through Ebay on a daily basis hoping to stumble upon an original copy on VHS .
Take a Ghost-Picture , it'll last longer !	Unfortunately I didn't manage to catch the 2004 Thai original before this American remake premiered at the annual Belgian Horror and Fantasy Festival . I didn't bother to see it when it initially got released because there already was an overload of Asian Ghost movies at that time and I really couldn't cope enduring another dull and scare-free imitation of " Ringu " . After seeing the US remake I'm definitely interested in checking out the original sooner or later . The basic idea of restless spirits trying to communicate through photography is remotely original , but the elaboration ( at least in this remake ) remains somewhat tedious and predictable . Immediately after their marriage , Jane follows her photographer husband Ben to Tokyo where his friends arranged a splendid job for him . Jane , but soon after also Ben , suffers from visions of a deceased girl and all the pictures they make are ruined by ghostly images of this same girl . There's more than obviously a link between this girl and Ben's past days as a bachelor , but Jane only gradually learns the truth of what happened exactly . To my knowledge , this is the first and so far only Thai film to be remade by a Japanese director but with American funds and cast members . Talk about an international co-production ! Masayuki Ochiai previously directed the incredibly atmospheric and uncanny hospital-horror film " Infection " , so he definitely knows how to build up suspense and terror through suggestion . The main problem here is that the ghostly subject matter is too " soft " and doesn't lend itself to provide some genuine shock-moments . We've all seen too many ( Asian ) horror movies already in which white-faced spirits spontaneously appear & disappear again , and the mystery is always build up towards a point where the script can't possibly fulfill the audience's anticipations anymore . In " Shutter " , you rather quickly figure out that Ben knows than he tells , so you can easily guess each and every plot twist far in advance . There are a very limited number of sets and exterior locations . Why didn't the film take advantage of the wondrous city of Tokyo , like for example " Lost in Translation " did ? Rachael Taylor is certainly a promising actress with a lot of growing potential , so I hope she'll get offered a couple of better screenplays in the near future . Thus far , she only has horror rubbish like " See No Evil " and " Man-Thing " on her repertoire and those things won't get her noticed . Neither will " Shutter " , for that matter .
Dude , you left the microwave oven-door open !	This overall poor and redundant 80's slasher is more or less ' famous ' for one killing-sequence in particular , in which some guy's head is turned into bloody hodgepodge because the masked killer places him in a microwave oven and hits the start-button . Is that even possible ? Perhaps it was an older and unsafe oven model , because the one in my kitchen refuses to function as long as the door isn't closed . The head melting itself is delightfully cheesy and gross , as are most killing scenes in this ludicrous guilty pleasure of mine . Naturally , everything else about " Evil Laugh " varies from bad to downright terrible , including awful acting performances , lousy dialogs and a total lack of suspense . You know how the background myths to introduce a story's murderer are usually a lot more petrifying than the actual slasher itself ? For example , finding out how and why Jason Vorhees ( of " Friday the 13th " - fame ) drowned in Crystal Lake is more fascinating than enduring his quest for vengeance during the next ten sequels , and also Freddy Krueger's ( " Nightmare on Elm Street " ) acts of child-abuse and murder were a lot sicker before he got toasted by the furious parents of Elm Street . " Evil Laugh " is another prime example to state the background theory . The killer's myth is horrific , but the slasher itself is horrible . A group of medical students ? who certainly don't look like medical students ? plan to reopen an abandoned orphanage after it closed down over ten years ago , following a sinister series of murders . One of the caretakers , named Martin , got falsely accused of molesting the orphans and the scandal drove his father to commit suicide . When Martin was found innocent after all , he returned to the orphanage one night and slit the throats of all the children . See , now that promise would result in a gripping horror film with nail-biting tension and shocking murders ! Instead , the newly arrived teenagers face a ridiculously masked serial killer who may or may not be Michael who returned from the grave , or someone entirely different . Just in case it is Michael , the title makes no sense , because why would he laugh with his tragic past ? And as long as we're stumbling over details , the killer's laugh isn't really evil , but more like an infantile chuckle . For undemanding fans of lurid 80's nudity and bloodshed exclusively .
The Notorious B . I . G . strikes again !	I honestly had no idea that the Notorious B . I . G . ( Bert I . Gordon the director ; not the murdered rapper ) was still active in the 80's ! I always presumed the deliciously inept " Empire of the Ants " stood as his last masterful accomplishment in the horror genre , but that was before my dirty little hands stumbled upon an ancient and dusty VHS copy of " The Coming " , a totally obscure and unheard of witchery-movie that actually turned out a more or less pleasant surprise ! What starts out as a seemingly atmospheric tale of late Dark Ages soon takes a silly turn when a villager of year 1692 inexplicably becomes transferred to present day Salum , Massachusetts and promptly attacks a girl in the history museum . For you see , this particular girl is the reincarnation of Ann Putman who was a bona fide evil girl in 1692 and falsely accused over twenty people of practicing witchcraft which led to their executions at the state . The man who attacked Loreen lost his wife and daughter this and wants his overdue revenge . But poor and three centuries older Loreen is just an innocent schoolgirl , ? or is she ? " Burned at the Stake " unfolds like a mixture between " The Exorcist " and " Witchfinder General " with a tad bit of " The Time Machine " thrown in for good measure . Way to go , Bert ! The plot becomes sillier and more senseless with every new twist but at least it never transcends into complete boredom , like too often the case in other contemporary witchcraft movies like " The Dunwich Horror " and " The Devonsville Terror " . The film jumps back and forth between the events in present day and flashbacks of 1692 ; which keeps it rather amusing and fast-paced . The Ann Putman girl is quite a fascinating character , reminiscent of the Abigail Williams character in the more commonly known stage play " The Crucible " ( also depicted by Winona Ryder in the 1996 motion picture ) . There are a couple of cool death sequences , like the teacher in the graveyard or the journalist in the library , that are committed by the ghost of malignant reverend who made a pact with Ann Putman and perhaps even the Devil himself . The film gets pretty spastic and completely absurd near the end , but overall there's some good cheesy fun to be had . Plus , the least you can say about Bert I . Gordon is that he definitely build up some directorial competences over the years .
Fast-forward to George Miller's segment !	I was born a few decades too late in order to experience the initial charm and impact of the original " Twilight Zone " TV-series , so I only knew the name from the many nostalgic stories told by older Sci-Fi fans . This ' tribute'-movie was my first encounter with the legendary Rod Sterling show and , although not terrible , I surely hope that the original series was indeed better . Despite the fact they were directed by prominent genre-directors , no less than THREE of the four anthology chapters are disappointingly mediocre and forgettable . In order to finally see some truly good sci-fi / fantasy , you have to wait patiently until the very last segment , in which Mad Max-creator George Miller redoes Richard's Matheson's creepy short called " Nightmare at 20 . 000 feet " . The prologue is promising enough , though , with Dan Aykroyd and Albert Brooks singing along with Creedence Clearwater Revival-songs and playing the " guess the TV tune " game . The first two chapters can't really be referred to as science fiction or fantasy ? They're more like dull morality lessons ; the first being a plea against racism and the second a fairy-tale about youth being a mental thing . This second chapter , directed by Steven Spielberg , is the dullest of all tales with corny lines and lousy acting . The third story , directed by Joe Dante and blending cartoon characters with real-life actors , is a major improvement over the first two but still it isn't very satisfying cinema . All the praise really goes to George Miller , whose segment is the only frightening and atmospherically presented Sci-Fi tale . John Lithgow is amazing as the claustrophobic airplane traveler who spies a demon destroying the engines . If all the segments had been as gripping and suspenseful as Miller's contribution , " Twilight Zone " would now be regarded at as a classic .
Starring the best Dutch-speaking comedian ever	De Boezemvriend won't ring a bell to that many people . It's a long lost and forgotten Dutch comedy , but . . . a very enjoyable one . The chosen few who'll have the change to see it one day won't regret it . But it is hard to find . I taped it off TV once in the early 90's . I still have that tape and re-watched it recently . But it hasn't been on tv since . De Boezemvriend is all about the charismatic face of leading actor André Van Duin . He's a funny-looking reddish man , who uses different tones of voice when he speaks . He's a famous and well respected comedian in the Dutch-speaking countries . He did movies , TV-shows , stand-up comedy acts and a lot of other stuff . He was on the peak of his success when this movie was shot . . . you don't hear much about him nowadays and that's a shame . I was a huge fan of his and I still think he was the best comedian in all Belgium and the Netherlands . De Boezemvriend is set in the time of Napoleon . Van Duin character is some sort of dentist who has to run for Napoleon troops because the want to recruit him as a soldier . During his hike , he gets mistaken for a French baron and a close friend to the emperor . De Boezemvriend contains a few truly hilarious scenes and an overall funny screenplay . The costumes and decors are fairly decent and I consider that to be a huge positive point , since it's only a small Dutch production . Van Duin's facial expressions are a joy to watch and the ( former ) Dutch beauty Vanessa shows a LOT of cleavage . What more do you want ? ?
Beware of Murderous has-been 50's Crooner !	Yay ! Another totally obscure early 80's slasher no one has ever heard of ! I often wonder where they keep coming from . Are the 80's still going on in some kind of alternate dimension or something ? How else would you explain the never-ending upstream of long lost slashers ? Anyway , this one isn't very good , but I can honestly state that I've struggled myself through 80's slashers that are much worse and yet somehow enjoy a mild cult reputation . " Blood Song " only enjoys the status of obscurity , but at least it offers a couple of ingenious gimmicks , an occasionally unsettling atmosphere , some nasty killings , a handful of likable characters and ? not to forget ? a unique member in the cast of nobodies ! Ladies and gentlemen : washed up 50's and early 60's crooner Frankie Avalon ! And in all fairness , I also have to admit that the script of " Blood Song " attempts to be slightly more than just a random slasher . The plot tries to spiritually link the female protagonist Marion to a fugitive killer through a blood transfusion , nightmarish POV visions and ? flute music ! " Blood Song " opens with a typically clichéd horror scene , yet with an unexpected twist at the end of it . A young boy witnesses his father killing the unfaithful wife , her lover and himself . What's a poor kid to do at such a traumatizing and future-determining point in life ? Well , play the wooden flute his daddy hand-made for him of course ! More than 20 years later he escapes from a mental asylum , still holding on to his wooden flute , and goes on a rampage where he kills everyone who negatively criticizes the music he produces . Meanwhile , Marion witnesses all of his vile acts in visions because the killer once anonymously donated blood to her when she was involved in a car accident . A confrontation between the two is inevitable , but not before the musical killer eliminates some more random victims first ! Like often the case in this genre , " Blood Song " is a lot more enjoyable if you don't ask too many questions regarding the plot's plausibility and don't bother about the multiple giant holes . All the ingenious aspects of the plot sadly vanish when the girl and the killer first stand face to face and " Blood Song " then reverts to an ordinary stalk-n-slash flick , albeit with an odd father-daughter relationship sub plot . Frankie Avalon isn't too bad , but he hasn't got many lines and what he says doesn't always make much sense . Funny detail is how the script never explains why they sent little Pauly to a mental institution in the first place . Okay , he witnessed a triple murder and suicide but he didn't commit any acts of insanity at young age himself , at least nothing hints in that direction . Since when is it customary to send traumatized kids to an asylum instead of to foster parents or orphanages ? Because now it seems that he only really lost his sanity whilst being committed . A-ah , ( unintentional ? ) food for thought in a mediocre & insignificant 80's horror movie !
Don't have a ( mad ) cow , man !	A couple of years ago , when the news bulletins in Europe were stuffed with updates regarding the ' mad cow disease ' , I was actually wondering how long it would take before some clever scriptwriter would come up with the very first horror movie revolving on this disturbing illness ! As far as I'm aware , this potentially interesting movie never came until the Irish director Billy O'Brien invented something similar , namely a rather far-fetched tale about genetically altered calves running amok on a remote farm in the Irish countryside . " Isolation " is probably also the ONLY horror film ever to have " stolen " an idea from the grotesque animated series " South Park " ! How's that ? Well , I think it's in the very first episode that Cartman & C° encounter cows that were mysteriously turned inside out , and that wicked phenomenon also features here in this seriously intended and occasionally eerie low-budget horror flick ! " Isolation " is a very slow-paced film that doesn't feature many spectacular moments , but it's nevertheless a bit creepy and compelling enough to hold your attention . Especially the first 45 minutes or so are mysteriously build up . There's something the matter with the pregnant cows in farmer Dan's stables . We're told that he agreed to be part of a small-scaled scientific experiment that messes with calves-fetuses , but no details are given at all . Then there's also a young couple perpetrating the farm in their camper . Jamie and Mary are obviously hiding some secrets as well but , again , no details are given . The mysteriousness of the experiments along with the ominous farm-setting really stimulates your curiosity and you want to know where this will all lead to , especially because ordinary cattle aren't exactly the most menacing horror monsters . Sadly enough , " Isolation " turns into a mediocre and slightly dull creature-feature once the truth behind the genetic experiments gets revealed and the actual cow-monster is on the loose . The last half hour , including the film's climax , are a weak imitation of Ridley Scott's legendary " Alien " , with the last couple of survivors trying to avoid confrontation with a rarely seen monster . I don't know how they managed this , but Dan's farm suddenly even looks exactly like the Nostromo ; the mother-ship in " Alien " ! There's only five characters in the film , so don't expect too many gruesome death sequences or sudden twists . The best things I can say about " Isolation " is that it's an atmospheric and well-made film , benefiting from its dark & depressing locations ( the rain never seems to end in Ireland ) and a genuinely creepy musical score . The creative basic storyline and the patient building up of tension definitely make Billy O'Brien a name to remember .
Two Moriarty for the price of one	I'm strangely fascinated by the acting career of Michael Moriarty . He's rather odd-looking and never seems to know what's going on , yet he was often offered important horror roles during the 1980's . Especially , by Larry Cohen who cast him in " Q ? The Winged Serpent " and " The Stuff " . Well , " Blood Link " isn't exactly an important film , but it's easily his most ambitious and valuable role . Your first impression will probably be that he's terribly miscast in his double role as sadistic murderer and the telepathically linked twin brother who pursues him , but he actually grows in his role and gets more convincing as the story develops . Craig Mannings is a doctor living in the United States who's frequently disturbed by nightmares in which he sees himself committing gruesome murders . He's instantly reminded of his former Siamese twin brother Keith , only he supposedly dies in an arson at age 17 . The search brings him to Hamburg where the sane & insane brother will be reunited , although not without a lot of bloodshed . " Blood Link " is an interesting , albeit slow and implausible thriller with some clear giallo influences and a most enchanting score by master Ennio Morricone . Alberto De Martino ? one of Italy's most criminally underrated director ? professionally and adds in twists , nifty murders and even some nudity whenever you tend to lost interest . Although nearly not shocking or violent enough to rank among Italy's better thrillers , fans might find it enjoyable and worth tracking down .
Who let the dogs out ? Woof , woof , woof ? woof ?	" The Breed " actually feels a lot like a modern cinematic update ( can't really refer to it as a remake ) of the severely underrated 70's killer-dogs-flick " The Pack " . In that film a group of tourists on a holiday island resort becomes attacked by a pack of bewildered dogs that were abandoned by their owners and developed savage instincts . Nick Mastandrea's directorial debut " The Breed " also introduces five youthful tourists on an island ( in many sequences the island even looks identical to that of " The Pack " ) and under the terrifying siege of wild dogs , only this time the aggressive animals are leftovers of a genetically engineered breed . The breeding experiment went horribly wrong and all dogs were supposedly exterminated , but clearly a handful of them survived and roam the island as vicious predators . " The Breed " is a largely unoriginal and predictable horror film , but it's nevertheless recommended to fans of ' dog-horror ' which pretty much forms a small sub genre on its own . The dogs are impressively well-trained and they look genuinely menacing when they're observing their human targets . The rest of the film is of course very mundane and forgettable , including stereotypical and disposable horror characters ( a token black guy ? Oh , come on ! ) and the totally redundant and uninteresting romantic liaisons between them . There's also an attempt for an additional sub plot about one of the characters getting rabies and developing a psychic connection with the dogs , but luckily this idea quickly leads nowhere and vanishes . The names in the cast are nothing special , although admittedly I seem to be the only male person in the world who doesn't fancy Michelle Rodriguez . Hill Harper is supposed to pass for a twenty-something cool dude , but apparently he already turned 40 when the film got released . This is also another one of them " Wes Craven Presents ? " productions , but I sincerely doubt that Craven ever hung around the set whilst filming .
This little piggy stayed at home and watched a demented drive-in feature ?	Ladies and Gentlemen , the hall of 70's exploitation obscurity proudly presents " Pigs " , a movie made by , made for and ? of course ? largely revolving on ? Pigs ! Just in case you're looking for a totally incompetent yet strangely fascinating and one of a kind drive in class-sick , I warmly recommend this movie which Marc Lawrence ( supportive cast member of such acclaimed classics as " Key Largo " and " The Asphalt Jungle " ) wrote , produced , starred in and directed entirely by himself ! " Pigs " , which is a much easier and equally appropriate title to use instead of the official " Daddy's Deadly Darling " , blends two main story lines that are typical 70's exploitation guff ( meaning : absurd and utterly tasteless ) , yet the wholesome feels refreshing and unique . The opening sequences introduce Lynn Webster . She's a beautiful and impressively voluptuous young girl who has just slain her father because he couldn't keep his hands to himself and a certain other body part inside his pants . One minor problem , however , Lynn refuses to accept her daddy is dead and she even escapes from the asylum to search for him . Why she desperately wants to be reunited with the guy who physically abused her is just one of the many weird kinks in the plot that remains unexplained and neglected . I guess it's because she's mentally unstable and those people tend to desire weird things . Anyway , she arrives at a remote countryside diner where funny farmer Zambrini employs her as a waitress . Zambrini has a couple of issues of his own , though . To a corpse he stole from the local morgue he explains how his pigs accidentally developed a taste for human blood . It started when they devoured a drunkard who fell asleep in their barnyard , but now they exclusively crave human flesh . The rest of the film is pure but amusing nonsense , with Lynn gradually losing whatever's left of her sanity and Zambrini desperately collecting corpses to keep his porkers satisfied . Jesse Vint stars as the handsome Sheriff investigating the odd events at Zambrini's farm and , like any other male character , he falls for Lynn's gorgeous rack . " Pigs " guarantees 80 minutes of uncompromising and demented ' Rednecksploitation ' fun ! Naturally it's a horrible film , complete with amateurish acting performances and dialogs that appear to have been written by the pigs , but trained admirers of cinematic 70's smut won't be able to resist it . The camera-work looks hideous , Marc Lawrence clearly never heard of editing and the make-up effects wouldn't even scare a child . " Pigs " also features a misfit but incredibly catchy theme song called " Somebody's Waiting For You " ( misfit songs were almost obligatory in 70's drive-in classics ) and the endlessly repeated " La la lalalla la la " tunes . Marc Lawrence donated the role of Lynn to his real-life daughter Toni , presumably to launch her career . It must have been awkward , for the both of them , to shoot all the sequences where she wears a revealing and too tight nightgown . Do I sense incestuous undertones ? Sure , why not ? Everything goes in the wondrously twisted world of 70's exploitation , right ?
Where's Michael Myers when you need him ?	" Someone's Watching Me " is practically always described as a " Hitchcockian " thriller . This is of course a quite superficial and even remotely hypocrite way to label a film . Whenever an acclaimed director revolves a thriller on themes that were largely introduced by Alfred Hitchcock , the critics are tempted to mildly review the film as a " Hitchcockian " thriller , yet when an unknown director does the same , his / her effort is likely to get categorized as a weak attempt to imitate the legendary filmmaker . John Carpenter had just scored big hits with " Halloween " and " Assault on Precinct 13 " , so consequently his TV-produced variation on " Rear Window " was bound to fall into the first category . By stating this , I certainly don't intend claiming " Someone's Watching Me " is a bad film , mind you , but it's definitely a bit overrated and inarguably routine . The basic plot and structure are just too simplistic and derivative and , since Carpenter still isn't on par with Alfred " the master of suspense " Hitchcock himself , he doesn't manage to turn this into a highly memorable film . The film benefices from a handful of genuinely suspenseful moments as well as a steady pacing , but specifically in order to maintain the pacing , the script makes a couple of implausible ( on the verge of absurd , even ) twists and turns . " Someone's Watching Me " introduces Leigh Michaels , a lady in her late twenties with a peculiar habit of making bad jokes and the even more irritating habit of continuously talking and singing to herself , who just migrated from New York to Los Angeles and moved into a fairly luxurious apartment block with a view all over the city . She accepts a great job , makes a few friends ( Adrienne Barbeau as a lesbian ) and everything goes well until some pervert spots her through a telescope from the building across the street . He must really fancy women with a giant gap between their front teeth , as Leigh unendingly receives strange phone calls , expensive gifts from a fictional company and unsettling remarks about her behavior and the places she visited . The poor girl slowly loses her sanity and , since the police can't interfere until something tragic happens , she and her newfound friends eventually start an investigation of their own . Carpenter's attempt to deliver a suspense-driven TV-thriller is admirable , but the material is too minimal to fill up nearly 100 minutes of running time and some of the invisible villain's methods are just too grotesque . Come on , which deranged stalker would be willing to spend a remarkable sum of money to buy his victim expensive gifts ( from a fake company with its own letterhead ! ) or go through so much effort to falsely accuse another tenant ? The eventual denouement and unmasking of the culprit is far too improbable as well . Also , and rather obvious since it concerns a TV-production , the film severely lacks action and bloodshed . If only Carpenter was able to invite the protagonist from his previous film , Michael Myers , to join the party ! Imagine what would happen ! Surely it would take Michael quite a while to reach the penthouse , but once he's unleashed the stalker would regret the day of his birth !
And a Happy " Night of Walpurgis " to Y'all !	Paul Naschy ? the living and already legendary icon of Spanish exploitation cinema ? once again suffers from overabundant body hair growth in this entertaining and very gory episode of the " Hombre-Lobo " cycle . These fun movies don't exactly follow each other , but they all star Naschy as Count Waldemar Daninsky ; a noble and honorable man but with the misfortune of transforming into a bloodthirsty werewolf whenever the moon is full . In " Curse of the Devil " , all the events revolve on the Night of Walpurgis . This holiday is kind of like Christmas but exclusively for witches , Satanists and everyone else who's up to no good . On this night , poor Waldemar is struck by a terrible curse that was placed upon him several centuries ago , when his Witchfinder-ancestor single-handedly wiped out an entire coven of devil worshipers and burnt their leader . Following a series of macabre events ( a bizarre hunting accident , a bloody ritual performed by a sexy witch ? ) , Waldemar becomes a werewolf and kills a lot of people ( preferably gorgeous women ) in the forest surrounding his land . This is not the type of movie you watch for its unbearable suspense or the masterfully written dialogues . It's a simple European exploitation effort from the 70's in which a lot of girls get fully naked and even more poor souls have their throats bit open . The gore is plentiful but never really shocking and the acting performances vary from bad to ? very , very bad ! Naschy's transformation into a werewolf is hilarious instead of creepy and the sub plot about an escaped murderous lunatic is just too implausible . Recommended ? but only to Euro-horror fanatics and fans of Paul Naschy . PS : the indicated running time of 73 minutes must be taken from a severely cut version . The DVD I watched ( Dutch release ) runs 82 minutes and shows every butchering in great and tasteless details . Go for that one !
Oddball low-budget 70's . . . " thing "	" Warlock Moon " is a very strange and unique movie . Certainly not David Lynch strange or Alexandro Jodorowsky unique , mind you , but the plot enfolds itself so extremely unusual ! Yet for some reason you unconsciously accept what's going on , even though it makes little sense , because you're somewhat curious and intrigued . The two main characters make each their acquaintance rather ? exceptionally , to say the least . She's a student and he's a tacky newspaper reporter who sneaks up on her , wearing a fake mustache and ridiculous goggles , and insists that she goes picnicking with him . Odd ? but effective apparently , because the naive girl falls for it and a couple of days later they head out to the countryside together . They end up in a ramshackle old spa where they get a tour from an uncanny albeit friendly lady . Yet another few days later , the spa is totally abandoned and a hunter tells the girl about the morbid past of the place . But then when the boy pops up , the old lady returns as well . And so does a guy wielding an axe . What the hell ? Following the good old clichés of the horror genre , one thing's for sure : the girl just learned about deviant patterns in school , like incest and cannibalism , so they sure as hell going to encounter some of that ! " Warlock Moon " isn't a very good occult horror film , but I inexplicably appreciated it , and there are still a few things to recommend to fans of low-budget drive-in movies . The film features that typically 70's atmosphere , you know ? Anything can happen , even the most absurd plot twists appear to be very normal and the most likable characters can get killed off at any second . The plot is mysterious enough and even a bit compelling , but the film is unfortunately also very slow-moving and uneventful . And then I'm not even mentioning the awfully redundant and head-scratching empty swimming pool sequence . That was the second " what the hell " moment already ! Around the hour , the whole thing just gets too weird and you'll wonder where the hell they're going with it , but still I'd encourage people to see it , as there are a few neat twists in the end . " Warlock Moon " is the only film ( at least , that I've seen ) that uses freeze-frame shots during the actual film . We've seen a lot of movies end in a freeze-frame , but this crazy flick has several throughout the film and for no apparent reason other than the lack of budgetary means . Well , those are the 70's for you , any weirdo with a typewriter and a demented idea for a horror movie could raise a handful of dollars to actually make it . And there are plenty of punks , myself included , that make it their life's mission to hunt all this obscure junk down .
The Naschy with the Severed Head	I remember stumbling upon this film a couple of years ago on a cheap looking DVD edition under the appealing title " The Man with the Severed Head " , but without any type of additional info like cast members , year of release or plot synopsis . Since I couldn't trace the film around here on this website , or any other website for that matter , I didn't want to risk a blind purchase . Now I found this film with the exact same cover image , released under the acclaimed " Euroshock Collection " label and with the box proudly exclaiming Paul Naschy's name as the lead star , so this time there weren't any more excuses not to watch it ! I consider myself to be a big fan of Paul Naschy , in spite of his gigantic ego and his often terribly inept and gratuitously sleazy Spanish film productions . In case you are just even slightly familiar with Naschy's usual repertoire , you will notice straight away that " Crimson " is an extremely atypical film for him . Naschy literally loves himself and he's always profiled as a powerful , strong and womanizing type of anti-hero . Here in this film " Naschy " hardly has anything to do or say , as his character lies half-dead in bed most of the time because most of his brains were blown out by the police during a failed jewelery theft . I honestly wonder why Naschy even accepted this type of inferior role in a movie he didn't even co-wrote or directed himself . " Crimson " isn't necessarily a bad film , but horror and Euro-sleaze fans should definitely beware as there are hardly any gore elements and absolutely no nudity . Yeah , I have no idea what that's all about neither . This was mid 70's and European exploitation production , right ? Instead of all this , writer / director Juan Fortuny attempts to come up with an ambitious and extremely convoluted mixture of heist movie , revenge thriller and mad scientist shlock . Following the heist gone wrong mentioned here above , Jack Surnett's gang members don't want their leader to die and force a drunken doctor to come up with a solution . He brings the whole posse to a secluded place in the countryside , where a brilliant scientist and his wife are on the verge of accomplishing a breakthrough in their brain transplant experiments . As the involuntary brain donor , the gangsters select Surnett's arch enemy ? a guy named " The Sadist " and acting like one too ? and hope that a happy ending will ensue . Needless to say the operation doesn't go as planned and Surnett doesn't wake up as the man he once was . " Crimson " is an odd and difficult to categorize exploitation effort . It's reasonably fast-paced and mildly compelling , but still there's a lot of redundant footage and unnecessary dull sub plots ( like the love history between the scientist and his wife , the distrust and hostility between the gang members mutually , etc ? ) . The absence of actual horror aspect and bloody killing sequences is a huge disappointment , especially since the DVD cover showcases some promisingly bloody tableaux . The delirious jazzy soundtrack is great and some of the supportive cast members deliver splendid performances , like The Sadist and the double-crossing dude with the sleazy mustache . Worth a look if you're into curious and offbeat European exploitation cinema , but nothing really special .
The DARK swamps of witchcraft	I am definitely giving this movie another chance , IF it ever receives a proper DVD release complete with restored sound and polished up picture quality . I couldn't really enjoy my viewing of " The Witchmaker " , but most likely that was due to the questionable quality of the VHS-rip rather than the actual movie . I found myself staring at a black screen most of the time , yet in between all the vagueness it was obvious that this movie is worthwhile enough to deserve a decent DVD edition . Unfortunately that still doesn't mean it's a great film . " The Witchmaker " is merely a hodgepodge of good conceptual ideas , outstanding locations & scenery , ominous atmospheres and genuinely spooky images , but sadly the script is massively incoherent and several of the plot's details aren't elaborated to the fullest . The main trump is undoubtedly the grisly swamp setting ! I used to think the British countryside had a monopoly on forming the ideal setting for stories about witchcraft and devil-worshiping ( " Blood on Satan's Claw " and " The Witchfinder General " are two prime examples ) , but that was before I saw the same story set in the Louisianan bayou region ! The area looks as good as impenetrable and feels genuinely inescapable and isolated . At a certain point in the story , the remaining survivor characters desperately want to get out the swamp ? and who could blame them ? but it simply isn't possibly because their cabin is only reachable by boat and the boatman one passes by per week . Even in remote rural Britain they didn't have that problem ! Several beautiful young girls have been murdered in the Bayou over the last few years , and the macabre modus operandi leads to suspect there's a coven witches active in the area . The corpses are hung upside down from a tree and there are eerie symbols painted on their naked bodies . The murders are indeed the work of a dude named Luther the Berserk , a master of Sabbath , who needs the women's blood for his occult rituals . Alvy Moore plays paranormal detective Ralph Hayes who travels to the area to research the murders . One of the expedition members tagging along is the indescribably beautiful Thordis Brandt and her character is the granddaughter of an actual witch ! Hayes dragged her aboard because she's more sensitive to paranormal activity , but Luther also notices her talents and promptly sets up a plan to recruit her as his own witch . Okay , we have a splendid setting , a plot with the utmost potential AND a number of disturbing moments ( I swear , the sights of those naked and smeared girls ' bodies are positively unnerving ) , so what's the problem ? I'm really not sure , but fact is that " The Witchmaker " doesn't quite live up to its own potential . The suspense building is too often undercut by seemingly endless psychologist conversations and occult gibberish . The film is just too talkative and , like another reviewer stated already , the characters drink way too much coffee , which is probably the reason why they keep talking and talking and talking ! The first twenty minutes ( up until Brandt's semi-topless run through the swamp ) as well the finale are pure fascinating horror stuff , but it's difficult to stay focused throughout the tedious and uneventful middle section . Nonetheless , " The Witchmaker " is a very interesting American witchcraft / Satanist movie and honestly deserves to be slightly more known among genre fanatics .
Christopher Lee in a cloak . . . . part 7	The last film in Hammer's Dracula-cycle certainly isn't the best in the series but it remains fascinating to see how the legendary horror studios continue to bring variation to the old theme . After all , Dracula once started out as a subversive myth and in this film he's used like a metaphor to generalize " new " forms of evil such as diseases , the apocalypse , greed and fraud . The elaboration of " Satanic Rites of Dracula " isn't always as professional as it should be , but ? for Hammer fans ? there are more than enough elements to enjoy , including Cushing & Lee in their finest form and a grotesquely violent climax . Compared to most Hammer films , however , this title contains less action and a lot more talking . The setting in present time is something you support or not ? but even if you don't really like the combination of count Dracula and luxurious skyscrapers , I think you should still appreciate the efforts Alan Gibson is making to uphold the vile image of our bloodsucking friend . The Satanic Rites of Dracula is the last film in the series and definitely worth checking out if you're fan of the Lee-Cushing team or just Hammer in general .
All those years in the mental asylum surely paid off . . . NOT !	This is another one of those horror movies in which the psychopath character already spent several long years ( nearly a decade , in this case ) in a mental asylum , but upon his release immediately goes on a killing spree that is ever more insane and sadistic than the crimes he got committed for in the first place . What the hell do they do with people in those institutions ? Play Scrabble ? Although completely implausible and extremely low-budgeted , " Scream Bloody Murder " certainly isn't such a bad horror effort . It actually surprised me a lot , since it's really well-directed , fairly suspenseful and very gore considering the time it was made . The murders surely involve screams and blood , alright ! When Matthew was just a little boy , he ran an agriculture machine over his dad but lost his own hand in the process . When he returns home from the mental hospital ( with a hook for a hand ) , Matthew goes berserk again when he learns that his beloved mother met someone else and got remarried . He expresses his feelings of disappointment with a shiny , sharp axe and splits . Matthew butchers some random people , because the voices in his head command him , and ends up in the house of a whore / artist ? lovely combination , I know ? who befriends him . Odd story full of holes and improbabilities , but entertaining thanks to the excessive bloodshed and one-time-actor Fred Holbert's decent performance . The girl is pretty good too and Angus Scrimm appears in a little role long before he became a genre icon with the Phantasm-films . Worth a peek in case you're a fan of offbeat 70's exploitation cinema .
Wow ! Could they put any MORE drama in ONE movie ?	I've seldom seen a film that impressed and fascinated me so much while watching it , but actually turned out a major disappointment after analyzing it afterwards . Throughout its entire playtime , Monster's Ball FEELS like a brilliant film but it leaves a gigantic empty feeling in your stomach when you come to think that the drama and the characters you felt so connected with are actually depth-less and unsupported . It is in fact praiseworthy that director Marc Foster manages to " fool " us during the whole film with utterly simply tricks , as you simply stare at the story's beauty and intensity with great respect and admiration without realizing it's totally fake sentiment you're witnessing . Monster's Ball basically has one trump that makes it all the more appealing for true film buffs : the entire production feels very anti-Hollywood ! The tone quite unique and some of the subplots and character drawings are highly unlike to feature in a big production like this . Sober , depressing , modest ? and even though the story is highly unrealistic and far-fetched , you experience it as a true event simply because it's brought to you so well . Director Marc Foster patiently takes his time to come to the point what the movie actually is about ( namely : the unusual force of attraction between a Southern white prison guard and an Afro-American mother whose husband was executed on the electric chair ) but that is a sublimely elaborated element , as the viewer really feels that what drives the protagonists together is agony , loneliness and death . A lot of suffering takes place before Hank ( Billy Bob Thornton ) and Leticia ( Hally Berry ) finally find some consolation and hope with each other . Probably even a little too much , as I rarely some much bitterness featuring in one film . Now , what exactly is wrong with this picture ? Because all the things I summed up so far only increase the suspicion that " Monster's Ball " is an excellent film and a must see for every self-respecting fan of cinema . Well , that's only half true . While the audience is developing sympathy and compassion for the characters ' situations , the screenplay fails to enlighten why exactly you do so . I can easily state this with punctual examples but then ? of course ? you'll be reading huge SPOILERS ! We're witnessing how a death row-condemned father ( good performance by Sean Combs ) is saying goodbye to his family and , although it's very sincere , you don't know whether this sequence is justified . What has he done ? Does he even deserve forgiveness ? Same goes for the painful relation between the embittered prison guard and his emotionally unstable son Sonny ( Heath Ledger ) . Their interactions are cold and aggressive but not once you're given feedback on what exactly caused this . The abrupt ending of this subplot fills you up ( whether immediately or afterwards ) with disappointment because you feel the sentiment is exploited and the matter could have been arranged in a different way . There are more examples to state that " Monster's Ball ' lacks depth but I suggest you see for yourself . Still , I too wish to recommend this film to as many people as possible . Only not for the obvious argument that the story is heart-breaking but simply because it's a professionally shot film . Especially Roberto Schaefer's cinematography is outstanding and shows you camera-angles of which you didn't know they existed . The acting also deserves all the praise it can get . Halle Berry does a fine job but at times it feels like she's hankering too anxiously after her Oscar . If there's anyone here who should have won an Oscar for his performance , it's Billy Bob Thornton but the members of the Academy shamelessly make a rule out of overlooking this brilliant actor . Worth mentioning as well is the remarkable role of Peter Boyle as Thornton's ultra-racist dad . This fine veteran actor did his best work back in the seventies , with movies like " Hardcore " , " F . I . S . T " and " Young Frankenstein " on his repertoire .
Beware of yellow-blooded , toxic redneck-zombies !	As long as you don't mind watching a horror-story that literally features every cliché and stereotype in the book , you might find this " Mutant " an entertaining and fairly suspenseful flick . The plot pretty much writes itself : two big city brothers travel through a little Southern town and a bunch of inhospitable locals push their car off the road and into a river . Forced to stick around , Josh and Mike quickly discover that something's very wrong in the streets of Goodland . Bodies with boiling hot yellow blood are discovered nearby a chemical plant but promptly disappear again . When Mike vanishes without a trace as well , Josh teams up with the only beautiful girl in town and the ex-alcoholic sheriff to unravel the mystery of the ever-growing army of toxic zombies . This very well might be John " Bud " Cardos ' best effort in directing a horror film , but that still doesn't mean it's any good . As said , the script isn't very original or surprising and the obvious lack in budget prevented Cardos from making the mutants ' attacks graphic and bloodsuckers . On the other hand , there are some effective moments of sheer tension , notably when Josh descends down the school building's basement and discovers the body of yet another dead girl . Or when the town's doctor investigates a corpse without realizing her own assistant mutates into a zombie right behind her . The sometimes marvelous use of darkness , shadows and uncanny sounds is the only thing that lifts " Mutant " above the average 80's B-horror movie . Wings Hauser ( what the hell kind of a first name is that , anyway ? ) is rather annoying in his heroic lead role , but Bo Hopkins is amiable as the drunkard Sheriff . Worth a peek as long as you keep your expectations low .
How many Cajun hillbillies does it take to change a light bulb ?	The answer to that riddle would be at least more than five , as the male lead characters are clearly too retarded to accomplish anything . . . Ah , 70's exploitation of the trashiest kind ; you hate to love it and ' Gator Bait is unquestionably one of the most rancid , gratuitous and shameless examples available on film . The basic concept of this movie shows a lot of potential and ingenuity , yet the makers didn't seem to care the least bit about that and exclusively contemplated about ways to make the movie even more sleazy and exploitative . Obviously inspired by the success of " Deliverance " , judging by the outback setting , the character drawings and the massive overload of banjo-music , ' Gator Bait is a simplistic story about murder & retribution starring the luscious former Playmate-of-the-year Claudia Jennings as a poaching wildcat versus a sleazy bunch of Cajun rednecks . When the cowardly son of Sheriff Joe Bob Thomas frames Desiree for a murder he accidentally committed , a quintet of sniveling weirdies goes into the swamp to arrest her . But when the sexually frustrated hicks then also barbarically kill her younger sister , Desiree prepares from some old-fashioned Cajun justice . The directors ' duo Beverly and Ferd Sebastian clearly enjoyed filming Claudia Jennings whilst she bend over in her boat during her poaching activities , but they totally neglected the swamp's potential as a moody setting full of death traps and dangerous animal threats . Despite the exhilarating title , I only saw two alligators and , moreover , not even in action ! Desiree's killing spree is monotonous , uninspired and even quite boring and ? naturally ? every move of her opponents is incredibly predictable . They're typical hillbillies , with names like Billy Boy and Leroy , with incestuous tendencies and trigger-happy gunshot fingers . ' Gator Bait is irredeemably bad , but at the same time charming and a must for feminists . Yeeeeeeeeee Haaaw !
More or less what you expect . . .	If you start watching " Once upon a time . . . " with limited expectations , you won't be disappointed . I for one only searched for a little bit of adrenaline filled action and lovely performances of an all-star cast . Frankly , that's all there is to it because the screenplay is a complete mess and Rodriguez lacks the inspiration and creativity he once had so much . The story mixes too many intrigues , flashbacks , illogical twists and unfunny humor to be memorable . El Mariachi is now a broken man since they murdered his wife ( the still exquisite Salma Hayek ) , but vengeance is offered him by the FBI . Johnny Depp is the corrupt agent who hires Banderas to eliminate a military General , who happens to be the same guy who killed his wife . Then , there are about 25 other sub-plots that aren't worth mentioning . The violence is well presented and delightfully over the top ! Remarkable how the enemies keep aiming for El Mariachi carefully and miss . . . while Banderas just swings his weapons around without looking and somehow ALWAYS manages to kill a bad boy ! The brilliant actors is small roles are the real treat in this film ! ! We've got Willem Dafoe as über-bard numero uno and THE Mickey Rourke as his unmanly sidekick . Rodriguez regulars Danny Trejo and Cheech Marin join the party as well and Eva Mendes is too beautiful to be true . And then there's Johnny Depp who easily overshadows Antonio Banderas as the corrupt Agent Sands . . . Only Johnny Depp can say stupid lines like " Are you a Mexi-can or a Mexi-can't " without losing his coolness . Unlike Enrique Iglesias who confirms here what everyone already knew . . . acting isn't really his best profession
Surf to : www . killyourbaby . com	A handful of pregnant ladies die on exactly the fifteenth day after they all visited the website of an uncanny abortion-clinic . Doesn't that concept sound familiar ? Sure , it involved watching old-fashioned videotapes and dying in only seven days , but the basic idea of " Ringu " is shamelessly imitated here in this uninspired but still very competently made South-Korean chiller . To carry on with the plot description : all the victims claimed to have ' seen themselves dying online ' and , when the corpses are found , the uterus's are immensely stretched as if they just gave birth to a baby . Investigating the case are a cyber-police officer and a female TV-reporter who ? unfortunately for her ? clicked on the site herself . The story of " Unborn but Unforgotten " offers absolutely no surprises , but it's still worth watching in case you're a fan of Asian horror cinema , if it were only to admire the director's style and the cinematography . The atmosphere is dark and often scary even though there's nothing going on , really . There surely are a lot of holes in the plot ( big ones , too ) , but the film nevertheless holds your attention because the main characters are likable , especially the girl , and because multiple images are just plain creepy ! The music and acting performances are top-notch as well , making it all the more regretful to see the actual plot is so dull and déjà-vu . Browsing through the IMDb , I just found out lead actress Eun-Ju Lee committed suicide at the tender age of 25 . That's a damn shame , because her devoted performance is definitely one of the highlights of " Unborn but Unforgotten " .
Look Charles . . . mommy brought you a virgin !	Okay , put aside the vampires , werewolves , Godzillas and masked serial killers for a while ? . What we have here is an entirely new breed of horror species . The Sleepwalkers , as based on Stephen King's unpublished story , are reptile-like creatures that feed on the vitality of young virgins . Charles Brady and his foxy mother are the last of their kind and have a torrid incestuous relationship . But in order not to become extinct , Charles needs to seduce the cute Mädchen Amick so he can suck her dry and pass the energy on to his mum . Pretty far-fetched , isn't it ? That's exactly the problem with the whole movie . It tries to be something completely new and inventive but the story fails to give a proper background to these ? basically interesting ? creatures . Why are they called Sleepwalkers ? Why virgins exclusively ? What's their origin and how come they're as good as extinct ? How come they have the ability to appear invisible and ? most importantly ? why are ordinary cats their biggest threat ? If you don't bother about the constant illogicalness and major plot holes , you'll sure be entertained . ' Sleepwalkers ' contains tons of gore ( especially near the end when it's a total cop-massacre ) and the silly humor . It's pretty amusing to see a chubby cop getting stabbed by a corncob ! ' Cop-Kebab ! ! ! ! ! ' Yet , it has to be said , in between the badness , Sleepwalkers does feature some terrific elements and a few highly entertaining trivia-aspects . The beautiful songs ' Boadiccea ' by Enya is one of the best sounds ever featuring in a horror movie . And the film is stuffed with fun cameos of other horror directors like Clive Barker , Tobe Hooper , Joe Dante and John Landis . Stephen King himself shortly appears as the cemetery caretaker . The best advice I can give you when watching this film : Switch your brain to ' off ' and have fun .
Classic Haunting Story !	The Legend of Hell House is a feast for everyone who enjoys classic horror . Aged movies that don't need bloody or gory special effects to be exceptional . This is story driven horror that messes with your mind and makes you feel uncomfortable . It contains a solid plot , amazingly good performances and - above all - an unsettling atmosphere and tension . Many tales of haunted houses were told back in the old days as it was a favorite horror topic . The Legend of Hell House surely belongs to the top of this subgenre along with The Haunting ( 1963 ) , The Old Dark House ( 1932 ) and even The Changeling ( 1980 ) . All of these are intriguing stories you keep staring at with your eyes and mouth wide open because you don't want to miss anything of it . Okay , The Legend of Hell House becomes predictable rather quick and some sequences are just plain silly , but those minor disadvantages are largely made up by the flawless directing and the terrific acting performances . Especially Roddy McDowall gets himself noticed . Hell House was shot in the same period as all the ' Planet of the Apes'-movies and The ' Poseidon Adventure ' . . . in other words , the golden years of McDowell . If you have the same luck I had , you'll find a copy of the Legend of Hell House on DVD for a very cheap price . In that case , I advise you to buy it and enjoy this creepy experience with all your senses .
She'll Slither Her Way To Your Heart ?	What's the first behavior rule when you're visiting a faraway continent ? particularly Asia , Africa or South America ? that culturally speaking differs a lot from your own ? Duh , don't interfere with local religious movements and / or voodoo cults , because they WILL come after you and they WILL find you , even when you consider yourself to be safe back home again . " Cult of the Cobra " is a charming and fairly entertaining 50's occult thriller , but it's certainly nothing special or unique . In fact , the plot is quite derivative of the Jacques Tourneur / Val Lewton classic " Cat People " ( undeniably one of the greatest horror milestones ever made ) , since both stories revolve gorgeous women living with the ability ? or is it curse ? ? to transform into a deadly animal . Six American members of the same Air Force unit spend a few touristy days in an Asian country ( my best guess would be either India or Malaysia ) and bluntly pay a snake charmer big money to secretly attend a gathering of the infamous Lamian cult , of which the members supposedly change themselves in snakes and back . Naturally they get caught , when the dumbest boy of them all takes a photograph , and only narrowly escape . Unaware they've been placed under a curse , the six friends start being killed off one by one when back in the United State . Moreover , the mysterious accidents began simultaneously with Tom acquaintance with an introvert exotic beauty living across the hall . " Cult of the Cobra " benefits the most from Faith Domergue's performance as the oddly seductive Lisa ( she's a lot better here than she was in " This Island Earth " or " It Came from beneath the Sea " ) and a couple of imaginative camera gimmicks , like for example snake POV shots and nice use of shadow effects . Unfortunately , there are also several overlong and tedious scenes and not a single one of the male protagonists deserves any of your sympathy . Especially Tom is a pretty loathsome guy , since his behavior is obtrusive and aggressive towards women and jealous towards his own friends .
Remarkable little mind-explosion !	Where to begin with this occult little gem ? To be very honest , I haven't quite figured out what it is yet . Dementia stands as a strange experiment and worth analyzing , that's for sure . I'm probably giving it too much honor now , but I risk to say it's a dared and surrealist highlight of expressionism and no-budget cinema-making ? . BUT , in constant combination with amateurism and wannabe-psychology . You might even say it looks like and Ed Wood film while he had a moment of clarity and ingenious brilliancy . For not more than an hour , we follow around a lonely and seemly anti-social woman in a cruel neighborhood of prostitution , orgies and murder . She suffers from visions of childhood trauma's while she's filling up with fury and hatred towards a rich , ignorant man . She kills him and flees ? chased by the police and haunted by her own morbid imagination . Keeping in mind this film was made in 1953 , it becomes even more interesting ! The US censorship didn't like it at all and the film barely received showings ? No surprises there because , even though the film doesn't contain explicit violence , it's very unpleasant and disturbing to look at . Every character that walks through the screen is unsympathetic and someone you don't want to run into in a dark alley . The atmosphere this film breathes feels like David Lynch's Eraserhead avant-la-lettre , and I wouldn't be surprised if he found some of his inspiration and enthusiasm in Dementia . This film is perhaps a little too weak and messy to refer to as avant-garde , but it does float somewhere between that and cheap B-cinema . Up to you to decide where it's categorized best ! One thing is sure , though ? Dementia is food for thought at film-Academies . I saw the original version of this lost film at a festival , on the big screen and guided by a life-orchestra of cello's and a piano . The film itself doesn't contain any dialogues and therefore this chilling music brought it up to an almost unbearable cult-experience .
Drugs are bad , mmmkay ?	Requiem for a Dream must be one of the most unnecessarily overhyped films of the last few decades . By no means it's a bad film but ? is it really worth all the praising it gets and the commotion it caused ? After all , Darren Aranofski's film based on the novel by Herbert Selby is only stating the obvious ? Drugs are bad and they will , eventually , lead you into a downward spiral of madness and destroy your life . When talking about the screenplay , Requiem for a Dream has nothing new or extraordinary to offer . We follow the unhealthy actions of 4 people . Jarred Leto and Marlon Wayans star as two Coney Island junkies who want to get rich fast and easy by dealing drugs . Leto's character Harry is doing it all for his beautiful girlfriend Marion ( Jennifer Connelly ) so she can open her very own fashion store , selling her proper designs . Ellen Burstyn puts down an amazing performance as Leto's TV-addicted mother who gets hooked on diet pills after she's made believe to appear on her favorite show . I repeat , Requiem for a Dream certainly isn't a bad film . It even is a very well elaborated story with fascinating acting . But the main problem , I think , is that Arranofski too easily thinks that he created a controversial shocker . And that's not the case ? It might look like he directed the perfect " Anti-Drug-Therapy " movie to him , but he's about 10 years too late for that . Fans of art-house cinema will merely look at it as ' been there , seen that ' . The visual experiments often annoy and the characters are a bit too shallow to feel any compassion for . The musical score , however , is simply brilliant and probably even the most powerful aspect about the entire film . Although I haven't been able to find it yet , I'm expecting a lot more from ' Last Exit to Brooklyn ' , which was also adapted from a Herbert Selby novel . Requiem for a Dream is recommended ? but please don't rate it here on this site . It's already ranked way too high in the IMDb top 250 .
Bruce's Bulgarian Rhapsody	When you're an avid fan of horror and cult cinema , you're inevitably also an avid fan of Bruce Campbell . That almost goes without saying . He's one of the few actors for which the name alone is enough reason to see a film , regardless of how bad or derivative it may be or regardless of how small his part is . Suffice to say many fans , myself included , very much anticipated " Man with the Screaming Brain " because , not only does Bruce play the lead part in this , it also marks his debut as a director ! Sadly though , it isn't a very good film and not something I'd immediately recommend to non-Campbell fans . It still definitely has its moments of ingeniousness and originality , but the overall accomplishment is far below any expectations . Maybe it was wrong to expect a typical B-movie homage to cheesy horror cinema , as the emphasis here clearly lies on comedy . But even as a comedy , " Man with the Screaming Brain " is too derivative and too random to ever become a cult favorite . The first half of the film is still very okay , because you wonder where Campbell is going exactly with all the bizarre and eccentric characters he introduced in such an unusual setting , but once the plot has fully unfolded , you'll be shocked at how simplistic and dull it actually is . Bruce stars as a sly and scumbag US businessman , visiting Bulgaria for one of his fraudulent practices , along with his spoiled and terribly bored wife Jackie . They become involved with a local taxi-driver , but they all get killed by a beautiful gypsy woman who's clearly frustrated no man will marry her . No worries , because the brilliant scientist Dr . Ivan Ivanovich Ivanov discovered a method to successfully separate brain-functions from the nerve system and even to transplant two brains into one head . It was Ivanov's biggest wish to show his breakthrough to the American , so he might as well use him as a guinea pig . Once half of the brains of an ex-Russian communistic rebel is forced to co-exist with half the brain of a typically vain and cocky American , the film quickly turns into a series of clichéd situations , predictable gags and exaggerated jokes about cultural differences . The title isn't even accurate , as the brain doesn't scream , but continuously argues with ? itself . A much better title would have been " The Man with Two Brains " , but that already exists in the form of a Steve Martin 80's comedy . The film relies too much on familiar faces ( Campbell , as well as Ted Raimi playing the clumsy assistant to Ivanov ) and far too little on witty dialogs and good action sequences .
Herschell Gordon-Lewis , is that you ?	" Did you ever think when a hearse drives by , that some day you are going to die ? " This is the first sentence in the lyrics of the theme song for this film . Subtle , isn't it ? Hell no , it's not , and subtlety is probably the very last thing you should expect to see in this grotesquely absurd and downright demented gore-comedy . He isn't mentioned anywhere in the credits , but the crazed sense of humor , the excessive display of ( poor & cheesy ) gore , the music and the overall amateurish low-budget production values make this feel like a genuine Herschell Gordon-Lewis movie ! Undoubtedly he , The Godfather of Gore , influenced many young filmmakers at that time and " The Undertaker and his Pals " is a fine example to prove this statement . It's a tasteless and simultaneously delicious story about the pact between the undertaker and two restaurant owners residing in the same town . They ride out together at night to barbarically slaughter young girls , and while the undertaker makes big money arranging the funeral service , the victims ( or at least parts of them ) end up on the special menus board of his pals the restaurant owners . The film is as simplistic as it is ingenious , and it's the ideal excuse for an hour of brainless and blood-soaked entertainment . The character of the greedy undertaker is the funniest of them all and , as usual , the investigating cop is too ignorant to figure out the situation . The gags themselves aren't hilarious , but the poor execution is . If H . G . Lewis didn't make this film himself , I'm sure he will have enjoyed watching it . And so did I .
There's a Darkman two now ?	Only very recently I found out there's a second - and even a third - Darkman movie available on the rental market . Another member of the horror forum on this website reviewed all three of them a couple of months ago , and it was through his thread and directions I found my way to " The Return of Durant " ( part two ) and " Die Darkman Die " ( part three ) . Talk about anonymous releases ! It's not too surprising , since the original Sam Raimi film was fairly successful and definitely showed sequel potential , but it's still weird the producers opted for such a modest and inconspicuous release . Anyway , I wasn't in too much of a hurry to track them down , but I was remotely interested in the first sequel because Larry Drake reprises his glorious role of the mega-malevolent but ultra-cool villain Robert G . Durant . Partly because he was one of the main attractions in the original but mostly because I was curious to see how exactly they would bring his character back from the death , since he died pretty nastily in a helicopter crash at the end of the first " Darkman " . Here I was imagining possible scenarios where Durant would get cloned or perhaps even resurrected through using some of the advanced scientific research Peyton Westlake was researching , but nooooooooooooooo ! The almighty Robert G . Durant awakes from a three year coma from one moment onto the other ! How freaking unimaginative and in fact quite impossible if you remember the images of that helicopter crash . Darkman himself transformed from Liam Neeson into Arnold Vosloo ( a horrible actor with the most random face ) but you're not supposed to notice that and his whole romantic background with Frances McDormand suddenly vanished as well . Other than that , " Darkman II " carries on where Raimi's film finished , as Peyton Westlake still alters scientific research with prowling the crime-infested streets as an avenging angel . He finally found a partner who's able to help him with the fine-tuning of his synthetic skin development , but this doctor then gets killed by Durant and his accomplices because he's laboratory is the ideal factory to construct illegal weapons . More than reason enough for Darkman to go after Durant again and finish him off for good this time . " Darkman II " isn't as disastrous as it looks , I have to admit . It's a textbook and completely unsurprising B-movie , but that doesn't mean it can't be fun . There are several grotesquely absurd action scenes with big guns and nasty falls from great heights . This franchise has a thing with characters falling from heights , for sure ! The stunts and make-up effects are obviously less impressive here than in the original , but the budget was restricted and director Bradford May indisputably isn't playing in the same league as Sam Raimi . The film's main trump is Larry Drake and , of course , his sadistic one-liners and grim facial expressions . The entire movie revolves around him , and that's quite logical since Arnold Vosloo is a terrible actor . B-movie beauty queen Kim Delaney is a joy to behold as well , but her share in the script is sadly too small . Not bad if you have an hour and a half to waste , but forget everything you know about the violent and comic-book styled original masterwork .
Less fancy talk & pretension ? more killing , please .	Okay , I'm pretty sure that during the production of " Killers " director Mike Mendez and writer Dave Larsen heavily dreamed of becoming the next David Lynch . . . or maybe even the next Quentin Tarantino , but in order to achieve this , they should have put a little more thought in their extremely weird and dumb screenplay . Just what the hell is this supposed to be ? A hard-boiled thriller , a demented black comedy or perhaps another social mockamentary pointing out to us how easily we glorify violence . The title priority refers to the notorious James brothers ; two handsome but relentless maniacs sentenced to death for murdering their parents . They now escaped from their maximum-security cells and travel through California , until they take a middle-class family hostage in the quiet little town of Beatty . However , the Ryan family members aren't as defenseless as they seem . The women , Mrs . Ryan and her two teenage daughters , followed the James brothers ' trial on television and developed a huge crush on their perpetrators . But that's still the least of their concerns , as the family also hides far crazier secrets . The sudden plot twist near the middle is extremely retarded , but at least it woke me up again ! I already started dozing off since it looked like another pseudo-intellectual portrait about serial killers that seem to have all the knowledge in the world and yet use it to commit crimes . The dialogs are fluent , but they handle about everything you already heard before ( in " Natural Born Killers " ) and some of the unexpected twists are really too crazy for words . There's plenty of violence but I still somehow expected " Killers " to be more grim and sadistic . It's mainly gunfire action and shouting , so I anticipated a little more physical violence , reminiscent to ? for example ? the torture scenes in " Reservoir Dogs " . The plot holes and improbabilities are too numerous to mention , but the acting performances are decent and there's even some on screen sleaze to admire as well . " Killers " is not a total waste of time , but it's severely lacking personality and power to become a cult favorite .
Ed Gein : America's favorite and inexhaustible source for horror !	Did we really need another movie-version of the life and crimes of Wisconsin serial killer Ed Gein ? No , of course we didn't , but clever producers realize there's always room for one more , especially because all horror movie fans agree that Ed Gein simply is one of the most ? perhaps THE most ? fascinating sick individuals in history . And the producers of this movie were even extra clever , as they managed to cast no less than Kane Hodder in the titular role . Hodder is already a bit of a horror legend on himself ( depicting Jason Vorhees multiple times in the " Friday the 13th series " ) and his name alone is guaranteed to attract even more viewers . I've lost count of how many movies ? both fictional and non fictional ? there already are closely inspired or loosely inspired by Ed Gein . There are the strictly factual and almost biographical ones , like " In the Light of the Moon " and " Deranged : Confessions of a Serial Necrophile " , but of course the most commonly known horror classics simply used little morbid characteristics of Gein's utterly demented persona , like " Psycho " , " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , " Motel Hell " , " House of 1 . 000 Corpses " and " The Silence of the Lambs " . As you can probably derive from its juicy title as well as from the DVD cover art , this particular isn't too concerned with accuracy and merely just sets out to shock and provoke its viewers with a whole lot of gruesome images and perverted insinuations . It feels as if director Michael Feifer wants to make us believe his film version is truthful , but repeatedly " forgets " about the facts in favor of sheer horror movie excitement . Kane Hodder portrays Ed Gein like he was a muscularly shaped and relentlessly unstoppable killing machine , whereas in reality he was a scrawny and miserably timid guy whose horrendous psychopathic tendencies only gradually come to the surface after his arrest . Although Gein only ever got charged with two murders he commits nearly a dozen of vile kills here , so you know you don't have to check out this film for its informative value . Still I don't want to bash this straight-to-video production entirely , because there really are a handful of positive things to say as well . The make-up effects are effectively nauseating and the Californian filming locations were aptly chosen in order to recreate the depressing 50's Wisconsin atmosphere . And in spite of his unfit posture , Kane Hodder isn't such a bad choice to depict Ed Gein . He hardly has lines to speak but looks menacing throughout the entire playtime .
A truckload of sleaze , gore and nudity	This Italian film with once again more alternative titles than actual dialogue is a mid-80's exploitation attempt by enthusiast director Mario Gariazzo , who obviously was deeply impressed by the work of his fellow Italian filmmakers Rugero Deodato and Umberto Lenzi . It's a supposedly true story ( yeah ? sure ) about an 18-year-old girl who visits her parents ' plantation in the middle of the Amazon jungle . Shortly after her arrival , her parents are brutally murdered and beheaded during a boat ride . The poor cutie is taken prisoner by a savage and primitive tribe . During two years , she's has to take part in traditional and barbaric rites of this tribe . She's sold to the richest man in town ( price = one goat and a chicken ) , has to work and , eventually , she escapes with the head warrior she has fallen in love with . Now , ' Amazonia ' isn't a bad little flick but it tries to be so much bigger than it actually is . The entire production seems to shout out : ' Look , we're as good as Cannibal Holocaust ! ! ! ' The opening sequences , in which the beautiful jungle is shown guided by a great score , is an exact copy of Deodato's film and throughout the whole film , the same documentary style is used . The film could have done without these pretentious aspects . At his best , Amazonia is like a fairly reasonable crossover between Cannibal Holocaust and Umberto Lenzi's ' Deep River Savages ' ( in which an Englishman spends years among a primitive tribe in New-Guinea ) . It's not nearly as memorable as the majority of Italian sleaze classics and that's merely due to the atrocious acting of Elvire Audrey . There's some great gore and terrific authentic sleaze to enjoy , though .
Shrivelled potato-headed midgets running amok .	Judging by the extremely generous IMDb rating of no less than 7 . and the copious amount of praising reviews ; it seems as if quite a lot of people suffer from a phobia for midgets with shriveled heads living walled up behind fireplaces in old family mansions . How else would you explain the popularity of " Don't Be Afraid of the Dark " , except of course by stating that yours truly entirely missed the point and brilliance once again ? Admittedly , the atmosphere is continuously moody and the locations are nicely chosen but , seriously , those " things " living in the chimney aren't the least bit scary ! Are they ? They're like mummified midgets with oddly shaped heads and irritating whisper voices , and they're pretty much powerless because of their inability to tear down a brick wall . Sally Farnham and her blind-by-ambition husband Alex inherit the ancient family mansion and she immediately wants to turn it into her dream house . There's a hidden study room with a blocked up fireplace , and every time Sally mentions she intends to open it again , the elderly handyman gets extremely nervous and mumbles that ' some things are better left untouched ' . The stubborn woman she is , Sally of course neglects the advice and suddenly her house is overrun by little creatures with malignant intentions . I notice a lot of people's opinions are influenced by the fact they saw the movie at a vulnerably young age and on afternoon-television . I understand and deeply respect that , but honestly wonder if the recognition for " Don't Be Afraid of the Dark " would still be this high if it didn't rely on nostalgic values . As said , there definitely are some impressive moments of atmospheric suspense , but also a lot of dull , overlong and irrelevant padding sequences . Kim Darby is likable as the woman-in-peril , but Jim Hutton depicts what is probably the most insufferable and jerky male character in a 70's TV-movie . The ending might be a little disturbing ? especially for young and inexperienced viewers ? but not the least bit convincing .
Can you feel it coming on the air tonight ?	Here in my country , this film got released on a DVD-label that usually specializes in violent but nevertheless sleazy 70's horror films ( kind of like the Dutch equivalent of Something Weird Video ) , but " horror " and " violent " are the absolute last terms you could us to describe " The Dirty Mind of Young Sally " . It's a bit weird that the film is part of the same series as much kinkier titles like " The Toy Box " and " Kiss Me Quick " , but it's undoubtedly because they were all Harry Novak's productions . This is an insignificant but vastly amusing sex comedy from the early 70's , mainly remembered because it marked the big screen film debut of busty cult siren favorite Colleen Brennan ( or Sharon Kelly , as she sometimes preferred to call herself ) . Brennan subsequently played a handful of smaller roles in 70's exploitation highlights , including Russ Meyer's " Supervixens " and the Dyanne Thorne showpiece " Ilsa : Harem keeper of the Oil Sheiks " , before dedicating her career to the professional adult film industry . Suffice to say " The Dirty Mind of Young Sally " doesn't feature a real plot and mainly exists of a series of lewd and luscious sex sequences , connected through an ultra-thin storyline . Sally and her yokel-type technician Toby run a pirate radio station from within the back of a van . With her extremely sultry voice and vivid sexy imagination , she stimulates her listeners to having sex . She occasionally also humps her technician or a random contest winner live on the air . The prudish police forces are chasing Sally and Toby , but without success because they are oh-so-smart ! The comedy elements in the script of this alleged sex-comedy aren't exactly effective , but I have to admit the sexy footage is far more arousing than I anticipated it to be . Sharon Kelly obviously is an exquisite and ideally curved lady ( with a truly impressive balcony ) , but even the rest of the female cast members are expediently cast . The teenage beach girls , for example , are all quite stunning and naturally defiant . The men are standard dimwits with seriously unattractive physical defaults , like usual in erotic movies ! This also was the debut film of prolific B-movie actor ( and John Carpenter regular ) George " Buck " Flower . He plays the slow-talking technician Toby , who has a not-so-secret crush on his voluptuous partner and eventually sees all his fantasies come true . Good for him ! I've always been a fan of Buck and I'm glad he scored with a prominent 70's porn star , even though I don't think all those shots of his hairy male butt were necessary .
All you need is lo . . . SLEAZE !	Every installment in Joe D'Amato's " Black Emanuelle " - series stands for super-sleaze of the 70's , but " Emanuelle in America " triumphs when it comes to ultimate perversion and rancid sex-images . In this film , that almost qualifies as disgusting , our ambitious female reporter goes through four little adventures . She ends up in a Zodiac-harem , amongst a high-society orgy , in a resort where wealthy ladies buy sexual pleasure and ? last but not least ? in the heart of a snuff-movie network . Particularly this last chapter is mildly shocking since the snuff footage looks alarmingly real and the shown fragments doesn't seem to end ! There's a minimum of plotting , but Laura Gemser's mesmerizing naked body makes you forget all that . In order to get the articles she wants , she has sexual intercourse with practically every male and female ( or both at once ) that walks over the film set . Dubious highlights ( apart from the snuff-stuff ) include a horse-masturbation sequence and a woman who has her nipple bitten off during a Tarzan fantasy . Enjoy , but watch out for censored versions .
90 minutes of Laura Gemser and nothing else ? ? Works for me !	This is the first , and most likely the only Joe D'Amato film ever to hit Belgian television screens . Quite logical , since the titles on his repertoire go from nauseating horror films ( " Anthropophagous " , " Beyond the Darkness " ) to hardcore porno flicks ( " Tarzan X " ) and sometimes even a combination of both ( " Erotic Nights of the Living Dead " , " Porno Holocaust " ) . D'Amato pretty much behaves himself here and follows the formula of the original " Black Emanuelle " film , released one year before , but that doesn't mean avid D'Amato-fans have to worry , as there still is an enormous amount of genuine sleaze to enjoy . " Emanuelle in Bangkok " has virtually no plot at all and you can't even fully believe the title , as our sexy protagonist's journey to the Far East is very brief and she only has contact with two Asian people ( a masseuse and a bell-boy ) . The film most " crucial " sequences are set on a cruise ship and in Morocco , where she has an off / on relationship with a persistent archaeologist . I have no complaints , though , since the camera beautifully captures Laura Gemser's erotic adventures with men , women , couples and herself . Joe D'Amato's trademarks are bizarrely tinted sexual situations , and there's only one such sequence in this film , namely the Japanese stripper who puts ping-pong balls up her vagina . Weird ? One aspect about " Emanuelle in Bangkok " , as well as in the entire cycle , is downright brilliant and that's the music . Nico Fidenco's score is mesmerizing and , without exaggerating , at least ten times better than every other score that ever won an Oscar . The dazzling soundtrack alone makes " Emanuelle in Bangkok " a true cult classic that every fan of the genre will enjoy watching .
Never stand between a freaky Amish kid and his beloved corn !	At the time of writing this review , " Children of the Corn III " is listed in IMDb's bottom 100 movies . Only at spot 97 , true , but still chosen by many voters on this website as one of the hundred WORST movies out there in movie-land . Well okay , it's unquestionably a bad film , but it's very well endurable and actually pretty fun in case you're just looking for some extreme gore and laughable dialogs . Personally , I had no problems with any of the previous " COTC " - films , but it's an overall forgettable franchise with a silly premise and only the occasional atmospheric moment . This third installment in the series especially suffers from a total lack of originality . The rural Nebraska setting is exchanged for the big Chicago , but everything else is the same with an evil little kid nagging about Some Guy Who Walks Behind The Rows and brutally killing all the adults that come too close to his precious corn . Siblings Josh ( long and dumb ) and Eli ( short and malicious ) move in with their new family and while Josh is trying to fit in with the gangsta-school kids , Eli grows corn in the backyard and brainwashes everyone under the age of 19 to worship the crops . Don't expect a coherent storyline or breathtaking suspense , but there sure are the several sick killings of innocent people to ' enjoy ' . There are very few sympathetic characters in this film and yet they die in the most horribly imaginative ways ! The most amiable person in the cast has a nasty water pipe accident , whilst another poor soul has her face burnt away . Typical harvesting tools like shovels and scythes are working overtime , too ! The climax is completely over-the-top in the gore department , as literally dozens of teenagers are devoured by a Tremors-like worm monster . Most of the make-up effects are pretty decent , except when the giant corn-worm is too obviously eating little puppets instead of real teens . Hickox ' directing is rather weak , but it was his first achievement . Then again , he made " Blood Surf " and " Sabretooth " half a decade later , and those suck as well . Daniel Cerny is effectively creepy sometimes , though he preaches too much and his passion for corn is perhaps the most disturbing element about the whole movie . Freaking weirdo !
Cheapness kills this one . Too bad , because ' The Dunwich Horror ' could have been a modest classic .	Ah , the Necronomicon . . . an alternate evil dimension . . . the virgin-sacrifice ! Maybe I'm a bit biased but when a horror film features these elements , I already think it's semi-successful . I liked ' The Dunwich Horror ' and I really wish I could call it a lovely American equivalent for the delightfully grim Hammer movies made around that time , but it just isn't good enough for that . Samuel Z . Arkoff and Roger Corman produced so many other useless horror films but they should have a put a little more effort in this one . It's based on a short story by H . P Lovecraft so you can count on the fact that the basic premise of this film is terrific occult matter , handling about a quiet little town terrorized by the Whateley-family who're morbid worshipers of an alternate dimension that they want to bring back . It's the further elaboration of the screenplay and the pathetic effects that bring down this film . More than half of the film is under-exposed and , every time something horrific is about to happen , the TV-screen changes into a blurry composition of bright colors . Very annoying ! The second half is such a mess and very unsatisfying for horror and / or Lovecraft fans . For what it's worth , I'd still recommend ' The Dunwich Horror ' to fans of atmospheric , merely story-driven occult stories , due to the suspenseful first half and macabre undertones ( like the deformed twin-brother hidden in the attic ) . The production also has decent performances by a noble star-cast , including Ed Begley ( he died the same year it was released ) , Dean Stockwell and cult-nymph Sandra Dee . Keep an eye open for Talia Shire ( Rocky , The Godfather ) in one of her first film roles .
They'll never get rid of ol ' Mickey ! !	In case anyone's still bothering to count : here we have the SIXTH episode in the wacky adventures of mass murderer Michael Myers and the good people of Haddonfield ; Illinois apparently STILL don't realize that the white-masked dude can't possibly be killed . The biggest trump of this mid-90's installment , however , is that " Halloween " goes occult ! Nearly twenty years and four long feature films ( " Season of the Witch " not included ) later , this new script suddenly suggests that Myer's nature of pure evil might have been inflicted onto him and that there even exist cults that worship his persona . How about that ? I wonder if John Carpenter had any thoughts in that direction when he initially thought up the simple premise of a maniac butchering babysitters ! Guess not ? Anyway , this weirdo cult offers Michael to kill his last niece alive as well as her newborn baby so that his direct bloodline is finished off completely . The girl escapes and the baby ends up in home sweet home Haddonfield where many people will meet their deaths again . Maybe I just was in an extraordinary good mood when I saw this film , but I really didn't think it was that bad . It even qualifies as the series ' second best entry , as the atmosphere is quite sinister and the murder-sequences are delightfully gory & sadistic . Unlike part five , which was a really awful film , " The Curse of Michael Myers " isn't overly talkative or irritatingly dull and Joe Chapelle's directing is surprisingly solid . Even Carpenter's legendary music received a techno update and ? believe it or not ? it actually works stimulating . The acting performances are more than adequate with Paul Rudd as the adult version of Tommy ; the boy Jamie Lee Curtis was babysitting in the original . Donald Pleasance's share in the script has been reduced to a supportive role , but maybe it's better like that , since the poor man looks very fatigue and ill . Pleasance passed away before the film ever hit the theaters and therefore it's dedicated to his memory . An admirable effort .
Stay focused , Dex !	Only the second entry in the " Dexter " TV-show and the concept already slightly begins to weaken . There's less blood & excitement in episode two then there was in the pilot , but also the story lines start to revert to clichéd situations and the characters already start to develop towards typical cop stereotypes . The entire Miami police department is still after the Ice Truck serial killer , but he hasn't made any new moves apart from secretly contacting Dexter and challenging him to a showdown . There are two supplementary ( and seemingly forced ) sub plots in the second episode , namely the murder investigation of an undercover police officer and Dexter himself digging deeper into the trial of a recidivist hit-and-run felon . Completely opposite to the events in the pilot , where the camera deliberately zoomed in on the gory set pieces , the blood & splatter sequences now seem rushed and limited . The dialogs and interactions between the characters become funnier ( " glad to see that sexual harassment seminar paid off " ) but Dexter's narrative thoughts & impressions are still whiny and a little dull to endure . If you speak Spanish , you can probably also predict the future character developments ( like that of Officer Angel Batista ) but I had no idea what he and the lieutenant were saying . James Remar is more clearly visible in this second episode , as Dexter also continues to have extended flashbacks about his adolescence . I hope the next installments will get much better , or at least equal the quality level of the pilot again .
Not Hammer's best . . . but overall more than satisfying !	The trivia aspects in Reptile are a lot more interesting to Hammer horror fans than the actual film itself . The film is shot back-to-back with Plague of the Zombies ! The Reptile uses the same sets and filming locations as Plague and that's more than obvious . If you've seen both , the little village will look familiar right away . Even one of the leading actresses ? Jacqueline Pierce ? and director John Gilling ran from set to set , as they're starring in both . Unfortunately ? the quality level isn't alike . Plague of the Zombies is my all-time favorite Hammer production and probably one of the spookiest horror films ever made . The Reptile is a lot more tame and less exiting . For about 90 % percent , The Reptile focuses on building up suspense and creating atmosphere . The remaining 10 % of action and excitement fill up the last 15 minutes but that's about it . Now , I like a good tension in my horror movies , but The Reptile is rather slow and it tries a little TOO hard in being mysterious at times , which doesn't always succeed . Nonetheless , the film hardly knows a boring moment and it easily surpasses all the nowadays American horror junk . Reptile can count on a solid ( and fairly unknown ) cast . ( Hammer ) Horror veteran Michael Ripper shines as Tom and both Jacqueline Pearce & Jennifer Daniel provide the wholesome with a tad of female beauty . SPOILERS A young couple inherits a small cottage in a town called Cornwall . The man's brother died there in a mysterious way and the entire town is behaving strange and introvert . The source of all weirdness could be found in the dark castle nearby . The ghoulish Dr . Franklin hides himself there , along with his depressed daughter Anna . More and more villagers are found dead and the circumstances are pretty alarming , since the corpses foam at the mouth and turn black END SPOILERS The climax is far-fetched but fairly original and the costumes are definitely charming ! Cheap ? but charming !
Welcome to the Museum of Whacky Wax Works	Certainly not a bad purchase for only £1 . 97 , especially not when you're , like me , a fan of minimally budgeted and legendary BAD horror cinema of the older days . Genre regular Cameron Mitchell ( " Blood and Black Lace " , " The Toolbox Murders " ) gives another tremendously grotesque performance , this time as the deranged & deformed sculptor-artist / curator of a wax museum in Hollywood . Vince Renard wasn't always an eccentric loner . . . Once he was a celebrated make-up artist in a big production studio and engaged to a beautiful and promising young actress . The sneaky studio boss , however , fancied the actress too and he set fire to Vince's face when he lit a cigarette . Now Vince , wearing an eye-patch and still smoking like a chimney , puts all his anger in his skillful and extremely detailed wax statues that are strangely exhibited in the museum simultaneously with the real actors disappearing . Rex Carlton's script shamelessly imitates the success of " House of Wax " when it comes to the psycho's motivation , but his modus operandi is different as he keeps the victims alive like mindless zombies . There's very little suspense and / or creepy atmosphere , because the situations are so exaggeratedly absurd , and all the characters are incredibly stupid . At one point police detective Haskell asks himself , if Vince is a maniacal killer , then where exactly in his museum does he hide the corpses ? Um , what do you think Sherlock ? But no one beats Theresa , who's so stupid she doesn't even understand simple English words like " discreet " . There's very little gore ( probably due to the lack of budget ) , apart from the bloody flashback scene illustrating how Vince lost his eye , but still " Nightmare in Wax " is never really boring and at least it's bad in a fun way . The ending , however , is unforgivably retarded even though it makes sense if you follow the plot literally .
It's all about acting . . .	Robert De Niro stars in yet another cop-movie , following the disappointing ' 15 minutes ' , ' Showtime ' and ' Meet the Parents ' ( sort of ? ) . The first is a dreadful thriller ; the other two are lame comedies . City by the Sea is more like a drama and outshines all the others , but that isn't saying much . Bobby stars as copper Vincent LaMarca , investigating a murder case that leads him back to his childhood town . The case brings back painful memories , as Vincent's father was the first murderer ever to be put on the electric chair there . When all the tracks lead to Vincent's estranged son Joey as the presumable killer , he yet has to face all the prejudices that made him move to another district again . City by the Sea is based on a true story , but as you might expect it in Hollywood productions , the real facts are softened while the sentiment is immensely increased . I don't really support this kind of emotionality and the morality speeches at the end nearly made me vomit . Still , this film is worth checking out if it were only for the acting performances . Robert De Niro acts like he's fed up with his latest career choices , but somehow this translates itself perfectly into his depressed character Vincent . The true star ( to me , at least ) was James Franco . This film , along with his performances in the Spider-Mans really proves that he's an upcoming young actor with a lot of potential . Same goes for Eliza Dushku and she even has the looks ! Frances McDormand is shamelessly downgraded to the supportive cast , which was another slight letdown in this film . Opposite to this , there are the good supporting roles by William Forsyth ( the guy is cool ! ) and George Dzundza in his repetitive role of the buddy cop who gets it .
Certainly not Jason's worst episode .	This fourth installment in the incredibly popular slasher series Friday the 13th was widely announced as the final chapter . Well , I think every person with a bit of logical intellect soon knew that this wouldn't be the end of Jason Vorhees . He shall return and maybe even soon than most people thought . . . At the time I'm writing this review , the 11th Jason story is being shown in the theaters . In this one , he fights the other famous killer , Freddy Krueger . Anyway , back to Part 4 . . . which surely is one of the better efforts in the whole series . And I'm not saying it's a good movie with fascinating plot twists or outstanding acting , because it's not . But it delivers what you except and it keeps you entertained for a good hour and a half . The good old formula is respected . A bunch of horny teenagers with a lack of intelligence are about to spend a vacation close to Crystal Lake . The all have such annoying personalities that you can't wait for Jason to slash them violently . And I must say our Jason uses very creative methods in this movie . I guess that's why I liked this part better than number 3 . Crispin Glover is pretty good in this one too , he contributes in making this movie highly enjoyable . F13 part 4 even has a few surprising moments . When watching this film , you might start thinking some characters will survive it ( the sensitive boy , the sweet virgin girl . . . ) Well , Jason doesn't care much for teenagers in love . The climax is very very dumb and almost spoils the entire movie . I wish they didn't do that . If it would have been the real FINAL CHAPTER , this would be terrible way to end it . Overall a good ' sit back and enjoy ' slasher with several lovely disgusting scenes . We have Tom Savini himself to thank for that by the way . . .
And then some people wonder why I have a fear of heights ? ! ?	I watch a lot of scary and violent stuff but I've never felt uncomfortable with that . THIS is the only movie so far that terrified me ! ! I suffer from a really bad form of " vertigo " and around the time this movie got released in the theaters , I even felt sick when I was looking at the poster . It felt like a combination of my two biggest fears : heights and being frozen to death . Even though some of my favorite actors star in Vertical Limit , it took me quite long before I finally got the courage to watch it . The story of Vertical Limit is typical and there isn't anything original about it all . That's fine with me , I just considered it to be an old-fashioned adventure movie with good acting and stunning photography . Vertical Limit is the typical story of siblings who lost their father in a climbing accident . Ever since , the son ( Chris O'Donnel ) has stopped climbing . His sister ( Robin Tunney ) hasn't she's going to conquer K2 with the rich Texas guy Vaughn ( Bill Paxton ) . Of course , this goes wrong and Chris has to set up a rescue missing to go and save his sister . A whole bunch of typical characters are introduced and everything that can possibly go wrong , does go wrong . The quality level of Vertical Limit is merely held up by the acting performances . . . and more specifically : Scott Glenn and Bill Paxton . Both these overtalented - yet underappreciated - actors are cast perfectly . Glenn is impressive as the mysterious loner Montgomery Wick who dwells around K2 and Paxton is the worst kind of " bad guy " a movie can have . He isn't really the villain but he's the arrogant business guy who quickly turns into a selfish , egocentric and mad person who's willing to sacrifice everything to survive . Terrific performance . All the other aspects you expect are there as well . A developing love story , funny one-liners and the oversentimental morality and happy ending . Mainstream stuff but certainly not bad . Enjoyable and recommended to fans of beautiful landscapes .
Repulsive massacres and nothing else . Screw political correctness ! !	This film once made the notorious list of Britain's forbidden movies and since I'm personally intrigued by that kind of garbage , I had to watch it sooner or later . It's easy to see why this sickie got so infamous ? after only 15 minutes of playtime you're already treated to 3 repulsive massacres and gratuitous nudity ( including a long and pointless female masturbation scene in a bathtub ) . No depth , no building up an atmosphere , not even a word of possible motives ? just bloody butchering ! Lovely ! In case it's not clear yet : this is a slasher movie from the era where everything was possible . The makers didn't have to worry about ethical situations or whether their product was politically correct or not . All that matters is a grizzly portrayal of bad taste and explicitly showing the largest possible body count . And I'll shamelessly admit that it works , too . This is one fun flick and , if you watch the fully uncut version , one of the bloodiest gems ever unleashed upon horror loving audiences . The Toolbox Murders is half creative and half imbecile . The idea of a killer using tools ( nail gun , hammers and drills ) is fairly imaginative but after a while the no-substance plot really begins to irritate you and some of the absurd plot-twists are too ridiculous for words . And I should mention the totally inappropriate use of music ! Golden oldies , like country songs by Dolly Parton , are very over-the-top and completely misfit . The identity of the killer doesn't really come as a surprise since you didn't care enough to find out . And yes , you forgive him his ridicule motives for killing just because he does it so swell . Even though this is far from being a horror masterpiece , director Tobe Hooper found the premise interesting enough to produce a remake in 2003 . The setting of that film is entirely different but the killer's nasty modus operandi is repeated . Never change a winning team , I guess ? . especially not if it is a gory as this one !
Smarmy tearjerker ? but professionally made , of course .	I'm one of those very few people who are actually convinced that there's a brilliant actor hidden behind the rubber face of Jim Carrey , so I was rather looking forward to finally see The Majestic . I prepared myself to witness a lot of sappy dialogues and dramatic sequences which are inevitable in Darabont's movies but he really has excelled himself here ? Boy , what a corny film ! For two and a half straight hours , The Majestic desperately tries to bring tears to your eyes . All elements to make lonely housewives and hurt romanticists cry are present ? Carrey plays a Hollywood scriptwriter in the early 50's ? America is recovering from their WWII losses and the cowardly hunt for communism and other supposable threats to society is open . Peter Appleton ( Jim Carrey ) is suspected of being a communist and loses his job . He crashes his car and end up in a small , forsaken town ? suffering from amnesia ! He gets mistaken for a lost son who returned from the war after all and suddenly , everything goes really easy ? Peter ( alias Luke Trimble ) re-opens the local movie theater with he father , he gets the most beautiful girl in town and they throw him parties ! ! Naturally , his memory slowly returns and a huge disappointment for the little community is inescapably . The story is so ordinary , the character so typical and the events so routine that you're actually wondering why you continue to look at times . This film is way too long ( Darabont makes a point of stretching simple stories endlessly ) and the obtained sentiment is just too fake for you to care . Especially the entire end-scene in court annoys ? . It seems to last forever and you can almost hear Darabont begging for you to cry with his film . The attempts to ' touch ' the audience are almost pathetic and destroy the good basic plot idea . When you ignore the smarmy script , there remain only a few things to admire like the decent acting performances by Jim Carrey , Martin Landau and the girl who plays the love-interest . I already forgot her name , but she previously starred in several episodes of the X-Files . And of course there's the scenery ? Darabont gives an adorable portrayal of the US in the early 50's with sublime decorations and multiple tributes to classic cinema . The settings and locations are very realistic and breath an irresistible fifties atmosphere ? but , I hardly consider this a triumph because Darabont probably had a large budget to spend on this .
God is a Spaghetti-Cowboy !	The indescribably poor DVD-quality almost ruined the entire movie for me . " God's Gun " is part of a Three-Pack DVD of Lee Van Cleef spaghetti western films , the other two being " Kid Vengeance " and " Death Rides a Horse " . The box looks nice and it's a great initiative to release more of Van Cleef's work on DVD , but the picture and sound quality are terribly , terribly poor ! The colors are faded and most of the time you can't even make out the eyes or the expressions on the characters ' faces . It's far worse than a VHS which stood on the bottom shelf of a videostore for the past 20 years , so watch out in case you consider purchasing this puppy on DVD . The film itself is fine , and I don't really understand all the harsh and negative comments by the other reviewers . The plot isn't exactly original and the film clearly lacks the touch of a professional genre director like Leone or Corbucci , but as long as you're simply expecting to see macho cowboys wiping each other out with pistols and shotguns , you can't possibly be disappointed . Any western that combines the talents and charisma of Lee Van Cleef and Jack Palance is worth tracking down if you ask me , and even more so if it also contains guest appearances by Richard Boone and Sybil Danning . Van Cleef plays the priest of a peaceful little town that suddenly gets invaded by a sadistic gang of criminals led by Jack Palance . The priest is killed when he tries to uphold justice in the little town , but his youthful acolyte escapes and seeks the help of twin-brother Lewis who lives in Mexico . Together they return to avenge Father John's dead and clear the town of crime once and for all . The script of " God's Gun " is very clichéd and contains too many stupid improbabilities . For example , Johnny finds Lewis in less than two days even though he only knew he lived " somewhere in Mexico " and ? moreover ? he can't even ask for directions because he's struck mute . For some reason , there are also two totally redundant and overlong flashback sequences that don't add anything to the story . Naturally , the cast of characters are dreadful stereotypes , including the drunkard Sheriff and the gorgeous , voluptuous wenches in the local saloon . The music and many of the inventive camera angles are directly stolen from " The Good , The Bad and The Ugly " . Oh well , at least the gunfights are violent & nasty , and Jack Palance is the ultimately cool baddie .
You've won the cheese medal	Low-keyed 80's slasher with one tiny little difference compared to the rest of them . The irritating victims all go to a school for sport athletes instead to an ordinary high school . Hardly original , is it ? Whilst the girls and boys preparing for the Olympics and the doctors pump them full of steroids , some demented loser is practicing his / her javelin techniques on student targets . It's a rather interesting modus operandi for an 80's killer , resulting in some nicely gory ? albeit very cheesy ? sequences . I don't know whether you're meant to guess along for the killer's identity , because the given clues are lame and very implausible , but it's a fun enough movie without intellectual red herrings and numerous plot twists . I was in an undemanding mood today , anyway ! The humor doesn't really work , there's absolutely no tension or atmosphere and the acting performances are ? as to be expected ? pretty damn terrible . Oh well , at least " Olympic Nightmare " is never really boring and , since athletes need to take showers regularly , there's also quite a lot of gratuitous nudity . The denouement is a real hoot !
I never thought a Hammer Frankenstein would let me down . . .	This movie turned out to be a milestone for me as well , but not a very positive one . I've seen 5 Hammer productions so far concerning the topic of baron Frankenstein ( this one not included ) and they were all much better . In fact , some of them belong to my ALLTIME favorite horror movies . This version , directed by Jimmy Sangster , is inferior and ten times as boring as all the others . The fact that the legendary Peter Cushing doesn't star as Victor Frankenstein didn't help the film very much neither . . . I have to be fair and admit that the movie has a few good moments and several positive aspects . In fact , the whole second half is ENJOYABLE but it never reaches the usual Hammer level and it seems to take hours before something happens . I still can't believe I sat through till that moment . Several times I came close to pressing the ' eject-button ' , though . The biggest difference ( and failure ) between this version and the true classics is the character of Victor Frankenstein . The baron is portrayed as an egocentric and precocious basterd who doesn't care about anything or anybody . I got the idea that he doesn't even cared about science . . . he just wants to create life in favor to increase his own status and to help him get rid of people who stand in his way . He doesn't even dig up the bodies to experiment upon himself ! ! He talks with a very annoying tone of voice and he's too rich in my opinion . That's never good . . . Normally , I like arrogant characters but this one had something missing . . . Maybe it was the performance by the rather unknown actor Ralph Bates . He also played Dr . Jeckyll once in a Hammer production , but I didn't see that one . The ONE thing I didn't understand about him was : He's being worshiped by two of the most beautiful women alive and he totally doesn't care . A man's lifework is important but still , . . . a bit of lovin ' is always pleasant , no ? Especially the actress named Kate O'Mara ( she plays Alys , the housekeeper ) is gorgeous ! I think she was the main reason why I couldn't force myself to press the ' eject-button ' . I assure you , she's a very beautiful woman . When the monster is ( finally ) created , it looks pretty dumb . He looks like a popular football player ( except for the head ) and he eats pigeons ! ! This movie was shot only one year after Boris Karloff's death and he ALREADY had to turn over in his grave ! ! Otherwise , there's nothing to worry for him . . . he'll always be the one and only " Monster of Frankenstein " On a more positive note : I really the abrupt ending to Horror of Frankenstein . The last 15 minutes are really good and the whole last setting in Victor's attic is a powerful scene . If only Sangster had been able to create this atmosphere during the whole movie ! Precious " rewind " - moment : Baron Frankenstein is having supper with Prof . Heiss who's trying to make conversation with him . While Heiss is talking , the only thing Frankenstein can think is Heiss ' brain which he needs to finish his creation . Satisfying scene in an overall disappointing movie . . .
The Bronson Does What He Has To Do . . . And Does Best !	The Charles Bronson portraying an ageing hit man convinced to come out of retirement to complete one last assignment that only he is capable of pulling off . Hmm , admittedly , this doesn't really sound as the most innovative action-movie synopsis ever and exactly how many times did Bronson depict the same old unconquerable character ? But still , any avid fan of 80's action cinema is likely to track this baby down , because A ) Charlie's the man and B ) his collaborations with director J . Lee Thompson practically always resulted in violent and excessively sadistic action vehicles . Remember " 10 to Midnight " and " Messenger of Death " ? Well , the violence featuring in " The Evil that Men Do " is even more gratuitous and explicit , including extended sequences of people getting tortured and mutilated for sheer kicks and Bronson himself aiming his shotgun at his opponents ' faces just for the sake of making the carnage messier . Hit man Holland leaves his tropical retirement island to assassinate a sadistic professional torturer who , of course , secretly works for the government of an oppressed South American nation . The doctor's character is clearly inspired by Dr . Josef Mengele ; the Nazi surgeon infamous for performing experiments upon concentration camp inmates . Holland goes after Dr . Molloch accompanied by a fake ( nagging ) wife and child , and quickly notices that the doctor is surrounded by a whole army of security guards and government paid henchmen . " The Evil That Men Do " is far from the best Charlie Bronson action flick , but it nevertheless contains a handful of effectively repulsive moments ? among which the uncanny albeit derivative climax sequence ? and a few remarkable performances . Bronson is his good old self here , but he receives impressive support from Joseph Maher as the evil-personified doctor . Before seeing this film , I only knew Maher from playing one of the jolly old dudes in the 90's comedy " I . Q " and I assure it's quite a shock to now see him as one of the most relentless and malignant villains of 80's cinema . Yup , it's an overall mediocre and very forgettable movie worthy of the bad reviews it receives , but it's also occasionally exciting and good for a few thrills .
mmmmm . . . . vampirism !	Cultmaster Jess Franco delivers with this " Female Vampire " the jolliest and sleaziest bunch of sleaze you'll ever behold , and that's a guarantee ! This in fact is the closest you can get to renting porn while still able to claim it's essential and rare cult , haha ! ! The star in this film is Franco's favorite toy-girl , the astonishingly beautiful ( at least back then ) and sexy Lina Romay , who definitely makes up in charisma what she lacks in experience and acting skills . Luckily for her , her character is a mute so can use her body language to the fullest ! She plays Irena von Karlstein , the last descendant of a cursed family of vampires who's doomed to travel from one great place to another and survive by making love to random people . . . The poor , poor girl ! ! Irana isn't your ordinary type of vampire as she's perfectly able to stand daylight and it . . . um . . . isn't exclusively blood she sucks ! Countess von Karlstein really is one of the most unique Franco characters ever and you'll unquestionably love her ! Whenever she's not killing people , she walks naked through the woods or makes love to the furniture . In order to add a tiny bit of substance to story , there's a sub plot involving a neurotic scientist ( played by Franco himself ) who wants to destroy the yummy Irena . So , what exactly is the point of this film ? There isn't any . . . and that's the beauty of it ! Like several of Franco's film , this " Female Vampire " is rather meaningless and overall incompetent BUT also very sensual ! The photography is magnificent and the musical guidance is very beautiful . The film is slow-paced , elegant and remarkably stylish for being a ? let's face it ? voyeuristic movie ! If you're into euro-sleaze , cult classics and off-category movies . . . . this is a must ! The same film is also available as a different cut and under a different title ? Erotikill ? but that one is pure pornography !
The weakest in the series , but still entertaining 80's horror .	Rapidly written and quickly paced sequel to the unexpected comedy-horror hit by Dan O'Bannon . Return of the Living Dead was a sweet film that at the same time spoofed and paid tribute to the classic George A . Romero movies , while this second entry is a lot less ambitious . Wiederhorn clearly didn't put too much thought in writing the screenplay , as the zombie-plague is caused exactly the same way as in the original . A barrel stuffed with experimental flumes rolls off a military truck and ends up in the sewers of a remote American town . The military commander simply complains " oh no ? not again " and that concludes it . Yet you shouldn't bother too much about the repetitiveness as the rest of the movie is highly amusing nonsense , complete with good graphical gore and glorious OTT acting . Most of the gags are painfully unfunny ( like zombies that get distracted by an aerobic video ? ) but the comical aspect largely lies in the little jokes . The early cemetery-sequence , in which the simultaneous resurrection of the undead causes " traffic " problems , is still the best part of the movie as far as I'm concerned . This part two is not as fun as part one and not as creative as part 3 ( which was directed by Brian Yuzna ) but still it's a remarkably better film than most low-budget 80's productions and it'll sure keep you entertained for as long as it lasts . Ken Wiederhorn previously directed the flamboyant " Shock Waves " which also features ugly corpses walking around ? only in a different format .
Disappointing , redundant horror made by a crew that should know better	Horror company Amicus ? for once , not presenting a horror anthology but a long feature film ? clearly delivered one of their weakest films with this ' And now the screaming starts ' . Maybe it would have been better if they kept to their successful omnibus formula , yet it's unquestionable that the team who made this film was talented . Director Roy Ward Baker damn well knows how to shoot a compelling horror film with titles on his repertoire like ' The Vampire Lovers ' , ' Quartermass and the Pit ' and ' Asylum ' . Then what exactly is the matter with this film ? It has screaming alright ? the main actress gave me a headache with her constant screaming . Catherine Ferngriffen is the young , beautiful wife of a rich landlord . As soon as she's homed in her husband's estate , she's haunted by nightmarish visions and freaky paintings . Catherine is also chased by a chopped off hand and nobody in the mansion dares to explain anything to her . Understandable , since any friendly soul that does tries to inform her dies a tragic death . ' And Now the Screaming Starts ' contains far more boring and tedious sequences than exiting ones , and that's not very good for a horror film . Also , the ' mystery ' is exaggeratedly stressed and annoyingly kept secret far too long . Great expectations are automatically being formed , but the climax regretfully turns out to be yet another ( SPOILER ! SPOILER ! ! ) variant on the pay - for - the - sins - of - your - ancestors curse . The opening credits list Peter Cushing and Herbert Lom first , while it takes a good 50 minutes before either of them has an appearance . Lom is great as the savage and heartless landlord , but his part is too confined to save the plot . There also are a few nice , professional make-up effects but overall few excitement and action . Apart from the grotesque finale , which is pretty gruesome and over the top . What remains is an avoidable supernatural tale , yet with lovely countryside settings and beautiful costumes .
Unholy , sacrilegious fun !	" The Convent " is a very UNoriginal but fun splatter-horror flick with the usual formula of dumb teenagers awakening an ancient type of evil they can't possibly deal with . The very cool and mood-setting opening sequence shows a young girl gunning down a bunch of nuns and a priest before setting fire to the convent / boarding school they're living in . The urban legend says that this girl ? Christine ? went insane after a forced abortion and that the convent is haunted by the restless souls of the nuns ever since . Now , 40 years later , a group of crazy college students breaks into the abandoned convent to play fraternity jokes , but soon they get possessed by demons in nuns ' clothes and they're recruited to assist in performing virgin-sacrifices to Satan almighty . There's few tension or atmosphere but the script luckily enough inserts a lot of OTT-humor and ingenious ideas ( a bunch of unbelievably clumsy devil-worshipers ! ) that makes this routine horror flick worth watching . The make-up effects are quite grotesque and nasty , with blood spurting out of every body hole and heads that are chopped off by the dozen . The dark and ramshackle convent makes an excellent horror location and the nun-costumes are really terrific . The true heroine of this film is Adrienne Barbeau ( " The Fog " , " Escape from N . Y " ) as the skilled demon-killer who comes to save the day . There equally are splendid cameo appearances for rapper Coolio and Bill Mosely ( " House of 1 . 000 Corpses " ) . " The Convent " isn't exactly fundamental viewing , but it's good and unscrupulous horror-entertainment that fans will surely appreciate .
Shameless , brainless , tasteless . . . and very entertaining !	Scary Movie looks like a rapidly fixed comedy to mock the success of Scream and all its clones . In the tradition of films like Airplane and Hot Shots , the audience is being attacked by a never-ending series of brutal gags . Not one joke in Scary Movie has a little depth or range and they merely focus on ? dirty ' sex-jokes . The characters are constantly being humiliated and portrayed like empty-headed jocks and bimbos ? Really anything goes for the Wayans brothers apparently ! Many of their jokes either glorify drug-usage or handle about adultery , women-beating or bizarre fetishes . Yet , even though the entire screenplay is a mess , some sequences really do prove the writers know their classics . The more subtle references in Scary Movie are the best ones , like for example the spoofing of ' Blair Witch Project ' and ' The Shining ' . I would even go far to call some aspects downright ingenious . Presenting Deputy Doofy ( David Arquette's character in Scream ) like a complete retard for example ! The cast is merely filled with unfamiliar faces that look dumb almost naturally . Shannon Elizabeth is offered another change to show how gorgeous her body is and the casting of playmate Carmen Electra for the Drew Barrymore intro is another successful gag . Enjoy Scary Movie 1 as much as you can , since it was almost immediately followed by two inferior ( and disgustingly irritating ) sequels .
No taming of the shrew here !	" The Killer Shrews " is another very poor and overly silly creature-feature from the 50's , and yet you can never bring yourself to hate this kind of movies entirely , simply because they have so much charm and spontaneity . Sure , every possible aspect looks incompetent as hell but simultaneously it's so damn entertaining that the playtime of only 70 minutes will be over before you know it . For a while , it even actually seems like the film won't be bad at all ? The opening sequences are efficiently mysterious and mood setting and you don't really know what to expect until the main character himself ( James Best ) learns about the horror of the " shrews " . He stars as the captain of a supply-boat that arrives at a small island where scientists experiment with rodents . This naturally went miserably wrong and the humongous rat-creatures eat their way through the island . With a healthy dose of ingeniousness and grotesque ideas , the last survivors attempt to flee to the sea . As you've probably read already in other reviews , the shrews are ordinary dogs camouflaged with head-stuffing and fake teeth . They really don't evoke feelings of fear but still I thought it was fairly well done , especially considering the budget Ray Kellog ( who's a special effects artist himself ) disposed of . The dialogues are fluently written and I didn't have any problems with the wooden acting . The intrigues between the characters ( especially the hero versus the sneaky assistant-scientist ) are probably the best elements of the whole movie .
Not a typical sequel , but more of the same nonetheless .	Even though I only watched the original " Dead in 3 days " less than two years ago , I already have few to no recollection anymore on what that movie was about . I remember a mundane and extremely rudimentary teen-slasher flick , and the only thing that made it remotely special was the fact that it was the very first Austrian-produced slasher . Needless to say my expectations for the sequel weren't set very high , but I nevertheless wanted to be there for the screening at the annual Belgian Festival of Fantastic Films because I'm always in the mood for some mindless teen-slashing entertainment . Well , the least you can say is that writer / director Andreas Prochaska attempted to do something completely different rather than to just resume the basic principles of the first movie . Instead of a formulaic slasher sequel , " Dead in 3 days 2 " turned out a formulaic backwoods survival thriller . The title ( which used to refer to a foreboding mobile phone message ) is completely irrelevant now , only the main actress of the previous film returns , ambiance and setting are entirely different and it's plainly put just a poles apart dissimilar film ! Two years after the traumatizing experience that killed most of her friends , Nina rudely wakes up one night with a voicemail message from her best friend Mona ; begging Nina to come and safe her . She courageously returns to the secluded region in Tyrol but hasn't got a clue where to begin her search . The slowly unfolding trail leads to a family of savages living isolated in the snowy and picturesque mountains . The first hour of " Dead in 3 days 2 " is very slow and uneventful . Prochaska clearly intends to build up suspense and mystery , but it seemingly goes nowhere ; especially because everybody waits for the masked killer to pop up again . Nina's long and fruitless pursuit of her friend in peril is quite boring and derivative and I caught myself admiring the postcard-like landscapes rather than to develop sympathy for the suffering protagonist . Luckily enough the extremely violent and turbulent last half hour compensates for a whole lot ! In a span of less than 15 minutes , we're suddenly treated to a series of sickening murder sequences and a few moments of genuinely nail-biting suspense . The denouement is nowhere near original ? let's face it : we've pretty much had it lately with butchering inbred families of weirdos ? but the concept undeniably remains exciting to look at . If you seek raw , uncompromising and nihilistic violence , the climax of this movie certainly won't disappoint . If you're looking for an innovative , intelligent and unforgettable European horror movie , look elsewhere although I have to admit the final end-twist was a pleasant surprise .
All right Hitchcock fans . . . start your boo-ing !	Gus Van Sant's shot-for-shot remake of " Psycho " most likely is the most hated movie ever . Fine , I can live with that statement . But simultaneously , it's frequently named as one of the worst movies ever made , and I don't really agree on that level . Seriously , how bad can a movie be when there are so many talent and experienced cast & crew members involved ? Because it's totally pointless and unnecessary , I hear you say ? Sure thing , but about 85 % off all movies are pointless , especially remakes of classic titles . " Psycho " indeed didn't require a modern update ( heck , it still stands as the very first modern horror movie itself ) but can you really blame Van Sant and his team that they saw a chance to make easy money ? The new Psycho version is in color now , and the notorious shower-sequence is slightly more violent . These minor changes were enough to help younger audiences that , for whatever reasons never bothered to see the original , found their way to the theaters . You can debate endlessly whether Van Sant's style is blasphemy or not . Die-hard Hitchcock fans hate him because he so shamelessly copies every single aspect ( the exact same music , cameos , facial expressions ? ) but I'm sure they'd hate him even more if he added some personal elements , because then he would have " violated " a genuine classic . Even if you swear by Hitchcock , you can still enjoy the terrific acting performances here . Although a sublime actor , Vince Vaughn had the impossible task to play Norman Bates . There's no way in hell anyone can outshine Anthony Perkins , but Vaughn's performance is praiseworthy nevertheless . Some of the supportive roles are ? do I dare say it ? an improvement over the original . Viggo Mortensen , Julianne Moore and especially William H . Macy are a joy to observe . In the end , it doesn't really matter how unnecessary this remake is , since it hasn't ( and will never ) affect the position of Alfred Hitchcock's groundbreaking film . " Psycho " is one of the greatest films ever realized and not a thousand remakes can ever change that .
The blouse-bursting bitch returns ! !	Dianne Thorne returns as the ( not so ) desirable Ilsa , this time making the wealthy Arabian world to her playground . Ilsa is in control of Sheik El Sharif's harem and she arranges the kidnappings of new sex-slaves . The most remarkable difference with the previous ' She Wolf of the SS ' is the more lightheaded character of this film and the constant presence of humor . Of course , the subject matter is a little less sensitive ( Nazi's aren't that funny , you know ) and the makers indented to reach a larger audience this time . This resulted in less cruelty , less nudity and a lot less perversion . Yet , this film is still warmly recommended to cult fans and admirers of occult cinema ! There are a few slick and ingenious aspects to discover , like the introduction of Ilsa's assistants ! Satin and Velvet look like identical twins performing lesbian action , while their uniforms simply exist out of pink thongs ! No shocking and nauseating images this time , but a goofy black comedy with a couple of bloody highlights . up to you whether it's an improvement or not .
Passable early Giallo	" Murder Clinic " is one of them obscure and early ( mid-60's ) Gialli that you'll probably never see , unless you're willing to purchase a prehistoric VHS copy or ? even worse - a bootleg DVD ripped from the aforementioned prehistoric tape . You know those things that are practically unwatchable because the original colors faded and the picture is constantly fuzzy ? In other words this Giallo is only meant for the eyes of avid Giallo-buffs , as I sincerely doubt a proper release on disc will ever follow . " Murder Clinic " is a very passable Italian horror effort , but nevertheless amusing and it certainly contains a handful of potentially good ideas . It was the sixties , so Gialli movies still leaned towards Gothic settings and darkly sinister filming location . But , on the other hand , the Giallo-formula was still relatively new and thus the screenplay ( penned down by veterans Ernesto Gastaldi and Luciano Martino ) is very straightforward with clear twists and logical red herrings . The year is 1870 and the sinister events take place in a private clinic run by the demanding Dr . Vance and his obnoxious wife Liz . The movie doesn't waste too much time , as there quickly pops up a hooded killer who waves around a sharp razor and butchers patients as well as staff members . There are a number of possibilities for whom the killer might turn out to be , and the least you can say is that the denouement is acceptable . The murders sequences are decent , obviously not outrageously gross but definitely bloodier than I anticipated for a 60's film . There are some tedious parts and the acting performances ? with the exception of William Berger as the Doc ? are very much below average . The music is atmospheric and luckily the film only ran for a good 80 minutes . Not so much because I was bored to death , but because the incredibly poor bootleg disc hurt my eyes and ears .
Glad someone laughed . . .	To my own personal regret , I haven't yet seen the 1928 classic on which this French / Italian version is based . The basic premise is truly intriguing and you can derive from this film that the original has got to be a fantastic film . The pivot character is a young man called Angelo ( Jean Sorel from Lucio Fulci's " Lizard in a Woman's Skin " ) who got kidnapped as a boy by gypsies in order to turn him into an acrobat and sell him to a circus . His face was horribly mutilated on purpose ( he appears to have a constant grin ) to increase his " value " as a circus-freak even more . The story is set in 16th century Spain ( or is it Italy ? ) and Angelo is torn between civil wars and an unanswered love . I hope to see the original soon , because I understand that this setting is different and a lot more confusing . This version is overlong and quickly becomes boring . Moreover , the screenplay makes a ridiculous twist near the end , when we're supposed to believe that surgeons in the 16th century were flawlessly capable of performing complex plastic surgery . The make-up effects are admirable , the body count is enormous and Sorel's acting is well above average . Even though a remake , " The Man Who Laughs " is a movie with great potential and it's a shame the execution is so darn poorly .
Freaks , geeks and sexual deviants !	" Frankenstein's Castle of Freaks " is rancid 70's euro-exploitation at its absolute finest ! Not a single line in the screenplay makes any sense , the females look hot & willing , the males are all sick perverts and the supposedly horrific make-up effects are so cheesy they cause you to laugh instead of to cringe . The residents at Count Frankenstein's castle are not only freaks , they're crazed sexual deviants ! He has an army of lunatics surrounding him , all assisting in his macabre scientific research , and each of them is worthy of his / her own horror spin-off ! There's the horny caveman lying on Frankenstein's operating table , the hunchback who has aggressive sex with the main butler's wife and ? of course - the depraved midget Genz , who fondles dead girls ' bodies and has peepholes all around the castle to stare at people having sex ! Count Frankenstein is a bit of a sleaze-bag himself . When his gorgeous daughter returns home , he immediately falls in love with her sexy friend and even involves her in his demented experiments . Genz the dwarf gets banned from the castle , but he teams up with a roaming Neanderthaler in the woods and teaches him the ' art ' of raping innocent women . Everything comes neatly together in the end , when the townspeople no longer tolerate the abnormalities going on at the castle and form an angry mob . As you can tell , there's a whole lot going on in this crazy flick , but it's unbelievably incoherent . This wacky production features none of the tense Gothic atmosphere of all the previous Frankenstein tales and I don't think director Robert Oliver ever intended to focus on suspense . This film is all about shlock , sleaze and the ravishing naked bodies of Simonetta Vitelli ( as Frankenstein's daughter ) and Christiane Rücker ( as Frankenstein's mistress ) . The cameras follow them each time they take a bath or go swimming , preferably with Genz the sniveling dwarf spying on them . The horror-sequences are scarce , short and actually quite irrelevant . The photography and use of music are horrendous , but they acting performances are surprisingly tolerable . Rossano Brazzi doesn't seem to be very interested in playing the titular character , but the freaks and particularly the girls do a fine job . Utter trash , but vastly entertaining cult material .
GroundHORROR day	I can't bring myself to write unnecessarily harsh and negative things about this film , but it's definitely a little too ambitious for its own good . With a title like " Gruesome " ( at least , in Europe that's what it's called ) and a plot summary that mentions a sadistic serial killer , the absolute last thing you expect to see is a psychological thriller that is reminiscent to " Groundhog Day " instead of to " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " . I saw this film amidst a boisterous and enthusiast crowd at the Belgian Horror & Fantasy Festival and needless to say nobody expected to see a psychological mind-exercise that serves a complex network of clues , twists and red herrings that all lead to a supernatural type of denouement that requires quite a lot of puzzling skills . And yet nonetheless , Jeff and Josh Crook surely deserve some respect and admiration for their film , as it undoubtedly holds the potential to grow out and become a modest cult-sleeper hit within a handful of years . The atmosphere is often quite terrifying , the film's structure is engaging to say the least and the climax is more than inventive enough to raise debates & discussions among avid horror fans . The tagline already reveals the premise of the film and immediately clarifies the similarities with the aforementioned 90's classic " Groundhog Day " . " What if every day you relived your own murder ? " . When college student Claire Parker finishes her night shift as a gas station employee and awaits to be picked up by her boyfriend Jimmy , she meets the sinister Duke Desmond , who offers her a ride home in Jimmy's truck . He then brutally attacks Claire and drags her down to the basement of her house . The next morning , she wakes up and the events simply appear to be a disturbingly realistic dream . But all the horrible things happen again and again , indicating Claire is trapped inside an inescapable nightmare . Vague help from people close to her , like a befriended police detective and her own mother , eventually lead Claire to discover the true nature of the nightmarish cycle she's trapped it . I can't tell you too much about the twist at the end , of course , but it's quite staggering . Even though the final revelation raises more questions than it answers and causes you to skeptically play the movie again in your head , it's a horrific and ingenious finale that sticks to you . The pacing is occasionally slow , however , and at some times the confusing plot isn't compelling enough to force you to remain attentive and / or open-minded for new clues . " Gruesome " may not be as gruesome as I initially hoped , but it still features some effective shocks and awry images , most notably the sequences in which the killer savagely beats up Claire and drags her to her final resting place . Lead actress Lauren Currie Lewis is a talented young actress , and even if she doesn't get successful , she can always consider a second career as Alicia Silverstone's stunt double . The facial expressions and voices of the two actresses are almost identical . Chris Ferry's menacing performance as the robust killer is terrific as well . All in all , recommended with caution .
The Tall corpse-snatcher returns . . . Gory good fun ! !	Morbidity is all around in this ultra-violent , belated sequel ( almost 10 years ) to Phantasm . The film almost takes entirely place in graveyards , mortuaries , abandoned ghost-towns and filthy vaults ? something that'll certainly attract gore-lovers and other sick puppies like myself ? ; ) To my regret , I must say I never saw the original Phantasm so maybe I'm missing out on yet a whole lot more ? One thing I can already say with certainty : Phantasm is a very ingenious franchise with a solid horror villain ( The Tall Guy ) and inventive slashing methods . Number two mainly seems to handle about the hunt and ( hopefully ) eternal destroying of the Tall Man by Mike and Reggie . Mike spent seven years in an institution after witnessing the Tall Man's first adventure and Reggie is an ex-ice cream vendor ( which gives you more or less an idea of the oppressed , dry humor in Phantasm ) . Agnus Scrimm in the shape of the Tall Man cheerfully continues to rob entire cemeteries and transforms the bodies into ugly dwarfs , while the heroes arm themselves with complete toolboxes and other home-made artillery that seem to come right out an episode of ' The A-Team ' . Absolute highlights in this light-headed , gory bunch are the spirited weapons in the form of metal spheres ? The plant themselves into the forehead of the victim and drill their way further into the brain . Very gruesomely yummy ! ! By the way ? it's also a very educational film if you're interested in learning about the principles and practices of embalming ? you never know , right ? ? Negative elements are the complete lack of tension and the dreadful love-story between Mike and the girl he communicates with through dreams . Bring out the beer and enjoy the bloodshed !
Nasty little Shock-feature	" Borderland " belongs in the category of the nowadays indescribably popular " torture-porn " movies , along with titles such as " Hostel " , " Saw " , " Live Feed " , " Blood Trails " , etc ? This basically means they are excessively gross but nonsensical and forgettable films without a plot or amiable characters . But for some reason this one left an aftertaste in my mouth that is far more sour than usual . It's not a particularly good film , but it implements a truly unsettling atmosphere as well as an almost unequaled nihilistic narrative style . Perhaps this has to do with the fact " Borderland " is inspired by true events , namely the discovery of a mass grave just across the Mexican border and filled with victims of a satanic cult who had their brains and spine columns removed . The wraparound story of the three American guys may be fictional , but the ritual sacrifices of the cult are supposedly truthful and that is more than enough reason to label this as one of the most disturbing movies of the past couple of years . The opening ten minutes are particularly grim , cold and distant , showing two Mexican cops busting into an abandoned house in search of the cult's fugitive leader . One of the cops is submitted to severe torture ? including removal of the eyeballs ? whilst the other one is forced to watch . It's definitely an intro that counts and grabs your attention , to say the least . The next few chapters are more typical and clichéd horror stuff , with a trio of hormone-driven guys crossing the Mexican border with only booze , drugs , parties and sexy women on their minds . One of them naturally gets kidnapped by members of the cult and his only remaining purpose is to serve as the next sacrifice to their bizarre God . The two remaining friends , and a randomly picked up Mexican hottie , combine forces with the survivor cop from the intro . The majority of the film is actually very mundane , simplistic and even on the verge of being really boring ! There also isn't much suspense , background information or character development ? There's nothing extraordinary going on here , except relentless and genuinely shocking brutality . But hey , the lack of creativity is at least widely compensated by the dark ambiance and the grueling scenery . And multiple moments of extremely graphical content , of course ! There's one integrally shown sequence , for example , in which at least seven or eight cult members club someone to death using meat cleavers , baseball bats and large butcher's knives . It's definitely not a film intended for the squeamish and / or people with a sensitive stomach . Most curious aspect is perhaps that Sean Astin , who gained name-fame and glory since the Lords of the Rings trilogy , stars in a truly inglorious role of loathsome disciple in service of the Mexican cult . Bizarre career move , if you ask me . . .
It's sure ain't no ' Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back '	I went to see ' Jersey Girl ' because I'm a Kevin Smith fan . Other than that , I had no particular reason to check it out since romantic comedy / drama isn't really my thing . And yet , I enjoyed watching ' Jersey Girl ' ? because it had heart and a lot of subtle self-regulating humor . Pure talking comedy , it's Smith's least good film , since his talent usually lies in the smart pop-art remarks and the endless amount of slick cinema-references in the dialogue . None of these aspects features in Jersey Girl and also the characters are a lot less eccentric than usual . It's an emotional driven picture with a small amount of very funny sequences . Ben Affleck ( who previously did some of his best work with Kevin Smith in film like Chasing Amy ) is a successful PR-man who has everything ? a beautiful wife ( Jennifer Lopez ) , a successful career and a baby on the way . He loses all of this in the blink of an eye when his love-interest dies while giving birth to their daughter . He returns to living with his father in his Jersey hometown and accepts a non-responsible job . Seven years later , he still lives there and stills his sexual hunger by renting porno-films . He makes acquaintance with the cute videostore girl ( Liv Tyler ) and raises his daughter the best he can . But , Ollie ? that's the name of Affleck's character ? desires to go back to the big city and pick up his PR job again . The typical ( read : annoying ) clichés start to pile up at this point ? Will the charm of the little town triumph over the boisterous life in the big city ? Is Ollie going to make it in time to see his little girl's school play ? You all know the answers , I bet . But I'm not complaining ? as mentioned above , some sequences are truly hilarious highlights ( for example : Affleck trying to explain the difference between boys and girls to his daughter ) and remarkable cameos by giant stars ( Will Smith ) or other Kevin Smith regulars ( Jason Lee and Matt Damon ) . All in one , a decent motion picture that you'll forget about soon , but it'll affect you while it lasts .
Hey There Little Red Eye-Stabbing Hood ?	" Eyeball " isn't the best film to use as an example to state that the Giallo is the greatest sub genre in horror , and it's neither the ideal effort to claim Umberto Lenzi was one of the greatest European directors of the 20th century . " Eyeball " is , in fact , a rather mediocre Giallo and definitely one of Lenzi's least remarkable films , but it nevertheless remains an entertaining treat for fans of sleazy , gory and trashy Euro-horror of the 1970's . Lucio Fulci may have had a bizarre fetish for eyeball-gore , but it was Lenzi who revolved an entire Giallo-storyline on it ! Multiple eyeballs are being removed from their sockets here , so you can rest assured this film will be nasty enough to satisfy even the most demanding gorehounds . The rest of the film is actually not so praiseworthy at all . The plot is silly and incoherent , there's a severe lack of tension building and the dialogs are almost laughably ridiculous . After the discovery of the first murder victim , a woman who was found with multiple stabbing wounds in her chest and the left eyeball missing from the socket , a rookie police officer ask the autopsy doctor if he thinks the murderer is a sadist . Well , what do you think ? The script is full of stupid remarks and dialogs like that , and they don't exactly increase the plausibility of the story . The plot introduces a group of tourists on a sightseeing tour in beautiful Barcelona . There's a couple of lesbian lovers , an adulterous businessman and his lovely secretary , an odd-behaving priest and a handful of other disposable American travelers . There also is a maniacal killer on the loose in the city and he / she is inevitably linked with the passengers of the tour bus , because his / her disguise is a red raincoat identical to the ones distributed among the tourists and the victims are either members of the bus party or locals that were in contact with them . Lenzi provides his script with a couple of admirable red herrings and misleading plot twists , but " Eyeball " sadly never becomes as engaging as a true Giallo should be . Especially the tourists ' calm and careless reactions to the murders are very unbelievable . Even after several members of the group were found killed and their bodies mutilated , the remaining ones continue to separate themselves from the rest and some of them even attend cheerful Flamingo-dancing parties like nothing happened at all . Can you imagine people to react like this during a real-life situation ? I bet real tourists would lock themselves up in their rooms and remain there until they can hop on the first available plane back home . Bruno Nicolai's score is catchy and enchanting , but I can't help thinking I heard the exact same tune somewhere before in another Italian horror , crime or western flick . Lenzi often recycles plot-ideas , ingenious camera angles and music so I wouldn't be surprised if the same score was already used in one of his previous films . The denouement is utterly silly and far-fetched but , hey , it was nearly impossible to predict and that's all that matters . The acting performances are terrible but at least the female stars compensate their lack of talent by showing off their ravishing naked bodies . Recommended in case you're a sucker for Italian cult flicks , all others beware .
Jason Voorhees has Dutch relatives ?	The basic premise of this ultra-low budgeted slasher is completely unoriginal , the gore-effects are cheesier than you can even imagine , the dialogs are laughably inept , the acting performances are pathetic , the script is hopelessly incoherent and yet . . . . this is a horror effort from The Netherlands , so please forgive me in case I can't possibly bring myself to speak overly negative about it ! During the past few years , this country ( which happens to be my neighbor to the North ) is really trying hard to build up a halfway decent horror reputation , and " Woensdag " certainly deserves to be mentioned as one of the films that played a role in this process . More recently , other Dutch filmmakers had a little more commercial success with the surprisingly entertaining " Sl8N8 " and the sadly disappointing " Dood Eind " , both of which benefited from a much larger budget . The title simply means " Wednesday " , which is fairly insignificant because the events of the film may as well take place at any given day of the week . Like so many recent horror / teen-slashers lately ( " My Little Eye " , " Halloween : Resurrection " , . . . ) , the plot of " Woensdag " revolves on an interactive reality-TV show where the participants ? surprise , surprise ? quickly get killed off by an unwelcome visitor . Admittedly , however , the setting and concept of this reality-TV show is still somewhat cool and refreshing . Eight young people are challenged to survive a night in the dark woods where , according to a local legend , a sadistic killer wanders around . The live TV-show is well-prepared , with actors imposing as killers and fake ambushes all over the forest , but the silly game becomes deadly serious when the first contestant dies for real . The creators of this little flick clearly did their homework and studied a whole lot of typically American 80's slashers . The legendary " Friday the 13th " in particular , as the killer is almost an exact clone of the notoriously immortal machete-wielding killer of Camp Crystal Lake . Either with or without the mask covering his face , the killer could by Jason Voorhees ' overseas twin-brother ! The gore is a bit difficult to judge , actually . There's plenty of grossness going on , including implements , slit throats , decapitations and dismemberment , but the effects aren't very professional and couldn't even disturb a small child . The lighting , editing and camera-work are terribly poor , and I guess this movie holds very little value in case you're not a horror fan living in The Netherlands or Belgium . But , if you do live here , it's an encouraging and worthwhile time-waster .
If lookers could kill ? ( instead of getting killed )	Michael Crichton's " Looker " certainly isn't a hopelessly bad film , but it is pretty forgettable and way too ambitious for an early 80's thriller that superficially looks like a brainless horror effort . The VHS cover art as well as the super-cheesy title song make " Looker " wrongfully appear like an ordinary , by the numbers stalk - & - slash film . An often encountered and unjustified praising is that Crichton's screenplay is intelligent and far ahead of its time . Well , the basic premise may be clever but the film features a countless amount of obvious flaws and , to me , the whole just looked like putting together leftover ideas from Crichton's previous ( and much better ) scripts for " Westworld " and " Coma " . The story revolves on media tycoon John Reston , whose newly founded company Digital Matrix developed hypnotism-techniques that increase the impact and awareness of ordinary TV-commercials among the viewers . The beautiful models that star in these commercials therefore have to be 100 % perfect and thus surgically altered to the millimeter . When three models die in mysterious circumstances , the police immediately suspects Dr . Larry Roberts who performed the plastic surgery on all of them . I can't really give a listing of all the flaws and illogical aspects without giving away essential spoilers , but I can say that the story never gives an apparent reason why exactly these fashion models have to die or how Digital Matrix plans to endlessly re-use holograms of dead models without raising suspicion . Oh well , maybe I've been analyzing the credibility of the plot too much whereas I should've paid more attention to the entertainment value . " Looker " undeniably contains some professionally mounted suspense sequences and introduces a couple of very ingenious gimmicks , such as the ' denuralizer'-gun ( I don't know how else to call it ) and the perfection-measurement techniques . Michael Crichton also successfully captures the high-society world of Beverly Hills , where plastic surgeons drive around in expensive sport cars and live in fancy beach houses and where young models only care about their looks and dating wealthy doctors . This is not a gory flick but there is at least one disturbing and beautifully shot death-sequence that involves a model falling down from the balcony of her apartment . Albert Finney and James Coburn are both terrific and even the lesser-experienced female beauties give adequate performances . " Looker " may perhaps be a tad bit underrated but it sure isn't a gem that urgently needs to be ( re - ) discovered .
Hack ' em up GOOD !	Routine and by-the-numbers 80's slasher , but nonetheless a very entertaining one albeit a bit slow in places . " Edge of the Axe " is remotely gorier and creepier than most of the contemporary slasher efforts , because the killer wears an uncanny plaster mask and uses ( like the title makes pretty clear ) a sharp ' n shiny axe to turn his victims into ? and I quote one of the cop characters here ? hamburger meat ! The killer targets yummy women living in two remote neighbor towns named Patterson and Paddock . The exaggeratedly imbecilic police officers try to pretend that even the most obvious murder cases are ordinary accidents , or in the best case , unfortunate suicide . The plot doesn't provide too many clues for the audiences to join guessing who the killer is , but don't bother anyway , as there are a couple of delightfully absurd and unpredictable twists near the end of the film . Downright AWESOME end shot , by the way . The direction in " Edge of the Axe " is much better and more stylish than in most 80's slasher , but I didn't except anything else , since José Ramón Larraz isn't just some randomly assigned director , but the creator of a couple of underrated and marvelous 70's gems , like " Vampyres " , " The Blood Virgin " and " The House that Vanished " . Mostly thanks to his skills and experience , " Edge of the Axe " is occasionally atmospheric and even suspenseful in places . The special effects are adequate and the imagery ( like chopped off heads floating in the water and decomposed corpses falling from attics ) is suitably nasty , making this an above average and recommendable effort . Larraz was also responsible for another obscure slasher puppy with an appealing title , namely " Rest in Pieces " . Based on this movie , I think I should start looking for the other one , too .
Horror for the whole demented family !	Not exactly a highly original 80's horror movie , this ' American Gothic ' , but a mildly entertaining one that is stuffed with unsubtle satire towards the hypocritically religious Americans and their unhealthy conceptions of family values . The main problem is that this has all been done before , much better too , and what remains is a passable horror comedy with adorably grotesque performances by Rod Steiger and Yvonne De Carlo . The film's most ingenious finding probably is the title and VHS cover-art that are inspired by Grant Wood's famous painting of the same name . Steiger and De Carlo play a married couple , exclusively referring to each other as Pa and Ma , and live on a remote island far away from decaying civilization . When a plane full of sinners ; a group of twenty-something friends on holiday ; strikes down on the island with engine trouble , it's time to re-teach them some moral and religious standards ! Ma and Pa also have an uncanny offspring , two elderly males and a female that behave like young children and play lethal games with the island's guests . There's a sub plot involving one of the stranded people being a psychiatric case too , due to the tragic bathing accident that killed her own child . " American Gothic " opens rather slowly and the first murder was a long time coming . Moreover , only this first murder is really worth mentioning , since it's an inventive death-by-swing sequence , whereas all the other murders are fairly ordinary and not at all gory . There's a minimum in tension , exclusively supplied by the eerie Janet Wright as the overweight adult portraying a child , but most of the film's intentions miss their target , like the sarcasm towards society and the supposed " shock ending " . John Hough's directing is more than competent , but this nevertheless remains one of his most mediocre achievements , languishing for the better days of " Twins of Evil " , " The Legend of Hell House " and " Escape to Witch Mountain " . Overall , this film isn't a must-see but there surely are worse ways to kill an hour and a half of your time .
Mediocre Poliziottesco , but Franco Nero is 2 Kool 4 Skool !	The glory years of the Italian Poliziottesco ( cop / crime thriller ) were actually already over in 1980 , but we gladly make an exception in case director Enzo G . Castellari and actor Franco Nero team up for another cult effort together . The luscious as always Sybil Danning addresses to Franco's character as Humphrey Bogart at one point , and a more accurate description I couldn't possibly give ! At the start of the film , Larry Staziani is a sleazy San Franciscan private eye occupied with stalking unfaithful housewives and locating rich women's lost dogs , but he's called back to his home country of Italy to help arrest a homosexual super-criminal by the name of Kadrinksy ( or something ) . It quickly becomes obvious that Larry also has a personal score to settle with this obscure individual , as his corruptness caused Larry's career downfall and even an imprisonment . Oh well , at least by traveling voluntarily to Italy to settle the vendetta , Larry re-earns his trademark nickname of " The Cobra " . This primarily is a film to please Franco's many avid fans , and undeniably he's cooler than cool as the Cobra . He continuously bounces a little toy ball against the heads of his opponents , deliberately ruins millions worth of cocaine right in front of the dealers ' eyes , sticks him gum on people's foreheads , slaps women in the face and yet still they throw themselves at his feet not even a mere two minutes later ! Nero's vivid performance makes you forget that the plot is actually just mediocre and nothing you haven't seen a dozen times before . There are some occasional flashes of sheer eccentric brilliance , like the Cobra's Kung-Fu battle with a transvestite for example ! The dialogs are fluently written and Nero receives excellent support from Danning , veteran actor William Berger and Ennio Girolami ( the director's brother ) as a sinister killer . There's a fair amount of action , though sadly nothing really sadistic , and the film comes the obligatory catchy theme song entitled " Don't Give a Damn , I am the Cobra " . Hell yeah you are , Franco !
Kaw-Abunga , birdies !	Alfred Hitchcock doesn't need to rollover in his grave just yet , but at some points during this average and largely uninspired imitation of " The Birds " , we definitely came too damn close ! Sheldon Wilson , who recently scored a modest hit with " Shallow Ground " , adds very few elements to the original idea of aggressive birds ( ravens , to be exact ) attacking human beings , apart from an admittedly decent explanation for the their unusual behavior . On his very last day as the Sheriff of Middletown , Wayne encounters several peculiar fatal accidents that are seemingly inflicted by ordinary ravens , judging by the bloodied wounds on the victims ' bodies . Long before Wayne and the local doctor ( played by Rod Taylor ; lead star of Hitchock's " The Birds " ! ) can find the time to investigate the reasons for the birds ' murderous new instincts , they have to protect and evacuate the townspeople , as the bird-attacks rapidly become more frequent and hostile . As mentioned before , I appreciated the explanation given to the epidemic of virulent ravens . I won't reveal everything , but it relates to factual diseases cattle-breeders recently had to deal with , combined with the secluded and private life style of Amish communities . The rest of the film is overall decent too , but director Wilson sadly doesn't share Hitchcock's talents to make even a simple bird look scary and menacing . The multiple and extended images of hundreds of birds suspiciously observing the people of Middletown therefore aren't very unsettling and quickly tend to get boring . Their attacks naturally are a bit monotonous as well , since they can exclusively peck their victims to death and we all know this may take a while . And still , despite all these flaws and some more , " Kaw " is an overall entertaining creature-feature that mainly benefices from likable character drawings and neat acting performances . Although most of the characters are pure stereotypes ( the Sheriff facing his ultimate challenge on his last day , the town's drunkard , etc . . . ) , you quickly develop sympathy for them and you hope that at least some of them make it out alive . The photography is quite nice , with a handful of ingenious POV shots and director Wilson also effectively creates a feeling of complete isolation . There probably isn't enough gore or cheese to satisfy the majority of fanatic horror fans . I count myself among them and I thought it easily could have been much gorier without affecting the plot in a bad way . Is it too much to ask to show at least one raven pecking out someone's eyeball and fly around it with it ? Guess so . . . " Kaw " also stands for Sean Patrick Flannery's best career move since " Boondock Saints " ? he starred in a lot of straight to video crap recently ? and it was a fantastic stunt to motivate Rod Taylor to star in an unofficial homage to " The Birds " . Taylor barely starred in any film since the early 90's , but he's still a powerful actor . I say this reasonably well-made and interesting film deserves at least one viewing .
Hooray for feminism !	This ' Swamp Women ' was one of the very first films Roger Corman directed ( he was still in his 20's around the time it got released ) but it immediately becomes clear how he built up of the reputation of being the ' King of the B's ' . Swamp Women is short , only 67 minutes , and it looks like the whole thing only cost 50$ . Still , it's a fun quickie handling about a gang of female cons who break out of prison accompanied by an undercover cop . They flee their way through a filthy swamp where a diamond-loot is hidden . Things get a little more complicated when they take a young couple , of which the male ( Mike Connors ) is a stud ? hostage . The acting is lame and the scenery is weak ( rubber crocodiles ! ! ) but you'll still have a good time . It feels like watching a vicious exploitation gem with situations and plot ahead of their time . If the actresses would have been a bit bustier , this easily could have been a Russ Meyer flick .
Take a good guess why this BAD film is recommended after all ?	Antonio Banderas ( recently a promoter of potato chips in lame TV commercials ) stars as a rich loser who mail orders himself an American bride . He's expecting an ugly broad but what he gets is the stunningly beautiful Angelina Jolie ! He desperately falls in love with her ( who wouldn't ) and gives her access to all his bank-accounts ( bad idea ) . The ravishing nymph quickly turns out to be a con artist and leaves him with a broken heart and financial hangover . With the help of a private detective , he goes after her . In all honesty : due to the dull sounding plot , I never would have checked out this film if it weren't for Jolie . Face it , Angelina is the most gorgeous actress alive and the fact she has several nude-sequences here is a damn good reason to sit through it . Female viewers might enjoy the looks of Banderas ' butt-cheeks too in order to forget the weak story ! Don't feel guilty about watching Original Sin just for this , the makers OWE you this much for sitting through this failure . The film is boring , the plot is so predictable and the entire production wishes to be so much classier than it actually is ! . . . And yet you keep staring at it ! Why ? Well , that's where Angelina Hot Lips kicks in again . You wouldn't want to risk missing out on another long close-up of her naked body , that's why ! All in one ? I liked the song by INXS much better .
Total piece of crap . . . . and yet I enjoyed it !	Terrible acting , dialogues so poor they'll make your stomach turn , weak directing by the once-eminent Tobe Hooper and a premise so ridiculous that you can't possibly believe it's from the pen of Stephen King . More than enough reasons to label " The Mangler " as one of the worst horror movies of the nineties . The plot is pretty much rubbish and focuses on a possessed industrial laundry-press ( ! ) guarded by the cripple and insane Bill Gartley ( played by Robert Englund who continued collaborating with Hooper after the dreadful 1993 " Nightmare " ) . The demon-machine has developed a taste for virgin blood and Gartley , alongside other prominent villagers , regularly attempt to provide it with a fresh 16-year-old girl . It's up to skeptical cop John Hunton ( Ted Levine who played the legendary " Buffalo Bill " in the Silence of the Lambs ) and his flower power brother-in-law Mark to prevent more victims from getting squeezed and folded by this mechanical beast . Levine gives away one of the lousiest and most uninterested acting performances ever ( he talks as he suffers from a swollen tongue ) and not once does he manage to get inside the skin of his frustrated , jaded cop-character . The story is so absurd you'll hardly believe your eyes most of the time ! The climax in particular is a fine example of demented plotting , as it somewhat resembles " The Exorcist " . . . only with a ten ton washing machine instead of a 12-year-old child . Small detail ! So yeah , all the above states that " the Mangler " is a worthless horror effort , better avoided by people with a good taste in cinema . And yet I couldn't help loving most of what I saw and I really do think some of the less obvious aspects deserve some praising . Like the comic book-like characters and atmosphere , for example ! Rather than Stephen King creations , the protagonists ( Bill Gatley and J . J . J . Pictureman in particular ) seem to come straight out of a vile pulp-magazine ! Although the story is set in present time ( I suppose ) , the set-pieces often make it look like you've landed somewhere early 20th century . The photography is dark , moist and utterly depressing which fits the story real well . The mangler itself is an impressive piece of scenery and - thanks to the eerie cinematography by Amnon Salomon - it looks truly ominous and petrifying . Last but not least , this film contains a lot of gratifying gore sequences ! ! the ' mangling ' is quite a repulsive process in which the unfortunate victims are completely wrung to bloody pieces ! In other words : buckets of blood , crushed skills and torn off limbs . To me , these are enough elements to appreciate Tobe Hooper's mad movie but I can easily understand why many people here voted it straight into the bottom top 100 ( currently spot # 88 ) . I guess The Mangler is destined to remain a guilty pleasure of mine but , if you're into pitch black humor and unscrupulous pulp as well , you might want to ( re ) watch it soon !
Reasonably decent Creature-Feature	You have to give the writers and producers at least some credit for daring to release a horror movie that is called " It Waits " . That's like openly claiming : our movie will be boring and don't pretend we didn't warn you in the title . The good news , however , is that " IT " ( which is this time a mythological Indian demon instead of Pennywise the Clown ) only waits for a good half hour ? until the inevitable dramatic sub plot and dull character drawings are over and done with ? before going on its outrageous murderous rampage . I even daresay " It Waits " is a fairly enjoyable creature feature as long as you manage to look past all the dreadful genre clichés and nonsensical plot elements . The central character is a young and hot Canadian ranger stationed in a tower post somewhere in the middle of an extensive forest . Poor Danielle St . Claire drinks a lot of Vodka because she can't deal with being responsible for the death of her best friend in a car accident . This means that for the first half hour , " It Waits " only features dull guilty speeches and a forced dramatic atmosphere . Danielle's traumas all become meaningless when she and her boyfriend Justin face the bloody battle with a demon that accidentally got unleashed from its prison cave and now runs amok in the woods . There's a terribly lame sub plot trying to trick us into believing the mythological creature actually feeds and strengthens on misery and sadness ( and thus Danielle herself attracts it ) , but I strongly advise you to disregard the ludicrous dialogs and fully focus on the special effects and gory massacres . " It Waits " borrows ideas and elements from at least a dozen of other ( and more successful ) horror movies , but hey , you've surely seen a lot worse already and at least the second half provides plenty of carnage and the creature's design is reasonably horrific . The filming location is stupendous and reminded me of those glorious early 80's slasher movies that also entirely took place in forestry regions , like " Just before Dawn " and " The Final Terror " . Cerina Vincent isn't very believable as a park ranger heroine , but she has obvious other qualities like her incredible good look and an impressive rack . Yes , I am aware that's a shallow remark but it had to be said ! Besides , her tight ranger outfit as well as the smooth cinematography leave no opportunity untaken to emphasize her yummy boobs , neither .
British ' Giallo-Lite '	During the 60's and 70's ? when Hammer Studios ruled the industry ? the vast majority of genre movies that got released in the United Kingdom were either Gothic tales ( practically all Hammer films ) , horror omnibuses ( Amicus ) or provocative exploitation films ( courtesy of Pete Walker & Norman J . Warren ) . At the same time in Italy , a very different sub genre of horror was extremely popular and overflowing the market ; namely the Giallo . This is basically a whodunit type of thriller , interlarded with sleaze , graphic violence and bizarre plot twists . Usually each country stuck to its own specialties , but " Assault " is one of the truly few films crossing the countries ' borders of styles . What we have here is a British Giallo , containing all the rudimentary ingredients that define the genre : luscious under aged school girls , rape & strangulation , perverted elderly suspects and a grotesque climax . A vicious rapist dwells the forestry area surrounding an all-girls school building . With one girl dead and another one traumatized for life , the school courageous art teacher Julie ( Suzy Kendall ) volunteers to act as bait in order for the police to unmask the culprit . There are quite a number of suspects , including the headmistress ' uncanny husband and maybe even the helpful police doctor who's friendly with Julie . " Assault " may perhaps feature all the trademarks of a genuine Italian Giallo , it still remains a " light " version of the real thing . The plot is extremely textbook , the red herrings are very transparent and the action sequences are unspectacular and soft . There's very few sex & violence and then still most of it takes place off-screen . Still , the atmosphere is a little disturbing because the girl victims are very young and clearly vulnerable . One sequence is particularly questionable & gratuitous , as it involves a sleaze middle-aged guy fondling a young girl whilst she climbs up a ladder in the library . The most interesting aspect about this film is to witness Italian styles mix with typically British characteristics . Even the most perverted blokes behave very British and talk with a sophisticated yet arrogant tone of voice . Suzy Kendall was probably the best casting choice imaginable , as she played in some actual Italian Giallo highlights such as " The Bird with Crystal Plumage " , " Torso " and " Spasmo " . It's a remotely interesting cinematic ' marriage ' between two nations with solid reputations in the horror genre , but definitely not the best movie in its type .
Alien in dresses , battle-ax lesbians and celebrating dead foxes .	A quick peek at the IMDb trivia section teaches us that " Prey " was shot in only ten days and that most of the script actually had to be improvised during shooting . These usually aren't very good signs , especially not when the director already holds the reputation of delivering movies with a low level of quality . Norman J . Warren's other films ( like " Inseminoid " and " Satan's Slave " ) are fun but extremely unoriginal , mainly revolving on graphic bloodshed and copious amounts gratuitous sleaze . " Prey " is exactly like that , but now he totally didn't even bother to come up with a script . The result is a bizarre and often laughable film that makes no sense whatsoever , but the whole ineptness is irresistibly charming nevertheless . The story goes like this : An alien , who goes by the name of Keator , arrives in rural England with a mission to research possible new food sources to save his whole species , but the poor sucker never makes it further than the isolated mansion of two crazed lesbians . He ends up living with them ; they dress him up in women's clothing like he's their third lesbian toy-girl and together they hunt down a fox . When the poor animal is eventually dead , they celebrate it with a giant party , which is just a little over-the-top if you ask me . In the meantime , Keator ? whose human name is Anders Anderson ( ! ) ? develops a more or less intimate relationship with the youngest lesbian and she slowly falls for him . For you see , she's not a real lesbian but just an insecure girl and the other is a scary dominatrix that literally forces the young girl to be her lover . It's a mad world , indeed . The whole middle-section of " Prey " is rather tedious and uneventful , and only hilariously cheesy & inept dialogs keep it tolerable to sit through . Then the climax is extremely gross and bloody with a sudden massacre . Surely the sick puppies and avid admirers of 70's exploitation will appreciate the graphic bloodshed of the finale , but it comes ridiculously abrupt , like Warren suddenly got tired of his film and wanted to end it , and it totally misfits the rest of the film's tone . " Prey " is a pretty bad but curiously intriguing 70's trash-film , inclusively intended for fans of this type of cinema .
18 bloodstained candles !	In the year 1981 the horror market was already pretty congested with an overload of dull and uninspired teen-slashers , but this " Happy Birthday To Me " was one of the first movies that at least attempted to bring a little more depth and content . This shouldn't come as a big surprise , since the man in the director's chair was J . Lee Thompson , acclaimed creator of great horror / thrillers such as " Eye of the Devil " , " Cape Fear " and a nearly endless amount of Charles Bronson action vehicles . With J . Lee Thompson in charge , the tension is built up more atmospherically and the inexperienced young cast members are definitely kept on a short leash . Still , " Happy Birthday To Me " doesn't deserve too much praise as it remains an ordinary bloodbath in which teenagers you don't care about are killed off in the most absurd ways by the most unlikely culprit . Pivot character is the cherubic Virginia who just joined the elite clique of the school after recovering from a near-fatal car accident that killed her mother . Someone clearly isn't happy with Virginia's return since the teenagers go missing one by one . Or maybe Virginia herself is still a little sick in the brain ? ? The first hour is pretty good with an eerie title song , witty dialogs and a couple of very nasty killings ( oh yes , the kebab-stabbing ! ) . After that , however , the story becomes tedious and you start hoping that all the characters die a quick and painful death . The famous twist ending is indeed unpredictable , but at the same time very far-fetched and dumb . Considering " Happy Birthday To Me " is a low-budgeted early 80's slasher film , a little bit of naked flesh would have been welcome , too .
The Incredible Melting Aussies !	Icky throat-tentacles , a murderous placenta at large , exploding penises ? " Body Melt " features quite a lot of splatter-images that you don't see every day , and I'll leave it up to you whether that is a good thing or not . Still , despite being remarkably better than its fellow contemporary melt-movies ( " Street Trash " immediately comes to mind ) , this remains forgettable 90's horror with an insuperable lack of coherence and professionalism . I'm aware that it was all meant to be absurd and over-the-top gooey , but a little bit of continuity wouldn't have hurt anybody , would it ? The goodhearted residents of Pebbles Road all receive free samples of a new vitamin product from the eminent Dr . Phillips ' health farm , immediately after a bizarre lethal car accident took place in their peaceful street . Each and every one of them soon undergoes drastic physical changes , as it seems like this vitamin drink actually is an experimental drug . A Pregnant woman loses her placenta , a male resident has visions of a severely mutilated girl and two teenagers that seem to have escaped the " test " end up at an inbred & cannibalistic family that is also related to Phillips ' health farm . It takes a duo not-so-bright cops quite some time they realize the clinic might be involved . The splatter images in " Body Melt " are indeed extreme but not at all constant and the gore-free sequences in between are actually quite dull . As strange as it may sound , the screenplay is much more effective as a social satire instead of a repulsive horror flick . Philip Brophy cleverly spoofs a lot of hugely irritating 90's trends , such as brainless fitness-freaks , fraudulent health-gurus and typical joy-joy TV soap-operas that portray life in the suburbs way too rosy .
Don't Fear The Reaper ( s )	Part two unquestionably is the best entry in the rather dreadful " Blade " series , simply because the director's chair was occupied by a gifted filmmaker for a change . Guillermo Del Toro might be a little overrated ( " Cronos " and " The Devil's Backbone " really aren't that good . . . ) , from a routine and dull vampire movie script , he can make a remotely entertaining and visually impressive time-waster . With Del Toro in charge , it quickly becomes obvious how badly the first " Blade " and " Blade 3 : Trinity " lacked a decent director . The story is also slightly better than in the original Blade , with our half man ? half vampire hero teaming up with his enemies to battle an entirely new breed of bloodsucking species ; the Reapers . These pale and caped monsters are seemly immune to garlic and other old anti-vampire tricks and ? very interesting ? they drink the blood of vampire victims as well as humans . There's still way too much hi-tech nonsense going on in this film and the fights between Blade and his vampire opponents now look like lame imitations of " The Matrix " , but at least there's some relatively good humor in the script and Wesley Snipes is kept on a short leash by Del Toro . Kris Kristofferson reprises his role of cool old mentor but the best part is reserved for Guillermo Del Toro's buddy Ron Perlman . He's the leader of " The Blood Pact " ; a squadron of eccentric vampires that are trained to kill Blade . Perlman is the real star of this movie with his impressive charisma and barbaric looks .
The Family that Slays Together . . . . Well , you know the rest .	You never really know what to expect from the debut horror movie brought on by a directors-duo that refer to themselves as " The Butcher Brothers " . They very well could be a pair of ambitious young filmmakers with inventive new ideas and an aversion towards political correctness , OR ? they could also be a couple of phony and untalented hacks that only want to cash in on the contemporary extremely popular horror genre . After seeing it , I can only conclude that " The Hamiltons " is a bit of a mixed bag . The main storyline , albeit seriously derivative of other horror franchises , has potential and features a handful of ingenious ideas , but still the overall elaboration of the screenplay is unsatisfying and the film definitely required the touch of an experienced director . The film opens with a grim , " Saw " - esque scene set in a filthy basement , where a terrified girl awakes and finds her friends dead . Something vile and aggressive prevents her from escaping , but we can't see what it is because the screen turns black and the girl's screams fade away . Although never really confirmed , I can only assume that the intro sequence took place in the basement of the Hamilton family's last home . The younger son Francis , always carrying around a video camera like the freak in " American Beauty " , introduces his deranged siblings and explains how they moved houses six times already since their parents passed away two years earlier . They keep moving around because the oldest son David and the twins Wendell and Darlene are a strange breed of cannibals and they keep hitchhiking girls imprisoned in the cellar . There's more fishy stuff going on in this family , for example the incestuous tension between Wendell & Darlene and the mysterious fifth family member ? named Lenny ? who always remains locked up in a cage in the cellar . Francis has moral issues with his siblings ' life styles , but he's too weak and too afraid to revolt against them . " The Hamiltons " occasionally benefices from an uncanny atmosphere and the morbid set pieces , but the pacing is too slow and the titular characters are too implausible to evoke disturbance . Also , in my humble opinion , The Butcher Brothers are unworthy of their cool name because the amount of gore and graphic bloodshed is sorely disappointing ! Still I can't be exaggeratedly harsh , because it nevertheless remains an interesting & experimental new horror flick . The script brings homage to " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " ( for example , the oldest son David works in an abattoir ) and offers some effectively surprising twists near the climax , like Francis ' eventual fate and the long-awaited confrontation with Larry . Worth a least one viewing , especially for tolerant horror fanatics .
Slow-paced , not-so-tense 70's thriller .	This early 70's British thriller is presented by a famous director ( Don Siegel of " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " and " Dirty Harry " ) and stars a couple of very prominent and contemporary popular male names like Michael Caine , Donald Pleasence and John Vernon . Yet it somehow ended up in total oblivion and it has not been released on DVD so far . Perhaps this can partly be explained because it's a very slow and largely action-free movie that came out in era dominated by rough and extravagant exploitation efforts . Still , if you're a fan of espionage or political thrillers in general , you might want to look for " the Black Windmill " after all , since it definitely contains some redeeming elements . Although completely implausible , the story is fairly compelling with some inventive plot twists and ? most notably ? some excellent examples of dry British humor . Caine plays an agent working for the country's secret service , a job that already cost him his marriage . When his 7-year-old son gets kidnapped and the culprits demand an extremely high ransom to be paid in diamonds , John Tarrant starts the rescue mission on his own . While his supervisors still wonder about where the leak in their organization comes from , Tarrant steals the diamonds himself and heads for France to meet the kidnappers . Nothing spectacular happens for a long , long time and it's only Donald Pleasence's ( and others ) wit remarks that keep you mildly interested in the film . The entire middle-section is painfully boring and , although the ending makes up for much , it can't possibly be called a classic . Oh , and don't start looking for the mysterious titular black windmill right away , as this uncanny building is just a tiny aspect in the story and not even that relevant . Not trying to spoil things here , just advising the people that are , like me , attracted by the ominous windmill on the box cover not to expect too much .
The Magnificent Seven ( Minus One )	Akira Kurosawa engaged SEVEN mighty samurai for his cinematic landmark and Yul Brunner led a bunch of SEVEN notorious gunslingers , but when you're dealing with tough black guys on motorcycles , I guess you can afford yourself to go with one less . " The Black Six " suffers under the incredibly low rating of barely 2 . around this website ; which I personally find exaggeratedly harsh . Such a low rating would be justified if ? and only if ? a film exclusively relied on impeccable storytelling and stylishness , but it doesn't . Matt Cimber's film is definitely entitled to a couple of extra points for ingenuity , clever marketing ideas and a whole lot of spirited input from cast and crew . As briefly indicated above already , the plot is more than a little similar to " Seven Samurai " and " The Magnificent Seven " , and a rudimentary concept like that is guaranteed to score . And there's more , too . Matt Cimber alertly cashes in on not one , not two , but no less than three of the most popular exploitation topics of that period : blacks , revenge and bikers ! Okay , admittedly , the production itself is a bit shabby and amateurishly inept . Particularly the pacing is wildly uneven and the script randomly leaps from one main subject onto another ! There are numerous other obvious defaults , but they are merely forgivable or even delightfully cheesy ones , like stereotypical character drawings , hammy acting , obligatory love & peace speeches and abruptly edited sequences . " The Black Six " opens with the romantic tableau of a black boy and a white girl falling in love on a football field . But the girl's mean brother and his gang of bikers show up and beat the kid to death with chains . Then for the next half hour , the film extendedly introduces and follows the titular 6-headed gang of black bikers . They're Vietnam buddies who're done fighting and spend their remaining days cruising through the countryside , making regular stops to either help people who don't pay attention to skin color or teach the ones that do a valuable lesson . The plot patiently takes its time to reveal that the black kid murdering during the opening scene is actually one the six ' younger brother . They all return to Bubba's hometown together and face a very important decision . Overlook the white biker gang's vile act of murder and continue to live by their principals of love and peace , or ? get some revenge ! Well ? would you have guessed the answer if you hadn't already seen the tagline ? The first half hour of " The Black Six " is terrific , with the six philosophizing in an old lady's yard and wrecking an all-white truckers ' bar , but the story gets incomprehensibly dull when they return to Bubba's hometown . He alone goes out looking for his former girlfriend and asking around about the murder ( of course , nobody knows anything ) , but it's incredibly tedious and clichéd . The climax is great amusement again , though mainly for the wrong reasons . The big and relentless showdown between the six and a nearly countless number of white Viking-bikers is a highlight of pure camp . For some reason , Matt Cimber thought it would be a great ( and much cheaper ) idea to hire football players for the main roles . This is another very ingenious detail and I definitely appreciate it , especially since one of them ? Carl Eller , the toughest of them all - looks a lot like Samuel L . Jackson and act like him , too . The opening theme is terrific and the continuously reoccurring tunes , albeit too gratuitously borrowed from " Shaft " is quite catchy . Pretty bad , maybe ? but most certainly a whole lot of cheesy fun , with the exception of the dire middle-section .
Shockingly mundane & ordinary ?	" Bangkok Dangerous " isn't a bad film ? or at least not as bad as most of the reviews around here claim ? but it is an astonishingly ordinary film that features literally every cliché of " hired assassin " concept you can possibly think of . There's the lonely and super-skilled hit man who intents to pull of one last job before quitting the business for good , he teaches his errand boy to become his successor , finds love and happiness with a girl for the first time and ? last but not least ? refuses to make the final hit because his target is a noble individual . We know this is the prototypic pitch of every thriller in its type , yet we still pay the full price of a cinema ticket because the film stars Nicolas Cage and we'll probably see a lot of spectacular action and virulent gunfire . " Bangkok Dangerous " is a big-budgeted remake of a Thai thriller released in 1999 , which was also directed by the Pang brothers . In the original , the hit man was a deaf-mute but since Nicolas Cage is far too expensive to have him shut up the whole time , they made his love interest a deaf-mute instead . Unfortunately , this takes away the one truly ingenious aspect about the original . What remains is a painfully predictable and bland thriller that can't even be saved by the handful of impressively staged action sequences . Still I wouldn't call " Bangkok Dangerous " a complete waste of time , though , as there are a couple of stylish and worthwhile ? albeit less obvious ? elements working in its favor . Nic Cage gives a good performance as the unworldly killer and particularly the Pang Bros ' depiction of the city of Bangkok is deeply enchanting . Especially at night it looks like a melancholic and depressing place infested with prostitution , petty crimes and perverted tourists . The moody soundtrack emphasizes the atmosphere of melancholy even more . This is definitely not a film that'll increase the tourist business there . Otherwise there's very little to say about " Bangkok Dangerous " . If you're a fan of Nicolas Cage and rough action , you won't regret giving this one a look . Just realize you'll have completely forgotten about it the next day .
Nice formula ? but it ignores the ? horror ' a bit	Amicus was a neat little production company that specialized itself in creating extremely enjoyable omnibus horror films . Especially in the early seventies , they satisfied a large thrill-seeking audience with terror-anthologies like ' Asylum ' , ' The Vault of Horror ' , From Beyond the Grave ' and even the original ' Tales from the Crypt ' Also , you have to admit that they constantly tried to be imaginative and innovating ? and The Beast Must Die is the perfect example to state this . It presents a rather original and new format that involves the viewer . At the beginning and near the end , this film specifically requests the public to join a search . Pretty clever , since this is only a simple method but it does demand the viewer's immediate attention ! The particular search is a werewolf-hunt ! Six persons ? four males and two females ? spend the weekend at a huge ranch . The moon is full , all the necessary scenery is present and at the end of the weekend , the werewolf has to be exposed ! Personally , I rather enjoyed this formula ? it's a nice change and very entertaining nonetheless . Unfortunately , The Beast Must Die lacks a bit of professionalism to be listed among the better horror titles . It's all pretty cheap and especially the make-up and creature effects disappoint . The werewolf isn't the least bit impressive and there are too few shock-sequences to make the film memorable . Actually , aside from the werewolf theme and the presence of horror-regular Cushing , The Beast Must Die has very little to do with horror ! It merely is action / adventure with just a tint of mystery and horror . Regarding the cast , it is veteran Peter Cushing who impresses the most as the specialist-professor in the field of ? Lycanthropes ' . The rest of the cast is rather unknown with the exception of Anton Diffring , here in a delightful little role . If you like classic horror and you're not familiar with Anton Diffring , I advise you to run out to the nearest videostore and rent ' Circus of Horrors ' .
The Torturous German Mountain Bike Massacre	" Blood Trails " is truly a mixed bag and I honestly can't decide whether I should be harsh or mild in my user comment . On one hand , it's an admirably tense nowadays horror flick with brutal gore , lovely filming locations and identifiable main characters , but on the other hand it serves cliché after cliché as well as a banquet of stupid & illogical twists . I liked the realism of the character drawings . Anne and Michael are going through a severe relationship crises and decide to head out to their favorite holiday resort ; a cabin surrounded by thick woods where they can practice their common hobby of mountain biking . But there's more . Brief flashbacks indicate that Anne had a one-night-stand with a rude cop , and when he suddenly appears on his mountain bike as well , a cruel & bloody chase through the woods begins . The first half hour of " Blood Trails " is really good , showing Anne struggling with her inner demons and the flashbacks gradually revealing what psycho her one night lover was . The film also features the extremely vile and presumably unique murder-by-bike sequence ! Just in case you always wondered how you can slice someone's carotid artery using only a bike , this is your movie ! Okay , so far we had amiable characters and impressive bloodshed , but unfortunately the movie then becomes pretty bad & irritating . How the deranged killer managed to exactly trace the couple , I'm still prepared to overlook , but Anne then makes so many stupid decisions that she almost deserves to die . Why didn't she at least try to wait wait for her rescuers atop the mountain , since they were just a couple of minutes away ? Doesn't she realize she's the one acting like an escaped crazy woman when she meets the woodchoppers ? Why stop and thoroughly study the road map when you can drive far away from the forest ? The last twenty minutes are dreadfully boring , and a very shameless attempt to cash in on the success of torture-porn highlights like " Saw " and " Hostel " , with the demented killer patiently explaining to Anne why exactly he's so looking forward to kill her . " Blood Trails " was shot and produced in Germany , but promoted for the international market . Director Robert Krause is a German as well , and this film is his long-feature debut after two acclaimed short movies . The make-up effects are quite impressive and definitely not intended for the eyes of squeamish , but a slightly more coherent narrative and more logical twists would still have been better .
Brass ' controversial Nazi-sleazefest	Made a few years before the even more notorious ' Caligula ' , this ' Salon Kitty ' focuses on a more recent era of despicable history . Set in the earliest years of Hitler's reign and the start of WWII , it handles about power-mad Nazi officer Wallenberg who puts Madame Kitty's luxurious brothel in service of the ' Third Reich ' and recruits a bunch of patriotic beauties to serve as prostitutes . But , instead of doing this as a favor for his fellow Nazi-superiors , he blackmails them with the information he gets by having the chambers bugged . This film is infamous and hated because of its topic ( I always heard it was as close to propaganda as you can get ) and the explicitly of the sexual content . Granted , Tinto Brass does have a bizarre obsession for showing as much genitalia ( female AND male ) as possible but aside from a few sequences featuring deformed midgets , it's never too sickening . The dullness is what bothered me here ! The film is overlong and I wasn't really anticipating all those Cabaret sequences . The screenplay too often handles about pointless intrigues and the plot only gets REALLY interesting around the last half hour when SPOILERS the young Margherita unravels Wallenberg's vile actions and conspiracies against him . End Spoilers . Thank God for Theresa Ann Savoy ! This stunning beauty ( who also played a remarkable role in ' Caligula ' ) makes this exploitation experience ten times more bearable because of her natural charisma and ravishing body . If it weren't for her , I'm sure the ratings for this film would be even lower .
A violent game of hide and seek	Everybody faces stress at work these days . Even highly trained military men snap from time to time . What do they do then ? They go out and use the skills they learned for killing people randomly . That's the plot of this , rather violent , film by William Friedkin . OK , the story is pretty déjà-vu . The best pupil of a special trained force goes nuts and can only be stopped by the man who learn him everything he knows . All the ingredients are present : The escape during the transportation , the visit to the woman and child he loves , the car chases , the jumping of a bridge . . . But we don't mind watching the clichés in this kind of films . We just sit back and enjoy the action and the acting performances . In this case : Benicio Del Toro and Tommy Lee Jones ( He looks good with a beard , by the way ) I think we've got to accept the fact that William Friedkin will never make classics like ' the French Connection ' or ' The Exorcist ' anymore . His films are average now filled with adrenaline and good acting . Rules of Engagement was like that and now the Hunted is too . My humble opinion :
Welcome to Mr . BIG's Dollhouse !	Yes , welcome to another cheerfully inept Bert I . Gordon ( B . I . G ) Sci-Fi / horror romp , in which the silliness usually triumphs over adequate scripting and where the special effects look cheaper than half a handful of pennies . " Attack of the Puppet People " is a thoroughly shameless cash-in on the success of " The Incredible Shrinking Man " , but in this light-headed story there's no room for building up claustrophobic atmosphere , let alone the preaching of philosophical messages . It's a fun and charming little movie , but totally lacking depth , credibility and a proper elaboration of the basic premise . John Hoyt stars as a brilliant doll maker slash inventor of shrinking equipment ( rather unusual combination , but okay ) , but he's very lonely and emotionally frustrated since his beloved wife walked out on him once , several years ago . So now , he uses his magic , invisible ray projecting devise to miniaturize the people he risks losing , like his cute secretary Sally and her fiancé Bob . Mr . Franz keeps his little friends asleep in tubes , but also does his best to entertain them with tiny dance parties , the newest Barbie & Ken outfits and even trips to the ' Jekyl & Hyde ' marionette-theater . The ' attack ' referred to in the title is quite inaccurate , as the little folks don't attack anyone ( with the exception of a lifeless Dr . Jekyll marionette ) but they do want to escape and regain their normal previous measurements . " Attack of the Puppet People " is a fairly forgettable and poor film , but it's slightly better and more stylish than most of the things B . I . G accomplished and at least it's never boring . Hoyt is fine as the pitiable & awkward old toymaker , but the supportive cast is too underdeveloped and bleak . If anything , this is an insignificant but pleasant 50's gem with some funny highlights , like the marionette-fight and one of the shrunken gals quacking the cheesy theme song " I'm your living Doll " .
Surprisingly decent !	I always thought the biggest " evil " you could encounter on New Year's Day was kissing your grandmother and pretending to wish her all the luck ? but this film comes up with a more appealing concept as it introduces a maniac murdering random women every hour a different US time zone steps into the New Year . Pivot key in his routine is the TV hostess / rock star Blaze who he faithfully rings every time another murder has been committed . Even though this " New Year's Evil " shamelessly cashes in on the Holiday Horror trend ( Black Christmas , Halloween ? ) , it contains enough ingenious aspects to make it worthy viewing . There's a surprising and fairly original twist near the end but , even apart from this , there's some suspense , slick black humor and a lovely performance by Kip Niven as the bad guy . The dude simply is a cool character : seducing attractive women with the lamest excuses , only to kill them without a motive ! I wouldn't say this film is underrated but it's definitely not as bad as most people claim it to be . It does , however , make the same mistake many other 80's slashers make , namely implementing entire clips of rock songs that completely ruin the tension between two sequences . Gorehounds beware as well , seeing this production is pretty low on blood and the butchering methods are rather standard . Nevertheless , in the endless list of worthless , repetitive 80's teen slashers , " New Year's Evil " might become a welcome treat .
The Odd Couple of Anti-Monsters ?	When grave robbers break into Larry Talbot's family crypt and demolish his final resting place , the Wolf Man is inexplicably resurrected and once again doomed to go on a violent killing spree whenever the moon is full . Larry realizes the horror he causes and wants to die , but there's no one who can help him . Personally , I would consider shooting myself through the head using a silver bullet , but that doesn't really deliver a worthwhile and long enough film , so the uncanny gypsy woman of the original advises him to travel across Europe and search for the notorious Dr . Frankenstein who holds in his knowledge the secret of life and death . By the time they arrive in Vasaria , the Baron already got lynched by an angry mob of villagers and only his monstrous creation still dwells around in the ruins of Castle Frankenstein . " Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man " is a classic Universal horror production starring some of my all-time favorite actors and , even though I can't bring myself to speak overly negative about it , it's a truly silly and redundant accomplishment . Those who are expecting to see a ancient predecessor of , say , " Freddy vs . Jason " will be sorely disappointed as the two legendary monsters don't fight each other ? except maybe briefly near the end - , they just MEET like the title implies . Hence what this film is lacking is a truly evil character ! Whenever the werewolf devours a new victim , he spends the next fifteen minutes whining about how sorry he is ( which kind of spoils the fun of it ) and Frankenstein's monster is even more pathetic as he just stumbles across the little town for no apparent reason . Larry Talbot's dedicated doctor seems to reincarnate as Baron Frankenstein for a moment , worshiping his experiments and being reluctant to destroy his creation , but this sub plot doesn't really go anywhere as it's interfered with an incredibly implausible love story . But the saddest and most painful establishment of them all is to witness how aimlessly Bela Lugosi walks around in this film . . . Boris Karloff wisely decided to stop associating his charisma with that of the monster after " Son of Frankenstein " in 1939 and Lugosi inherited a nearly washed up character that didn't petrify anyone anymore . Bela , once a highly respected and acclaimed horror icon , stood at the beginning of his career's downfall here and his further life story is one of the saddest ones in history . And yet , as stated before , I really can't be TOO harsh on this little film ! Lon Chaney Jr tries really hard to provide his wolf man character with depth and emotion , Roy William Neill's direction is professional & fast-paced and several sequences are beautifully filmed . The werewolf's make-up effects have also seemly improved and the transformation scenes are the only times when the film is still a little creepy . I guess the most essential message this production communicates is that cinematic greed and exploitation are of all times ! People are nowadays complaining about the overload of needless sequels , rip-offs and remakes of inventive horror films , but " Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man " proves that this certainly isn't a new trend .
Interesting , but difficult to follow	Small spoilers . . . . I saw this movie under the title : the Road Builder . Only that title alone sounded interesting to me . I got especially interested when I learned that the screenplay was written by Roald Dahl . We all know that he wrote some remarkable stories , but most his most memorable work in the field of children's literature . The screenplay of The Road Builder isn't really meant for a young audience . . . It's a dark story and really creepy from time to time . It's very psychological and therefore difficult to follow at certain moments . I saw this gothic suspense thriller on TCM but without any subtitles . So the dialogues were hard to follow sometimes . Especially with a rather complicated story . It's about a spinster , Maura , who lives with her blind mother is a large house . Their lives change when a young handyman - named Billy - comes to live with them . Billy is charming and really helpful around the house , but he hides some terrifying secrets . It seemed that Billy faced some trauma's in his childhood years and he still hasn't put them behind him . Thus , some nights . . . Billy goes out on his motorcycle to do horrible things . The developing of the story is really fascinating and also the terrific acting performances keep you close to the screen . Patricia Neal - who was married with Roald Dahl for forty years and gave him 5 children - is really outstanding in her role of shy and quiet middle-aged woman . Also the young Nicolas Clay impresses as Billy . Clay died in 2000 after a long disease . The Road Builder certainly is worth a watch when you're in the mood for seeing a scary psychological thriller or a deep character study . Just make sure there aren't too many aspects to distract you . You'll need full attention to enjoy this movie .
Night of the pseudo-intellectual dead .	Unlike most other contemporary horror directors from Italy , Pupi Avati always attempted to make his films rely on more than just graphic gore and gratuitous sex . The screenplays he turns into horror movies are usually atmospheric , complex and ambitious enough to blend versatile horror styles that are extremely hard to blend ! With " The House with the Laughing Windows " , for example , this resulted in one of the most extraordinary gialli ever , as it brought forward an out-of-the-ordinary plot and some breathtaking suspense . " Zeder " regretfully isn't as good as " House ? " , but you can still clearly notice that Avati wanted to approach the popular zombie sub genre in an entirely different and innovating way . That alone is a praiseworthy effort , if you ask ! Just compare this film with Bruno Mattei's " Hell of the Living Dead " or Umberto Lenzi's " Nightmare City " and you'll quickly see which is superior . " Zeder " introduces Stefano , a young novelist who wants to unravel an obscure mystery / conspiracy that is way out of his league and even involves the Catholic Church and the prominent medical world . Following a discovery made by the famous ( apparently ) Dr . Zeder , everybody in this film is desperately looking for the so-called " K-Zones " . These are pieces of land where the dead come back to life when buried there . I won't go into further detail because A ) the plot twists are numberless and impossible to summarize and B ) I'm not even sure I fully understood everything . In all honesty , " Zeder " is too talkative and the entire lack of zombie action is pretty difficult to forgive , even if you like horror that is mainly story-driven . The story introduces too many unmemorable characters and they disappear again shortly after without any kind of explanation . What REALLY happened to Stefano's police officer friend , for instance ? And why is the Vatican so interested in resurrecting the dead ? Avati manages to mount several very atmospheric moments , and also the music is quite creepy , but the whole film eventually goes a bit nowhere . The neat scenery and camera-work are much appreciated but , in the end , this is only part of what makes a horror movie great . Multiple viewings are required here .
The Return of " Rednecksploitation " ? Not quite . . .	I'm a big fan of the so-called horror / cult sub genre of " Rednecksploitation " . This was another typically 70's cinema phenomenon , primarily popularized by the huge success of " Deliverance " and including some glorious titles like " Poor Pretty Eddie " , " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " , " Two Thousand Maniacs ! " and " Just Before Dawn " . These disturbingly demented movies are by definition set in small Southern American communities where the local ( and usually inbred ) population doesn't care too much about dental hygiene , copulate with barn animals , dance to hideous banjo music and ? naturally ? rape & kill all the civilized persons passing through their territory . Genuine " Rednecksploitation " movies like that simply cannot be made nowadays anymore , because they're filthy , discriminating , rough and extremely women-unfriendly . When coincidentally stumbling upon " Small Town Folk " , I secretly hoped this would be the long-awaited return of hillbilly-horror , or at least a competent enough homage to the good old days . And this miniature British production surely had a lot of things going for it . The British as well have their very own cinematic Rednecksploitation classic ( " Straw Dogs " ) , the film was entirely put together by a group of friends ( which usually means fewer restrictions ) and the cover promisingly depicts black-teethed & crazy-eyed posing with scythes and axes ! Unfortunately the film isn't nearly as good as it looks , but still I can't bring myself at writing overly negative stuff . After all , there's a lot of obvious goodwill and ambition present in this , just the execution and eventual outcome is somewhat unsatisfying . For some reason , maybe to make the film more accessible for wider audiences , the digital filming style and narrative structure makes " Small Town Folk " look like a fantasy-tale as much as like a horror film . The fantasy and comedy aspects inevitably undercut the horror ideas and eventually the film becomes too silly to pass for a full-blooded horror film and yet too grim & bloody to pass for a fantasy flick to watch with the whole family . The story is standard , with a young couple driving their Jeep through isolated British landscapes and hopelessly getting lost . Two Knackermen ? whatever the hell that may be ? advise the couple to stay far away from a little place called Grockleton , but naturally that's exactly where they stop to spend the night . The hideous locals are very interested in Susan , since there's a severe shortage of women in Grockleton , but her hubby Rick fights back and he gets some welcome support from a teenage biker armed with a Polaroid camera and a helmet . The Grockleton hicks outwardly live up to the all known stereotypes , but unfortunately none of them gives a convincing performance . The main redneck characters ( Landlord , Dobbin ? ) all severely overact and lack something essentially petrifying . Actually , the only truly menacing-looking ones were those whose faces were covered and didn't talk much , like the scarecrow-brothers and the horseshoe-archer . There are some nice bits and pieces of gore , including a couple of sickle-killings , but " Small Town Folk " never fully feels like the brutal backwoods horror film it ought to have been . Warwick Davis of " Willard " - fame and numerous " Leprechaun " movies makes a small appearance , but few of the stuff he says makes any sense and I seriously have no idea what a Knackerman does for a living . It's not a great film , but if Peter Stanley-Ward and his circle of pals decide to make more films , I won't hesitate to check them out .
They're coming to screw you , Barbara !	In case you always wondered ( or worried ) whether or not you would get aroused by the sight of zombies having sexual intercourse . . . you still won't find out by watching this weirdo-flick . In spite of what the title suggests , " Erotic Nights of the Living Dead " does not feature copulating undead or strip-dancing corpses . This merely is a routine Italian zombie film , like " Zombi 2 " or " Zombie Holocaust " , with a handful of hardcore sex sequences thrown in during the first half hour . And as crazy as it may sound , it actually is a pretty decent zombie movie if you just ignore these totally redundant porno moments and focus on the beautiful island location and rather stylish gory make-up effects . There's the typically obnoxious businessman who buys a tropical island with a vicious reputation and intends to build a tourist resort there . Along with a macho sailer and a whore he picked up in some hotel , he goes to scout the place but stumbles upon an uncanny old man and his ghostly granddaughter that rule over the island . Laura Gemser , ravishing cult siren and regular D'Amato nymph , stars as the mysterious island girl but her role is rather limited and she doesn't really show much of her enchanting body . George Eastman clearly is in great shape again as the stud , but he still doesn't manage to script down one reasonably good dialogue . There are a couple of atmospheric zombie-attacks and explicit gore . You can't possibly expect more from a Joe D'Amato film , apart from sleazy oddities in the script maybe , like the girl who ingeniously uncorks a bottle of champagne by using her vagina only ( ! ) .
Poppa Loves Mamba , Momma Doesn't Love Mamba ?	" Fair Game " or " Mamba " , which is the less imaginative but apparently official title for this film , actually is the simplified and much more straightforward version of the British early 80's thriller " Venom " starring Oliver Reed and Klaus Kinski . That movie revolves on petty criminals facing the threat of a venomous black mamba snake whilst trying to take hostage the sickly son of a rich family . It's a fun but incredibly far-fetched ( the mamba ended up in the house through an " accidental " wrong delivery ) film and the script is over-ambitious for its own good , with police forces surrounding the house and virulent intrigues between the kidnappers mutually , whereas basically it should have just been a claustrophobic lethal-snake-on-the-loose suspense movie . Mario Orfini , writer / director of " Fair Game " and of course an Italian , obviously saw " Venom " as well and immediately realized that only the escaped snake formula is more than enough to attract horror audiences . The rudimentary plot of " Fair Game " is reasonably effective just because of its simplicity , and it's merely the details and character drawings that cause major disbelief . Gregg Henry ( " Body Double " , " Slither " ) is almost too good as the frustrated and seriously deranged ex-husband who can't process the separation from the joyous artist / play-dough sculptor Eva . What do you expect ? If you compare their personalities , they must have formed a terrible mismatch of a couple since day one ! So , what's a lunatic video game designer to do ? He buys a mamba , kills the seller , injects the animal with hormones to make her even deadlier and finally lets it loose in Eva's hermetically sealed flat without windows . She faces a virulent battle with the slithering dose of venom whilst the psychopath watches everything in his car via a computer-designed game . " Fair Game " naturally is a highly improbable thriller , of course , but the approaching snake sequences are undeniably suspenseful . The score and sound-effects , although inspired by the legendary " Psycho " shower sequence noises , are terrific and the film contains approximately 30 ingenious POV shots , even though admittedly they serve more to provide glorious shots of Trudie Styler's bottom . Speaking of which , Mrs . Sting proves herself to be a very untalented actress but , in all fairness , performing all alone with just a not-so-talkative animal in the room isn't exactly the most grateful role you can get . The script is full of ludicrous little details and the finale is extremely forced and implausible . Interesting little detail for horror fanatics surely is that Bill Moseley forms the entire supportive cast all by himself in his second ' important ' role after starring in " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre II " .
To The Hammer Fans . . . . A Disappointment !	Before having seen " To The Devil A Daughter " , it'll definitely remind you of Hammer's 1968 classic " The Devil Rides Out " . Christopher Lee is present again ( no surprises here , though ) but it's also the legendary horror studios ' second attempt to a black magic occult thriller ( both were based on Dennis Wheatley novels , by the way ) . Yet , you'll soon discover that the two bear very little comparison . " The Devil Rides Out " might easily be Hammer's finest effort whereas " To The Devil A Daughter " ranks among the worst ? The screenplay is very inherent , a lot of plot-twists and events don't make the slightest bit of sense and ? most of all ? the film has the most unsatisfying ending in horror history . The basic premise is promising , though , and introduces a satanic cult neatly disguised as a Catholic Church community . The leader , who else than the almighty Christopher Lee , comes to claim the pure soul of soon-to-be 18 virgin Catherine , as agreed with her father in a devilish pact when she was born . After performing a bloody ritual , she'd become Satan's representative on earth , but her father tries to avoid this from happening by asking the help of an occult novelist . He manages to hide Catherine for a good while , but can she really escape her occult fade ? Despite a couple of seriously unsettling moments and great acting performances of the entire cast , this film lacks a whole lot of impact . Much more like a good old engaging Hammer film , " To The Devil A Daughter " feels like a typical 70's Satan-flick in the trend of " The Exorcist " . As a matter of course , it's much better than all the contemporary rip-off's featuring mad-raving nuns , sexually perverted priests and possessed babies but , to real Hammer fans , it'll definitely be a disappointment .
Tetsuo is back ! ! . . . . And I'm still not impressed !	Don't really know why everybody hates this movie and calls it so poor compared to the almighty 1988 original . Is it because this sequel is more coherent and easier to understand , maybe ? People tend to refer to a movie as a ' masterpiece ' much quicker when they don't understand one iota of it , of course . As far as I'm concerned , " Tetsuo II " is more or less as powerful ( or as weak , if you wish ) as the original , naturally with some aspects that are worse but also some aspects that are better ! The story is pretty much a reworking of the first , only it's more accessible and ? on a personal matter ? it gave me a lot less headaches ( which I liked ! ) . Once again , the story handles about a man who strangely and disturbingly fuses into a piece of metal equipment , yet now you know more about his background so you can sympathize with him at least a little . His painful transformation is mainly caused by rage ( his son was kidnapped ) and ' medical ' experiments performed by a group of skinheads . " Tetsuo II " contains just as much weirdness and psychedelic imagery as the original , but I admit it all doesn't look so nightmarish here . Partly because it's in color and partly because the characters are given depth , this sequel feels less like a genuine cult gem .
Grand Theft Auto , the 80's edition .	" Black Moon Rising " is a formulaic and predictable but nevertheless entertaining and fast-paced thriller based on a story originally written by no less than John Carpenter . Apparently he wrote it in the 70's already , but the content was admirably processed and adapted in order for the events to take place in a typically 80's setting with even faster cars and contemporary hot starlets like Linda Hamilton that are , in fact , most unattractive by today's standards . Tommy Lee Jones , on the other , rarely looked cooler than here in his role as super-thief Sam Quint . Quint is hired to steal a tape containing evidence against a dodgy company , but quickly finds himself chased by the company's fanatic security guards as well as his governmental employer . Quint hides the tape inside a prototype race car ( one that reaches up to 350mph ! ) , but before he has a proper opportunity to recover it , the wheels get stolen by a professionally organized syndicate of car thieves . That's how Quint meets and gradually falls for Hamilton's character Nina , as she's a sly and experienced kleptomaniac ! " Black Moon Rising " is a prototypic example of an action movie in which one little handling ( like hiding a tape in the truck of a car ) snowballs into a gigantic avalanche of clichéd but even so enjoyable situations until a grotesque finale is inevitable . In this case the finale involves an impressive piece of stunt car driving at great height . Literally ! It's a forgettable and lightweight 80's action movie , but Harry Cokeliss ' direction is fairly competent and the dull moments can easily be count on the fingers of one hand . Robert Vaughn is on automatic pilot ( pun intended ) in his confident role of relentless crime boss and there are some neat cameos from familiar names like Keenan Wynn , William Sanderson and Richard Jaeckal . Nothing special , but definitely a fine choice if you seek mindless rainy-Sunday afternoon entertainment .
Nuns , but no Nuns	" Demonia " is one of the master horror director Lucio Fulci's final achievements and , though not exactly one of his finest ones , it remains a truly interesting film for his many avid fans to track down and enjoy . The first half hour is tame and slow and , generally speaking , the entire film isn't nearly as gory as Fulci's previous highlights ( though there's one jaw-dropping scene that compensates for nearly everything ) , but the script is ambitiously compelling and the atmospheric Sicilian settings are quite wonderful . Fulci even managed to create suspense at some points here and successfully sustains an adequately mysterious ambiance . The depiction of the eerie nun's face on the cover looks appealing , but " Demonia " has really nothing in common with the so-called " Nunsploitation " movies that also primarily came out of Italy . The nuns in this film were barbarically crucified by angry villagers in the catacombs of their Sicilian monastery in the late 15th Century . More than 500 years later , an archaeological expedition intends to investigate the ruins , only the local population brutally objects and act as if they're all commonly sharing a morbid secret . Particularly the young archeology student Liza Harris becomes increasingly obsessed with the mysterious convent's past , as visions and nightmares lure her straight to the exact place where the nuns were executed . The cloister's background is sinister , to say the least , and especially the flashback sequence is unsettling . Death occurs in the film frequently and with pleasingly nasty effects , including implements , beheading and spontaneously attacking meat hooks . And , of course , since it's undeniably Lucio's pet peeve , you may also anticipate the repulsive removal of someone's eyeball . But the very best piece of gore , accomplished with stunningly realistic effects , shows a guy getting split in half ? human wishbone style ? clean down the middle . This scene alone is worthy of a top-recommendation ! Unfortunately several sequences are extremely overlong and tedious , as if our good friend the directors thought it was necessary to endlessly stretch the plot to reach the running time of the film . Shame actually , because in case of a little less padding and pointlessness , " Demonia " could have been a modest classic listed directly underneath his best works " The Beyond " , " City of the Living Dead " , " House by the Cemetery " , " Cat in the Brain " and " Zombi 2 " . Fulci granted himself a modest but entertaining role as the police inspector investing the series of grisly murders . To those who don't know him , he's the elderly man with enormous glasses big enough to cover half of his face .
Remotely entertaining Bava-quickie .	The basic plot-idea of this modest , made-for-TV horror comedy is fairly ingenious and involves a 4000-year-old vampire who's tired of his immortal life as a bloodsucker and wishes to eternally lay his soul to rest . Pretending to hold auditions for a new horror movie , he entices four young actors to his mansion but then challenges them to destroy him before the break of down . If they fail , he will kill them instead and then they too are doomed to live the boring life of vampires . Writer / director Lamberto Bava is infamous for his gross horror productions ( " Demons " , " A Blade in the Dark " ) but this merely is a harmless and light-headed quickie , meant for those who really want to see every Italian horror film ever made . There's almost no bloodshed or tension in the script and vampires look comical instead of scary . Still , I enjoyed watching " Dinner with a Vampire " because there's not one dull moment and it was great seeing George Hilton in a leading horror role again . Fans of Italian gialli-thrillers will definitely remember his face from classic titles such as " The Case of the Bloody Iris " , " The Strange Vice of Mrs . Wardh " and " My Dear Killer " . The sequences in the mansion's crypt and cellars are mildly atmospheric and the music is quite cheerful . Don't watch this film in case you're allergic to awful dubbing , though ? The English voices often are so dull they give you headaches .
Junk . . . but very amusing junk : )	A group of adolescents goes to spend the weekend on a remote island . One by one , they're getting slashed by an unknown killer ? . Yes , everybody is pretty familiar with this plot-synopsis but don't categorize ' April Fool's Day ' in the dull , pointless 80's horror section just yet ! For some unexplainable reason this film is 10 times more bearable than the majority of other Friday the 13th imitations . The atmosphere of this film is very light-headed , it features several ingenious findings and minor plot-twists and there even is a bit of tension to detect in some sequences . Biggest pleasant surprise , however , are the characters in April fool's Day . The routine slasher-picture introduces a bunch of semi-retarded and colorless teenagers and you can't wait for them to die quick and painful ! The protagonists in this film are likable young persons with attitude and character . It's like a small victory to witness this in a horror film . The abrupt climax-twist was okay to me , but it might disappoint hard-boiled horror fans . The film overall isn't that bloody or violent and the focus is merely on the atmosphere and sadist humor . In some ways , it reminded me of Mario Bava's ' Bay of Blood ' and there are worse films to be compared with .
The Farrelly brothers lost that one thing that made them unique . . .	I'm not saying this film is a complete failure but it's terribly average and uninteresting . The Farrelly brothers made their name in the field by writing and directing brainless comedy without any form of moral or message . . . and that's what made them so unique in the 90's , which overall was a decade with very few good comedies ! Dumb and Dumberer , Kingpin , There's something about Mary . . . all these are examples of enjoyable flicks and you don't have to worry about picking up any important life-lessons . Shallow Hal tries to achieve the exact opposite . Instead of attacking the audience with a neverending series of hilarious situations and jokes , the brothers shove the fact that inner-beauty is so much more important down your throat . A morality lesson that is hard to take . . . especially coming from these guys . Jack Black is one of the greatest comedian of his generation but he more or less looks lost in this production . There are a couple of funny sequences in Shallow Hal , but there never is ONE moment your stomach hurts from laughing and besides , all the good jokes are in the trailer like usual . So , I recommend watching the trailer and you get the big picture . It's better to re-watch Kingpin ( my favorite Farrelly picture ) or There's something about Mary and spend money on Shallow Hal .
S & M Nightmare in the Last House on Ghetto Street .	Although a pretty long way from being perfect , " The People Under the Stairs " is definitely one of Wes Craven's best accomplishments , mainly thanks to a couple of really inventive ideas and original gimmicks . Craven's concept oddly works as some kind of adult fairy-tale in which a heroic youngster from a poor ghetto neighborhood battles against the evil ( step - ) parents , and at stake is the liberation of abused children and ? of course ? a treasure of extremely valuable golden coins . One day before his family's eviction by the malicious landlords , young Fool agrees to assist a duo of burglars when they break into their reputedly cursed mansion . Entering is easy enough , but Leroy , Spencer and young Fool are soon trapped in a macabre place full of death traps where the demented owners hide more than just one dark secret . Mommy is an atypical religion-freak , daddy enjoys wearing S & M outfits whilst blowing holes in the walls with a shotgun and aggressive pet-Rottweilers aim straight for the throat ! Pretty soon Fool loses his companions and teams up with the repressed , locked away daughter and a strange being that lives between the walls . Where to begin with his lacking but overall satisfying horror / action adventure ? The appealing title , for starters , is very misleading as it suggests that danger especially lurks in the basement . There are indeed people under the stairs , but they're the last persons young Fool should be afraid of , since they're just victims as well . Mom & dad initially form a mysterious and genuinely petrifying pair of villains , but as soon as their background is revealed , the film gets all the more silly and comical instead of scary . There's plenty of exciting action and violence , as the grim mansion turns out to be deadly labyrinth with secret doors and passages even in the kitchen cupboards . The amount of gory effects and on screen slaughter is rather low , and this in combination with the youthful stars leads to believe Wes Craven somehow intended to create a child-friendly horror film . Kids who loved the sight of naughty men getting kicked in the crotch or assaulted with bricks like in " Home Alone " will certainly like the action in " The People under the Stairs " . The last twenty minutes , after when Fool escaped the wrath of mum & dad but returns to help his new friends , is dire and contains no more memorable moments . Brandon Adams is a likable child actor , which is quite an accomplishment to itself , but the true stars naturally are the deranged villains . Wendy Robie and Everett McGill can go over the top as much as they please , it only improves the film . As stated above , this is one of the best films in Wes Craven's uneven career as a director . He started out magnificently in the 70's , with true classics on his repertoire like " Last House on the Left " and " The Hills have Eyes " . His early 80's efforts are still very good as well , with " Nightmare on Elm Street " and the sadly underrated " Deadly Blessing " , but near the second half of the decade , Craven started to deliver lackluster and unsatisfying horror stuff like " Deadly Friend " , " Shocker " and " Serpent & the Rainbow " . " The People Under The Stairs " was his last worthwhile film before going mainstream with nonsense like " Scream " , " Vampire in Brooklyn " and " Cursed " .
The Adventures of EVIL Batman !	I already encountered quite a few opinions and reviews that labeled " the Bat " as one of Price's LEAST entertaining movies . Okay , either I'm too biased about this magnificent actor's work or either I just know crap about horror cinema but I thought it was a GREAT movie ! ! Granted , the screenplay is a little too ambitious and too many characters are introduced , but overall this is an exciting and well-plotted thriller that satisfies the fans of haunted house stories as well the typical " whodunit " mysteries . The always-amazing Price is part of a well-filled cast and the events take place in an old , luxurious mansion . One million dollar worth of cash has been stolen from the bank , the loot is hidden somewhere in the house and there's a maniacal killer with a dedication for rabbit bats on the loose . Let the fun begin ! The temporary tenant of the mansion , who happens to be a murder-story author , starts her own search for the killer's identity . " The Bat " is low on visual effects and make-up , but the constantly tense atmosphere and mysterious characters make up for that . The film could have used a little more action instead of all the talking but it remains an absolute pleasure to behold Vincent Price as a sneaky crook . The old " Oaks " mansion is a genuinely creepy horror location and the " Bat " character is a cool and imaginative villain . Certainly not the absolute highlight of Price's impressive career , but nonetheless a warmly recommended movie for his fans .
Very odd and creepy ?	The fourth and final episode in the Italian cult TV-series " Door into Darkness " is literally a world of difference compared to the three previous segments . The other ones are straightforward and dealing with complex murder investigations , whereas " The Doll " is a hugely ambitious and psychological tale of terror focusing on the mind and behavior of an escaped mental asylum's patient . During the opening sequence , we witness how an individual nervously walks out of a secured institution towards freedom . We can't see who it is , or even determine the sex , as everything is filmed using ingenious and convincing POV-shots . The action then moves to the big city , where a suspiciously behaving man meets with a ravishingly beautiful young girl in a toy store . Their relationship develops rather curiously , as they're both distant and very asocial . Meanwhile , the police are investigating the murder of a female fashion designer , presumably committed by the escaped mental patient . Their paths all come together during an intense ? albeit fairly easy to predict ? finale at the young woman's apartment . The story of " The Doll " is oddly constructed and definitely ahead of its time . Director Mario Foglietti only provides a minimum of background and information and really involves the viewers to help unravel the mystery . This unusual approach , as well as the occasional red herring , is quite successful ! Even though you figure out the patient's identity rather quickly , Foglietti still manages to confuse and even make you doubt sometimes . Although a slight bit tedious , the bizarre interactions between the man and the girl are eerie and uncomfortable . Dario Argento probably deliberately saved the most experimental and awkward segment in his successful TV-initiative for last , if only to avoid losing the audiences uninterested in watching the more psychological trademarks of psychopath killers . Still , for open-minded and versatile horror fans , " The Dolls " comes with just as much recommendation as the other installments .
Certainly NOT a eurohorror-highlight !	I just love these a . k . a titles ? ' The Werewolf vs . the Vampire Women ' . Ta-da , there you one of the sleaziest and fun sounding titles in all eurohorror / exploitation history . Unfortunately , the film itself is a bit of a letdown . It's cheap and silly of course ? but that's not a boundary to me . The fact that it's tedious and overall pretty lame on the other hand IS a boundary ! The movie contains too many ? dead ' moments in which nothing happens except for a little unnecessary mumbo-jumbo . There's no tension at all ? not even an attempt to build some up , as the monsters and twists seem to appear out of nowhere . The Werewolf's Shadow ( another a . k . a ) merely depends on a fair amount of bloodshed and the female beauty that is present in the cast . Elvira ( played by Gaby Fuchs who had a smaller part in Mark of the Devil ) and her very foxy friend Genevieve are crossing the French countryside , searching for the tomb of an ancient female vampire ? Countess Wandessa ? when they are housed by the charming Waldemar . He offers to help them in their search for the tomb , but he also has a little secret to hide himself . Waldemar is a werewolf and with the arrival of the two girls , he hopes to finally lift up the curse and find piece . Waldemar is portrayed by Paul Nashy who practically is a legend himself . The guy may not be very talented but he does have a strong will as he already wrote / directed / starred in over 80 movies all together ! The werewolf he plays here is a role he repeated in 7 ( ! ) other films . If you're interested in his repertoire ? they're hard to find , I assure you . Question is ? are they worth purchasing ? I don't think so . Apart from a few delightful settings and a bit of filthy butchering , this film is pretty much worthless . It could have been much better since the idea of facing vampires with werewolves is rather new . The dubbing is a real hoot ! The English audio-track sometimes switches for no reason to Spanish , French or even German !
Not nearly as bad as you might fear . . . or as it might look	Mutant-insects ? isolated little town ? gory make-up effects ? Yup , ' The Nest ' looks like a prototype of cheap and redundant 80's horror . But I'm sure that , if you decide to give it a chance after all , you won't regret it . ! The obvious aspect to-love about it is the gore , naturally , but the screenplay actually contains some sub-plots and ingenious elements that you wouldn't immediately expect in a low-budget production like this . Northport is small , peaceful island outside L . A suddenly infested by a deadly plague of cockroaches . A mysterious female scientist arrives on the island and the mayor acts very ignorant about the on-growing bug problem . Events escalate into a true disaster when the cockroaches attack and devour inhabitants of the island and , if this isn't worse enough , mutate into what they eat . Looks like a genetic experiment gone horribly wrong ? ' The Nest ' has tension and atmosphere , accompanied by a bit of good black humor and decent acting performances . Horror insiders might recognize Robert Lansing in the role of ignorant mayor , as he previously appeared in ' Empire of the Ants ' . The show is stolen , however , by Terri Treas as the morbid Dr . Hubbard . The creators of ' The Nest ' obviously learned a lot from watching horror highlights as ' The Fly ' and ' Them ! ' but the film offers enough amusement to stand by itself . I certainly enjoyed it better than the similar ' Mimic ' , which was made almost ten years later . If you're a sucker for gore-goodies , check out ' the Nest '
Good story . . . but it didn't fascinate me like it should have	There's no doubt what so ever that Jim Jarmush is a very talented writer and filmmaker . There's also no one in the world who doubts about the fact that Johnny Depp is one of the greatest actors alive and thé best actor of his generation . No one should even doubt about the fact this whole cast is awesome . Lance Henriksen ( I'm very pleased to see he gets some praising outside his B-movie roles ) , Michael Wincott ( probably the actor with the best voice out there ) , Billy Bob Thornton , Robert Mitchum , Alfred Molina and a bunch of other great names . All of these are pro elements I would say . But yet , Dead Man disappointed me a little . I don't know , maybe my expectations towards it were a bit high but that was normal I thought . Also , I can't really find out what was wrong with it in my opinion . The story is very good but there were a little troubles to stay focused the whole time . I never actually received good feeling with the main character . I doubt this is Johnny Depps fault , I don't think the script allows the viewer to have good contact and feeling with the leading characters . But I guess that was what I missed a little . There isn't much action but that isn't necessary . The dialogues are a bit too long from time to time but they contain great moments as well . The wisdom the Indian gives us is from a high quality . William Blake arrives in a small town called Machine . He was promised a job there as a book-keeper . By the time he arrives , the job is already taken by someone else and Bill is alone again . He walks home a girl and spends the night with her . In the morning they get a visit from the ex-fiancé of the girl and he and the girl die . William runs away but doesn't know the man was the son of the very important Mr . Dickinson . He's the owner of the metal industry and he sends a couple of the most feared assassins on their way to find William . In the meantime , William found help and guidance from an Indian named . . . Nobody Dead Man is a good choice when you're in the mood for an evening of quality film . The filming in black and white certainly gives the right atmosphere to tell the story . But still , I wouldn't say it's one of the greatest movies out there . Above average , certainly . . . but definitely not a must-see ! Recommended for the cast and the original story . If you want to relax and not worry about anything . . rent something else . My humble opinion on Dead Man =
Freddy " Big Business " Krueger . . .	Only a small year after " Dream Warriors " got released episode 4 pops up . A small difference in time but a major difference to the image of the series . Freddy is at the top of his popularity in this movie and that's well stressed . The audience wanted to see much more of Freddy and that's what they've got . Freddy looks more like a stand-up comedian than as a horrible killer . He still does the killings of course ( otherwise you don't have a movie , right ) but he can't do it anymore without shooting funny one-liners towards the audience . " How's this for a wet dream , Joey ? " This way , his loses much of his scary image but that doesn't mean it's a bad movie , of course . In fact , it's still my third favorite episode in the series . The original and Dream Warriors are n°1 and 2 and I didn't like New Nightmare at all ( shoot me if you want ) The old formula is respected and a few very original twists are added . Joey , Kincaid and Kirsten ( a transformation from Patricia Arquette into Tuesday Weld ) are the only survivors from the original Elm Street parents who burnt Freddy . Freddy finishes them but of course his urge to kill isn't stopped by that . . . what do you expect , he's a maniac isn't he ? So he needs new victims . Alice is the perfect person to provide this for him . She has the strange gift to bring other people into her dream and that's where they are accessible to Freddy . Lucky for him , Alice entered the dream which killed Kirsten so through Alice he can still his never-ending hunger to kill . . . Patricia Arquette ain't a member of the cast anymore but as the leading actress she gets well replaced by Lisa Wilcox . All the other characters aren't very much worth to be mentioned and they all die , so . . . After Craven himself , Jack Sholder and Chuck Russel , Renny Harlin took a seat in the directors ' chair . Harlin is a rather good director who also made " Prison " . A very scary horror film which I recommend as well . After NOES 4 , he made much bigger budget films like Die Hard 2 , Cliffhangerand Deep Blue Sea . The Dream Master ( the title refers to Alice herself ) is the last " good " nightmare on Elm Street . Episode 5 was just plain stupid and looked more like a bad comic book . Freddy's Dead - The final Nightmare has his moments but overall it sucks and don't get me started about New Nightmare . Killings are original with some great make-up effects , the soundtrack is great , the acting and directing are decent , the script is funny and keeps you focused ( the déjà-vu scene is a great example of this ) and Freddy is uglier than ever . Now , let's all start singing : one-two Freddy is coming for you . . . .
Prototypic " guilty pleasure " slasher	Here in his attempt to shamelessly imitate the success of American teen slasher-movies , veteran Italian director Umberto Lenzi bids you welcome to a lot more than just Spring Break ! Welcome to clichéd situations and ridiculous stereotypes ! Welcome to cheesy gore and gratuitous nudity ! Welcome to zero tension and maximum nonsense ! Welcome to horrible rock music and awful dialogs ! In short , welcome to the glorious and wonderfully entertaining world of 80's horror film-making ! The overall quality level of this movie may very well be less than mediocre , but it guarantees a damn good time and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to tolerant fans of the genre . Some people and websites describe " Welcome to Spring Break " as a Giallo , but that's probably just because its director is Italian and maybe even because the DVD-cover proudly depicts the image of a maniacal killer wearing a pitch black motorcycle helmet ( which was one of the favorite disguises of Giallo-killers ) , but it's actually a full-blooded and prototypic slasher in the trend of " Friday the 13th " , " Happy Birthday To Me " , " April Fool's Day " and other so-called holiday-themed splatter junk . The simpler the concept ; the better . Unleash a killer ? preferably one with an eerie disguise who likes his murders gruesome ? among a group of stupid , drunken and hormone-laden teenagers in sunny , beach area . Try and raise confusion by suggesting the killer may be the vengeful reincarnation of a wrongfully executed biker , cast the almighty John Saxon as a sadistically corrupt cop , throw in some totally random images of a wet T-shirt contest and you got yourself the true definition of an 80's guilty pleasure . If you've seen a few movies like this , it shouldn't be too difficult to guess the maniac's identity quite early in the film already , but at least Umberto Lenzi's efforts to provide red herrings are admirable . The maniac's favorite method is interesting as well , as you don't see a mobile electric chair too often . The acting performances are mostly atrocious , with the exception of the aforementioned John Saxon and Michael Parks ( " From Dusk Till Dawn " , " Planet Terror " ) as the alcoholic doctor . There are a lot of things wrong with this film , but why bother getting annoyed over them ? The girls are beautiful , the boys are dorks , the killer is cool and John Saxon is the man !
Castle of the Bloody Flashbacks	Some people really suck at negotiating business deals . " In the Grip of the Spider " revolves on a guy who accepts a bet to spend the night in a secluded and reputedly haunted castle and if he survives the ordeal , he receives the astonishing , stupendous and exhilarating reward of ? 10 pounds ! Ten pounds ? ! ? Even in the 19th century this probably wasn't even enough to pay the coachman to drive you back to civilization ! At least the eccentric Vincent Price offered his guests $10 . 000 to spend one night in his house on haunted hill ; now there's a guy you can do business with ! " In the Grip of the Spider " is an accomplishment of the hugely underrated Italian director Antonio Margheriti ( better known under his international alias Anthony M . Dawson ) and apparently a remake of his very own Gothic horror classic " Castle of Blood " starring Barbara Steele . By doing this Margheriti was far ahead of his time , as it's extremely popular among directors nowadays to remake their own earlier movies . Unfortunately I haven't seen " Castle of Blood " ( or at least not yet ) , so I can't compare , but reliable sources tell me this early 70's version can't hold a candle to the original . This may be so , but I still wouldn't call " In the Grip of the Spider " a bad film ? especially not if you're a sucker for Gothic atmospheres . Admittedly the storyline is a little flimsy and unspectacular , but the film nevertheless has several things going for it , like the presence of Klaus Kinski ( depicting no less than Edgar Allen Poe ) , lovely luscious ladies and a downright sardonic finale . The American journalist Alan Foster is desperate to get an interview from the notorious novelist Edgar Allen Poe , but he gets more than he bargained for when Poe and his friend challenge him to spend the night at Blackwood castle . Convinced that ghosts and vampires don't exist , Foster accepts and remains alone in the dark and ominous castle . Things start out great for him , as the lucky bastard even has sex with the perplexing beauty who appears out of nowhere . Several more suspicious individuals make their appearance and , through flashback , Alan gradually learns they're all ghosts trapped inside the castle for all eternity . " In the Grip of the Spider " is slightly overlong ( 110min ) and a lot of footage easily could have been cut . There's a lot of ballroom dancing and painting observing going on , which is quite unnecessary and in fact only undermines the atmosphere of Gothic morbidity . The scenes where random characters dwell through the castle's catacombs and stumble upon ancient tombs are irrelevant to the plot at well , but at least they fit the Gothic concept . The rare moments when Kinski appears on screen are sublime ? even though he doesn't even remotely resemble the real Edgar Allan Poe ? since there is no other actor more suitable to play a neurotic and lightly inflammable genius than him . Michèle Mercier ( as Elizabeth ) and Karin Field ( as Julia ) are both extremely beautiful and sexy starlets , but I'm sort of convinced that Barbara Steele was even better than the two of them combined in the original . I guess I'll have to track that one down as soon as possible . Overall this is a flawed but interesting film , recommend to fans of vintage Italian Goth-horror .
A tale of two werewolf-sisters !	The fresh and ingenious " Ginger Snaps " - trilogy comes to an end with this prequel that takes Ginger and her sister Brigitte back to early 19th century Canada . Although a remarkably stylish and well-made horror film , this final entry is the weakest of three . This is merely due to the rather " ordinary " werewolf-story and the lack of metaphors and oppressed humor that made its predecessors so unique . After a boating-accident , the two siblings are orphaned and they strand in some sort of military fort . The few remaining men left there are obviously frightened of something and it soon turns out that the fort is regularly attacked by bloodthirsty werewolves . These wolves are former men who went on a journey to get supplies but they never came back ? . as humans . When Ginger gets bitten and slowly begins to " turn " , her sister Brigitte remains at her side even though she's the only one who can break the curse by killing her . As mentioned before , the story isn't that special ( in fact , it's identical to the happenings in the first Ginger Snaps ) but the sets and costumes are very effective . The events that overcome the two sisters also remain compelling because you feel connected with them after two sublime movies . Both Perkins and Isabelle's acting performances are flawless and they receive good feedback from the unknown supportive cast members . There are some exhilarating gore-sequences to enjoy and the werewolves look impressive . Ginger Snaps Back is good entertainment , with talented leading ladies and a lot of action . My favorite film of the entire franchise will remain part two ( Unleashed ) because that one is so wonderfully demented , shocking and depressing . In fact , it was the best horror film released in 2004 , although this third part is definitely in the top 10 as well . Recommended !
Sadly , it's not ALL about style & beauty ?	I'll be the last person on this earth to deny that " The Perfume of the Lady in Black " isn't a breathtakingly beautiful and stylish viewing experience . Quite the contrary , I agree that Francesco Barilli's film is a masterwork of subtly built up suspense and it's also one of the best films ever forcing you to empathize with the leading character . This film contains numerous astonishing camera shots , genuinely creepy musical tunes and hugely impressive decors , but this material greatness makes it all the more difficult to forgive that there's not a lot of coherence or plausibility in the story and that Barelli leaves far too many questions unanswered at the end of the movie . " Perfume etc . . " is similar to and clearly inspired by the earliest work of Roman Polanski ; most notably " Repulsion " and " Rosemary's Baby " . Exactly like in those two cinematic milestones , the plot introduces a seemingly weak and vulnerable female protagonist that suffers from nightmarish hallucinations and haunting memories of her childhood . She , Silvia Hachermann ? played by Mimsy Farmer , soon isolates herself from the outside world and notices how her social surrounding , including her boyfriend and friendly neighbors , turn against her . Does these events relate to the voodoo-talk she had with some friends ? Or the mysterious circumstances regarding her mother's premature death ? Or maybe it's all happening in Silvia's mind alone . Perhaps I was expecting too much of an old-fashioned Italian giallo whereas this film is clearly an occult / psychological thriller , but the slow development of the plot and the absence of a perceptible kind of malice honestly bothered me just a tad bit . After a full hour into the movie , still nothing grueling has occurred and Silvia's inevitably disastrous fate can't be guessed until the very last seconds . The climax comes as a total shock , for sure , but not exactly a satisfying one since absolutely nothing in the development of the plot hinted at such a macabre switch in tones . Nonetheless , " The Perfume of the Lady in Black " is a curious gem of Italian horror cinema , with an overload of talent in front as well as behind the cameras ' lenses . It's a demanding film that requires the full attention of all your senses and even then it's likely to confuse you several times . Recommended to well-trained fans of Italian cinema .
The Dario Argento phenomenon !	" Phenomena " is Dario Argento's eighth horror success in a row , this time set in a Swiss ( pardon me : Swiss Transylvanian ) boarding school where the girls are frightened to death . A maniacal killer is loose in the area since quite a while and the local police forces have no idea how to stop him . The cute Jennifer is an American new arrival who fancies insects , sleepwalks and has a famous actor as a father . With the help of a nearby living entomologist , she discovers that she has telekinetic powers that make it possible for her to communicate with insects . This ability might help her a great deal in tracking down the whereabouts of the feared killer ? Out of Argento's entire repertoire , this " Phenomena " is the most difficult one to rate . Some of the style elements and gimmicks used belong to the director's finest achievements to date while other aspects are embarrassingly incompetent and crappy . Although I admire the fact that Dario attempted to enrich the standard giallo-like plot with supernatural ideas , the hunt for the murderer is too often ignored which results in a more or less disappointing climax . You can't guess along in identifying the killer , as you're given no clues or additional info at all . Also , the plot holes and illogicalness of the script sometimes make it impossible to take this film serious . And by illogicalness , I don't necessarily mean the whole " communicating with insects " - premise but merely the fact that this 14-year-old girl and a swarm of bugs simply succeed in what the police officers failed to for over more than eight months . And personally , I didn't think it was well-considered to send out a fragile young girl on her own to look for rotting corpses , but our entomologist in wheelchair seemly doesn't have moral issues with that . Similar to this little example , the script features several other ridicule elements that often make you wonder how on earth Argento gained the reputation of talented scriptwriter . And yet despite all this ineptness , " Phenomena " still is a truly powerful horror film that easily crushes most American competitors of the 80's decade simply thanks to Argento's genuine sense of atmosphere and petrifying storytelling . Dario Argento is a phenomenon himself and every film of his is worthy viewing ? it's as simple as that ! The tone of Phenomena is very eerie and compelling and you're presented to a never-ending series of beautiful mountain scenery and stylish cinematography . As mentioned above , the setting of this tale is Switzerland and Argento emphases this by a great use of typically Swiss things , like cuckoo clocks and isolated mountain roads . The soundtrack is downright brilliant with an excellent use of hard rock songs by Iron Maiden and Möterhead , while Argento's regular band Goblin delivered its greatest title song ever ! The dazzling instrumental composition sticks to you long after you finished watching the film ! The acting performances are far above the Italian standards with Jennifer Connelly in a terrific role . Connelly is quite a big star right now , with major productions like " Requiem for a Dream " , " Hulk " and " A Beautiful Mind " on her repertoire , but it was in fact the Italian shlock industry that initially discovered her talent ! Whoever claimed this type of cinema is entirely worthless . Donald Pleasance slightly disappoints as the tame entomologist and all the young actresses in their debuts easily outshine him . And , of course , we wouldn't be talking about an Argento movie if it didn't contain lots and lots of gore . Phenomena is particularly outrageous , with truly nasty slaughtering and detailed images of gruesomeness . Especially if you purchase the uncut 110 minutes version , a word of warning is in order , I think . Definitely not for the squeamish but warmly recommended to Italian horror buffs !
The ideal " sit back and relax " - comedy	I think it's pretty obvious you don't have to choose The Replacements if you're interested in seeing a unique and / or innovating cinema experience . The Replacements perfectly delivers what you expect . . . A good hour and a half of pure fun and laughs . It's a delightful little comedy with decent acting performances , hilarious situations and terrific quote material . The film uses all the typical clichés and about every character is stereotypical , but maybe that's the charm of it all . We get to see a textbook Sumo-wrestler , a blond cheerleader who can't even spell right and even the vulgar Welsh guy who smokes and curses on the field . The script is so utterly predictable and the feel-good message is shoved down your throat shamelessly , but still you can't resist to keep watching . There's a terrific light-hearted atmosphere hanging around the entire movie and sometimes , that's just all it takes to be satisfied with a movie . Keanu Reeves is a heck of lot more watchable in these type of comedies than he is as an action hero and Gene Hackman is great as usual . Even though he's clearly directing on automatic pilot , he never fails to impress . There are also good side roles by Jon Favreau , Orlando Jones , Rhys Ifans and even Art LaFleur ( it's been a while since I last saw him ) . Naturally , the good guys win from the arrogant bullies , the development of the love-story was unavoidable as well and the use of typical Football-songs - like Rock ' N Roll part 2 - bring a smile to your face . The Replacements is the kind of movie that requires a few beers and popcorn . . . than you've got yourself a good old-fashioned brainless viewing .
Forgive me Father , for I have sinned . . . BIGTIME !	Ah yes , trashy-looking movies revolving on wicked and sexually depraved nuns ? you got to love ' em ! " Nunsploitation " is the most absurd and pointless sub genre of horror cinema ( closely followed by Nazi-exploitation and Dwarfsploitation ) but also strangely fascinating and , if you've seen one , you develop an uncontrollable desire to see them all , even though the stories are hardly ever worth bothering for . This Mexican gem is a perfect example to state the theory ! " Sátanico Pandemonium " has almost no plot at all ; the acting performances are quite embarrassing and isn't even that bloody ! This film is just pleasantly deranged , with an enjoyable tempo and pretty stylish set pieces . We're welcomed into a convent during the Inquisition-era where the beautiful sister Maria undergoes bizarre changes . Satan himself keeps on appearing to her and she starts doing very UN-catholic things , like mutilating herself and seducing young boys that are fishing . The more Satan controls her ( simply by wandering around offering her an half-eaten apple ? I suppose it's symbolism ) , the viler her acts get , resulting in the death of several innocent people . There are some incredibly tedious parts to struggle through , but overall this is elegant entertainment for trained exploitation fans . It's not a patch on other Nunsploitation-highlights , such as " The Devils " , " Flavia ? The Heretic " or " Alucarda " ( also Mexican ) , but it has the right amount of naked female flesh , enchanting costumes and atmospheric music . Naughty nuns equal great fun !
Not THAT bad , really	Meh , people tend to exaggerate ! I purchased this film especially because it carries the reputation of being an absolutely awful 60's production , almost unbearable to sit through . Either my interpretation of " awful " is completely different from the public opinion or this reputation is unjustified , because I what I saw was a cheap , but nevertheless creative and dared story with above-average acting performances and groundbreaking gory make-up effects ( groundbreaking when realizing the year was 1962 and hideous scars as well as poking out eyeballs weren't that common yet ) . I was expecting to witness really lousy dialogues and ridiculously illogical plot-twists but the script and elaboration of this film pleasantly surprised me for sure . If you can't get passed the cardboard set pieces and weak photography , that's your loss , but it certainly isn't a reason to entirely neglect this film . The story focuses on the overly ambitious surgeon Bill Cortner ( decent performance by Jason Evers ) who likes to experiment with transplanting limbs , organs and even complete heads ! When a car crash he caused decapitates his fiancée , her artificially keeps her alive while searching for a decent ( still walking ) donor body . The plot is enriched with a horrible monster in the laboratory's closet ( a previous experiment of Dr . Cortner that went wrong ) , a traumatized model and the stubborn head itself that hates not being dead . Granted , " The Brain that Wouldn't Die " features a couple very boring sequences that lead nowhere . In an overlong sequence set at a nudie bar , for example , Cortner seduces two possible hot body-donors but his attempt is eventually fruitless . This , along with the abrupt ending and fuzzy camera-work , is the only real letdown in an otherwise entertaining and enthusiastically made horror quickie . Experienced horror fans will certainly appreciate the maker's attempts to serve us gore and morbid humor ( in a hilarious sequence , Dr . Bill tapes the talking head's mouth shut ! ) . Please , don't let the negative comments and the ranking in the bottom top 100 keep you from watching it . It's an okay movie that you won't regret wasting time with . If you really want an awful film with a more or less similar premise , check out " The Frozen Dead " ( Herbert J . Leder ? 1966 ) . Very tedious nonsense in which the experimenting doctors are vicious Nazis and the separated heads are a lot less " lively " .
Hey there sexy humanoid ? Wanna co-exist ?	Yet another cheap ' n cheesy early 80's " Alien " rip-off produced by Roger " King of the B's " Corman ! This given alone is more than enough reason to proceed with caution and keep your expectations to a minimum . Then , during the opening credits sequence , your first impressions are most likely to seep to an even deeper level , as the first five minutes are a headache-inducing and utterly pointless compilation of confusing and hectic images that make no sense at all . But please do your best to struggle yourself through this crappy opening , because " Forbidden World " does eventually get interesting and worthwhile . Well , in all honesty ? it's crap from start to finish ! But hey , at least it's tremendously entertaining crap ! We're in the darkest regions of outer space , somewhere in a distant future , but there's no menace of aliens this time . The cool-looking monster on the VHS cover is mankind's own little mistake-creation , spawned on a spaceship where the crew was actually trying to discover new types of food sources . Now they're up against a continuously growing monster that somehow understands English , yet dramatically misinterprets the meaning of the verb " co-exist " . Lone space ranger Mike Colby ( Jesse Vint ) is called to the rescue , but he doesn't really contribute anything , except having sex with the female crew members on board . What a guy ! Another scientist member of the expedition eventually comes up with an admittedly creative ( but totally ludicrous ) plan to destroy the monster . Naturally , I can't reveal anything about the denouement , but rest assured it's 100 % original and hilarious . The cinematography is dreadfully dark and unclear , presumably to camouflage the ultra-cheap and tacky set pieces and make-up effects . The monster is very cool , though , and the killings are amusingly gross and bloody . The aforementioned " co-exist " scene truly priceless and any horror fan with a slight sense of humor will LOVE that moment . Alan Holzman didn't have any experience directing movies back in 1982 , but he does a fairly adequate job and admirably prevents his cast from going over the top . Following good old Roger Corman traditions , there's some great sleaze and nudity to enjoy and also the dialogs are imbecilic but fun . Highly recommended in case you can tolerate B-movie cheapness .
It's , like , the end of the world and I don't have anything to wear !	" Night of the Comet " is a truly fun and engaging little genre effort of the 80's , but surely some of its hardcore fans are slightly overestimating the value and significance of this film . I've encountered reviews stating that " Night of the Comet " is a quintessential gem of 80's horror and that it's easily one of the most intelligent tributes / parodies to older B-movies ever made . Okay , the script is quite clever and writer / director Thom Eberhardt definitely knows a lot about all the post-apocalyptic classics of the 50's and 60's , but I honestly doubt it ever was his intention to direct the ULTIMATE homage . " Night of the Comet " is more like a miniature-tribute ! All the obligatory story lines and sub plots to create an end-of-the-world epic are present , but Eberhardt's only disposed of a limited budget and thus the elaboration is only small-scaled and rather cheesy . There are mutated zombies , crazed scientists and hostile groups of survivors on the rampage , but all just in small doses . The movie opens during a bright summer evening , when the entire world is preparing to see a mesmerizing and once-in-a-lifetime ecological phenomenon , namely the passing of a comet . Two high-school teenagers who missed out on the event ( sisters , moreover , what are the odds ? ) wake up the next morning and slowly realize that the comet's radiation killed every human being in L . A , only leaving behind small piles of red dust . They entrench themselves in an abandoned radio station , meet up with another sole ( and male ) survivor , battle the occasional mutated zombie and ? of course ? go shopping without credit cards . Things get slightly more dangerous when a bunch of dying scientists , who predicted the extinction of the human race , try to abduct the survivors to steal their still uncontaminated blood . The tone of " Night of the Comet " is continuously light-headed , still director Ebarhardt manages to maintain a more or less sinister atmosphere which never allow you to forget that the whole of mankind just got wiped out . The girls , although mostly concerned about fashion trends and pop music , understand the seriousness of the situation and deal with it the best way they possibly can . There are still a handful of creepy sequences ( the confrontation in the mall ) and well-developed Sci-Fi ideas ( the diabolical scientists ) , but the emphasis largely lies on the two girls and their typically 80's pop-culture life-styles . I've never heard this many campy pop-songs in one movie , not even in a musical , and the special & make-up effects are kept to a minimum . The acting performances of Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney are more adequate than you'd expect , as it certainly isn't easy for young actresses to portray teenage character that are stereotypical , ignorant , fashionable and yet likable at the same time . " Night of the Comet " certainly isn't brilliant , probably even a bit overrated by its fans , but still worth a peek in case you have a weakness for 80's cinema .
Beasts , witchery , martial arts and cleavage . . . . oh my !	Hard to label this versatile piece of French art as it blends elements of a scary monster movie with ethical and religious drama aspects as well as simplistic swashbuckling and martial arts action . This film is stuffed with a tremendous amount of ingeniousness and imaginative camera techniques . Brotherhood of the Wolf is very , VERY loosely based on a true drama of a wolf that terrorized France in the mid 18th century and killed over 60 people . The very ambitious and fanatic director Christophe Gans turns this simple premise into a spectacular epos in which a heroic duo go to the Gévaudan region to hunt down the ferocious wolf-like creature . Some parties ( like a young marquis ) help them but most prominent men of the province hinder them . Especially the first half of this adventurous movie is impressive and satisfying . You don't really know what to expect and all of a sudden you're sucked into a spiral of action , suspense and occult situations . Gans is kind of like a French version of Quentin Tarantino and stuffs his film with influences from the Hammer horror films ( the eerie landscapes and voluptuous women ) and even Asian ' Category-3 ' action flicks . The second half feels a little rushed and the whole explanation of the Brotherhood is a bit of letdown . Brotherhood of the Wolf is a bit long for its own good and all the intrigues begin to look tedious after a while . Still , it's a highly recommend film . Costumes , music and cinematography are near perfect and the acting skills of the entire cast are superb . Vive la France ! [ insert a wolf's howling here ]
The Night Evelyn Filled Some Graves .	Why this little movie receives such a low rating and such harshly negative reviews is a bit beyond me . Well , actually no , it's not . . . " Mountaintop Motel Massacre " IS a pretty bad and poorly made textbook 80's slasher , but that doesn't mean it can't be fun for hardcore fans ! Apart from the fantastic DVD-cover and tagline , M . M . M . sustains an overall creepy atmosphere ( especially the music is scary ) and the sets & scenery are often very effective ( dolls ! ! Dolls are eerie ! ) . However , the pacing is admittedly rather slow , the cinematography is way too dark and the murder sequences are tame and non-gory , which makes it all impossible to count it among the better efforts in a decade overcrowded by similar films . What the story mainly lacks is background info . The basic idea of a crazy old lady butchering the guests at her motel is interesting enough , but a bit more feedback about her condition would have been welcome . Early in the film , we find out that motel proprietress Evelyn spent a few years in a mental institution . It never becomes quite clear why she was admitted ( her husband's passing , maybe ? ) , but her teenage daughter Lori obviously fears she's not cured yet . Afer killing Lori , the voices inside Evelyn's head tell her that she'll end up in the madhouse again if she doesn't kill everyone else as well . The unfortunate victims are a couple of newlywed rednecks , two elderly men and a phony record producer hoping to score two chicks at once . Evelyn's murder methods are a bit awkward , as she initially unleashes all types of vermin on her guests before attacking them personally with a sickle . M . M . M features too many tedious moments in which absolutely nothing happens and the grand finale is sadly lethargic . I heard some bad things about the acting performances , but I actually thought they were adequate . The only truly embarrassing actors are the paramedics trying to revive Evelyn's daughter at the beginning of the film . And maybe the guy who gets bitten by a snake . Not a very good film , but it surely has some memorable and praiseworthy elements that shouldn't be overlooked . If you really think this is a hopelessly awful 80's slasher , then stay the hell away from titles like " Appointment with Fear " or " Hide and Go Shriek " .
Charlie's going through a bit of a rough period lately . . .	" Murphy's Law " superficially looks like the umpteenth and routine Charles Bronson action vehicle , but pay a little more attention to the details and you'll reckon that the film is actually an atypical accomplishment in its kind . It's not special enough to qualify as a genuine classic of 80's action cinema , but it's definitely a noteworthy change of style and tone in Bronson's own personal repertoire . Especially the character Charlie depicts is rather unusual this time . Jack Murphy is an alcoholic , lost his wife to a professional career in stripping and , even though he worked as a cop all his life , he doesn't receive the slightest bit of respect or cooperation from his colleagues . Of course , nobody believes in Murphy's innocence when he gets framed for murdering his ex-wife and her new lover , a crime actually committed by a completely bonkers female psychopath whose motives remain unknown till very late into the film . Murphy escapes and seeks justice himself , albeit handcuffed to a recidivist and extremely foul-mouthed car stealing gamine . This girl is incredibly annoying and spews out the most childish and unimaginably lame insults , mainly including words like " snot " , " booger " , " dildo " and various other kindergarten lingo . The script is oddly structured , actually . The identity of the killer is immediately revealed to the viewer , whereas Jack Murphy is led to follow an entirely different trace involving the revenge of a mafia clan . Carrie Snodgress is excellent and truly menacing as the derailed killer , but her eventual motives for stalking Jack are a bit mundane . " Murphy's Law " is fairly fast-paced and benefices from a sinister atmosphere as well as a handful of inventive ( and supremely bloody ) killings . The title , referring to Charlie's character and of course the infamous law , is quite apt because Mr . Murphy really encounters one misfortune after the other . It's no masterpiece , but definitely a worthwhile film .
I am the eye in the cloudy sky , crawling at you ?	One of the lesser-known entries in the massive offer of alien-invasion Sci-Fi / horror movies of the 50's decade , " The Trollenberg Terror " benefices from a neat and continuously gripping atmosphere , decent acting performances and a supremely cool type of extraterrestrial opponents , shaped ? as the a . k . a title implies ? like gigantically crawling eyes . It takes a little while before the crawling eyes are properly shown on screen , but they instantly reminded me of the Brainbug in " Starship Troopers " . I wonder if Paul Verhoeven & C° found some inspiration in this underrated and almost forgotten gem of British horror . Trollenberg is the name of a picturesque little village in Switserland , famous and popular particularly among Alpinists . A befriended colleague has called the eminent scientist Alan Brooks here because , lately , several climbers died under mysterious circumstances whilst climbing the Trollenberg . They were gruesomely decapitated after the passing of an odd and seemingly unnatural cloud of mist . Meanwhile , traveling sisters Anne and Sarah Pelgrim interrupt their voyage to Geneva because some higher force calls to them . Jimmy Sangster penned down the script for this film , and if you're slightly familiar with the work he did for the legendary Hammer Studios , you know he was one of the most gifted and professional writers of his time . He puts the main emphasis on tension and pays almost no attention to the potentially corny relationships between characters . Admittedly some sequences , entire chapters even , are quite dull and redundant and the climax is disappointing as well . Nevertheless , an underrated and recommended film .
Up next : Young Hannibal Lector and his deadly dummy !	Richard Attenborough , known for his classy ( but especially long and tedious ) epical films , directs a tense thriller with horror undertones ? ? Sounds like a Disney film brought to you by Quentin Tarantino ! But surprisingly enough , Attenborough knows damn well how to bring the unsettling and eerie tale of a ventriloquist who slowly loses his sense of reality and starts to live through his dummy . Too bad he can't resist stressing the drama and sentiment even more . For every suspenseful sequence in ' Magic ' , there's a dull and pseudo-psychological anti-climax following . The opening sequences of ' Magic ' are terrific ! Through flashback and a conversation with his mentor , we see how Corky ( Anthony Hopkins ) struggles and fights to make it as a magician / stage performer . The transfer to his all-of-a-sudden successful career as a ventriloquist comes rather abrupt and it's hard to believe . Yet , you don't bother about this too much as the dialogues are good and Hopkins ' performance is outstanding . He can't handle the pressure and flees to the countryside where he meets his long-lost high school dreamgirl . Meanwhile , he becomes more and more obsessed by his voice tube-dummy Fats . The idea of evil ventriloquist dummies might not be new ( The Great Gabbo , Dead of Night ) but ' Magic ' is neatly elaborated and very well-acted . Unfortunately , it hurt seeing Ann-Margret so underused ! She has a relatively small part and all Hopkins ever talks to are her bosom ! Nicest line in the whole movie : ' Your breasts belong in the Louvre , which is a museum in France and I'd love to visit it with you ! ' That's great ! I have to keep that in mind and use it as a pick-up line someday !
Cadavers aplenty in the Body Shop !	I have to admit I was pleasantly surprised and got hooked on " Pathology " right from the very first minute , even though it was for a very stupid and even completely wrong reason . The opening sequence , still before the credits appear on screen , depicts a handful of medical students disrespectfully toying around with their research cadavers . They poke their already rotting flesh and use them as puppets for their obscene and perverted role plays . It's sick ! It's twisted ! It's morally incorrect ! I LOVED that ! Especially since most horror movies nowadays lack this sort of offensive tastelessness and moral incorrectness . Surely this bizarre intro will already temper the enthusiasm of most viewers , but for other sick puppies like myself it might be the beginning of a very promising new horror sleeper hit . And generally speaking " Pathology " is a satisfying horror film . The concept is intriguing , the movie is well-directed and fast-paced , there are several unexpected plot twists and there's an admirably large amount of engrossing make-up effects and nauseating imagery . The wholesome is eventually brought down by implausibility and sheer illogicalness , but let's come back to that later . The story introduces the brilliant pathology student Ted Grey , who joins the class of the eminent Dr . Quentin Morris and comes into contact with a bunch of equally gifted but totally obnoxious and wayward fellow students . The group , led by the charismatic Jake Gello , drags Ted along into their wild nights of drugs , alcohol and partying . They invent a sinister game where each one commits a random and so-called perfect murder in turn , only for the other members to try and discover the victim's cause of death . When Ted's beloved fiancée moves into town he wants to quit the game , but obviously Jake Gello won't let him . " Pathology " is a wild , eventful , exciting and really brutal . Director Mark Schoelermann literally attacks us with compelling autopsy speeches and non-stop gruesome images and for a long while this combination works so effectively you don't even bother about all the questions the plot raises . Then suddenly you make a realization . Why do the pathology students commit these grueling murders again ? For kicks ? Because they can get away with it ? I'm sorry but that's nearly not enough reason to explain their actions . To commit the murders they commit , you'd have to be a natural born monster and natural born monsters don't waste seven years in med school first . And now that we're on the subject , I have a couple of friends who're studying to become a doctor and it's a mentally as well as physically exhausting duty , with a lot of on-the-job training and nightly research work . Supposing pathology studies are at least something similar , I don't think these people have time for extra-curricular activities like drinking and adultery , let alone the carefully planning , executing and solving of perfect murders . Oh well , a certain absence of logic and reason is forgivable in a horror movie , I guess , especially when most of the other crucial aspects are above the average quality level . If you like bloody images that are intended for strong stomachs , a fair portion of sleaze and hardcore shock endings , I would definitely recommend " Pathology " .
Death by Bee-Sexual Intercourse !	Okay , here's another strong contender for winning the award of sleaziest and absolute most insane B-movie of the 1970's ! The human race , and particularly the male species , is threatened with extinction because of ? ordinary women turned into life-sized bee monsters ! How it is possible for anyone to think of such a plot , I do not know , but this movie honestly handles about a continuously expanding community of women that completely cover the newest members in honey until the pupils of their eyes turn pitch-black and then , subsequently , they celebrate by caressing their own breasts for five whole minutes ! God bless 70's cinema ? In the small Californian town of Peckham , which is famous for being the hometown of the pharmaceutical Brandt factory , the lifeless bodies of several men are discovered . The cause of death in all cases appears to be sexual exhaustion and , since some of their own eminent scientists were involved , the Brandt Company sends over government inspector Neil Agar over to investigate . The deaths started since the gorgeous Dr . Susan Harris , who's always wearing thick sunglasses and gets invited for lunch by all her male colleagues , launched a bizarre new series of experiments involving radiation . The plot of " Invasion of the Bee Girls " is totally ridiculous and cheesy nonsense , yet the film is very entertaining and spawns an irresistible sense of humor . Multiple sequences are downright hilarious , for example , when during a town's meeting , some doctor suggests a period of total sexual abstention , and the build-up towards each new male victim is a portrayal of pure and gold girl power ! Nearly every guy in this town is a horny weakling , ready to cheat on his wife at all times . The ladies , on the other hand , are elegant and charismatic creatures with a lot more brain capacity than the males ? even though they fondle their own breasts for no reason . Needless to say " Invasion of the Bee Girls " features tons of gratuitous nudity and lurid situations that don't make the slightest bit of sense . There's an overlong attempted-rape scene that really adds nothing to the plot , while the grand finale seems rushed and amateurish . With the exception of Anitra Ford as the queen bee , the women aren't really attractive , but they unscrupulously take all their clothes off in front of the camera . Respect , ladies ! Another interesting trivia-detail : " Invasion of the Bee Girls " was the writing debut of Nicholas Meyer , who went on to script several acclaimed " Star Trek " movies .
Beauty . . . sleaze . . . and a lot of confusion !	This long-lost exploitation treasure surely lists among the weirdest films I ever saw . To be quite sure , I'm still don't know how to give a rating to it ? the plot is full of nonsense and illogicalness and impossible to summarize . In fact , I would have turned off this movie much earlier if it wasn't for all the beauty it features . The Reincarnation of Isabel has an amazing force on attraction ! It constantly introduces barely-dressed beauty queens and photographs them in the most stylish and sensual ways you've ever seen ! Although no structure whatsoever ( the plot jumps back and forth in time , seeing it handles about some sort of immortal vampire cult who sacrifices virgins every twenty-fifth moon ? or something ) , you just can't press the ' stop'-button on the remote of your DVD-player . Fans of macabre cinema will regard this film as an absolute highlight ? even they won't get it , neither . It purely has to be seen for its weirdness and incomprehensible style . Sleaze , violence and atmosphere like you've never seen it before . For the eccentric cinema-freaks among us !
When auntie F . comes to town , there will surely be blood !	" The Kiss " is actually just a rudimentary & simplistic witchcraft story about supernatural powers getting passed through the female members of the same bloodline , but director Densham neatly polishes up the concept with impressively explicit make-up effects ( courtesy of Chris Walas ' company ) , adequate supportive character drawings and atmospheric building up towards the death scenes . The story opens in the early 60's in the Belgian Congo , where two sisters become separated at the train station . The youngest one , Felice , is seriously ill but her aunt miraculously cures her by passing an alien-like creature into her body through a kiss . 25 years later the other sister tragically dies in a car accident , leaving behind a husband and a stunningly beautiful adolescent daughter named Amy . Aunt Felice shows up again ( in the ravishingly matured version of Joanna Pacula ) and quickly works her way into the family by seducing her widowed brother-in-law . Auntie Felice is clearly just interested in Amy's body as the host for the inheritable creature , and she won't hesitate to use violent voodoo tricks against anyone that stands between her and the young girl . " The Kiss " is one modest class above the majority of 80's witchcraft-movies , because it features a little more directorial flair and style . There's a continuously pleasing level of suspense and film is suitably gruesome , including images of people burning alive , losing body parts underneath trucks and getting strangled on escalators . Felice has an OTT grotesque wild cat assisting her to kill people and there's a bizarre ( but macabre ) montage showing Amy menstruating in class whilst her father makes love to the sinister aunt . That was quite an awkward moment , and I'm not entirely sure about the symbolic significance / importance of that sequence . In fact , there's quite a lot of sexual innuendo that appears to be a bit lost in the wholesome of the story . Anyway , the story grows increasingly sillier near the end , resulting in a highly implausible and chuckles-inducing finale . Meredith Salenger was truly adorable girl in the late 80's ( and still a gorgeous woman today ) and I severely regret the fact her career didn't skyrocketed after this film . Recommended to watch at least once , particularly if you appreciate feminine beauty and graphic gore .
Welcome to the 1990's , Mr . Lovecraft .	I'm not entirely sure if H . P . Lovecraft would have liked this decade very much . I once read in a biography article that he was a terribly depressed human being and incredibly difficult ( impossible , even ) to please , so it's probably a good thing he never got to see any of the cinematic efforts that were based on his twisted work . The 90's film-adaptations that were inspired by Lovecraft vary from abominable ( " Chtulu Mansion " ) over poor ( " Lurking Fear " ) and mediocre ( " Necronomicon " , " Bleeders " ) to decent-at-best ( " Castle Freak " and " The Resurrected " ) , but none of them resulted in genuine genre masterpieces like they did in the 80's , with " Re-Animator " and " From Beyond " . With " The Resurrected " , director Dan O'Bannon delivered a stylishly made and overall very atmospheric chiller , but the wholesome sadly is a little overlong and it sometimes lacks the obligatory panache to become an immortal favorite among horror fanatics . The plot neatly follows the structure of H . P's tale " The Case of Charles Dexter Ward " , the same story Roger Corman used for " The Haunted Palace " , and especially the transfer to the present day setting is adequately handled . The movie opens with a truly promising and sinister sequence inside a mental asylum , where panic and fear broke loose following the supposed escape of a dangerous patient named Charles Dexter Ward . Cut back to a period of time earlier , when a certain Mrs . Ward seeks contact with private detective John Marsh because her husbands behaves suspiciously and distant . The detective slowly discovers that Charles is involved in macabre occult experiments , together with the mysterious Doctor Ash , and that he may even has found a method to cheat death . The horribly shocking discoveries continue when Marsh and Mrs . Ward explore Charles ' hideout place and laboratories . Although benefiting from a moody & absorbing atmosphere , the first half of " The Resurrected " is too talkative and yet thrifty when it comes to sharing useful information with the viewers . Slow tension building is good , preferably even , but it honestly takes too long before the first gruesome scene makes you jump up from your seat . The second half is much more eventful but occasionally suffers from unnecessary padding footage , like during the heroes ' journey through the dark catacombs . The grand finale makes up for a lot , though , as it's inventive and pretty much impossible to predict even if you have seen the other movie-adaptations of the same Lovecraft story . There's a lot less gore and special effect than you'd expect , but the monstrous creations of FX-artist Todd Masters are engaging and effectively repulsive . Set pieces , lighting , camera-work and editing are all formidable , just the music is a little too obviously stolen from Christopher Young's theme for " Hellraiser " . The acting performances are all fairly wooden , with the exception of the always-reliable Chris Sarandon whose portrayal of Charles Dexter Ward is stellar and genuinely menacing . Even though Dan O'Bannon only directed two movies , I'm convinced many horror fans ( myself included ) would be very interested in him making a comeback .
The next generation of werewolves	Werewolves have always been my favorite kind of horror creatures ( along with zombies ) So I was rather optimistic when I heard 2 new movies about them were coming out . Dog Soldiers and this one . Also , I heard and read good comments on the both of them here on the board and elsewhere . I've seen both now and my feelings are rather negative . This may be a personal opinion but the old legend of werewolves aren't respected anymore . I rather regret this . Sure a new wind can't do no harm , but I missing the sphere of the old ones like The Howling , American Werewolf in London and Silver Bullet . Out of Ginger Snaps and Dog Soldiers , I do prefer Ginger Snaps . the scripts contains some very original stuff and is overall funny . Also an important factor , off course . Ginger and her sister are 2 disturbed teenage girls . They don't have contact with boys , are obsessed by death and . . . they never experienced their period . There's a monster loose in their village that rips apart dogs . When Ginger gets attacked by this creature , her whole personality is changing . She becomes social , hits on boys and she grows a tale . Her sister Brigitte seems to be the only one who realizes her sister is turning in to a werewolf and together with Sam ( the local drug dealer ) she tries to save her sister . The make up effects in this film are very gore from time to time , so I'm sure some new and young people who are interested in the genre of horror will be very pleased by seeing this film . The more critic fans will easily forget this film . Some memorable things though : Mimi Rogers is great as the over-concerned mother . She goes nuts when she sees her daughter finally turned into a woman , and this is very funny to see . Also the slide show project about death ( which the girls are making for school ) put a smile on my face . They're already working on both a sequel and a prequel . That's probably great news to some people , but I think I'll skip them .
Immensely entertaining !	A German horror comedy that successfully spoofs all possible clichés of zombie films without ever paying any disrespect to the real genre classics or ending up as a retarded 90 minutes joke itself ? ? ? It's almost impossible to accept such a thing exists and yet here's Mathias Dinter's " Night of the Living Dorks " ! I swear , unless you absolutely have no sense of humor in you , you can't but enjoy this silly story about three typical German high-school nerds that suddenly move up the social ladder because they have the strength and advantages of the living dead . In a desperate attempt to conquer a girl's heart ( and body ) , Philip and his friends Konrad and Wurst ( what's in a name ) undergo a voodoo ritual and become soiled by the ashes of a dead Haitian zombie . There's no result at first but , after a car accident , our jolly trio is immune to pain and has developed an insatiable desire for raw meat . While Konrad and Wurst are having the time of their lives abusing their zombie powers , Philip turns to his loving neighbor girl for a cure . This light-headed and spirited production contains all the necessary ingredients to guarantee brainless entertainment and yet a lot more , too . Whereas other German movies are frequently uptight ( no offense to any German readers . . . ) , " Night of the Living Dorks " specifically focuses on laughing with stereotypes and even the country's own national history . All the gags and references towards classic films in the script already featured in previous zombie comedies and yet this movie still feels fresh and innovating . Even the jokes that aren't zombie-related , like soft-drug usage or the " crush on teacher " - syndrome , are effective and will make you chuckle . The acting of the boys is pretty good , while the girls all look ravishing and show quite a bit of naked flesh . The gory situations aren't as outrageous as I thought , which is probably due to the German rating system , but there certainly is some nice sloth to enjoy . Many will disagree , maybe , but I think this pleasant German surprise doesn't have to yield much to similar movies like " Shaun of the Dead " , " Return of the Living Dead " or " The Dead Hate The Living " . Bring out the six-packs of beer !
Silly rodents & sappy romance .	The plot of " Deadly Eyes " centers on a hunky high school teacher and the romantic adventures he experiences in the big city . Paul Harris ( Sam Groom ) has to resist the temptation of sleeping with one of his most gorgeous students ? not just a student but the head-cheerleader , mind you ? and then finds true love when he meets a female health inspector whilst playing in the park with his son . Will our hero be able to explain his new girlfriend what the scarcely dressed teenage beauty is doing in the bedroom of his apartment ? ? ? Oh , then there's also an unimportant sub plot about gigantically mutated rats invading the city through the sewage system and bloodily devouring dozens of people . Nothing special , in other words . . . " Deadly Eyes " is a fairly entertaining early 80's creature feature that'll satisfy undemanding horror buffs , but you obviously shouldn't expect high-quality suspense or even a tad bit of logic . The screenplay was adapted from a novel by the celebrated writer James Herbert , yet the movie is so cheesy & trashy that the skillful writings of the master aren't detectable anywhere . The rats are actually small dogs decorated with over-sized teeth and they always appear to move in slow motion , which doesn't really make them petrifying . The reason for these rodents ' aggressive behavior and mutation into giant proportions also remains pretty vague . It has something do with the burning of a big cargo of rotten corn , but don't ask for detailed information . When they attack ( especially during the second half of the film ) , this results in a couple of adorably gross and hectic sequences , for example in a movie theater or in the newly finished subway tunnel . There's also the infamous and highly memorable moment near the beginning where a handful of rats eat a cute toddler ! You think this'll be what starts the mayhem , yet neither the child nor her babysitter is mentioned afterwards . Apparently nobody missed them . The acting performances are all pretty mediocre apart from a glorious appearance by the legendary Scatman Crothers . Harmless and fun little horror flick , especially recommended for when you invite a group of friends over on a lazy Saturday evening .
You're dead , so ? . STOP TALKING !	" Voices from Beyond " is an overall solid Italian thriller , padded with typical Fulciesque gore scenes . I say padded because you'll quickly notice that , albeit very cool and delightfully gruesome , the gory bits are absolutely irrelevant to the story and they just seem to be included because the fans expect no less from Mr . Fulci . The gore occurs during several nightmare-sequences , a totally gratuitous autopsy and through repeated images of a slowly decomposing corpse . The rotting process goes incredibly fast here , by the way . Only moments after the burial , the corpse is already covered in maggots and cobwebs ! Anyway , you certainly don't need these gloriously gooey moments in order to follow the story , but they sure make the movie more entertaining and easier to digest ( ? except if you have a weak stomach , of course ) . The actual story , written by Lucio Fulci himself , is quite compelling and revolves on the arrogant and despicable Mainardi family . The patriarch ? Georgio ? died from food poisoning , but his soul is restless and can't help thinking his dead was a carefully planned murder conspiracy . Therefore he seeks supernatural contact with the only remaining person he can trust , namely his cherubic teenage daughter Rosy . Guided by the voice of her departed father , Rosy investigates the various reasons why the entire Mainardi family wanted Georgio dead . The premise might sound a little silly ; yet " Voices from Beyond " is quite involving and the tension is adequately build up . The film as a wholesome may not rank among his best efforts , but this is definitely one of Lucio Fulci's finest achievements in directing ! There are several highly imaginative scenes to state his mastery , most notably the part where Georgio's body lies in state and the family members come to pay their last ' respects ' . With each person standing before him , we are informed ? through flashbacks - about the conflicts ( read : possible motivations for killing ) between him / her and the deceased . Very powerful ! There are negative aspects as well , of course , like the occasionally poor dialogs and monologues , especially when Georgio's soul speaks ! I suppose this is why dead people don't talk ? They say stupid and cheesy things . Also , you should prepare for a dull and completely UNexciting climax . It's a really lousy ending to an overall recommended thriller . Now then , who wants a slice of eyeball-omelet ?
Up to your neck in Trash !	There are various ways to interpret " On Evil Grounds " , the mental state of seriousness definitely NOT being one of them . This incredibly low-budgeted and amateur produced " new-age Grindhouse " movie is completely shameless , vulgar , tasteless , nonsensical , offensive and demented . At the festival where I attended the Belgian premiere , writer / director Peter Koller ? as well as half of the film's cast ? was present and he himself described the film as a psychotic survival-version of ? " Romeo and Juliet " . Yeah , okay ! Who knows what to expect from a vague and bizarre one-line summery like that ? Only five minutes far into the film , however , and you'll have to admit it's a pretty accurate description ! We follow a young couple referred to as Romeo and Juliet . He's a sadistic freak in desperate need of anger management and she's a hopeless romanticist with insatiable sexual desires . They're looking for a loft to settle down together but run into a pair of freaks that are even crazier then themselves . The real estate agent and his boss , some kind of inbred car technician , use the loft to lure young couples , capture them and subsequently submit them to sheer torture . Romeo literally ends up to his neck in trouble , but he's not exactly an obedient hostage and Juliet won't surrender without putting up a fight , neither . The comparisons between " On Evil Grounds " and Tex Avery's lifework are more than justified . The filming style , sense of humor and especially the violence in this movie are very cartoonesque . In terms of exploitation / horror cinema , this translates as OTT extreme vulgarity and splatters that yet never once feels disturbing or even remotely scary . Peter Koller and C° are simply out to disgust people and succeed quite well , I may add . There's random vomiting , wife beating , rough sex , bondage and the wildest masturbation scene ever filmed . Needless to say " On Evil Grounds " isn't a very good film story-wise , but it uses some terrific locations , ingenious set pieces and inventive photography . The limited cast gives away enthusiast performances and Peter Koller obviously knows his horror / spaghetti western / euro-trash classics .
Delightful Dutch junk	Honneponnetje is a completely meaningless , but very entertaining 80's comedy from the Netherlands . It's a light-hearted waste of time , made with a lot of enthusiasm and goodwill from both cast and crew . The unusual title refers to the star girl's name in the film . She's a sixteen-year-old cutie , stuck behind the walls of a very strict and prudish Catholic boarding school . She manages to get her hands on some erotic literature and she quickly becomes curious and intrigued by the act of lovemaking . So , our little sweetheart independently decides to escape the boarding school and hikes to a nearby city to find out the meaning of ' love ' . The entire comical premise of the film handles about the girl's innocence and naïveté . She doesn't understand the sexist and anti-feminist remarks men make about her looks and she willingly follows anyone who tries to abuse her youthful beauty . She even ends up on the set of a pornographic movie without knowing what's going on ! Meanwhile , mother Superior worries about her institute's good reputation and spreads the word that Honneponnetje has been kidnapped . Like usual in this type of films , there's a forced happy ending and a happy happy joy joy moral attached to it . But , dropping all skepticism , Honneponnetje is good fun and sexy entertainment . Nada Van Nie , whose tender appearance really helps this film's credibility , plays the girl . Other than this film , she only starred ( by my knowledge ) in ' Intensive Care ' . A film that might as well can be referred to as the worst Dutch film ever . The Belgian class actor Herbert Flack has a delightful role as the adult film producer called ' Apollo ' . Funniest scene : The young beauty sees her own breasts for the first time and looks amazed . In the boarding school , she was only allowed to wash herself while wearing a long , white virgin robe .
Killing beauty queens . . . Jess Franco Style ! !	Die Säge des Todes - probably best known under the title BLOODY MOON - is Jess Franco's response and share to the popular trend of teen slasher films . This subgenre was merely founded by John Carpenter when he released Halloween and it reached his top in 1980 , when Friday the 13th came out . Jess Franco is , apart from being a very creativy filmmaker , also a pretty good marketeer because he immediately joined this trend and presented us : Die Säge des Todes . True , this movie is far from being the master of exploitation's finest achievement . . . but his fans certainly won't be disappointed and even horror fans and gorehounds in general won't mind watching this film . Franco's style is clearly present in several aspects of the movie . The violence and nudity is shown very explicit and the murder scenes don't leave very much to the imagination . You need to have a pretty strong stomach and nerve-system to keep watching some of these massacres ! ! ( if you're interested in the most brutal decapitation ever shown in films . . . this is your movie ! ! ) . The acting performances are overall better than I feared and you forgive these actresses for their lack of experience . All of them are just so pretty and the scream in such realistic ways . . . I hope the leading actress was payed for each yell she gave , she must be a millionaire then . My highest praise concerning this movie goes out to the great use of atmospheric and creepy music . The theme and the sound effects provide the film with a bit of tension at least . . . The plot is not highly memorable . SMALL SPOILERS It takes place in a Spanish language school which is being led by a middle-aged , fancy looking lady . Well , she leads it but all the money and decisions being made belong to the old aunt of her . Her brother , the horribly mutilated Miguél , just got released from a mental institution and since then . . . terrifying murders are being commited . It's seems fairly obvious that Miguél isn't quite cured yet but is he really the murderer ? ? END SPOILERS Recommended to all kind of horror fans : Those who like exploitation stuff ( especially FRANCO exploitation-stuff ) , fans of violent and bloody slasherfilms and even to the extreme gorehounds . . . Enjoy !
Miaow Miaow . . . Catfight in the dorm tonight !	Myself and a mate promptly decided to watch " Reform School Girls " upon seeing the trailer that advised all intellectual viewers ? and I quote ? to keep their criticism for themselves . . . or else we'll nail your tongues to the floor . Subsequently the trailer showed a lot of footage of attractive girls showering and guaranteed there was plenty more where that came from . And they're right , too ! This greatest trailer ever also perfectly captures the tone of the film , as it's a demented tongue-in-cheek bad girls penitentiary exploitation flick that definitely shouldn't be taken too seriously . My best guess would be that writer / director Tom DeSimone is a pleasantly deranged and sleaze-obsessed guy that single-handedly wanted to bring homage to all " Women in Prison " movies at once . The lead warden ( played by no one less than Sybil Danning ) looks an awful lot like Dyanne Thorne when she gave image to Ilsa , the She Wolf of the SS and several of the other supportive characters appear to be pure stereotypes as well . There's the sadistic , corpulent and massively lesbian guard , the kinky S & M leader of the dorm ( that looks about three times as old as the other inmates ) , the vulnerable who shouldn't be there and ? of course ? the tough black chicks . There's only one man popping up in the film and naturally he's a legitimate bastard . Tons of nudity and outrageous cat-fights make this a very textbook example of politically incorrect 80's exploitation , but it sure it a lot of fun to watch . Only the Italian directors deliver movies of this kind that are even better .
Think twice before becoming a Vegetarian !	Initially I didn't have the slightest interest in watching " The Ruins " , and this only because I vaguely read half of the plot summary's first sentence , which said : " Four young and attractive American tourists on holiday in Mexico befriend a German guy and together they embark on a journey to visit a hidden Mayan pyramid deep in the jungle " . Right there I stopped reading and promptly lost interest , as I was convinced this would turn out another typical gross-out torture flick in the trend of " Turistas " , " Live Feed " , " Hostel " and all those other nowadays horror movies where dimwit Americans fall prey to sadistic foreigners . Later ? and sadly when the movie already left theaters ? I learned that " The Ruins " actually revolves on murderous flesh-eating plants and some websites and reviews even made comparisons between this film and " Day of the Triffids " ( which just happens to be a huge personal favorite of mine ) , so I couldn't wait until it came out on rental . " The Ruins " is indeed refreshing and more innovative than the aforementioned so-called Torture-Porn flicks and contains a handful of powerfully memorable highlights , but in general it's still a lacking and mediocre movie . " The Ruins " opens with fifteen minutes of dull and clichéd footage of American tourists partying abroad , but then on their last day they set out to visit a hidden Mayan pyramid that isn't even on any of the tourist maps . Once there , a tribe of seemingly petrified Mayans chase kill one of their newly made friends and chase the rest of the group to the top of the pyramid . Unable to leave , they quickly learn why the aboriginals are so scared . The inside and top of the pyramid are infested with deadly parasite plants that slowly surround the remaining survivors . The screenplay and tone of the film are very uneven , as moments of genuine terror and sheer suspense are interfered with truly imbecilic plot twists and implausible relationship conflicts . How are you supposed to interpret a movie that features menacing Maya-tribes and eerie subcutaneous vegetation , but then suddenly also suggests that certain monstrous plants are capable of imitating the sound of a ringing cell phone ? If it wasn't for a couple of really stupid and disappointing elements " The Ruins " could have been a modest sleeper-hit , especially because the psychological decay of the lead characters is grimly illustrated and also because the gory parts are effectively repulsive . If you have a weak stomach or sensitive nerve system , I wouldn't exactly recommend the scenes involving an icky leg-amputation and a relentless Maya execution . Carter Smith does a good job directing his first long feature and the acting performances are more than adequate enough for this type of film . I didn't expect the promising and talented young actress like Jena Malone would go on starring in horror flicks , but at least she opted for a remotely decent one .
A Violent Day at the Races	Just in case you didn't know it yet , Yul Brynner isn't the type of guy you want to mess with ! This charismatic tough bastard starred in a whole lot of western & war movie classics and wasted the lives of approximately a thousand bad guys on screen . Being a big fan of his macho style , I loved to see him star in a typically violent crime-thriller , particularly because this an Italian crime-thriller and those guys always add more of the red stuff and sleaze ! The plot of " Death Rage " is unimportant and routing Mafia & Revenge guff , but the car chase sequences are exhilarating and the wild shootouts are truly blood-soaked ( at least in the uncut version . . . ) . The events are set in Italy ? mainly on the horse racecourse ? where the American hit-man Peter Marciana has come out of retirement especially to kill the gangster boss who was responsible for the death of his beloved brother . Peter gets entangled in the local mafia network , falls in love with a ravishing strip bar dancer ( Barbara Bouchet ! ) and makes a young and spirited thug his hit-man-acolyte . This last sub plot is stolen directly from the Charles Bronson flick " The Mechanic " , but who cares , as every fan knows that Italian cinema loves to borrow ideas from popular American blockbusters . Yul Brynner is still the total definition of coolness , even though he clearly didn't put too much passion into his performance of the ageing assassin . His bald head , his eyes ( that appear to malfunction ) and his sneaky smile are enough to make his character convincing ! Martin Balsam is another veteran actor whose character isn't really important , but it's still very nice to have him around . Antonio Margheriti is ? in my humble opinion ? Italy's most underrated cult director and " Death Rage " is another amiable effort in his repertoire .
Our little girl is becoming a ( dangerous ) woman . . .	This movie opens with a totally gratuitous scene of a young girl showering , and if director Jim Sotos really wants us to believe that she's 16 years old , than that's pretty darn disturbing ! In fact , people continuously mention her young age , yet the camera takes every opportunity to zoom in on her perky breasts and well-sculptured bottom . Apart from this rather uncomfortable obsession with nonage nudity , " Sweet Sixteen " is a fairly imaginative and sadly overlooked 80's gem , that is at least a lot more creative than its contemporary slasher colleagues . The ravishing Melissa is the new kid in a little Texan town and straight away all the boys school have the hots for her . One tiny problem though , her dates always turn up brutally stabbed shortly after . Melissa looks kind and innocent enough , yet she has this aura of mysteriousness surrounding her . Sheriff Burke investigates the murders , although it looks more like his annoying teenage daughter is in charge , and the search leads him to the town's old history . Obviously low-budgeted , " Sweet Sixteen " still provides a fair amount of scares , grisly murders and surprisingly adequate acting performances . The atmosphere is uncanny throughout and there's a convincing plot-twist near the end . To sum it all up , this is a modest 80's horror treasure , ripe for re-discovery .
Virgin Blood : for all your party events ! Now with new and improved formula !	This is a Hammer film production and the name Dracula is mentioned in the title , yet shouldn't raise any hopes to see Christoper Lee dressed up in women's clothing , as this is not another entry in the long-running Dracula-series ! The screenplay of this movie is based on the life of Countess Elisabeth Bathory , who lived in Hungary during the 16th century , and became almost as ( in ) famous as Vlad Dracula because of her bizarre rituals to sustain a youthful appearance . The merciless countess bathed in the blood of slain virgins and supposedly was responsible for the death of more than 300 young girls . Naturally , this makes her an ideal villain and who other than the eminent Hammer Studios were more eligible to turn this legend into a compelling Gothic horror movie ? Director Peter Sasdy and writer Alexander Paal added a lot of popular story lines , like a truckload of sexual intrigues and a neat display of corruption , but they also managed to sustain the morbidity of Bathory's persona . Ingrid Pitt , perhaps the most ravishing Hammer actress ever ( see " The Vampire Lovers " for more evidence ) , is truly magnificent as the repellent countess who would even sacrifice her own daughter in order to maintain her virility . She has the loyal Captain Dobi and a bunch of household staff to obey her commands implicitly and a newly arrived stud to fall in love with . Regretfully , the film lacks balanced pacing and the set pieces too often look like discarded attributes from other Hammer films . There's a satisfying amount of bloodshed and sleaze and the abrupt ending comes as a genuine shock . " Countess Dracula " is perhaps not the most sensational horror movie of the early 70's , but it provides a welcome change in substance and it's definitely worth tracking down by all the fans of Gothic goodness .
Pioneer of Punk !	This extremely hectic and nearly headache-inducing short by the Japanese punk demigod Sogo Ishii is definitely one of the craziest and most experimental art-house movies I ever had the pleasure of seeing on a big screen ( during a special revolving on the director ) . After the two hugely different but already influential long-feature films " Panic High School " and " Crazy Thunder Road " , Ishii finally made the punk-short he clearly dreamed of making ever since the beginning . " Shuffle " is based on comic strip and doesn't really have a story to tell . The camera just very creatively follows a man as he's running out of his apartment and down the streets . He's running from the cops , because he murdered his girlfriend , but he's also running towards the pimp who stole her from him , for vengeance . 30 minutes of playtime only to depict a man running down some streets seems long , but Ishii somehow manages to make it fascinating by presenting a non-stop series of imaginative camera tricks , lighting techniques and unique sound-editing . The visuals are groundbreaking and far ahead of their time . The colors continuously fade out and back in , the camera is put in every possible perspective there is and the music is really loud and stimulating . " Shuffle " often looks like an exercise for Ishii's next big project " Burst City " and it definitely was a great source of influence for future Asian filmmakers like Takashi Miike and Shinya Tsukamoto . You can't really call it a great film , because there are almost no dialogs or character drawings , but it surely guarantees half a hour of adrenalin-rushing spectacle .
BUTCHERED on the Fourth of July !	The 1990's were a truly weak decade for insane and bloody slashers , unless of course if you think " Scream " and all its uninspired clones qualify as good horror films . Luckily enough , there still was the companionship between William Lustig and Larry Cohen , who finished their " Maniac Cop " - trilogy and even pleased us horror fans with the entirely new and delightfully trashy " Uncle Sam " . Naturally , this is a pretty insignificant film when it comes to plotting and building up tension , but it does deliver some great gore and splendid social sarcasm . Sam Harper was a loyal yet slightly deranged American soldier who got killed by friendly fire during operation Desert Storm . Some years later , his heavily burned corpse is brought back to the States just in time for the annual Fourth of July celebration in his hometown , where his young and naive nephew Jody still considers him to be a true role model . He comes back to life , obviously , and starts an ingenious killing spree dressed up like " Uncle Sam " ; the symbol that used to recruit young men as American soldiers . " Uncle Sam " works well as a satire , criticizing the US Army forces that often don't really know what they're fighting for as well as typical blind patriotism , but foremost it's an exciting horror flick with several violent deaths and a cool , old-fashioned villain . The drama-story lines in Larry Cohen's screenplay ( revolving on the aunt and mother trying to convince young Jody that warfare is actually a horrible thing ) are surprisingly subtle and well-argumented . The two female leads ( Leslie Neale & Anne Tremko ) aren't very memorable and the young kid is rather annoying , but ? and as usual ? Lustig & Cohen could count on the presence of several B-movie veterans to star in supportive roles . Isaac Hayes is great as the retired army commander and Halloween's P . J . Soles appears as some kid's obnoxious mother . Good fun , recommended !
Dances With Wolves . . . with a cannibal-twist !	Deep River Savages represents Umberto Lenzi's first steps in the notorious field of cannibalism and jungle adventure movies . This infamous director will gross out entire audiences during the early 80's , with vicious cult flicks like ' Cannibal Ferox ' ; ' Eaten Alive by the Cannibals ' and ' Nightmare City ' . This film is more like a pioneer and Lenzi carefully explores the primitive jungle communities and their traditional rites . Deep River Savages isn't half as gross as the title and DVD-cover leads you to believe and it basically is a social portrait mixed with an authentic love-story ! ? Believe it or not ! Actually ? the best way to describe this film is : Dances with Wolves ? with cannibals ! The plots of both movies are pretty much alike , the only differences are the setting and the fact Kevin Costner's film is praised all over the world while nobody has ever heard of Deep River Savages . John ? an Englishman ? is traveling across Eastern Asia when he gets mixed up in a bar-fight . He accidentally kills a man and flees on one of the many unknown rivers . He ends up as a prisoner in primitive tribe , somewhere deep in the jungle . The aboriginals actually form a rather joyful community ! They spend their days watching animal-fights ( roosters and snakes versus martens ) and swimming naked . Our ? civilized ' friend is tortured at first and he attempts to escape . But , pretty soon he falls in love with the local beauty ( Me Me Lai ? who looks even better here than she did in Deodato's Jungle Holocaust ) and marries her . John feels at home there now and he even helps the tribe in fighting the sadistic enemy-tribe from the across the river . The film contains very few action sequences and is overall pretty boring . I don't blame Lenzi for this , though . Even though I prefer his later splatter films , you have to keep in mind this movie was made in 1972 ! Deep River Savages also looks very cheap , amateurish and the cinematography isn't anywhere near as stunning as in other cannibal films . The whole movie depends on Me Me Lai's beautiful naked body and the short ( but action-packed ) climax . Nonetheless , it stays recommended to Italian horror-admirers who're interested in the roots of ' Savage Cinema ' .
Dragon Ball Ishii !	With " Electric Dragon 80 . 000V " , director Sogo Ishii brings homage to . . . himself , really ! Who else could he pay tribute to , because HE is the one man who single-handedly started the wild and anarchist Japanese punk-cinema and , even though other directors may have had a lot more success with it ( for example Shinya Tsukamoto with " Tetsuo " ) , Ishii is and will always remain the pioneer of punk . That being said , " ED8kV " is an extremely weird accomplishment and it's probably the type of movie that spontaneously causes people to suffer from epilepsy & twitching . It feels like a 55 minutes long industrial videoclip , with chaotic camera movements , extremely loud noises and the most unique use of black and white photography you'll ever see . Ishii also put quite a bit of wicked imagination into the script , as he revolves his film on an unorthodox type of super-hero named Dragon Eye Morrison . The young punker-protagonist survived a massive electro-shock as a kid , but the accident somehow sparked severe aggression and powers . He sleeps with chains around his wrists and boisterously plays on his electric guitar to control the anger . Eventually , he's allowed to let out all his furious anger in a battle against his oddly masked nemesis Thunderbolt Buddha . Crazy film , a lot less nightmarish than the aforementioned " Tetsuo " , but definitely an unforgettable visual attack on pretty much all your senses . Ishii's direction feels genuinely hostile and aggressive , as if he wanted to take revenge on big studios and meddlesome producers who always interfered with his personal visions and ideas , resulting in final cuts the director didn't even like . " Burst City " is the ideal example of that . As said , the film is only 55 minutes long , but personally I thought it was more than long enough ! A couple of minutes extra and I probably would have started hallucinating about talking lizards and malicious Buddha's myself . And my tympanum membranes probably wouldn't have survived a longer version , neither .
Walk , Talk and MUTILATE like an Egyptian !	" Blood Feast " is the first gore film by the notorious director Hershell Gordon Lewis and by God does it ever live up to its gigantic cult reputation ! This may perhaps be one of the worst and dumbest movies ever scripted down , but it'll always remain hugely entertaining to watch and the influence it had on the horror industry is undeniable ! Like all of H . G . Lewis ' later horror movies , " Blood Feast " is very cheap and amateurishly put together trash cinema , in which all the regular aspects of film-making are secondary to a couple of extended and utterly gross slaughterings . There's no real story , let alone an attempt to create some tension , the camera-work is monotonous and the acting performances of the entire cast are FAR beyond horrible . We follow a crippled and hugely disturbed Egyptian caterer who randomly butchers young girls and amputates different body parts from their corpses in order to bring sacrifice to an ancient Egyptian queen . Even though his murderous trace isn't exactly that hard to follow , the local police squad has no idea where to look for their killer . Everything you heard or read about the gore in this film is true ! It's truly outrageous and even now , over forty years later , still very few enthusiast horror directors manage to make their low-budget films as repulsive as the almighty Hershell Gordon Lewis did . We have a versatile selection of cut-off limbs , torn out tongues , bloody whippings and ? my personal favorite ? an overlong close-up of a poor girl whose brains are spread all over a beach . I recommend this film highly if it were only for the nauseating gore , but it's also worth watching with a group of friends so that you can list all the elements that are hilariously inept ! The female star , for example , is supposed to be interested in Egyptian history and just attended a lecture on bloody sacrifices , yet one day later she willingly undergoes a ritual sacrifice like it was literally explained to her .
This film must be what pure hell feels and look like !	Okay , I can't possibly reward " Tetsuo " with a rating higher than , simply because the story was overly surreal and confusing ( in all honesty , I didn't understand one iota of it . . . ) . But ? and this is surely worth something too ? it does get the credit for being one of the most disturbing film experiences I ever beheld ! " Tetsuo " is a wild series of raw and nightmarish footage , roughly edited together and guided by an industrial-hardcore music soundtrack . The cinematography is in eerie black and white , the sound effects are ear-splitting and often unrecognizable and the low-budget special effects are shocking . All these elements , plus of course the insane plot of men turning into aggressive metal machines , make " Tetsuo " a truly ugly yet fascinating cult gem . I have no idea how to properly describe this movie . . . I suppose it are writer / director / protagonist Shinya Tsukamoto's personal fantasies of sexual perversion and sadistic violence , but obviously influenced by typically Japanse types of " entertainment " , like magna-comics and Godzilla monster-movies . One thing is for sure , though : this film is no tea-party !
Freaks and lunatics have taken over the apartment !	Although rather insignificant and anonymous , " the 4th floor " is an entertaining and well-made thriller , capable of providing you with a few modest scares and maybe even a single " jump " - moment . The premise is far from original , though . It doesn't require a lot of experience in the horror genre to see where writer / director Josh Klausner found his inspiration . The 4th floor combines elements that made films like " The Tenant " , " Rear Window " and even " The Shining " legendary . But still the tension is built up carefully and with respect for the genre so I really don't feel the urge of using the lack of originality against Klausner . The headstrong and self-confident Jane ( Juliette Lewis ) inherits a small apartment from her late aunt and , even though there were plans for her and her lover to move in a house on the countryside together , she prefers to live in it . Almost immediately after her arrival , it becomes clear that her neighbor down below holds a grudge against her . The supposedly elderly tenant from apartment 4 begins to terrorize Jane , with steps of increasing eeriness . Jane also soon finds out that she won't get help from her other neighbors , as they're a unique collection of eccentric beings ? . on the verge of social misfits , actually . The character drawing of this film is pretty good and the climax ? although you see it coming ? is overall satisfying . The acting is pretty weak . Especially William Hurt ( who plays Jane older lover and national weather-man Greg ) seems to openly wonder how on earth he could have ended up in a production like this . Lewis acts like she always does ( almost impossible to determine whether she likes the script or not ) and exaggeratedly shows her skinny body . The supportive cast is the most interesting , as it contains a freaky role by Shelley Duval ( The Shining ) and Robert Costanzo as the exterminator . The 4th Floor isn't essential viewing but you certainly won't regret having seen it , neither . Sometimes , all it takes is a bit of brainless suspense and cheap thrills .
Is Jack Palance Jack the Ripper ? ?	Fairly stylish and suspenseful 50's remake of " The Lodger " , a story set during Jack the Ripper's reign of terror in London near the end of the 19th century . In one of his earliest film roles , the tall and handsome Jack Palance portrays a quiet and introvert pathologist on the lookout for a room in the center of London . He finds one in the house of Helen and William Harley where he spends most of the time working in the attic . His behavior becomes increasingly strange , especially when he falls in love with the singer / showgirl niece of his landlords . Suspicions arise that the distinguished Mr . Slade is the feared maniac Jack the Ripper . There's very little action in " Man in the Attic " , but it's atmospheric and both acted & directed with devotion . Palance looks menacing and mysterious and he receives excellent feedback from his supportive cast , most notably from Rhys Williams as the cynical Mr . Harley . Too bad the film also features two overlong cabaret-like musical sequences , which are really misplaced , and I personally would have preferred some more info and details regarding the Ripper-killings . Not for nowadays horror-audiences , but worth a look in case you're a fan of classy , tension-driven thrillers .
" I See Dead People ? Myself ! ! "	This Americanized re-telling of the Swedish chiller-hit " Den Osynlige " certainly isn't a bad film , but it sadly is just a tad bit too sentimental and unmemorable . The film describes itself perfectly as " Ghost " meets " The O . C . " The plot deals with supernatural themes and sincere human emotions , while the characters ( and especially the soundtrack ) seem to come straight out of a pretentious high-school TV series . The protagonists are all beautiful and spoilt teenagers , so it's pretty difficult to believe they're dealing with life-altering issues like murder , poetry and spiritual redemption . But nonetheless " The Invisible " remains an occasionally very engaging and fast-paced thriller , admirably translated to the screen by genre-expert David S . Goyer . Nick Powell is a popular high-school student who lives alone with his overly protective mother ever since his father passed away . When the local troubled girl Annie and her gang of youthful thugs wrongfully assume Nick told the cops about Annie's involvement in a jewelry theft , they beat him up badly and leave him for for dead in the woods . Slowly approaching the light at the end of the tunnel , Nick returns as an invisible spirit and painfully witnesses how the police investigation regarding his disappearance evolves extremely slow and frustratingly . His last and only chance is to somehow get into contact with Annie and convince her to correct her mistake with a good deed . David S . Goyer attempts ? fairly successfully , I may add ? to add as few fancy special effects and false scares as possible and puts the emphasis on the characters and the atmosphere . The characters of Nick and Annie clearly gain maturity throughout the story and by the end of the film , they evolved from annoying teenage brats to . . . LESS annoying teenage brats . The handful of sub plots , especially the one focusing on Nick and his mother , are rather redundant and only make the wholesome even more irksome . The performances are pretty good , though . Justin Chatwin ( " Taking Lives " ) and Margarita Levieva are terrific and actually manage to make their implausible characters convincing and at least a bit likable near the end . The obtrusive moral of the story as well as the overly melodramatic twists when reaching the film's finale are a bit difficult to cope with ? especially if you're primarily a fan of horror and thrillers ? but I bet other types of audiences will have tears when walking out of the theater . " The Invisible " has the same producers as " The Sixth Sense " and definitely also shares ideas and plot-aspects with that occult thriller hit . The little kid in the former saw dead people who didn't really realize they crossed the line to the other side , whereas Nick damn well realizes he's dead but there's nobody who sees him . Decent film , at least worth one viewing .
Tobe Hooper's 70's films still stand as his best ones ! Golden horror ! !	' The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ' ( of course ) and ' Death Trap ' ( less obvious already ) are the only two films Tobe Hooper should be really remembered for as a horror director . They both are raw and chilling explorations of the angry rural America . The location of this film looks like a giant swampy area , homed by underdeveloped perverted rednecks and other freaks of society . Neville Brand terrifically portrays Judd , the isolated owner of the Starlight Hotel . Judd suffers a bit from the incapability to communicate with people and the guests at his hotel are doomed to die as soon as they enter his facility . He also has a pet crocodile swimming underneath the porch of his hotel , which is a pretty convenient method to get rid of human leftovers ? A poor , rejected prostitute is the first to undergo Judd's murderous rituals . Her relatives soon come to search for her and are doomed as well . In the meantime , the croc feeds on some more unfortunate by passers . Although I regard this as Hooper's second best film , it doesn't come close to the power of TCM ? Which kind of gives you an idea of how great I think TCM was ! The settings and photography of Horror Hotel ( one of the film's a . k . a's ) look nasty and utterly cheap . Just as it did in TCM , this actually increases the macabre atmosphere and you constantly feel something wicked is about to happen . The characters ? although pretty imaginative ? aren't as convincing as the Sawyer family but they too seem to come running straight out of a freakshow as well ! There's Judd of course , but also a very memorable Robert Englund who plays a retarded yokel with an obsession for anal sex . The scream-queen prototype Marilyn Burns returns as well before disappearing into actress-oblivion forever . The crocodile as well as most other horror scenery looks really cheap , but to me , this only increases the trash-fun value of this film . Highly recommended viewing as far as I'm concerned .
It's going to be a Cold & Creepy Christmas . . .	Director Gregory Jacobs is an acolyte of Steven Soderbergh and , obviously , there are far worse references to have if you want to make it in Hollywood . Jacobs is the first assistant director of practically all of Soderbergh's movies and , presumably to return a favor , the director of such mainstream box office hits as " Traffic " and " Ocean's Eleven " is credited as executive producer in Gregory Jacobs ' own and very first tryout in the horror genre . And there's more talent involved in " Wind Chill " , as leading lady Emily Blunt is unquestionably one of the best young actresses in America lately , and she also already has a pretty impressive repertoire , with blockbusters like " The Devil Wears Prada " and " Charlie Wilson's War " . The involvement of these names , as well as the description of the basic plot , definitely raises enthusiast expectations for " Wind Chill " to become finally another worthwhile and original new horror flick . After seeing the film , I can surely state that " Wind Chill " indeed benefices from a largely successful concept and a handful of genuinely atmospheric suspense sequences , but it's still far from perfect and you can't help thinking that some of plot's main ideas could and should have been processed a lot better than this . The first thing that really bothered me , although merely just a detail , is that the two protagonists remain nameless throughout the entire film . I fail to comprehend the significance of this , especially since there are several occasions during which it's likely for " boy " and " girl " to address each other using their names . Secondly , and more accurate , the circumstances how they meet and the boy's motivations to spend a six hour road trip with girl are just a tad bit too far-fetched and implausible for my tastes . Two days before Christmas , girl responds to a message placed on the university's billboard by boy , looking for people to drive to Delaware for the holidays . They get lost in the snowy mountain roads , become involved in a peculiar car accident and remain stuck in the vehicle , awaiting a slow and agonizing freezing death . Not only does girl discover that boy set up the entire trip just to make her fall in love with him , but the isolated region also appears to be haunted with restless spirits and a dwelling serial killer . The supernatural themes definitely show a lot of eerie potential , but they're sadly underdeveloped and only second to the rather silly love-and-hate relationship between the two slowly freezing students . The actual scenes involving the ghostly appearances of decayed victims and the killer himself ( an uncanny highway patrolman ) are greatly unsettling and grim , but also very confusing and vague , like it's a sub plot that only became added after the first draft of the screenplay was already finished . Gregory Jacobs perfectly reflects the horrible cold and despair his players are experiences onto the viewer , however . The snowy landscapes are beautiful yet ominous and menacing at the same time and the moody musical tunes also help to increase the " chill-factor " . Emily Blunt is terrific in her role and she depicts a young and beautiful horror character that for once isn't stupid or helpless . Ashton Holmes is actually pretty impressive as well , since the viewer never really knows whether to pity him or to hope he gets the girl . In conclusion , even though " Wind Chill " is still severely flawed and inconclusive , it surely offers a nice and refreshing change from all the brainless and splatter-packed movies ( " Saw " , " Hostel " , ? ) that are popular nowadays .
Good film . . . but no masterpiece	I've seen the Exorcist quite a few times by now ( including the director's cut or the so-called " version you've never seen " ) but not once did I feel like I was watching a true masterpiece . It's a solid film with intriguing characters and groundbreaking premise but it depends too much on only a few powerful and mesmerizing sequences instead of a being a coherent wholesome . The truly eerie images of a possessed 12-year-old girl cursing and mutilating herself are very shocking but the all the rest sadly isn't much more than a dramatic family portrait and a Catholic essay on evil . Don't get me wrong ? . I also regard this as an essential movie and one of the few films that co-formed the horror genre but I definitely think it's a slightly overrated . The story develops rather slowly and it lacks involvement . Once the " Devil " makes his entry , Friedkin and the cast take you for a wild ride of shocks , ahead-of-its-time brutality and unseen atmosphere but it finishes as abrupt as it started . Luckily , there's the class-A cast , of which all members bring extra depth to their characters . Jason Miller and Max Von Sydow are impressive but yet my vote for best actor here goes to Lee J . Cob who adds some welcome humor to the devastating substance . The young Linda Blair made herself immortal and she still is everybody's favorite head-tolling girl . The rude voice of Mercedes Cambridge ( who dubbed the " Pazuzu " - lines ) only gives more impact to the image of evil . Anyway , no matter how sublime the soundtrack is ? no matter how strong the reputation is by now ? The Exorcist certainly is not the scariest movie ever . As far as I'm concerned , it isn't even the best tale handling about " religious evil " ( check out " The Omen " for that ) . Let's just say it is fundamental viewing in case the horror genre fascinates you . A few words about the re-edited anniversary release : aside from a very professionally made digital soundtrack , there isn't much to discover extra . There's the notorious sequence in which Regan ( Linda Blair ) rushes down the stairs spider-style but those 5 seconds are hardly worth purchasing the special edition . Other than this sequence , the re-release stresses the Catholic treatise even more ( with lots of pointless talking ) which actually makes the film dull and uninteresting at times . And it's really hurts to use those words while describing a classic title .
Dead Head's Chest	Jacinto Molina , more commonly known as Paul Nasty ( err ? I mean , Naschy ) strikes again with this ultra-bizarre and ultra-deranged Spanish exploitation effort . The script of " Horror Rises from the Tomb " is incoherent as hell , there isn't a single interesting or well-written dialog to be heard , acting & directing are both extremely shabby and the supposedly malevolent witches , zombies and other unidentifiable types of monsters evoke more laughs than scares . And yet , despite all these abnormalities ( and more ? ) , " Horror Rises from the Tomb " is a vintage and purely entertaining gem of 70's horror cinema ! Naschy wrote the oddball script himself and stars as no less than THREE different descendants of the noble French de Marnac family . During the fairly atmospheric opening set in the 15th Century , we witness how a malicious Alaric ( Naschy ) and his mistress are brutally executed for practicing witchcraft . Several years later , Hugo ( Naschy again ) invites three of his friends to join him for a vacation at his ancient family estate somewhere in rural France . Quite a lot of awkward and totally irrelevant things occur , but the bottom line is : Alaric de Marnac's decapitated head is still alive in a chest , buried in the large cemeteries surrounding the estate , and its hypnotizing powers turns people into docile yet bloodthirsty zombies . The film is quite bad and pointless , but at least there's always something going on to entertain you . Whether it's the poor make-up effects on the zombies , the implausible sub plots , the sleaze footage brought on by a couple of fine looking Euro-babes or the ingenious little gimmicks , " Horror Rises from the Tomb " is never boring and never makes you regret the purchase . And who can possibly resist the sequences featuring Naschy's separated head commanding his slaves to bring him human sacrifices and to obey his every word ? Take my word on it : the head-in-the-chest scenes are priceless ! Some of the interior & exterior filming locations are even very enchanting and beautifully captured on camera . Most neutral viewers will probably claim this is the worst film they've ever encountered in their lives , but it's an absolute must for fans of Paul Naschy and essential 70's Euro-horror .
Carrie's baby-sister is just as fiery as she was !	It's usually not a very good idea to make a belated sequel to a horror film , especially not when the original is generally considered a genre masterpiece and from the hands of writer Stephen King and director Brian DePalma . Yet , the makers of " Carrie 2 : The Rage " didn't make complete fools out of themselves , as it is a very entertaining and well-scripted story that appeals to both the fans of the classy original and younger horror lovers . Well , the term " horror " doesn't totally fit this film , because it's only the climax ( last 15 minutes or so ) which is bloody . The best way to describe " The Rage " pretty much is " American Pie " meets " She's All That " with a gory finale . The story is set in a typically American high school where the students only have sex , football and cheer-leading on their minds . The only difference is that this is the same high school were Carrie White raised a little hell 23 years earlier and now there's a new girl with telekinetic powers arriving . . . The unpopular Rachel Lang receives a lot of attention from the top-quarterback Jesse Ryan , and thus the rest of the sport and cheerleader team plot to humiliate her in public . They obviously didn't learn much from their school's infamous history . After a quite atmospheric intro and a suicide-sequence which pretty much is the coolest I've ever seen , " The Rage " becomes a little slow and it starts suffering from too many clichés . Still , during these rather dull moments there's the good acting of Emily Bergyl and Jason London to enjoy , as well as some remotely funny teenager sex-jokes . The climax is very much worth anticipating and contains some really graphic killings . The make-up effects are terrifically gruesome and some of the macabre deaths are very ingenious . This sure is a predictable and redundant film , but that doesn't mean it can't be fun .
In Space No One Can Hear The Green Queen Scream !	The year is 1990 and some institute for extraterrestrial research ( they're like NASA , only smarter ) awaits the very first arrival of intelligent alien life forms on earth . Instead of visitors , they receive an S . O . S informing them that the expected alien ship crash-landed somewhere on the moons surrounding the planet Mars . Dr . Farraday ( the great Basil Rathbone in one of his final roles ) promptly sends out a double rescue mission , only to discover there's just one alien in need of help and she isn't friendly at all ! Quite the contrary , she's a green-colored vampire queen who looks upon humans as tasty candy bars that'll eventually help to repopulate her own dying species . It's up to handsome astronauts John Saxon and his colleagues to prevent this menace from ever reaching our planet . " Queen of Blood " isn't a legendary Sci-Fi horror milestone , but it certainly is an entertaining and very inventive space-adventure with better than expected visual effects and a terrific cast . First of all , I LOVE how optimistic scriptwriters were back in the 1960's ! This is another film in which they are sure that , by the year 1990 , people with travel back and forth between earth , the moon and all the other planets like it's the most common thing . They all must be so disappointed now , if they're still alive . Considering the time of production , " Queen of Blood " actually was a rather revolutionary film ! The technical dialogue , the costumes , set pieces and story lines are all far ahead of their time and definitely an important source of influence for later Sci-Fi cinema . This movie even predates Ridley Scott's " Alien " by 10 years with its idea of an alien-attack from INSIDE the earthly spaceship ! The silent queen comes aboard , even seduces one of the crew members ( a very young Dennis Hopper ) and strikes unexpectedly . This twist provides the film with extra tension and a claustrophobic atmosphere . Curtis Harrington masterfully camouflages the lack of budget with simple tricks and it's always a pleasure observe the acting skills of John Saxon ; one of the coolest dudes ever . It's also fantastic to see Basil Rathbone ( at the end of his impressive career ) and Dennis Hopper ( at the beginning of his impressive career ) star together in one film ! That's a little trivia-detail cult fanatics will surely appreciate . Admittedly the first half hour is rather boring and overly campy , but patient viewers will be rewarded with a spectacular second half and ? above all ? a downright superb open ending .
Interesting , but too aspiring .	Supposedly one of the better efforts to be shown during last year's edition of the " After Dark Horrorfest " , but personally I'm not sure if you can call that much of a praiseworthy accomplishment when the competition exists of tepid junk like " Lake Dead " and " Nightmare Man " . It is true that " The Deaths of Ian Stone " is one of the most spirited and ambitious new horror movies we've encountered in the past five years , and it certainly earns some extra points for that , but spirit and ambition isn't always sufficient , especially not when you're dealing with a complex screenplay that continuously generates its own structural plot holes and raises its own inexplicable questions . The central and titular character Ian Stone is a troubled and pitiful individual , to say the least . He seems to have a lifespan of only a day , yet he awakes the next ? punctually at three minutes past five ? in an entirely new and different existence . One day , Ian Stone is a popular and talented high school hockey player , the next he's a happily married office clerk or a confused taxi driver . Stone eventually learns he's the main target of " The Harvesters " . They are some type of demons living off the fear of their victims and transforming into uncanny monsters with sharp claws when exposing their true nature . What is it exactly that Ian Stone links to these creatures and why plays the beautiful Jenny an essential role in each of his separate lives ? The plot is actually TOO convoluted for its own good and , halfway through the film already , you sadly come to realize this can only end in disappointment . However , that doesn't mean " The Deaths of Ian Stone " doesn't contain a handful of truly ingenious elements and powerful sequences . The Harvesters , for example , form a creative kind of new horror monsters and the way they literally " absorb " their victims ' fear before dying is rather impressive to behold . The movie also benefits from a thoroughly dark and moody atmosphere , as well as from various grim set pieces and filming locations , like the London underground . " The Deaths of Ian Stone " isn't a very gory film ( or at least not as gory as I expected it to be ) , but there are some neat shocks and the make-up effects on the Harvesters is quite formidable . Hard to believe this is a low-budget picture , in fact . The mystery-aspect of the film perhaps fails a little , but it's nevertheless an admirable attempt . If you're intrigued by the " Groundhog Day " formula in horror movies , you might also want to check out " Salvage " . The director of " The Deaths of Ian Stone " is the unknown Italian guy Dario Piana . The DVD-cover of the film proudly states : From the director of " The Only Come Out At Night " , but this is merely a simple marketing trick . That title sounds like a profound and famous horror movie , but it's actually just an alternate and rarely used title for a totally obscure late 80's Giallo that only a handful of people have seen . I've seen it , and would definitely recommend it to Italian Giallo fanatics , but it can't possibly be compared with this movie .
Flawed but interesting horror / detective thriller .	" Circus of Fear " is a a rare and hard to come across 60's shocker , directed by the same man who made the terrific goth-horror classic " The City of the Dead " . This latter happens to be one of my all time favorite suspense films and even though " Circus of Horror " isn't as unsettling or astonishing , it still definitely is a very good movie with an interesting plot and an original setting . To my regret , however , I also must admit that it's a severely flawed movie , and that's largely because the makers didn't seem to know for sure whether they were shooting a detective-thriller . . . or a horror film . The opening sequences show a group of men robbing a truck transporting bank money and the loot then mysteriously disappears within the scenery of a traveling circus . Scotland Yard inspector Elliot investigates the case and encounters many potential culprits , such as a masked lion tamer ( horror veteran Christopher Lee ) , a blackmailing dwarf and an emotionally frustrated knife-thrower ( quite a danger in his profession ) . Many older Brit-thrillers had extended , well-mounted heist sequences , so the one featuring here isn't very spectacular . The sequences inside the circus are very atmospheric , though , and nearly every character looks threatening and as if they're hiding something . The plot takes quite a few twists near the end and the outcome eventually is unsatisfying . . . or at least it was to me . The cast is excellent with yet another strong performance of Christopher Lee and a curious role for Klaus Kinski as Manfred . If you're familiar with classic horror , you'll recognize the dwarf from other genuine gems like " Vampire Circus " ( Hammer ) , " The Masque of the Red Death " ( Roger Corman ) and " Horror Hospital " . This could have been a much better movie but ? hey - who's complaining ? Definitely worth a watch if you can find it .
Hey , who let the dogs out ?	I have a giant weakness for those typical " animals-on-a-rampage movies " , especially if they were released in the 70's and even more so when the title simply exists of the animal species , like " Grizzly " , " The Bees " , " Shark ! " or ? like in this case - " Dogs " . That's like saying : this is the type of animal we're dealing with here and you already know it's serious even without adding juicy prefixes like " Wild " , " Ravenous " or " Savage " . This unjustly obscure and neglected mid-70's gem deserves a little more attention from genre fanatics , if it were only for its absurdly grotesque plot and ? especially ? for its exhilarating climax . There are numerous creature-features with dogs out there , most are bad ( " Mongrel " , " Play Dead " , " Dogs of Hell " ) and some are good ( " White Dog " , " The Pack " ) , but one thing they all have in common is that they simply featured dogs that were either physically abused or trained to be killers . The fun part about " Dogs " is that the animals ' murderous behavior is a result of genetic experiments and therefore mankind's own damn fault ! The events take place on a quite and remote university campus , where people's loyal and harmless dogs suddenly turn into aggressive animals and form deadly packs at night . A duo of professors discovers that the government secretly experiments with dogs in the school's laboratory . Based on the group spirit and communication skills of ants through the pheromone chemical , the experiments are intended to accomplish a similar reaction between dogs so that they can be used as effective weapons . The tests are a little too successful , as all dogs in the area are affected and go on a relentless killing spree . " Dogs " starts off slow and boring with too much wannabe intellectual gibberish nobody really cares about and overly extended character drawings of protagonists nobody is really interested in . I began to worry even more when the first couple of dog-attacks were shot in the dark and you could only a bit of groaning and barking . Yet , just when you start to accept the fact " Dogs " is nothing more than a forgettable and lackluster low-budgeter , the script throws all tediousness overboard and goes for sheer entertainment . The last half hour is good cheesy fun with an enormous death toll , grainy make-up effects and unintentionally hilarious situations . One of the professors tries to rescue his love interest while the other desperately attempts to evacuate the campus . Eventually the dogs break into the library ? courtesy of the fat nerd who found it necessary to separate from the group in search for snacks ? and massacre the entire campus ! The climatic bloodbath , together with the tacky freeze-frame ending , made " Dogs " a viewing experience I personally can't be too harsh on . And then I haven't even mentioned Linda Grey shower-sequence ! Seek out this bad puppy ( pun intended )
The Dead Pitiable ?	" The Dead Pit " offers a grim & chilling atmosphere , sublime settings and some of the most exhilarating gore effects I've ever seen , and yet . . . it's all ruined by truly amateurish production values and incompetent acting performances . What a crying shame , as Brett Leonard's ( " Feed " , " Hideaway " ) debut easily could have been one of the late 80's most grueling horror accomplishments , with its disturbingly gloom psychiatric clinic setting and the fairly unique ' zombifying ' process that involves scalping people and sticking needles in their exposed brains . When you watch many independent low-budget horror flicks , you tend to get used to bad acting and lousy editing jobs , but it becomes a lot more difficult to overlook when the story actually has such great potential . Then you're just left behind with feelings of disappointment and anger . This film would have been a lot better if everyone ? with the exception of Jeremy Slate ? just kept their mouths shut and focused more on the blood-soaked zombies that come crawling out of the eerie pit in the asylum's secret basement . The living dead are experiment cases of the gifted Dr . Colin Ramzi , who went a little ballistic in his search for discovering the medical causes of insanity . His former partner Dr . Swan killed him and walled him up underneath the asylum but now , twenty years later , the arrival of a mysteriously amnesic girl and a heavy earthquake brought him back and he's more satanic than he ever was . The plot makes no sense and it's full of holes , but it's a really creepy film that features absolutely no comic reliefs or sympathetic characters . The good characters ( like the innocent young nurse ) are slaughtered just as relentlessly as the wicked ones , and you shouldn't root for a happy ending , either ! The odd music contributes to the unsettling atmosphere as well and that abandoned dark hospital building is honestly one of the creepiest horror setting in history . One sequence in particular , when Dr . Ramzi is standing over the pit with his arms spread whilst an army of undead souls emerges , is vintage 80's terror in my humble opinion . But now let's rant a little about the negative elements . They show right away , with the ineptly edited opening credits ! The whole history between Dr . Swan and Dr . Ramzi gets constantly intercut with credits , which looks very amateurish and overly interrupts the pace . The clumsy editing remains the main problem throughout the entire film , as relocations are always indicated by stagnant images of a full moon . That one same shot of the moon must feature in the film for a total of 15 times or something . Most of the acting performances are just hopeless , especially Stephen Foster as the heroic male lead and Danny Gochnauer as the malicious , flashy red-eyed zombie doctor . His character should have just been a silent one . Cheryl Lawson isn't the world's greatest actress neither , but at least she looks nice and walks around scarcely dressed most of the time . Those are very nice undies you're wearing , Cheryl . . . And a sexy top , too !
Oh I'm a happy camper , I'll camp until I . . . DIE !	" Sleepaway Camp 3 " is the type of horror movie that makes you regret the 1980's are done and gone forever . It's a typical product of the flamboyantly glorious decade , with a minimum of plotting and suspense , but a maximum of absurd killing sequences , stereotypical teenage characters and gratuitous nudity . Director Michael A . Simpson doesn't even bother to tell a halfway decent story , as the teen-slashing starts after two minutes into the movie and cheerfully continues till the very end . Angela , everybody's favorite homicidal transsexual chick , is back ! Going by the name of Marie and disguising as a teenager of lower social class , she enrolls in a charity camping project called " An Experiment in Sharing " . Obnoxious rich kids and ghetto street thugs are divided in groups to play stupid trust-games and to do a lot of fishing . Luckily for us , Angela doesn't discriminate anyone and slaughters the rich as well as the poor and the white dorks as well as the black pricks . Part three is , to my recollection at least , slightly less gory than number two , but there's still plenty of ingenious carnage to enjoy , like axe-murders , brutal beatings , torture and even a genuine ' death-by-flagpole ' murder ! This movie is a lot fun to watch , period . Most characters die before they get properly introduced , the girls willingly take their tops of in front of the camera and Angela produces almost as many witty one-liners as Freddy Krueger does in the later installments of Nightmare on Elm Street . Good fun , highly recommended .
Happy Slashing !	100 % female and waving around the certificate of goody-goody Girl Scout , Angela signs in as a counselor at Rolling Hills summer camp . She's determined to make it a fun summer for everyone , singing Kumbaya-songs around the fire and all , but she keeps on having conflicts with rebellious and sex-hungry teenagers . In order to uphold the camp's happy spirit , Angela has no other option but to send the rotten apples home . Of course " sending people home " in Angela's book means slaughtering them brutally ? Talking in terms of 80's slashers , the original " Sleepaway Camp " ( released in 1983 ) is a classic . Along with a selected group of other titles ( like " Prom Night " , " Friday the 13th " and " The Prowler " ) , the original is a film that every self-respecting horror fan simply has to see . This first sequel isn't nearly as ' essential ' , but it still stands as a highly enjoyable and relaxing film . The script contains absolutely no tension or plot-twists , since you already know the culprit's identity from the beginning , so all the excitement depends on the various methods by which the teenager are killed off . Angela uses drills , strings of a guitar , car battery-acid , campfires and there even is an entire act in which campers battle dressed up like horror icons Jason Vorhees , Freddy Krueger and Leatherface ! The biggest trump of " Sleepaway Camp " is that it never takes itself too seriously and it has absolutely no ambition to be a compelling film . All in one , a light-hearted movie with gore , nudity and an attractive cast . You simply can't expect more from a movie like this .
Get your claws off me , you damn dirty ? Bear !	Okay , don't pay too much attention to all the harsh comments downgrading " Grizzly " to be a worthless and not-worth-bothering-for " Jaws " imitation . Undoubtedly the story lines , plot-structure , camera-work and even musical score are strangely reminiscent ( read : identical ) to Spielberg's classic creature-feature milestone , but let's be honest , " Jaws " inspired a numberless amount of contemporary horror films and the majority of them isn't nearly as entertaining as William Girldler's " Grizzly " . Also , it makes summarizing the plot remarkably easy , as everybody has seen " Jaws " and simply needs to replace the words ' unusually over-sized great white shark ' with ' unusually over-sized grizzly bear ' . It's all there : the obnoxious boss refusing to close down the park & camping sites because it would decrease tourism , the gradually revealing more of the virulent animal's huge posture , the trio of unhinged macho men going after him and of course the explosive finale . Despite the complete lack of originality and own ideas , " Grizzly " is a hugely amusing 70's flick and provides satisfying amounts of carnage , cheesy dialogs and preposterous lead characters . It's also quite comical because the titular critter seems to dispose of a wide variation of proportions throughout the film . In the beginning of the film , when the attacks are filmed from his own point of view , he appears to be much larger than when he's shown from the hunters ' perspectives during the second half of the film . William Girdler is rapidly becoming one of my favorite genre directors of the 70's because his films are unpretentious and guaranteed undemanding fun ! It's a terribly shame his career abruptly ended with a fatal helicopter crash .
Kitsch from the Crypt presents : . . .	The hugely successful series ' Tales from the Crypt ' always was average . For every great episode , there were two inferior ones and this trend seems to continue in their long feature movies . Demon Knight was fresh and surprisingly entertaining while this successor ' Bordello of Blood ' is merely kitschy trash . Which doesn't mean it can't be fun , of course ! This film is filled with gore , morbid humor and campy sleaze . In many ways , it reminded my about 70's cheapies and that's always a good thing . The plot is second to the eye-candy and handles about the reincarnation of vampire-queen Lillith who now runs a cheerful whorehouse in the catacombs of a funeral house . Lillith and her foxy hookers devour the male customers while a strict Catholic organization covers these actions . Things get a little more complicated for Lillith when the prudish Katherine comes to search for missing brother , assisted by the private eye Rafe Guttman . The cast of ' Bordello of Blood ' is filled with familiar faces . Angie Everhart was an ingenious choice and she clearly has the time of her life portraying the salacious Lillith and she never looked sexier . Too bad Erika Elaniak seems a little lost in her role of the over-religious babe . Of course , it's hard to picture a former playmate and Baywatch-vixen like an opponent of premarital sex ? Saturday Night Live clown Dennis Miller is decent and there are good supportive roles for Corey Feldman , Chris Sarandon and Phil Fondacaro ( the midget from ' Troll ' ) . Best aspect is the gore of course and Bordello of Blood is an authentic splatter delight . There are torsos cut in half , severed heads , burning corpses and ripped out hearts ! As it's standard procedure in the series , the Crypt Keeper who always has a few hilarious one-liners to tell , introduces the film .
Young talent should be stimulated . . .	This early 90's chiller is about a 5 ( ! ) year old serial killer . Well , that's disturbing . He murders people without a visible change in his facial expressions . I'd say he's gifted . Only Michael Myers was able to pull that off so far . Although the basic subject is original , the whole movie is rather average . I'd even say passable and not recommended . The young Mikey has a wrong way to deal with his emotions . After being punished by his parents he doesn't obey them . . . he slaughters them ! ! Because of his very young age , he isn't suspected of course so the police closes up the case as a robbery with deceased victims . Mikey is adopted by a new family and it all starts out fine . He especially is keen on his new neighbor girl played by Jodie Bisset ( the blond chick from " Melrose Place " ) One problem : she's about 15 years older than he is so he can't handle the fact she has a boyfriend . Overwhelmed by hate , the little psychopath inside Mikey comes alive again . . . I didn't regret watching it but still I have the feeling something better could have been done with it . Mikey is a standard thriller with the right amount of suspense , nudity and humor but it could have been a lot more if you ask me . I loved seeing Ashley Laurence acting again , though . She was the leading actress in my favorite film Hellraiser and here , in Mikey , she plays the teacher who first starts to think there's something wrong with the little brat . Mikey is a good film to watch if nothing better appears on TV or if you've seen everything else in the videostore already . Nothing more , nothing less .
Remarkably better than the usual made-for-TV junk	It's amazing what you can achieve if you dispose over a bit of professionalism . Even the most routine straight-to-cable production can be worth watching if the acting and directing is a little decent . It was the Fox Network that hired John Lafia ( Man's Best Friend ) to do the directing and the still yummy Mädchen Amick for the female lead . Vincent Spano ( Alive ) and Daveigh Chase ( The Ring ) complete the above average cast . The premise of a giant rat-plague threatening a big city isn't exactly new , but still this film succeeds in bringing a bit of tension and entertainment . Mostly thanks to the excellent underground shooting locations ( basements , sewers , subways ? ) ' the Rats ' looks icky and a bit unsettling . The rats naturally are slightly mutated by lab-tests and therefore a lot more aggressive and more difficult to annihilate . The grotesque finale in which a swimming pool is used as a rat-fountain is very over-the-top , yet brightly and well elaborated . Mädchen Amick is a seriously underrated actress and I hope she'll receive some new , bigger acting offers real soon . Vincent Spano is pretty good as well and he clearly enjoys sharing rat-trivia with the viewer . I don't know if all what he said is true ( for every inhabitant in NY there are 9 rats ? ? You can get Weil's disease from a rat-bite ? ? ) but it was interesting nevertheless . Recommended !
Nice collection of gay scalps there , you sick homophobe !	Quite a lot of people around here are referring to " HellBent " as being a genuine throwback to the 80's horror sub genre of slashers , but it isn't one , really . Correct me if I'm wrong but wasn't the whole point of slasher-movies the guessing along for the killer's identity and the search for a link between him / her and the people that got killed ? Well , at least mostly that was the point , unless the culprit was Jason Vorhees ( Friday the 13th ) or Michael Myers ( Halloween ) who just massacred teenagers because it was in their genes . With his debut " HellBent " , writer / director Paul Etheredge-Ouzts entirely disregards this operating routine , but not necessarily for the better . The film profiles itself as the very first gay slasher movie ( although that's debatable ) so that's exactly what happens ! Queer boys are butchered and that's it ? period ! The maniac is an athletic type of guy wearing a devil-outfit and his chest is perfectly waxed . He dwells around the places that the homosexual crowd of West Hollywood considers to be paradise , like the park , dark bathrooms in clubs and the annual Halloween parade . After murdering a couple of boys in their car , he focuses on a group of gay roommates that anxiously look forward to a Halloween night full of wild parties , kinky costumes and ? of course ? meaningless sex with handsome strangers . Whose is the face hiding behind the mask is anyone's guess , as the script doesn't attempt much to provide this handsome devil with motives for his truly sick ? he chops off and collects his victims ' heads ? killing spree . Is he a homophobe gone crazy ? Is he a homosexual himself but too scared to come out of the closet ? Did Michael Jackson assault him ? You're not meant to know and , frankly , it doesn't matter because " HellBent " delivers exactly what it promises : bloody murders and a wide variation of eccentric characters . The players are all stereotypical characters that always appear in slashers , only they're all gay this time ? duh ! The main star is a yummy " scream-queer " who's friendly and looking for true love , while his friends circle contains the typical macho , the sex-addict and the overly shy and emotionally vulnerable virgin . Oh well , I'm really not in the mood to nag or complain too much about the weaknesses in this film . It's short and funny , the soundtrack is excellent and every cast-member is a fresh-faced youngster that plays his role with a lot of enthusiasm . I wouldn't hesitate to recommend " HellBent " to any horror fan that isn't too shallow . PS ( and SPOILER ) : Although " HellBent " is technically the first horror film with an all-gay cast , the formula of a homosexual murderer was used already once , namely in the long-forgotten and truly abysmal 80's flick " Hide and Go Shriek " .
Sleazier , uglier and much more virulent than Batman . Presenting . . . RATMAN !	So bad it's literally BRILLIANT , this ultra-low budgeted Italian trash-production spawns one of the most unlikely and absurd monsters in the history of horror-cinema ever ! Dr . Olben's creation Ratman is a genetic crossover between a rat and a monkey and somehow it's able to produce a deadly venom for which there exists no antidote . Even crazier than the creature itself is Dr . Olben's conviction that his entirely pointless genetic breakthrough will gain him a Nobel Price ! Why the hell would the scientific world be interested in a rat-monkey hybrid with absolutely no positive characteristics ? Moreover , the little bastard is mean-spirited as hell and continuously escapes from Olben's lab and onto a nearby village where he aggressively feasts on the bodies of gorgeous fashion models . One of the missing girls ' sisters teams up with fictional novelist David Warbeck ? dressed in a ridiculous Hawaian shirt ? to investigate her whereabouts . They discover the abandoned laboratory where Ratman cheerfully ran some amok and return home with more than they bargained for . " Ratman " is one bizarre and provocative Italian B-movie . The plot is rubbish and the acting performances are weak , but the hideous monster is genuinely creepy and menacing . All thanks to Nelson de la Rosa , officially the smallest man on the planet , who wasn't too proud to exploit his awkward appearance for the sake of trashy cinematic entertainment . His short stature is mostly impressive , but also the rest of his make-up is rather effective , like his pointy teeth , hairy face and penetrating eyes . If only director Giuliano Carnimeo had a slightly better script to work with , " Ratman " easily could have been one of the last truly great shockers to come out of Italy . Carnimeo surely already knew how to build up tension ( the music is great and the set pieces are dark & unsettling ) and the murders are reasonably gory , but the dialogs are simply too inept . As to be expected , the film also features lots of redundant and totally gratuitous nudity , like the shower sequence in which Eva Grimaldi extendedly shows off her perfect measurements . You got to love how the Italians tried everything possible to please their gore & sex-addicted fans ! The ending of this crazed flick is very abrupt and laughable , hinting at a sequel that ? if it would have been made ? would have predated the concept of the 2006 blockbuster " Snakes on a Plane " with nearly 20 years ! Can you image " Ratman 2 : Hybrids on a Plane " ? That would have been awesome ! Even though it would be a crime against all the rules of good taste to call " Ratman " a good film , it's definitely still recommended to all the avid collectors of Italian horror cinema . It's nearly unavailable on DVD and you even have to move heaven and earth to obtain a halfway decent copy on VHS or bootleg DVD-R . That alone defines a gem !
Clean towels ! We need clean towels , room 6 .	With all the promising reviews warning about the morbidity & intense shock-value of this film , and especially with knowing what formed basic inspiration for the story , I can't help admitting I was a little disappointed after my viewing of " H6 : Diary of a Serial Killer " . Sure this Spanish effort is remotely gruesome and confronting , but not nearly as much as I expected ( or hoped ) and there are far more dull moments than shocking ones . As for the inspiration , the script ( and even the main character Antonio Frau himself ) often refers to Henri Landru . Landru was a French serial killer who murdered nearly a dozen of women during the years of World War one and carefully noted down his grim actions in a diary that eventually proved his guilt . Landru selected his victims randomly and killed without apparent motives , and maybe the character of Antonio Frau could have used a bit more sense of nihilism like that as well . His seemingly forced motives for killing young girls are ( partly ) what makes the film so implausible . Once freed from jail , where he did 15 years for murdering his girlfriend when he was a teenager , Antonio inherits an old and ramshackle motel in the middle of a prostitute-infested neighborhood . With his new wife working night shifts at the hospital , Antonio has plenty of free time to fulfill his new mission in life , namely the purification of sinners . He lures drug-addicted prostitutes to his motel and locks them up in room 6 , where he rapes , humiliates and tortures them ( talk about ' cleansing ' ) before practicing his chainsaw dismembering skills on their scarcely dressed bodies . Antonio's modus operandi and motivations don't make the least bit of sense , but they do result in several nauseating and blood-soaked sequences . Totally gratuitous footage , of course , but suitably sadistic if you're interested in this type of cinema . But , like I mentioned before already , the film badly suffers from too many tedious moments as well . Antonio Frau really talks too much and insists on narrating all the things he writes down in his precious diary . Near the end of the movie and totally out of the blue , the script suddenly turns ambitious and actually attempts to make us believe the protagonist is a criminal mastermind , even more intelligent than the Jigsaw Killer or even Hannibal Lector . Yeah right . " H6 : Diary of a Serial Killer " is nicely shot and benefices from macabre settings and a thoroughly grim ambiance . Fernando Acaso is fairly convincing as the twisted killer ( at least during the first half of the film ) , Mariá José Bausá is bewitching as his voluptuous wife and Antonio Mayans ( a Jess Franco regular ! ) makes a brief appearance as her lover . " H6 " isn't nearly as sick and repulsive as some people claim , but nonetheless an interesting movie for Euro-horror fanatics to check out .
Average goth-horror . . .	The handsome Baron Janos Dalmar is believed to be a homicidal maniac who rapes the girls he lures to his castle before feeding the bodies to his monstrous dogs . Still , these are just rumors nobody can prove . Dalmar then recruits the beautiful and intelligent female chemist Ivanna and , through her dreams , she discovers that there are much deeper secrets hidden behind the castle's walls . " Blood Castle " is mediocre Gothic horror with a lot of routine plotting and only one or two really ingenious moments . The castle setting is terrific , though , and the make up effects on the actual murderer are quite eerie and convincing . The lead actress drivels way too much and she doesn't only seem to bore her male counterpart but also us ; viewers . All the clichés are there , with the beast in the cellar , the ominous servants and the superstitious villagers who only just survived a plague-epidemic . This film is watchable enough , but there are many other Gothic horror classics available , so you don't really need to waste your time on this average installment . The better choices include " The Virgin of Nuremberg " , " The Whip and the Body " , " Nightmare Castle " , " Baron Blood " and " Danse Macabre " .
A Very Neat Monster	The first episode of Showtime's " Dexter " surely displays great potential , ingenuity and the involvement of many talented persons both in front and behind the camera , but it's arguably also a bit flawed and slightly too implausible for its own good . The main concept of the show of course raises an ancient and all-too-familiar debate , as topics like retribution and taking the law into your own hands are somewhat glorified here . During one ( of many ) flashbacks , his father encourages the adolescent Dexter to use his incontrollable urge to kill for a good cause , namely to extinguish criminals that escaped blood justice through the unstable Miami legal system . If you have to kill then at least make sure you kill bad people ? Hmm , is that morally acceptable , let alone something to proclaim on prime-time TV ? So , as you can tell , Dexter Morgan is a relentless killer but not a bad person . He works at the forensics team of the Miami police , upholds a healthy relationship with his cop sister as well as many other friends in the department and has a love affair with a former rape victim . Dexter appears to be an average guy , he just controls his murderous hunger through going after sick criminals in his spare time , like a pedophile and an internet snuff-movie maker . Meanwhile , there's a new and devoted serial killer in town who professionally cuts up prostitutes without spilling a drop of blood . Dexter is intrigued with this modus operandi , and the culprit has noticed him too . " Dexter " looks as if it's going to become a good show , with many interesting characters and set pieces that are uncanny enough to fascinate even the most experienced fans horror and thrillers . The narrative is often a bit redundant and whiny , as Dexter insists on informing us that he's emotionally numb and introvert . This show isn't exactly what I expected , as I was preparing for something really dark , scary & cynical , but it definitely isn't bad . Michael C . Hall ( " Six Feet Under " ) is pretty great already and I'm sure he'll grow into the role even more .
House of Wackos !	Not nearly as astonishing as André de Toth's original starring the almighty Vincent Price , of course , but this loud and well-made remake of " House of Wax " does qualify as good and ? at times ? chilling entertainment . Note that I'm exclusively talking about the second half of the film , as the first half is a little too obviously stuffed with lousy characterizations ( the rebel-kid , the bimbo who's probably pregnant . . . . ) , terrible clichés ( detours , rednecks in rusty old pick-up trucks , car trouble in a remote town . . . ) and dead-end scares . Six teenagers plan an extended road trip throughout rural America so usually this means that , one by one , they'll be brutally slaughtered by something or someone ! In this case the deranged curators of a seemly abandoned wax museum in the little town of Ambrose . From that point on , " House of Wax " turns into an exciting and tense horror flick with great gimmicks and a couple of authentic shock-moments that will unquestionably make you jump in your seat ! The plot is incredibly silly and grotesque but that's okay since you can't wait to find out in what repulsive ways the lives of these teenagers will abruptly come to an end . And that's where the makers of this film really put their creativity into ! The waxing-process is extremely creepy and the background-story of the museum is cheerfully disturbed ! The town's ' secret ' is a little exaggerated , but still one of the most ingenious twists in post-millennium horror , for sure . The intense finale ? involving ferocious fires and melting statues ? excellently makes the connection with the 1953 original and so even my fear of disrespect towards the classics is uncalled for . I can be brief about the acting , though . . . Elisha Cuthbert is very cute and a popular new icon but I can't really refer to her as a great actress judging by this hysterical role , though . Paris Hilton , however , is outstanding in playing . . . Paris Hilton ! She's just playing a cinema version of herself here : she gives head , has herself videotaped whilst making out and stumbles around for no other reason than to be part of the group . Luckily for us , her character hasn't got too many lines . Jaume Collet-Serra is one of them boisterous music video directors who promoted himself to horror-director , but I have to admit that he does have some eye for atmospheric camera-work and morbid details ! The melting wax statues during the climax are the proof of this . . . Truly uncanny how the smiles remain on their faces ! Recommend in case you're up for some brainless entertainment .
Not a demon in sight ? but still decent horror	For the sake of convenience and of course to reach wider audiences , this modest made-for-TV horror flick got released as a second sequel to the hugely popular " Demons " - franchise . Apart from the fact that Lamberto Bava directed them all , there's not the slightest similarity between " the Ogre " and the previous two " Demons " films . " Demons " ( as well as its dull sequel ) is a gross and outrageous splatter flick whereas " The Ogre " merely is an atmospheric spook-tale with at least some content . The amount of bloodshed and hideous make-up effects in this film is very limited ( also because it's a TV-production ) and bad-boy Bava even attempts to insert some style & subtleness . The plot isn't very convincing and contains quite a few holes ; still the premise is interesting enough to hold your attention for a good 90 minutes . We're introduced to a female horror writer who keeps on having the same nightmare ever since she was a little girl . 22 years later , she and her family are spending a vacation in an ancient Italian mansion and this setting strangely resembles the one in her dream ? especially the ominous cellar . Events identical to the ones in her nightmare actually start to come true and it seems like there really is a monster living in the cellar . This creature is an " Ogre " , and let me assure you he has nothing in common with Shrek ! This film offers a little bit of suspense but it could have used a lot more action ! There are too many overlong and pointless scenes in which the heroine just walks though the mansion but , even though the chilling music increases in volume , not a damn thing happens ! Bah ! ! The acting is fairly and Virginia Bryant definitely is a fine looking lady ( there's a bath-sequence to confirm this statement ) . As usual , the absolute worst aspect is something you can't even blame the movie for : awful dubbing . And , in my case , there even is a ridiculous subtitles-problem . How stupid is it when the name of the FEMALE lead character is constantly translated as " Charles " , instead of " Cheryl " ? ?
We're Gonna Need a Bigger Audience !	It's all too easy to just nonchalantly label " 12 Days of Terror " as being just another imitation of the legendary horror blockbuster " Jaws " and exclusively focus on its shortcomings . Especially when numerous and reliable sources state that Peter Benchley himself based his novel on these same facts that occurred in the summer of 1916 . You can't really accuse a movie of being a rip-off when it's based on facts , not even when it comes more nearly 30 years after a milestone movie that commercialized these same facts . " 12 Days of Terror " is an admirable and modest made-for-TV production that doesn't even dream of competing with " Jaws " . Director Jack Sholder ( " The Hidden " , " Alone in the Dark " ) has more than enough experience to realize he plays in an entirely different league than Steven Spielberg and merely just attempted to shoot a solid and factual shark movie . As far as I'm concerned he succeeded . The movie's main trump is undeniably the reasonably accurate depiction of the 1916 setting . The events occurred nearly 100 years ago , so you already know beforehand that this movie won't primarily revolve on sexy young chicks in minuscule bikinis . We received quite a lot of bloodthirsty shark movies recently ( " Spring Break Shark Attack " , " Red Water " , " Shark Attack 1 to 47 " , etc ? ) but there were actually just simple excuses to show hot chicks and hunky boys parading in the latest beach fashion . This film is different . Admittedly the characters are still rather one-dimensional , but at least they're not complete retards . During the first days of the unusually hot summer of 1916 , the New Jersey beaches become overflowed with tourists that wish to forget all the daily issues , like that horrible war being fought in Europe . The warm currents also bring another and very unwelcome visitor to Matawan in the shape of a hungry and extremely aggressive shark . The authorities still refuse to close down the beaches even after two fatal accidents , but when the unstoppable animal even swims up the creeks in search for more victims , courageous life guard Alex plans to catch the shark himself . " 12 Days of Terror " is a thoroughly unsurprising and unspectacular thriller , but it's never pretentious or boring . Due to budgetary restrictions there aren't many special effects , exhilarating attacks or enchanting underwater shots to admire . Actually , we only properly get to see the shark's fin and even that looks fake . The acting performances are okay and the early 20th century decors are convincing enough . It's , simply put , a harmless little TV time-waster .
300 against millions ? I like these odds !	First and foremost , " 300 " sadly is one of them films for which all the highlights already featured in the trailer . All of Gerard Butler's aggressive speeches ( " Madness ? This . . . is . . . Sparta ! " or " Spartans , tonight we dine in hell ! " ) , and all the Spartans ' monstrous opponents simply aren't exciting anymore , since theaters have been playing the trailer since December 2006 already . Sure there are other encouragement speeches and other , less extravagant enemies to battle , but it's all pretty tame compared with what the trailer promised us . This is rather unacceptable for a hugely promoted epic blockbuster like " 300 " . Cinematic events like this should be a non-stop series of excitement , spectacle and they should feature so much action it couldn't possibly fit in one trailer . Mel Gibson's " Apocalypto " , for example , was a film that featured a constant level of adrenalin-rushing footage , and the trailer only served as an appetizer . Other than that , " 300 " is a pretty remarkable and visually impressive movie that'll certainly appeal to all fans of savage macho-behavior and slow-motion dismemberment sequences . Hollywood recently discovered a new prodigy and they're already exploiting all of his works . The unique style and giant success of Frank Miller's " Sin City " immediately resulted in a screenplay-adaptation of the man's other graphic novel " 300 " , which revolves on the historical battle of Thermopylae , where a small army of 300 Spartan warriors defended their land and heritage against literally millions of Persian soldiers under the command of the greedy and self-declared demigod Xerxes . The Spartan king Leonidas encourages his troops , who were all raised as relentless fighting-machines , never to surrender and to give their lives for Sparta . Even though is a thoroughly unfair battle , Leonidas and his men nonetheless manage to seriously deplete Xerxes ' armies . I don't suppose Frank Miller's outrageous depiction of this battle counts as an accurate history lesson ? unless the Persians really did recruit mutated monsters and giants as soldiers ? but it's a vivid image of ancient barbaric warfare . Fans of shiny biceps , muscled torsos and really loud yelling will have the time of their lives and they certainly don't have to bother about the racist portrayal of literally every country that isn't Greek . Exactly like in " Sin City " , the actors simply had to pretend to fight in front of blue screens and the decors as well as the scenery only got added afterwards . It seems like this is becoming a new trend in cinema , because it increases the idea of watching a comic book that comes to life . It's not very realistic or convincing , but it offers the special effects team a wonderful change to experiment with surreal and grotesque tableaux and optical illusions . " 300 " is pure testosterone-driven entertainment , you just know to look for intelligent dialogs in this film .
Candy , Candy , Candy I can't let you go !	Okay , pedophilia isn't a very pleasant topic but we sadly can't ignore it any longer in these sick times we live in , and personally I think it still took quite a long time before some ambitious nowadays author had the nerves to revolve a whole script on this sensitive and controversial subject . Particularly the first half of " Hard Candy " is deeply impressive , since the characters ? especially Jeff , the pedophile ? are so randomly normal looking , which makes the secret lives they're living all the more disturbing . The opening sequence , displaying an online conversation resulting in a meeting appointment of the two chatters , initially seems so recognizable and harmless until we get to see their faces at the meeting point , and then it's just so . . . wrong ! Hayley is an intellectually precocious 14-year-old girl , apparently lured to the secluded house of a kind and understanding 32-year-old photographer . His intentions are sick and perverted , naturally , and Jeff quickly tries to get Hayley drunk and out of her tiny outfit . Yet , this isn't the start of another tragic story about a physically abused teenager , as suddenly HE gets drugged and tied up in a chair . Hayley selected Jeff off the internet to ruin his entire existence and not vice versa . In her very own private trial against pedophilia , she herself will be the judge , the jury and the executioner and she'll stand up for all the young & innocent victims Jeff ever laid eyes on . As said , the first half of " Hard Candy " is magnificently intense shock-cinema . Hayley's plan is extremely dangerous and against all laws , but her actions are heroic and her speeches are indelible : people like Jeff are sick criminals ! Their actions aren't justifiable and they must all be castrated ! It's highly praiseworthy how director David Slade and writer Brian Nelson don't use this socially fragile topic to raise moral debates or fake sentiment . The opinion towards child molesters are unanimous . They must be punished and referring to their sexual cravings as a disease simply isn't an option ! Unfortunately enough , the script loses quite a lot of its impact after a while . Partly because the cast of two characters is just a little too limited and 45 talkative minutes just passed by without a single moment of action , but mainly because the implausibility takes the upper hand . Exactly how intelligent can a teenage girl be ? How is it possible that she planned every little detail step by step ? How improbable is it that she wins every psychological cat & mouse game ? And ? most of all ? how does a skinny little thing like herself manages to lift a unconscious adult up on a kitchen table ? For thrillers and controversial dramas , it's ultimately the last couple of plot-twists and denouements that are essential . " Hard Candy " sadly does not have the power to haunt your thoughts long after the movie finished . The concept is dared and moving , the photography is often stunning and the acting performances of both Ellen Page and Patrick Wilson are downright staggering , but still I can't label it as a masterpiece .
The number you dialed has been terminated . Please hang up the phone and try again ?	I expected the absolute minimal when renting " 7eventy 5ive " and , even though the opening sequences seemed to confirm I was about to see yet another abysmal and irritating modern slasher flick , the whole thing eventually turned out to be an entertaining and moderately surprising movie . Sometimes the opening credits alone are enough to betray the quality-level of the entire film , and in the case of " 7eventy 5ive " this already was a pretty bad omen . Luckily the movie got a whole lot better after that . The story idea ( of the intro as well as of the whole movie ) isn't too bad , but the execution is terrible , with the hopelessly unclear editing of gory murders interlarded with the most amateurishly accomplished credit you've ever seen . During some kind of party event , the kids of several couples are in the bedroom making prank calls to random people . The night ends in a complete bloodbath when the parents receive a visit from an axe-wielding maniac . The title of the movie refers to a prank call game where the player has to try and keep the other person on the line for at least 75 seconds . Ten years after the massacre , some of the survivors are still playing this game with their new college friends , but once again the prank backfires on them when another ( or the same ? ) killer answers the phone and decides to make a house call after . " 7eventy 5ive " is a pretty standard and unmemorable slasher movie containing all the basic screenplay ingredients ( dumb bimbo girls , macho guys , transparent red herrings , ? ) but also a handful of mildly imaginative elements ( like a neat attempt to a surprise end-twist , some okay humor and a even a little bit of suspense ) . The murders are , in good old 80's tradition , engrossing and plentiful . The hooded killer swings around an impressive axe , so you may prepare to see various brutal beheadings , limb amputation and more similarly repulsive stuff . The soundtrack somewhat annoyed me , but maybe that's because I'm not much of a hip-hop fan . The youthful cast isn't as bad and untalented as all the other reviewers claim they are ( except for the main blond chick ) and it was very nice to see Rutger Hauer in the brief supportive role of veteran police officer . I assumed his character would be the typically sarcastic and witty copper , but it actually was a serious role . If you choose to watch " 7eventy 5ive " today , you'll probably won't remember much about it tomorrow , but at least it offered some fun and thrills while it lasted . Personally , I appreciate modest and small-scaled productions like this over boisterous and pretentious films that claim to save the genre , like , oh I don't know , " Hatchet " ?
Vietnam is for pussies . . . Visit Texas !	Not being much of a fan of the 2003 remake , I wasn't exactly standing in line to see this prequel to " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , but what's a horror fan to do when he's wandering around in a videostore and there's nothing else to rent ? But actually I can't complain too much , as this new flick easily surpasses the quality level of the 2003 remake and it honestly is the second best effort in the entire TCM saga , obviously miles behind the one and only original but better than Tobe Hooper's own cheesy 80's sequel and the bizarre spin-off " Leatherface " . I'm not even mentioning the ludicrous " Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre " . For the very first time , a director actually comes close to capturing the gritty and nihilistic atmosphere of the 70's original ! Jonathan Liebesman aims for a relentless low budget ambiance and literally sends the teenage protagonists to hell and back in their encounters with the deranged Texas Hewitt family . Usually in these nowadays popular horror flicks , you can easily point out which teens will die first and which ones will make it out alive , but the lead players in this film are all equally disposable and you really can't tell who , if anyone , will survive ( and what will be left of them ) . If anyone had asked real horror fans ? and particularly the die-hard admirers of Hooper's original landmark ? in advance whether or not it would be a good idea to revolve a prequel on the background of the monstrous family , they surely all would have replied : " No Way ! " . The mystery and void surrounding Leatherface & C° is perhaps the most menacing aspect about this whole franchise . We just know they're a family of butchers and that we certainly don't want to make their acquaintance , out there on the isolated rural roads of Texas . Yet , this whole film and particularly the opening sequences extendedly illustrate Leatherface's early years as well as his " foster " parents ' descent into madness . It's all a bit redundant and overly grotesque , but I feel they could have done much worse . Only after this odd prologue , the actual plot starts with two young couples leaving on their last road trip together , before the boys are reluctantly ( at least , one of them ) sent to Vietnam to fulfill their tour of duty . Following a banal cow-crash , crazed and self-acclaimed Sheriff Hoyt picks them up for a long afternoon of torture games , mental & physical exhaustion and being practice material for deformed Tommy's chainsawing skills . Not much happens during the film's first half , apart from some really dark and eerie images of the Hewitt family estate , but the second half is extremely brutal and full of nasty graphic gore . The chainsaw works overtime and there's plenty of other perverted violence to enjoy , like bondage and sadistic whippings . Really not a film for people with a weak stomach or faint heart , this grisly horror movie is about on par with " Hostel " , " Saw III " and " House of 1000 Corpses " . Another very pleasant surprise for avid fans of grind house 70's horror is that the script features some unexplained but genuinely macabre sub plots ! For example , there's the obese tea lady ( really creepy ! ) and the mutilation of grampa Monty by his own people . Some overlong parts are a bit tedious , however , and there's far too much conversation and monologue in this film . Especially Sheriff Hoyt loses quite a lot of his frightening charisma because he never shuts up . Luckily enough young Leatherface doesn't speak at all . The acting performances are surprisingly decent , with all four the teenage leads being convincing madman bait . And what about poor R . Lee Ermey ? Twenty years after his legendary role in " Full Metal Jacket " , he in a way STILL has to play the mad-shouting army drill instructor . During an interesting sequence in the middle of the film , evil Ermey forces one of his victims to prove himself as a worthy soldier and do 20 push-ups . Talk about typecasting . " TCM : The Beginning " is a competently made and reasonable impressive new horror film with good settings and atmospheric music . It will probably never become a classic like its 70's inspiration , but it makes fun viewing for horror freaks .
If Marty doesn't kill you , the clichéd plot will !	' Slaughter High ' is an extremely entertaining 80's slasher but , of course , you shouldn't expect to see any story lines or twists you haven't seen at least a hundred times before already . Oh yes , it's all there : the four-eyed high school nerd is tricked into a series of embarrassing pranks ; one of the pranks goes horribly wrong leaving him with a deformed face and an insane mind . The ten jocks & bimbos responsible for this regretful incident are stupid enough to accept invitations to a clearly fake class reunion five years later on the first of April and they don't even get suspicious when it turns out the school closed down and they are the only ones who showed up . Marty soon joins the party ? ingeniously dressed up as a creepy jester ? and gets his bloody revenge on all of them before April Fool's Day is over . Right , okay , what can we say about this typically mundane yet outrageously fun 80's cheesefest ? ! ? Listing the names of all the good performers or literally quoting the most intellectual dialogs won't motivate many people to watch it , but the killings are gory & funny and ? at least after the rather long intro scenes ? they follow each other at a high rate . Some aspects of this production are downright ridiculous , like casting the 36-year-old horror starlet Caroline Munro to play a high school prom queen , and the twisted dream-finale will leave even the most undemanding 80's slasher fan nodding his / her head with disapproval . Still , if you're simply looking for campy bloodshed , " Slaughter High " can offer you some neat impalement , a lovely death-by-lawnmower scene , stomach explosions , electrocutions and one truly delightful acid bath moment ! Luckily for us viewers , ALL the characters are equally intolerable so we don't have to root for anyone here and just sit back and enjoy how they all get butchered in order of ' who was Marty's biggest pain in the butt five years ago ' . Evidently , the required female nudity is well presented , just as the awful soundtrack with irritating rock songs ! Long live the eighties !
Who needs a plot when you already have an appealing title ?	" Sorority House Massacre " is a teen-slasher as eighties as they come ! Academy girls with humongous hairdos and bad dress codes , accompanied by dorky-looking boys trying to get into their panties ! All brought together in a sorority house during a lonely Fourth of July weekend while an escaped lunatic is trying to break in to settle an old score . It nearly is the same storyline than a thousand other horror films but this particular movie is even shameless enough to borrow elements from the two most eminent slashers in cinema . The killer is hunting down his youngest sister who was the sole survivor of his initial rampage . Mute and seemly emotionless he goes straight to her ? Did I hear someone saying Michael Myers ? ? If that isn't enough , our heroine also suffers from terrifying nightmares which makes her somewhat look like a lost cast-member of " Nightmare on Elm Street " . Okay , I can't be too harsh on fun thingies like this and it's generally known that 80's horror rarely is top notch cinema . Still , I'm disappointed that the makers of this didn't pay a little more attention to the actual murders . This kind of films can only distinguish themselves from the rest by showing creative bloodshed and flamboyant butchering , but Sorority House Massacre only features tame and uninspired killings . We need more blood ! Despite the promising sounding title , you shouldn't count too much on gratuitous nudity , neither , as the rancidness is limited to one unnecessary dress up party ( by the way , why are all the popular and sexy coeds named Cindy ? ) Come to think of it ? there actually isn't one good reason why you should see this film . Except maybe that I have to admit it has a good tempo and reasonably good acting by the lead girl . Even though every situation was déjà vu and every plot twist was repetitive , Sorority House Massacre certainly isn't the worst film in its kind .
Hammer Time ! No ? Witching Hammer Time !	The first episode of Hammer's short-running " House of Horror " series and I can't really say I'm disappointed , although it's very different in style and tone compared to all those lovely Gothic horror films the production company served us . Perhaps this is partly due to the fact that Hammer's reign of horror had past already by the year 1980 . The company's biggest successes were released between the mid-1950's and the early 1970's and they covered pretty much every field of the genre , going from the abominable snowman of the Himalayas to Count Dracula munching blood in the present day of London . Although I really can't judge after seeing one single episode , this show lacks that typical and good old-fashioned goth ambiance as well as the gruesome make-up effects that dominated the movies . The plot of " Witching Time " nevertheless hints at Gothic themes , with the reincarnation of a 17th Century witch in the contemporary countryside of Britain . During a wild thunderstorm in the isolated Woodstock region , where composer David Winter awaits the homecoming of his adulterous wife Mary , the condemned witch Lucinda appears out of nowhere and immediately claims David to be her own personal slave . Through black magic spells and voodoo , Lucinda attempts to eliminate Mary ( who suddenly decided to remain faithful to her husband ) and to grow more powerful . Admittedly the running time of 60 minutes is too short for detailed character drawings , but the viewer never really feels sympathy for David and Mary's situation while Lucinda's character nearly isn't menacing enough to evoke scares . Sure she decapitates innocent birds and forces David to set his own wife on fire , but her grimaces aren't exactly petrifying . The climax is rather exciting , though , and both Patricia Quinn and Prunella Gee provide the short movie with a tad bit of nudity . I hope the next installments in Hammer's House of Horror will be slightly improving , but even when this quality level is maintained , I won't regret having bought the DVD box set .
Behind the mask ? EVIL in all its purity and glory .	From all I've read and heard about Rob Zombie's " Halloween " , it's not supposed to be just another senseless and redundant remake of a classic horror milestone , but the re-imagining of a groundbreaking premise and an expanded elaboration of the original concept . This may very well all be true and admirable , but it doesn't necessarily guarantee a great horror film . John Carpenter's original movie , released in 1978 , is unquestionably one of the most important and influential genre films ever accomplished . Although not really the first in its type , it set the standards for teen-slashers and a large part of the gimmicks and tension-tricks first used in that film are still extremely popular today . Topping Carpenter's classic would be a total utopia , but ( luckily enough ) I don't think this ever was Rob Zombie's intention . He's clearly a big admirer of the original and merely just wanted to share his interpretation of the " mystery " surrounding Michael Myers ' persona . As long as your expectations aren't set too high , " Halloween " is certainly an enjoyable and sardonic stalk & slash feast . " House of 1 . 000 Corpses " and especially " The Devil's Rejects " surely taught us a couple of things about Rob Zombie as a director . He may not be Hollywood's most talented storyteller , but he damn well knows how to shock , disgust and creep out even the most experienced horror fans . If anything , " Halloween " is on exciting and non-stop spitfire of brutal violence , dark & unsettling scenery , eerie sound effects and graphic make-up art that don't leave too much to the imagination . The so-called " re-imagining " is actually just applicable on the first part of the film and , to a lesser extend , the climax . Zombie devoted a lot of scripting time into Michael Myers ' social background and childhood . I'm sure everybody remembers Carpenter's original , in which the viewer simply witnessed Michael killing his sister at age 6 and then the events immediately cut to his escape from the mental institution , fifteen years later . He appeared to be an average and " normal-looking " 6-year-old , and absolutely nothing indicated his tendencies towards maniacal behavior . In the 2007 version , it's ? um ? slightly different . Young Myers ' family could not possibly be any more dysfunctional and disturbing . His mother works as a strip dancer , his stepfather does nothing all day except for drinking and insinuating Michael is a homosexual . Nobody seems to pay any attention to Michael's obsession with killing small animals and the daily visits to his school's psychologist are considered a simple routine . Michael then snaps permanently and his youthful killing spree here is slightly more dramatic than the one in Carpenter's original . The whole ' raison d'être ' of this new Halloween version ( I think ) was to give the monstrous Michael Myers a face and perhaps even a soul , but this entire effort simply vanishes once the events move 15 years forward in time . All of a sudden the tender & blond boy develops into a massively postured man who doesn't speak a word and fills his days making morbid masks to cover his face . From the moment he escapes the institution ( whilst sadistically butchering a couple of guest stars from Zombie's previous films , like Bill Moseley , Tom Towles and Leslie Easterhook ) , the film nearly is a shot-by-shot remake of the original . Michael goes after his youngest sister Laurie , with Dr . Loomis on his tail , and massacres everyone who's unfortunate enough to come near him . The final showdown is different , but only to avoid further sequels . Nonetheless , despite the quite large number or flaws and shortcomings , " Halloween " is a pretty cool and genuinely hardcore slasher-flick and I see no reasons why genre fans ? whether or not die-hard fanatics of the original ? should hate it . The gore and brutality are plentiful , the atmosphere is dark and thoroughly creepy , the music is loud and a whole lot of horror veterans pop up in small roles .
Evil has two faces ? and one filthy long fingernail !	The last-but-one installment in Hammer's House of Horror saga is a very atmospheric and tense tale , but sadly lacking excitement and memorable horrific moments . It's perhaps the most mysterious episode of them all , since the plot effectively keeps you guessing about what's going on , but the climax is unsatisfying and not answering all the questions that were raised during the build-up . " The Two Faces of Evil " opens with a model family on the road for a well-deserved vacation when the wife suddenly spots a mysteriously uncanny figure dressed in a long yellow raincoat . This same figure is standing at the side of the road in the pouring rain later and they offer him a ride . He promptly attacks the father and the car crashes . The wife and young son wake up unharmed in the hospital , but the father is heavily injured with pieces of glass stuck in his throat . The woman is asked to identify the body of the hitcher ? who supposedly died in the accident ? but he looks identical like her husband , only missing a hand . When they continue their vacation in spite of everything , Janet notices that her husband behaves very strangely and she even starts to wonder if isn't someone else ? The storyline is rather ambitious and atypical for a Hammer production , with subtle creepiness instead of wild shocks and almost no bloodshed at all . In some aspects , the story reminded me of the Sci-Fi classic " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " and there definitely are worse things to get compared with ! Alan Gibson's ( " The Satanic Rites of Dracula " ) direction is masterful and very surefooted , with a detailed eye for the macabre set pieces . Especially the scenes in the hospital's eerie mortuary are gripping . Gibson was also responsible for the absolute greatest episode in the H . H . H series , namely " The Silent Scream " starring Peter Cushing and Brian Cox . This episode's cast doesn't star familiar names , but the performances are really good and convincing .
Modest 80's horror classic	Well-scripted and fairly original 80's horror with quite a lot of suspense and excitement and only a forgivable amount of clichés and flaws . Writer / director Kevin S . Tenney obviously saw a lot of horror movies about exorcism and spiritual possession in his own youth and he now came up with a similar film-idea , mainly revolving on a mysterious ouija-board . This magical form of communication brings Linda Brewster into contact with the spirit of deceased 10-year-old David , but what she doesn't realize is that she's also opening a portal for the restless spirit of a serial-killer to come back . Linda's boyfriend and ex-boyfriend have to team up in order to prevent Linda from getting possessed by the malicious spirit of " Malfeitor " . This low-budget film is surprisingly stylish and not half as cheesy as it may look . All the characters ( except for that messed up punk-medium ) are very likable , which is a rare thing in 80's horror movies , and the inventive screenplay delivers a couple of genuine frights . The amount of gore is limited , but definitely satisfying . Kevin S . Tenney directed a large number of overlooked but worthwhile B-movies , but this is his best one alongside " Night of the Demons " .
Belgian beer , sex . . . and drama !	Ad Fundum ( roughly translated : bottoms up ! ) is one of the last good Belgian movies and successfully presents human drama and emotions in an accurate setting . The film handles about the rites and ' games ' first-year university students undergo in order to become part of the exclusive group of adults ? at least that's the explanation Campus leaders give to it . Like it's the case in reality , these rites are nothing but an excuse to drink and act filthy . A ? nerdish'-student ( excellently portrayed by Sven DeRidder ) is the easy target of leader Tom Van Bauwel and quickly becomes the casualty of a deadly accident . Since the victim was drunk and none of the other students was capable of giving a truthful testimony , the leaders are set free . But ? friends of the dead student have an appropriate act of vengeance in mind . The plot may sound a bit exaggerated , but it's a lot more realistic than you might think . Certainly around here , in Belgium . Like the other reviewer mentioned already , the news regularly features stories about fraternity pranks gone wrong . The film Ad Fundum can depend on a solid Flemish cast and a talented director ( Eric Van Looy recently became Belgium's most famous director because of ' De Zaak Alzheimer ? this is still one of his first movies ) . The lifestyle of Belgian youth is terrifically portrayed and cynically questioned throughout the entire film . And last but not least ? like it's traditional in Belgian cinema ? there are a few stylishly shot sex-sequences starring beautiful woman . Recommended !
Japanese Jewelery	I honestly have to say that I wasn't very much impressed by Ringu and that I expected more . . . but I have to blame myself for that . I saw the American remake first , and I have to say they did a good job by that for once . You're more involved in the Gore Verbinski version and there's a lot more feeling with the characters . But I do reckon that this Japanese version deserves all the respect and the praising for its originality ! Especially the last 5 years , there are some clever minds active in Japanese cinema . They breath the fresh air that the genre of horror desperately needed . The story of Ringu is fascinating , frightening and intense . . . The story about the mysterious videotape and its origin keeps you close to the screen for a good half an hour and you find yourself investigating along with the main characters . A good suspense film should have that effect , so in that point of view , Ringu certainly succeeded . I can't judge Japanese actors very well , but I guess they did a good job . . . They always look a bit less dedicated than American actors in my eyes but maybe that's just me . The female leads sure looks good enough to me . According to many opinions , Ringu belongs to the greatest horror / thrillers ever made and certainly the best film in this genre in the last ten years . Well , with all do respect , I wouldn't go so far to call it that . Like I said , I praise its originality and ideas but that's it . You should see it , though . And if it's possible , see it before the American remake from 2002 . Otherwise you'll be thinking stuff like " what's all the hype about ? ? " Please check my comment on Gore Verbinski's " The Ring " for a deeper going comparison . . .
Big wheel keep on turning . . . dirty Mary keeps on burning !	Oh yes , here's another cheerful B-road movie with wit & plastic characters and fast cars . Small time crooks Larry ( a wannabe racecar driver ) and Deke ( his mechanic ) rob a supermarket and flee with their loot . They're accompanied by Larry's intrusive one-night-stand and chased by tons of incompetent macho coppers . Although this looks like a fresh 70's speed movie , it actually has nothing to offer . The same old dull three-cornered relationship , showdowns between cops and carefree thugs . . . that's all . The directing in ' Dirty Mary , Crazy Larry ' is weak and the acting is downright atrocious . Peter Fonda never was a great performer but I always thought of him as a cool dude , so he's forgiven . Susan George , however , has already proved she can do better in delicious films like ' Fright ' and ' Die Screaming Marianne ' . Director John Hough made a few slick and eerie horror films before this ( like ' Legend of Hell House ' and Hammer's ' Twins of Evil ' ) that are more worth checking out . Dirty Mary , crazy Larry is a mediocre attempt to reflect the cliché 70's spirit but , as some sort of consolation , the car stunts are shot with certain flair and the locations are beautiful . And how about that swell ending ? ! ? Crime doesn't pay , you hippie scumbags . . .
Death Bed & Sex-Breakfast	Eat your heart out , Norman Bates ! Your uncanny motel only has a dead mother in the basement whereas , at Play Motel , there's kinky sex , severe blackmail and sadistic killing going on . This movie is a strange little outcast in the wonderful Italian sub genre of gialli . It honestly has a murder-story to tell , but it's more than obviously inferior to the incredibly large portions of rancid , gratuitous and semi-pornographic sex on display ! Wealthy persons , mostly married but physically unsatisfied , gather here to make ALL their sexual fantasies come true . This includes dressing up like Satan and nuns , but also S & M and even intercourse with a bottle of champagne ! However , these poor little perverts are unaware that the motel is also the home base of a blackmailing-network . Shortly after their visits , the guests receive incriminating photographical evidence of their little sleazy escapades and a demand to pay huge sums of money or else the pictures will be handed over to the media . When murder inevitable follows , the police ( unorthodoxly , I may add ) instructs a couple of actors to go undercover and infiltrate inside the dubious motel . This is an odd but strangely addictive movie , completely without suspense or surprises , yet extremely entertaining . The murder-plot and the killer's identity are the by far the most predictable I've ever seen , but you never seem to bother about this as the film introduces ? oh yes ? numerous gorgeous and naked women ! The music , particularly the title song that can be heard whenever a couple checks into room number 4 , is very catchy and fun . " Play Motel " is 100 % pure and genuine TRASH , but a definite must for fans of Italian cult cinema . Hard to find , but give it your best shot ( pun intended ) .
Poorly made but fun 80's trash !	The coolest abbreviation in horror cinema stands for Cannibalistic Humanoid Underground Dwellers ( as well as something else ) and refers to hideous monsters with fluorescent eyes that live in the sewers of Soho . Their existence is the result of years of dumping radioactive toxic waste down there and now these monsters are responsible for an incredible amount of missing-persons cases . Everyone in Soho is affected by the city council's cover-up . Soup kitchen owner A . J reports a lot of his homeless friends missing , independent photographer Cooper is begged for help by people who live underground and police captain Bosh has even lost his wife . For some incomprehensible reason , I always loved this trashy 80's film and can't possibly bring myself to spread negative comments on it , no matter how stupid the plot is or no matter how cheesy the make-up effects actually are . For what it's worth , " C . H . U . D " is a hugely entertaining monster film with a couple of atmospheric set pieces and several comical dialogues . Elements that increase the fun-level are a pointless , yet bloody shower sequence and a C . H . U . D who stretches his neck muscles seemly without a specific goal . This poverty row horror production is surprisingly blessed with a great cast ! Daniel Stern , John Heard and Christopher Curry all prove they're gifted actors who never got the breakthrough they deserved . Good fun , highly recommended but ? whatever you do ? keep away from the retarded sequel .
Brave new horror !	I must admit that I didn't really care for " Dog Soldiers " when I first got around watching it back in 2002 , right after its release . I thought the concept of a lost patrol fighting a troop of werewolves was overly hectic and the monsters themselves didn't look half as frightening as the elderly ones from " American Werewolf in London " or " The Howling " . Maybe it's because I've seen so many crap horror since then or maybe I just didn't pay enough attention the first time but my second opinion is much more positive . Neil Marshall wrote and directed an enthusiast gore story about a squadron of soldiers on a routine training exercise in the Scottish forests and all of a sudden their lives are in danger because of ravenous werewolves lurking around the area . They also encounter a captain from another platoon ( who's acting very mysteriously ? ) and a young environmental researcher who eventually rescues them and shelters the group in a nearby farmhouse . Completely isolated and low on ammunition , the group has to survive the night as the aggressive creatures won't go away as long as the moon is full . The lines and dialogues in " Dog Soldiers " are well-written and often blackly humorous , while Marshall allows his cast to overact in several sequences . Tension is successfully reached thanks to the hopeless surrounding of the farmhouse . This film will especially be remembered by horror freaks because of the explicit gore and violent action scenes . I particularly appreciated the fact that many of the special effects were developed in the ' old-fashioned ' way , without using dreadful CGI . The werewolves clearly are tall men in suits but I easily prefer them over the artificially constructed things in " Underworld " or " Van Helsing " . I suspect that this film will become an " underdog " in the modern horror genre and , in time , it'll develop quite a large fan base ( if it hasn't already ) . Personally , I still like the " Ginger Snaps " films better when it comes to post-2000 werewolf-flicks , but this " Dog Soldiers " is a worthy second . Recommended !
A must see 70's gem !	A moody old song sets the right tone for what actually is a vastly underrated and extremely fun horror gem . " Homebodies " handles about a group of old folks banned from their houses and forced to abandon their familiar neighborhood in order to make way for new building projects . The drama this type of events causes is real but the emotions and action taken by these elderly are , of course , far over the top and deliciously absurd . The last mind strong tenants of an apartment complex go on a merciless killing spree and make everyone who tries to exile them disappear . Before turning into a complete pitch black comedy , " Homebodies " has a quite tension level and even an unsettling atmosphere at times . As illogical and exaggerated the premise may sound , these old folks look far scarier than any other serial-slasher in a funny mask . The character development of this film is simply great . Every single one of these mums ' n dads is intriguing , like the spooky blind guy or the lady who still talks to her long-deceased father . There are a few nice and bloody make-up effects and an endless amount of efficient black humor . Near the end , the story regretfully ( and maybe even inevitably ) loses some of its terrific initial impact as the female lead , played by Paula Trueman , turns entirely senile . The whole film turns senile with her ? Still , " Homebodies " ought to get more praise and recognition from the cult-chasing horror fans ! Recommended highly !
. . . later that night , in Haddonfield .	Halloween II does something rather unique . I haven't seen that many times before . It actually continues immediately after the original . Dr . Loomis ( the almighty Donald Pleasance ) just shot Michael Myers but he stood up and walked away . . . into Haddonfield city . Laurie is taken to the hospital and Dr . Loomis and the local sheriff continue to hunt Michael . That's the story . . . it's not much but at least you're in the middle of it . They might as well could have made Halloween a 180 minutes feature of terror but I doubt the original would have ever received the status it enjoys now . . . SMALL SPOILERS ! ! ! What every ( slightly clever ) viewer already suspected gets confirmed in Halloween II . Jamie Lee aka Laurie Strode isn't just a random target in the eyes of Michael . . . She's his sister and was adopted two years after Michael killed his other sister . I don't know , I guess he likes to be the only child ? So , he has decided to get rid of Laurie too and hangs around in Haddonfield till he finds her . In the meantime , he'll spend his time by killing some innocent people who work in the hospital or just happen to walk in his way . END SPOILERS ! ! ! ! Of course Halloween II isn't the masterpiece or the milestone the original was . A lot of people ( and I do mean A LOT ) call the original the best horror movie ever made because of his trendsetting and atmosphere . I don't think it's THE best but I still agree it's a great movie . No wonder the sequel can't live up to that . The surprise element is gone , the atmosphere is a bit ruined and Michael doesn't look that scary anymore . There is less use of the chilling music ( by Carpenter himself ) which increases the " bore-aspect " as well . Although the original only had 4 or 5 killings ( while Halloween II has 11 or 12 ) , this episode is a lot less creepy . Donald Pleasence still is great , of course , and Jamie Lee can still scream as loud as before . It certainly isn't a must see , but if you do see it , you won't regret it . It's a nice way to kill 90 minutes . After this one , they tried something completely different with the Halloween concept . Halloween III : Season of the Witch became one of the biggest failures in horror history . A bit undeserved , I think . It wasn't THAT bad , it just didn't have Michael . They only made that mistake once , because episode 4 was widely announced as THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS .
For the fans of truly sick stuff . . . .	This is a pretty cool movie , although I do reckon that you need to be a little sick in the head in order to truly enjoy Joe D'Amato's wicked imagination . " Antropophagus " ( LOVE the title ! ! ) is a notorious video-nasty because it contains shock-sequences that . . . well . . . aren't exactly for the squeamish ! The pivot figure is a savage and bloodthirsty man that prowls a Greek island ( Greek islands are dangerous tourist places apparently . . . anyone remember ' Island of Death ' ? ) and devours pretty much everything and everyone that crosses his path . The film focuses on the encounter between this maniac and a group of young tourists that coincidentally strand on the island . Apart from the downright nauseating gore ( he eats a fetus , for Christ's sake ! ) , this is a rather suspenseful and atmospheric Italian horror film that surely ranks among D'Amato's best work , alongside " Beyond the Darkness " and " Death Smiles at Murder " . In case you're a fellow Italian horror fanatic , you'll love the cast that includes George Eastman , Tisa Farrow and Serena Grandi . True , there are some really tedious moments to sit through but the gore is rewarding and the music is terrific . There equally is some gratuitous sleaze to enjoy , as well as some nice photography . Due to its violent and raw nature , " Antropophagus " is one of the most cut films ever . Avoid any version that says " Grim Reaper " on the cover because that's the version that leaves out all the sweet nastiness you're so desperately looking for : )
Routine ghost-story with a few inventive aspects	It looks as if Spain ambitions to become the new Japan when it comes to unleashing atmospheric & convoluted ghost stories upon us horror-loving audiences . After the hugely successful " The Orphanage " last year ( as well as " The Others " , " The Devil's Backbone " and a couple of more earlier this decade ) , " The Beckoning " is already another brand new tale of the supernatural containing all the basic ingredients : ominous mansions with hidden attics , spontaneously appearing and disappearing ghosts , slowly revealing secrets from a distant past , suspicious links with the Catholic regime , characters who may or may not be dead for a long time already and completely unfathomable plot twists . I think we've all picked a rather skeptical attitude towards this type of films by now , as the vast majority of them unceasingly build up towards a climax that can't possibly live up to all the raised expectations . " The Beckoning " also somewhat falls into this category , but nonetheless it has a lot more merits than shortcomings . You certainly shouldn't expect a unique ghost-chiller that'll blow you out of your seat , but there's a fine balance between imaginative story lines and stylistic elements . In addition to the standard Haunted House fare , Elio Quiroga fascinatingly processed an authentic piece of obscure Spanish history into his screenplay . The No-Do's were a type of propaganda films , distributed by the Catholic Church during the reign of Franco , revolving on ( manipulated ? ) miraculous occurrences and / or divine interventions . One specifically peculiar No-Do forms a very important part of the staring point of this film . The old No-Do reports about a Catholic orphanage were the Virgin Mary supposedly appeared and cured the ill . Several decades later , the large mansion is abandoned and the Catholic Church decides to rent it out . Pedro and his wife Francesca , who just gave birth to their second child , are very interested in the place and move in . Francesca struggles with a postnatal depression and is extremely sensitive to the gradually growing more mysterious occurrences in the house . She begins to have nightmarish visions , receive supernatural visits and discover hidden chambers that all indicating tragic and sinister events took place in the house rather than miracles . There are several more sub plots and additional story elements I could at , but they aren't all equally relevant and only raise unnecessary confusion . The scenes dealing with the mysterious No-Do movies are undoubtedly the best , but admittedly several of the spook-out sequences are admirably staged and moderately unsettling . There are , for example , rooms full of decayed old play dolls , creepy old nursery tunes and haunting images of deceased children . Nothing in this film qualifies as truly shocking and / or original , but I'm already very glad " The Beckoning " is never boring and overly sentimental . The conclusion is very satisfying , for once , albeit fairly predictable . Stylishly directed by Elio Quiroga , who previously made the oddly compelling and eccentric Sci-Fi / horror hybrid " The Cold Hour " . Fans of European horror will also recognize leading lady Ana Torrent , as she starred in the Spanish 90's classic " Thesis " .
Re-VITAL-ize your dead girlfriend !	Not being the biggest fan of Shinya Tsukamoto's acclaimed cult favorites " Tetsuo " & " Tetsuo II " , I was rather careful with my anticipations towards " Vital " ; of which the DVD-box announces it as the director's latest masterpiece . Well it ain't no masterpiece , but it's definitely a compelling and suspense-packed thriller that I liked a whole lot better than the boisterous Tetsuo-films . Especially the basic story ideas are very ingenious and even original ! The plot centers on the young Hiroshi Takagi who slowly recovers from a dramatic car accident in which his lost his whole memory and youthful spirit . The sight of a book about surgery suddenly makes him decide to study medicines , where he becomes somewhat of a strange outcast but with a natural talent to dissect corpses . Bit by bit his memory returns and Hiroshi comes to the painful establishment that he's performing an autopsy on his former girlfriend Ryôko , who died in the same accident and put her body at the disposal of the medical faculty . My main problem with " Vital " was that it quickly got tedious once Hiroshi realizes whose corpse he hacks up and - especially near the end - Tsukamoto inserts a lot of irrelevant dream sequences and images of scenic beauty . It actually would be a lot more effective and horrific as a short movie , I think . It's a fairly short film now ( 86 min . ) but it would have been so much better as a part of trilogy like , say , " Three ? Extremes " and exclusively focusing on Hiroshi's amnesia . Tsukamoto is clearly a gifted director who also knows a thing or two about cinematography . " Vital " is often beautiful to look at and loaded with symbolism . Worth watching .
Horse Power !	Horror and Westerns generally don't form a great cinematic match , but Fernando Mendez ' " The Living Coffin " has a fairly good story and contains a handful of admirable ideas . The plot combines typical western bar fights and heroic cowboy characters with favorite Gothic horror subjects like the legend of the crying woman ( processed much better in another contemporary Mexican feature entitled " The Curse of the Crying Woman ) , premature burial and local superstition . In a small town near a sinister swamp , the restless spirit of the " crying woman " supposedly haunts the remote mansion of an eminent family . She passed away nearly a year ago , but her cries in agony over the loss of her two children can often be heard in the swamp , and her remaining relatives ( a sister and an attractive young niece ) fear supernatural acts of vengeance . A knife in a clock protects the house , but when it gets removed the ghost emerges from the coffin . Luckily enough , the courageous cowboy Gaston and his unusually intelligent horse travel through the area , and they'll figure out whether there really are ghosts or just a fiendish conspiracy to steal the family's fortune . The sequences in the swamp as well as inside the mansion's catacombs are surprisingly atmospheric and there's a fair share of morbid scenery , like the tomb and crying lady's make-up . Unfortunately , however , there are approximately as many negative elements as there are positive ones , including the cowboy's totally redundant sidekick , whose job is provide an unnecessary comic relief as he always falls asleep and frequently gets hit on the head , and the utterly implausible capacities of Gaston's horse . The animal is actually the real hero here , because he saves his owner's life on several occasions , randomly discovers secret passageways and even defeats the enemies in a totally laughable finale . " The Living Coffin " is a worthwhile effort , but nowhere near as breathtaking and unforgettable as the aforementioned " Curse of the Crying Woman " and Fernando Mendez ' other directorial masterpiece " The Black Pit of Dr . M " .
Die from mysterious hemorrhages and place a few bets in the futuristic casino / hospital of doom !	Quite a strange but intriguing find , this obscure and virtually unknown little 80's hospital thriller / horror movie . The plot doesn't always make perfect sense and the screenplay contains more holes than the average pair of fishnet-stockings , but the film definitely benefices from an oddly menacing atmosphere and a variety of truly ingenious ideas . There even is an even balance between genuine suspense moments and downright engrossing scenes of massacre , which is also quite praiseworthy to say the least . " Terminal Choice " is just a very peculiarly scripted film , and rather frequently you'll find yourself wondering how the hell the writers came up with some of the twists and story elements . The hospital setting is clearly a futuristic one , since all doors open automatically and routine interventions happen through medical devices that are built in the ceiling , but everything else outside the clinic's walls looks very much 80's and incredibly dated by today's standards . It's never mentioned in what year the story allegedly takes place and how modern medicine progressed specifically . We're just supposed to accept that hi-tech and pre-programmed computers now operate on people and all the supervising doctor has left to do is type in the correct dose of medication . This is probably why certain doctors develop alcoholism ? yet continue to treat patients even though the entire hospital staff is aware ? and others even set up a detailed and highly profitable gambling business in the basement , where fellow bored colleagues can put in money on the percentage of chance for full recovery of patients , the dose of drugs they require daily , etc . But there's another highly unethical and grim crime going on in the hospital , since patients with ordinary bladder infections suddenly die from excessive hemorrhages , and someone tries to blame it all on Dr . Frank Holt . See , the automated operations and particularly the undercover hospital gambling business are extremely ingenious and original key aspects in " Terminal Choice " , but they should have been elaborated a little more . The film's emphasis wrongly lies on the love / hate relationship between Dr . Holt , who hates computers , and his ex-fiancée Anna Lang , who actually designed the programs for all the fully-functional computers in the hospital . The first death sequence is effectively unsettling and quite shocking , since you witness a defenseless young girl literally bleed to death . The remaining death scenes ? one involving the sexy and still undiscovered Ellen Barkin ? are mainly intense and disturbing instead of gross . I concur with my fellow reviewers in stating that " Terminal Choice " counts as a slasher ; albeit a slightly atypical one . Some of the trademarks definitely ( red herrings , characters behaving suspicious for no apparent reason , beautiful women stalked in the shower , flamboyant end-twist ) but it's also one league above the majority of slasher outings of the 80's .
Talking in terms of 80's slashers . . . this is a good film !	Linda Blair , everybody's favorite head-tolling girl , stars as an extremely cute college girl named Marti . Together with 3 other students , she's locked overnight in a haunted mansion as some sort of fraternity initiation rite . The house used to be inhabited by a family of weirdoes ( figures ? ) and the deformed son is believed to still dwell around in the tunnels underneath the mansion's basement . While the other fraternity members are playing pranks to increase the eeriness , the real killer comes to interfere ? Of course , you can't really refer to this ' Hell Night ' as being a good film . It's an 80's slasher , produced in-between two ' Halloween'-films . The only reason of this film's existence is to raise more money , so you can't be too demanding for plots , logic or credibility . In it's own specific category , this is a more than decent film . I can name you over a thousand similar films that are worse but only a few that are better . It's amazing what a competent director ( Tom DeSimone ? specialized in ' Women Behind Bars'-flicks ) and a devoted cast ( Linda Blair ! ! ) can achieve . There are quite a few suspenseful sequences in Hell Night and the gore is not exploited for once . The settings are decent but sometimes underexposed , which is a bit of a shame . Overall , this a lot more tolerable than the average flick in which teens are slaughtered by the dozen .
Aliens take control of everything . . . even your body and soul !	Normally , I try never to watch any remakes before I had the chance to see the originals . . . So , watching this movie really was an exception for me since I never saw Don Siegel's version from 1956 and neither did I had the chance so far to catch the Philip Kaufman remake from 1978 starring Donald Sutherland . But this movie came on TV the other night and I watched it anyway . Besides , there were a few very interesting and respected people involved in this production . First of all , there's director Abel Ferrara of course . He already delivered a few true masterpieces before and some of them are personal favorites of mine ( like Driller Killer , Bad Lieutenant and The Addiction ) . But I wasn't completely convinced about watching this movie before I noticed that both Larry Cohen and Stuart Gordon took part in writing the screenplay . All three are very talented and influential men in the field of horror and I figured a collaboration between the three of them could only lead to something good . Well , it certainly is a decent movie and it provides the viewers with several scares . But - in general - I have to admit that I expected a bit more of it . The whole movie looks " unfinished " from time to time and the basic plot-idea isn't explained well enough , I think . I also had the feeling that everything moved too quick . . . Body Snatchers only lasts 87 minutes and that's a bit short for a rather complicated story like this . I would have preferred it to be a little longer and more detailed . Because of the fast storytelling , the ending also looks really fake and too abrupt . That was my biggest disappointment about it , I guess . Nevertheless , Body Snatchers contains multiple memorable scenes and it actually has the ability to raise the hair on your arms . . . That's quite an achievement too , I may say . Especially the sequence where both the daughter ( an adorable Gabrielle Anwar ) and the father ( a terribly boring Terry Kinney ) are being " body-snatched " is really frightening and a beautiful example of suspense-cinema and building up a tight atmosphere . This terrific scene ends with a powerful monologue by Meg Tilly's character . The entire movie is in fact recommended if it were only for this scene ! ! The further cast of Body Snatchers also contains a washed up Beverly Hills star ( whose name I don't remember ) and very enjoyable little roles by first class actors like Forest Whitaker and R . Lee Ermey . I guess this last one is doomed to play the authority figure ever since his outstanding performance in Full Metal Jacket but what the heck . He's brilliant every single time . In conclusion , Body Snatchers contains a few very bloody and explicit sequences so horror fans won't be disappointed completely . It could have been a lot better , that's a fact . But on the other hand . . it could have been a lot worse as well .
Christopher in Space SPOILERS	Several years after he managed to escape the Fortress , John Brennick and his family are still hunted by the Men-Tel corporation . When they find him in a cabin in the woods , John's wife and son can escape . John is , together with 2 old fighting buddies , brought in a high tech prison . Escape is the fist thing on his mind , but this will be hard cause the prison is . . . in space ! ! John and his fellow prisoners have to do real hard and dangerous work and can't understand how their supervisors manage to control everything they do and say . When they find out there are camera's inside their heads , this opens new chances to come up with an escape plan . Together with a black electricity specialist , a Russian undercover agent and his former buddies , John thinks of a plan to return to earth again . There where the first Fortress was an original SF story , this sequel's best points are the settings in space and a few very original twists . Sure you don't have to watch this for the amazing performance by Christopher Lambert . Fortress 2 is 90 minutes of low brain fun . No more , no less .
Forgotten misogynist slasher .	The synopsis on the back of the ancient VHS cover box describes the plot of " Bloodrage " as reminiscent to " Taxi Driver " and " Death Wish " and the director's styles and methods for creating tension as " Hitchcockian " . You can unquestionably guess without even seeing the movie for yourself that these generous comparisons are just slightly exaggerated , but it's nevertheless a decent and overlooked psycho-shocker that comes recommended to the selected group of avid fans of this type of obscure and grim exploitation cinema . Director Joseph Zito's predecessor to the much more known and infamous " The Prowler " is clearly inspired by the success of " Taxi Driver " , since it's more or less also a portrait of the sleazy and pauperized streets of New York's red light district , but it definitely benefices most from it's atypical serial killer protagonist . Unlike Travis Bickle , the psychopath here ? Ritchie ? is a seemingly shy and introvert young lad ; barely out of his teenager years and presumably from a decent social background . Ritchie visits prostitutes but ends up barbarically killing them because they aren't like he expects them to be ? whatever that may be . Even when he meets a " normal " girl , she turns out to be an infidel nymphomaniac and Ritchie gradually sinks deeper into misogynist rage and madness . Meanwhile , the secret lover of one of Ritchie's prostitute victims ? a ruthless copper ? follows the trace to New York and hunts him down like an animal . Particularly the opening fifteen minutes ? covering Ritchie's first murder prior to his escape to the big city ? are immensely powerful and shocking . You really don't see this fragile kid capable of murdering but he is and , moreover , remains stoically focused throughout the entire process . Ritchie's odyssey in the rancid streets of New York is far less exciting , mainly because we're on more familiar territory here , but the murder sequences nonetheless remain harsh and ultimately brutal to look at . With is lurid atmosphere , copious amounts of gratuitous nudity , grainy and cheap looking photography and uncompromising violence against women , " Bloodrage " perfectly fits in the late 70's / early 80's trend of misogynist slasher pictures , like " Don't Go in the House " , " Maniac " , " Hitch Hike to Hell " and " Don't Answer the Phone " . And if you really wonder where the connection lies with " Death Wish " , you just wait until the downright fan-tas-tic end scene !
The Goddess of Absurd Z-Grade Trash !	Who else than the terrific people working over at Mondo Macabro DVD could have picked up this deranged flick from oblivion and unleash it upon madness-loving cinema fanatics all over the globe ? " The Queen of Black Magic " is an Indonesian film ( a country of which most people don't even know they produce movies ) that is bad from every possible viewpoint , but simultaneously one of the most hilariously entertaining and excessively demented experiences one could ever have . The plot is thinner than an anorexic top model and completely devoid of coherence , dialogs as well as acting performances and dubbing jobs are atrocious and there isn't the slightest trace of tension building or character development . But all these ' minor defaults ' are more than widely compensated by the gigantic amount of over-the-top splatter effects , demented imagery and simply the sheer craziness of it all ! Particularly late at night , with a group of friends and loads of cold beer in the fridge , watching " The Queen of Black Magic " is guaranteed hilarity ! The film tells the heartbreaking story of Murni , a beautiful young girl who reluctantly offers her virginity to the man she loves , only to get dumped by the guy in favor for the village headman's daughter . If that isn't painful enough yet , poor Murni subsequently gets falsely accused of placing the village under a black magic spell and thrown of a cliff . She survives ( which is practically impossible if you see the fall ) and lands straight in the arms of an actual black magic artist who fanatically encourages her to seek vengeance and offers to be her teacher . Murni completes her revenge with the beheading of her treacherous ex-lover , but her mentor insists to carry on murdering the entire village . Meanwhile , a handsome and allegedly holy man arrived in town and suddenly Murni doesn't feel all that furious anymore . " The Queen of Black Magic " is recommended to laugh at the stupidity in its dialogs ( character endlessly repeating the same thing without even rephrasing their words ) and especially to gasp at the extreme gore . We've got maggot-infested cadavers , veins bursting with blood , exploding heads and ? top of the bill ? a decapitated head flying around town . If these represent the Indonesian gore standards , then I can't wait to get my dirty little hands on that other Mondo Macabro release named " Mystics in Bali " . Somewhat strange , however , is that this film doesn't feature any nudity and only a minimum of sleaze . I know I wouldn't have minded some nude scenes of lead actress Suzzanna , even in spite of her obviously enormous bottom . Speaking of Suzzanna , through this website I found out she passed away recently , which is a damn shame and surely a great loss for Indonesian cinema .
Horny for Hammer !	With just a few minor changes here and there , " Lust for a Vampire " easily could have been a progressive and even groundbreaking porno-movie ! The title is already a-okay , don't you agree ? Well so are the settings , locations and female casting choices ! The film is largely set in a private school for girls in their late teenage years , and the only conditions of entrance here seem to be luscious behavior and having at least a D-cup . All the male characters are typically weak-minded losers whose actions are exclusively instructed by hormones and even the sensual music emphases the erotic atmosphere . The only thing missing is hardcore sex , in fact . But it's also still somewhat a Gothic Hammer horror movie , loosely based on the works of Sheridan Le Fanu and revolving on the notorious Camilla Karnstein myths . It's the second entry in Hammer's trilogy on the subject matter and unquestionably worse than both " The Vampire Lovers " and " Twins of Evil " . This is possibly due to the cast & crew that worked on the film , though . Every avid horror fan ( or , at least , avid HAMMER fan ) knows that director Jimmy Sangster is not on the same quality level as Terence Fisher , Ralph Bates is no Peter Cushing and Mike Raven is just a pathetic imitator of the almighty Christopher Lee . But still , " Lust of a Vampire " lacks something else . Like a coherent script for example , or Gothic sequences that completely lack suspense . The downright stunningly beautiful Danish actress Yutte Stensgaard stars as Mircalla Herritzen , the indescribably sexy reincarnation of malicious vampire queen Carmilla Karnstein . Simultaneously with her arrival in a little town that lies near a spooky castle , other town girls turn up murdered with suspicious teeth marks in their necks . Tourist and writer Richard LeStrange decides to investigate the events , but he can't resist the gorgeousness of Mircalla's flesh . There are quite a lot of gory moments and ( for their time ) nasty make-up effects , but if you're hoping for genuine frights you better look elsewhere . In case you're already satisfied with some neatly morbid set pieces and a truckload of authentic sleaze , " Lust for a Vampire " is warmly recommended .
Overall satisfying hospital chiller	I instantly got hooked on this film when I first saw it . It came on late-night TV and I watched it even though I wasn't really allowed . The combination of seeing a forbidden film and being impressed by everything that is bloody , I really liked it . Now , years and literally tons of movies later , I notice that it is obviously flawed and unoriginal but yet I still think it's an enjoyable thriller that can provide you with a few scares . The film opens with an eerie black and white sequence in which a young boy witnesses the death of his older brother while the song ' lollipop ' is playing on the radio . Apparently due to this trauma , he grew out to become a mad scientist with Frankensteinian ideas and methods , using terminal hospital patients for his research . He takes revenge on the hospital staff that suspended him . The most efficient aspects about this film are unquestionably the ominous set pieces and locations . The horror highlights include a sequence in which a helpless patient gets a huge needle injected in her nose , or when our insane doctor operates on himself . First time actor Sean Haberle is decent as the ' villain ' , by the way . He's a spooky looking dude with vicious eyes and a violent charisma . The two leads ? James Remar and Isabel Glasser ? are okay as well but it's the supportive cast that is REALLY interesting . Peter Boyle ( Young Frankenstein , Hardcore ) , Charles Dance ( Alien³ , Space Truckers ) and especially Malcolm McDowell all make great appearances . Unfortunately , McDowell's icky character dies too soon and the film dies a little with him . Exquisite Tenderness is nowhere near original , the production takes itself way too serious and the last 5 minutes shouldn't have made the final cut . Yet , it's still a delightful film to kill some time with and the body count is enormous .
Rednecks are dumb and funny . Okay , we get it now !	If there's one stereotype the horror genre exploited beyond comparison , it unquestionably are the inhabitants of little and isolated rural villages ; more commonly known as either the rednecks , the hicks or the hillbillies . Ever since a movie called " Deliverance " featured footage of an inbred kid playing the banjo and toothless redneck farmers raping male city folks , people from secluded little towns are inevitably associated with lethal danger and maniacal behavior ! Actually , this stereotype got created nearly a decade before the release of " Deliverance " already , by a genius filmmaker named Hershell Gordon-Lewis and his smutty masterpiece called " Two Thousand Maniacs " . The tone and atmosphere of the demented B-movie tribute " Dead & Breakfast " is much more reminiscent to Lewis ' classic than to " Deliverance " or any other horror movie featuring murderous farmers . The good folks of Lovelock are portrayed as hopeless imbeciles and underdeveloped dorks who cheerfully spend their days throwing manure at each other , heavily drinking & dancing in the local pub , shooting animals for fun and spitting out chewing-tobacco . Most of the film's gags , especially during the first half , are genuinely hilarious and they often refer to other horror milestones , but writer / director Matthew Leutwyler eventually goes a little over-the-top with his jokes about rednecks . Just a little . . . Anyway , " Dead & Breakfast " certainly is a very enjoyable and light-headed new horror movie that even the older fans of the genre won't regret watching . It features several great splatter-effects , neat acting performances and ? as extendedly described here above ? some genuinely comical moments . The plot handles exactly about what you expect it to handle : six twenty-something people in an RV get lost on their way to the wedding of a common friend and they're forced to spend the night in a bed & breakfast motel in the little town of Lovelock . Both the owner ( cameo appearance by David Carradine ! ) and the cook are found dead the next morning , preventing the six people from leaving . The local sheriff initially suspect them of murder , but it quickly turns out that the owner of the B & B kept himself busy with the occult and summoned demons as a random hobby . Pretty soon , most of the town's residents transform into bloodthirsty zombies and the survivors of the original clique entrench themselves in the B & B , armed with a chainsaw and bullets but not shotgun . The gory massacres are ? it has to be said ? excellent ! We're being treated to several close-up decapitations and outrageous chainsaw action in the vein of Sam Raimi's " The Evil Dead " . The blood sometimes literally colors the screen red and the make-up effects are professionally nauseating . Matthew Leutwyler implements a fairly inventive , albeit slightly annoying narrative structure that involves a country singer yodeling the events depicted on the screen and marvelous storyboard drawings that are nicely edited into the film . Instead of some painfully un-funny gags ( like Michael Jackson's " Thriller " dance imitation ) , he maybe should have tried building up a little tension and / or add a truly unexpected plot-twist . But , hey , I guess we can't expect too much from a rapidly produced B-movie like this . The cast features a handful of very interesting names , like the utterly cool Jeremy Sisto , Vincent Ventresca and Diedrich Bader . Oz Perkins is perfectly cast as the freaky weirdo of the bunch . He looks exactly like his father ? the almighty Anthony Perkins ? and naturally the script grabs the opportunity to cleverly refer to " Psycho " . When Oz ' character stands in front of the B & B , one of the other guys states that the image reminds of him of a certain horror classic . See ! That's a funny joke and it didn't even require the presence of a toothless redneck !
German suspense beats American slashers !	( minor plot-spoilers coming up ) " Anatomie " is the kind of film that actually proofs how low the nowadays American horror industry has sunk . This German thriller / horror film is nowhere near perfect ( or even ' great ' ) , yet it's a lot more refreshing , original and imaginative than what we've seen from Hollywood lately ! Unlike the tedious and uninspired US-slashers , Anatomie brings forward quite a lot of suspense , gruesome violence and a couple of interesting ideas and settings . The wholesome of this interesting mixture still is somewhat flawed , but at least the attempt is there and you have to respect that . The story of Anatomie handles about a super-intelligent group of students who're selected to enjoy a special education at Heindelberg University ! One of them , Paula ( Franka Potenta ) soon discovers that a traditional foundation of surgeons is still active in Heindelberg . They perform unethical experiments on dead bodies . . . Now , within this organization , there are even bigger weirdos who suffer from some sort of strange fetish for human intestines ! It's up to Paula to put a stop to this unorthodox manners but who else can she trust ? ! ? Indeed , this basic plot is a little far-fetched and therefore , Anatomie goes over the top multiple times . Also , some of the characters are really difficult to take serious . . . They're supposed to be the most intelligent , young medicine-students in all Germany and all they ever talk about is sex and . . . more sex ! Franka Potenta ( the over-talented girl from the cult-hit ' Lola Rennt ' ) does succeed in making herself believable , though ! There also is a good use of music , scenery and - very important - medical slang ! ! Your head will start to spin when hearing all those Latin names for diseases and drugs . . . Nevertheless , I hardly think it was necessary to try and make this film look even more intelligent than it is . It remains entertainment in the first place ! Anatomie was a huge success in Germany and the neighboring countries . It also found its way to the American cult-circuit and a sequel was released in 2003 . Especially recommended if you need a break from the overblown Hollywood screamers !
Very bad . . . but still light-years ahead of its time !	This film is , in one word , DEMENTED ! No matter how you try to look at it ? either an early underdeveloped educative docu or an ambitious exploitation pioneer , you can only come to the conclusion that this is a masterpiece of awfulness ! How else would you describe a movie that features images of fighting women in a basement ( with baseball bats ! ) or a dude munching a cat's eye ( which , by the way , has just been squished out ) ? The whole point of " Maniac " is giving some sort of anthology about all the possible mental illnesses through the adventures of a science assistant . Maxwell helps his employer with stealing bodies from the morgue and re-animating the dead tissue for the cause of science . When his boss ( Dr . Meirschultz ) becomes a little too obsessed , Maxwell kills him and replaces him in performing the art of mad science . In order to give the story an Edgar Allen Poe twist , he walls up the corpse and a black cat accidentally gets buried along . " Maniac " is one giant incoherent mess ! Amateurish pacing , ridiculous dialogue and downright atrocious acting make it almost impossible to sit through this film even though it only lasts only a good 50 minutes . Bill Woods and Horace B . Carpenter overact terribly and especially their diabolical laughter is pathetic . And yet ? I had a great time watching it and I have a great deal of respect for director Dwain Esper's risky and ahead-of-their-time ideas . Being a massive fan of eccentric exploitation and bizarre cult-films , I'm convinced that could have enjoyed a much more positive reputation by now if it only had been made in the period of sleaze-deities like Jess Franco or Jean Rollin . The editing of silent German expressionism highlights into the film is quite eerie definitely well attempted . Maniac also contains a lot of gore and even nudity , which is quite spectacular for a 1934 film . So , if you're not too easily disgusted ( either by kitsch or awfulness ) I recommend tracking this deranged early horror film down ! I sincerely hope everyone involved in this production ended up in a mental asylum and lived happily ever after .
Unnecessary , gratuitous violence . . . . HOORAY !	Juan Piquer Simon is my favorite " bad " director of all time ! The man gave us " Slugs " , " Monster Island " and ? especially ? " Supersonic Man " . He always delivers very entertaining films and I can't bring myself to bash his work no matter how amateurish and cheap it looks . This " Pieces " is Simon's attempt to cash in on the very popular early 80's slasher trend . It blends the success elements of both " Friday the 13th " and " the Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , only the gore-factor is about ten times higher . In fact , " Pieces " easily could have been one of the most shocking movies ever if the gore wasn't so over the top and laughable ! This film is a series of repulsive massacres committed on a campus . The intro is supposedly set in the early 1940's , where a stern mother forbids her young son to play with puzzles that have naked women on them . So the boy just slaughters his mommy with an axe and forty years later he makes puzzles out of chopped off limbs , heads and torsos that he collects randomly on campus ! Z-horror legend Christoher George ( from Fulci's " City of the Living Dead " ) stars as the police lieutenant who even recruits college students to help him catch the maniac . The violence in " Pieces " truly surpasses your wildest imagination ! The killer here unquestionably is the most bloodthirsty creature in horror history since he even saws a girl in half ! This all may sound terrifying but , due to the poor production values , it's easy to digest and actually more funny than scary . The only slightly disturbing aspects are some of the killing-situations because they often look like guidelines for rapists and other sick puppies . For example , several killings are textbook crime-stuff like a girl alone in the park , or in an abandoned pool , the locker room and the aerobic-gym ! Not surprisingly the script was written by Joe D'Amato , who majored in sleaze . The acting is weak , the dubbing is painful and Simon wisely decided to replace all tension-building elements by blood , gore and more blood ! If you like the sound of rusty chainsaws and the images of knives cutting through human flesh . . . . here's your chance to go wild ! " Pieces " is an insane movie that has to be seen by all you deranged people !
We Are The Family . . . I got all my Albino-Brothers with me !	Now that I've finally seen all three major film versions of Richard Matheson's famous novel " I Am Legend " ( I have no idea why it took me until now to check out this version ) , I have to say the most splendid adaptation is NOT the big-budgeted new blockbuster starring Will Smith and it is NOT this early 70's cult classic starring the almighty Charlton Heston , either . The best and definitely most faithful interpretation of Matheson's spine-chilling story is the modest and mainly Italian-produced gem " Last Man on Earth " starring Vincent Price . That movie truly captures the apocalyptic atmosphere like Matheson intended it and also the ' creatures of the night ' are the most menacing and creepy in this oldest black-and-white version . Vincent Price battled for survival against bleak and slow-moving vampire-like creatures , like it was meant to be . The 2007 film replaced these with hyperactive computer-engineered monsters that aren't the least bit scary and this particular version even altered the nature of the creatures completely . In " The Omega Man " , last man on earth Robert Neville is up against a kind of organized sect of albino mutants . They still can't walk around in the daylight and dress up in monk outfits , but they have a leader ? named Matthias ? and refer to their well organized club as " The Family " . Matthias and his disciples believe that the extermination of the human race through chemical warfare was a punishment from God and it is their mission to destroy all remaining symbols of science and technology . Neville , the last human and immune to the plague , is the ultimate remnant of modern times and thus they organize a witch-hunt against him each night . Neville himself finds new courage to continue his search for a vaccine when he discovers a group of fellow survivors living in the countryside . I'm not quite sure what to think of " The Omega Man " , to be entirely honest . Like many people , I just love those grotesque and flamboyant Sci-Fi movies from the early 70's ? especially when they starred gun freak Heston - and the movie does offer a lot of explicit violence considering its year of release , but the whole production is just too damn silly and the movie simply doesn't convey the atmosphere of despair and solitude like it should do . Despite some extended images of Heston cruising around forsaken LA streets during the opening sequences , you never feel truly convinced that he is , in fact , the last remaining human being on the planet . Vincent Price depicted a tormented and genuinely hopeless scientist , whereas Heston merely acts like a kid in an empty toy store . The mutants , despite their reasonably eerie Albino appearance , don't succeed in making you feel uncomfortable . They're hammy monsters that talk too much and too fluent in order to be scary and their ideals of " cleansing " the planet are a bit ludicrous . Still , " The Omega Man " is fast-paced and never contains any dull moments . Heston gives away his typical macho performance , even though his emotional reactions whilst watching " Woodstock " are a bit hard to digest considering the man's well-known political ideas .
I Warned You Not To Work The Streets Tonight !	The " title " of this user comment is obviously a reference / tribute towards the tagline of the legendary infamous early 80's exploitation classic " Maniac " . Like another reviewer already righteously pointed out , this slick and surprisingly grim mid-60's grindhouse feature could be considered as a predecessor and definitely a source of inspiration for William Lustig's later film . Both movies revolve on a perverted New York serial killer , whose identity isn't exactly kept secret , who sadistically butchers women because all of them are whores . Moreover , both killers still hear their mommy's voice and both have an impressive yet uncanny collection of mannequin dolls in their living room . Last but not least " Maniac " is mostly famous for its disturbing atmosphere of nihilistic brutality and the extreme gore , and even though " Aroused " naturally isn't that engrossing , it's definitely ahead of its time in terms of sexual and violent explicitly . Weird choice of title , actually , since " Aroused " basically centers on a freak with an aversion from sexual pleasure since he spent most of his childhood locked up in a closet whilst mommy received her sex customers . Thus he developed hatred towards prostitutes and prowls the streets at night looking for new preys . The movie opens with a powerful sequence , clearly inspired by Hitchcock's " Psycho " , in which the maniac strangles a defenseless girl in the shower whilst experiences flashbacks of his dominant mother . A reckless rookie cop and the frank lesbian lover of a murdered prostitute combine forces to catch the killer , and particularly the woman plots a barbaric vengeance . " Aroused " is a pretty good movie for its kind . The script horribly drags in places and the jazzy soundtrack is extremely annoying , but those are typical and forgivable defaults in cheap & sleazy 60's sexploitation movies . At least the overlong and tedious parts always end with exciting moments , like when follow around a black prostitute for what seems to be hours only to witness her getting slaughtered nastily in the end . There's even suspense in certain parts and the dialogs as well as the performances are astoundingly above average . Heck , even the girls that go nude are all pretty attractive and that's a lot more than I anticipated . It's truly a shame Anton Holden didn't direct more of this type of raunchy horror / exploitation flicks ( apparently he's more at home in the sound editing business ) , since most of them are worth bothering for .
Cool summer-camp slasher !	This early 80's horror junk is exactly what you expect it to be : completely unoriginal and it probably never would have existed if it weren't for the unexpected success of Sean S . Cunningham's " Friday the 13th " . Writer / director Joe Giannone wanted to cash in on this " classic " horror film's earnings and quickly thought up a similar premise with the same amount of gruesomeness and sleaze . Yet , I feel no shame in saying that I really enjoyed watching " Madman " and I would even recommend it to other slasher-freaks as much as possible . There's something about this film that simply makes it irresistible . . . The movie starts with what perhaps is the biggest cliché in the genre but it sure works : a group of teenagers sitting around a campfire , attempting to scare each other with spooky tales . One of the tales revolves on a local legend and introduces " Madman Marz " . An unstable farmer who butchered his family with an axe before vanishing into the dark woods . If one speaks his name ? and I quote ? " above a whisper " , the legend states that Madman Marz comes for you . And of course there's some cocky teenager who immediately yells out his name over the campfire . So far the basic premise of this film that proves just how easy it was to come up with an horror screenplay in the early 80's . But what follows is a surprisingly suspenseful film with effective shocks and good cinematography ( it's lovely to see how the camera moves through the woods at night ) . The sound-editing is great and the opening / end score is darn chilling ! The maniac Marz is a reasonably scary horror icon and his vile acts are repulsive enough to make gorehounds ' mouths water . . . The bloody highlights of Madman include multiple decapitations and a really ugly hanging ! The acting performances are weak ( what else did you expect ) and the climax is rather disappointing , unfortunately . And sure there are many , many flaws to detect everywhere but why would you hate a slasher like " Madness " for its ineptness ? Love it for what it is : a adrenalin-rushing gore flick !
Burglary with Boris !	The almighty Boris Karloff is primarily an icon of horror cinema so it's a bit peculiar that this film , which is in no way horror-related , got included in the fancy and recently released Karloff DVD-collection ( cover image displayed here on the main page ) . Personally , I'm glad it's there , as " Night Key " was completely unknown to me and it's always a great pleasure to discover a new film from your favorite actor , especially if it's as amusing and adequately plotted as this film ! Boris is once again very convincing as the elderly inventor of burglar alarms who just reached a personal breakthrough with his new system of a beam-based alarm . When he attempts to sell his invention to a major company , the manager slash former business partner robs him for the second time and Mallory develops a plan to get even . By developing a way to crack the old alarm systems , he hopes to sell his new one quicker but unfortunately a gang of mobsters takes quite an interest in his burglary methods ? " Night Key " is by no means a mesmerizing film , but it benefices from a good pace and excellent acting performances . Apart from Boris , there's the really great acting to admire of Alan Baxter , Ward Bond and Hobart Cavanaugh as a small time crook . It's a fun little film , albeit very politically correct and loaded with clichés and stereotypes .
Ah , the glorious 70's !	Rather many people claim that this is a pointless , dreadful film . Why ? ! ? This is the perfect type of light-headed entertainment . It's a remake of a nostalgic TV-series and a spoof towards the hilarious disco-decade ? how bad can that possibly be ? The film is set in the seventies , people ! That's automatically funny even though the story stinks , as far as I'm concerned . If you're bothered by the story and dumb one-liners , you can always amuse yourself laughing with people's haircuts and clothes . Comedy twins Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson ( Zoolander , Meet the Parents , The Royal Tenenbaums ) star as the buddy-cops in charge of a drug-investigation . Vince Vaughn is the wealthy crook who developed and intractable kind of cocaine and it's up to Starsky and Hutch to catch him red-handed . The screenplay is totally predictable and full of clichés , but don't allow this to spoil the fun ! For example , the new breed of cocaine looks and tastes like sugar , so it's only logical it'll end up in someone's coffee . But ? even so , it results in an hilarious disco-dancing sequence that'll cause shameless chuckles ! According to me , Ben Stiller does the acting for the both of them . Even after all these movies , I still can't stand the look of Owen Wilson's face and I think he's a terrible actor . Snoop Dog on the other hand was a pleasant surprise . He almost succeeds in stealing the show in his role of vainglorious pimp slash informant . Lots of feminine beauty as well . Gorgeous faces like Amy Smart and Carmen Electra make the film more pleasant to watch . The good cast is being completed by delightful guest appearances by actors like Will Ferrell , Chris Penn and Fred Williamson . This film is good fun ? nothing more , nothing less . Just as Todd Phillips earlier films ( Road Trip , Old School ) , you're most likely to forget about them quickly but you'll sure as hell have fun whilst watching it .
Schools Out For ? EVER !	Like sadly too often the case with early 80's slasher-movies , this one honestly isn't as bad as the rating & reputation suggest and it obviously all depends on the viewers ' prior expectations . If you're set to see a mindless and undemanding stalk ' n slash effort , you get just that , but with a tidbit of goodwill , you'll even notice and appreciate the creators ' slightly more ambitious intentions . The vast majority of contemporary slasher flicks were blind copies of " Halloween " , but " Night School " looks for role models that predate Carpenter's horror milestone by several years , more particularly Alfred Hitchcock ( oh yes , yet another shower sequence ) and various Italian Giallo movies ! The killer's disguise and modus operandi , as well as the profile of the victims and several red herrings along the way , seem to come straight out of the script of the typical Giallo-effort . The stylish characteristics and outcome of the story may perhaps fall short ( real Gialli have far more complicated denouements ) , but still this is one of the more likable non-Italian attempts at making a Giallo . " Night School " is also clearly sponsored by Boston's department of tourism , as the opening sequences depict multiple picturesque shots of the city by night . There's a killer on this loose in this beautiful city , completely dressed in black leather and wearing a pitch-dark motorcycle helmet , who brutally decapitates of young co-eds and dumps the chopped off heads in the nearest watery reservoir . Police inspector Austin quickly discovers a pattern , namely all victims attended night school classes and ? more particularly ? the anthropology lectures of professor / playboy Dr . Millett . All the evidence points either towards Millett himself or towards a simple-minded waiter / peeping tom , but that would just be too obvious , wouldn't it ? The actual revelation of the killer's identity is ridiculously simple and easy to predict if you only just paid a little bit of attention to small clues . In spite of the gooey sounding head-hunter premise and its listing among the infamous Video Nasties , " Night School " is a rather tame and UN-shocking film . Most of the beheadings play off screen ( at first , I even feared I was watching a censored version ) and the rest of the bloodshed is kept to a minimum as well . The one sequence in the Sea Life Centre's locker room is quite mean-spirited , however , and probably single-handedly responsible for the notorious reputation . Director Ken Hughes ( director of " Chitty Chitty Bang Bang " , of all people ) films a handful of effectively suspenseful scenes , the music is atmospheric and ? even though I seem to be the only one who thinks so ? the character of Taj ( the assistant ) was funny !
Until death do us part . . . . violently !	Inconspicuous but nevertheless stylish Lamberto Bava thriller with a couple of remotely suspenseful sequences and an attractive Italian cast . The plot sounds very familiar but , although Bava doesn't really pretend to be original , he still manages to make his film look innovating and compelling at times . The beautiful Linda and her virulent lover Carlo just killed Luca , Linda's fatuous husband , and they continue running the hotel / restaurant near a popular fishing-lake . Eight years later , however , a hitch-hiker shows up and he seems to know alarmingly many details about Linda's first marriage . Linda and Carlo start to distrust each other and even her little son Alex begins to suffer from nightmares about a murdered man that comes crawling out of the muddy ground . . . Indeed , the plot resembles a lot like " The Postman Always Rings Twice " but - since it's Bava - the killings are nastier and the characters are more deranged . When it comes to atmosphere and horrific mood-setting , this definitely is one of Lamberto Bava's best accomplishments . The music is also good and the acting is far above Italian standards , with Gioia Scola ( Lucio Fulci's " Conquest ) , Urbano Barberini ( Dario Argento's " Opera " ) and especially David Brandon , the mean-looking actor from " Delirium " and " Caligola ? the Untold Story " . Recommended !
Keeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeep on Smiling !	Once again , I've been fooled . I anticipated watching the first " Sex with a Smile " movie , but apparently the ex-rental tape was a copy of the sequel in the VHS box of the original . This shouldn't necessarily be bad news , because the sequel is even more obscure and harder to find than the first film , but unfortunately it does not star the indescribably beautiful Edwige Fenech or the legendary comedy star Marty Feldman , and they were my main motivations to see it . However , the sequel stars no less than Ursula Andress to compensate slightly for the loss of Fenech ' feminine beauty and Barbara Bouchet is present again as well . " Sex with a Smile 2 " is typically Italian and even more typically 70's ; a very light-headed and insignificant comedy omnibus with a four short tales , all revolving on adultery and voyeurism . The short chapters definitely aren't brilliant , or even highly memorable , but they're quite entertaining while they last and the playful narrative style is guaranteed to bring a couple of smiles on your face . The first story introduces an ambitious private detective ( always referring to himself as " Dick " ) and his cross-eyed assistant . Their assignment is to prove that some guy's wife cheats on him , but she's as faithful as a German Shepard dog . The second story was quite original and joyful . A male macho infiltrates , dressed up like a Polish sex doll , in an all-female soccer team because their usual star hurt her knee two days before the most important match they ever played . All goes well on the field , but slight complications arise in the shower as well as outside the soccer field , where it's very difficult to keep up appearances . The third story is an interesting variation on the Trojan Horse legend , with a burglar perpetrating the villa of a rich couple in a wardrobe . But then the sleazy husband unexpectedly comes home with his luscious French mistress . The last and arguably finest segment stars the lovely Ursula Andress as a lawyer's wife waiting for her lover to join her for an afternoon in " sexual paradise " , but the latter doesn't succeed in reaching her apartment because he's mistaken for a deceased neighbor's long lost son . " Sex with a Smile " is a pretty amusing little flick , albeit very forgettable . None of the gags are truly hilarious or cause your stomach to hurt from laughing , but the comical situations are presented at high pace . All the stories are exaggeratedly talkative ( the Dutch subtitles couldn't even keep up at times ) , and many dialogs and one-liners are spot-on witty . Naturally , given the title and all , there's a lot of full frontal nudity and soft-core sleaze on display , but all in good taste . The extremely merry music is terrific , possibly the best element about it . This film , as well as its predecessor , must have formed an interesting chance for director Sergio Martino , who's primarily known for his blood and gore drenched Gialli ( " Torso " , " All the Colors of the Dark " ) and violent crime thrillers ( " The Violent Professionals " ) . Recommended , but only if you cherish a passion for obscure and smutty Italian cult cinema .
Lock , Stock , One Smokin ' Hot Chick and some Barrels of Gore ?	Even though my opinion and sentiments after watching " The Cottage " are overall positive , I can't help but admit it was a wildly uneven and even somewhat falsely promoted film . The trailer , which I watched repeatedly because it was so awesome , gave the impression this would be a full-blooded horror movie and ? moreover ? a genuine throwback to the deliciously tasteless exploitation movies of the 70's and early 80's revolving on bloodthirsty rednecks . Now I usually know better than to have full confidence in a trailer , but this one more or less " tricked " me . The structure of " The Cottage " is actually quite reminiscent to " From Dusk Till Dawn " , meaning that the tone radically capsizes halfway through and the film thus ends up covering two entirely different genres . It's a crossover between light-headed crime thriller and cheesy splatter horror , but unlike in the aforementioned " From Dusk Till Dawn " , the sudden turnover in style and content comes too abrupt and too late for the film to become a high-flier in either of the two genres . During the crime half , which is already quite convoluted itself , you regularly wonder how they're suddenly going to swift onto horror . And , as feared , once the script sets foot on horror territory all the previously built up story lines and character drawings are largely ignored . The crime half is typically British and thus quite similar to movies like " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " and " Snatch " . Three clumsy amateur crooks hold the daughter of a powerful nightclub owner hostage in a remote countryside house and hope to obtain a large ransom in return of her freedom . Their seemingly waterproof plan goes horribly wrong from the start . The girl isn't exactly the helpless and petrified type of hostage , the bag of money is filled with paper tissues and the father sends a couple of relentless Asian killers after them . The horror plot only kicks in when the girl escapes and , together with one of the kidnappers , arrives at a cottage where a severely deformed and psychopathic farmer lives . The crime plot is entertaining but obviously hasn't got anything new to offer . The characters are all stereotypes ( including one reluctant kidnapper and another one who's just plain stupid ) and even though their interactions evoke quite a large number of chuckles , it's nothing you haven't seen a dozen times before already . The horror plot is much more engaging , but by that time there's hardly any more time left to elaborate on the farmer's background . Newspaper clippings briefly reveal his horrendous past , but he largely just remains a mad-raving lunatic . The farmhouse residence , however , is a stupendously horrific location filled with clothes made out human skin and there's even a special room to store the farmer's impressive collection of scalps and human masks . The murders are extremely visceral and the make-up effects are sublime , including the ripping of someone's spine and a cut-in-half head . " The Cottage " is never boring and certainly recommended in case you're just looking for some undemanding amusement . However , if you absolutely seek a film that professionally blends crime , comedy and gore ( and even much more than that ) , I warmly recommend " Hot Fuzz " instead .
Belgo-exploitation !	Quite a difficult movie to come across , this " State of Mind " , but it sure looks like a worthy purchase in case you're an avid cult-collector ? at least , on the surface it looks like that . The DVD-cover proudly lists the names of famous horror stars like Fred Williamson , Jill Shoelen and ? above all ? Paul Naschy and the film is produced by James Desert , known for unleashing the notorious " Lucker ? the Necrophagous " upon the world . The famous names are merely just touts ( especially Paul Naschy's appearance is incredibly brief ) and the story isn't nearly as shocking as that of " Lucker " . Still , this movie isn't a total waste of time and , if you don't expect much , you might even find it enjoyable . The plot makes absolutely no sense and contains more holes than a teabag but , at the same time , it's delightfully deranged and awry , and thus very appealing to sick puppies as myself . The story is typically set in James Desert-world ? This means there are no normal people at all . Everyone is either an eccentric loner with a dark past ? or a homicidal maniac on the loose . " State of Mind " combines both as an escaped female serial killer finds shelter at the mansion of an insane single woman . Two serpents on one film-set ? satisfaction guaranteed ! Handsome police duo Loomis & Wishman ( Fred Williamson and Jill Shoelen ) don't have a clue since they assume that the serial killer died in a car accident . I counted a handful of really atmospheric sequences and there's a lot of sickening gore . Like we expect from James Desert , the violence is very graphic and thus definitely not for the squeamish among us . Of course , if you want to enjoy this film , you have to look past the terrible acting performances and the imbecile dialogues . Perhaps it's mainly because I'm Belgian myself ( like James Desert is ) but I'm glad to have this movie in my collection . The absurd plot , the violence and the cheap production values make it feel like an old-fashioned exploitation film and I applaud that .
Beware of greedy , imaginary unfaithful , worm-congested red-haired corpse brides . . .	Completely UNlike expected , I didn't like this creatively titled movie as much as I thought I would . " The Night Evelyn Came out of the Gave " features all the basic ingredients that make Italian horror fanatics ' mouths water , and it is in fact pretty good , yet it doesn't leave you with that fantastic feeling of total amazement like so many other gialli / Gothic films do . What went wrong mainly ? Well , one too many tedious sequences , for starters , but primarily it's the fact that justice apparently must NOT be done ! There's more than one murderer in this story and they honestly don't all get the punishment they deserve . The rest of the film is varying from good to great ! Director Emilio Miraglia offers a largely compelling giallo-plot , but with the atmosphere & set pieces of a typical Gothic horror production ! This means we're following a convoluted and demented crime conspiracy but set in an ancient ominous castle and featuring eerie family vaults , whips and gigantic cobwebs . Two years later , in 1973 , the great Antonio Margheriti also proved with " Seven Deaths in a Cat's Eye " that these two fabulous horror sub genre's can be blend perfectly . And he did it even slightly better , as that particular film didn't suffer from so many holes in the plot . The wealthy Lord Cunningham has the strange habit of luring red-headed beauties to his castle , suffering from a vision of another redhead running naked through a meadow , and subsequently killing the gals barbarically with a whip . This ritual describes his therapy for getting over his wife's death , since she passed away shortly after him ( falsy ? ) accusing her of adultery . When the Lord finally takes everyone's advise and re-marries with a stunning beauty , all kinds of mysterious events occur , indicating that the first wife returned from the dead with a vengeance . Hence the not-so-subtle title ! The story is always interesting but the pacing is a little slow and not one character is likable . However , that makes the murders all the more enjoyable ! They're not particularly gory , but certainly ingenious ! The killing of the wheel-chaired lady is notably brutal ! The music and quantity of nudity & euro-sleaze are also tip top , so there are more than enough elements left to reward this film with a positive rating .
Eco-horror at its finest	Liebermann's debut may looks ridiculous on paper ( a plague of lethal worms ? ! ? ) but it's much more interesting and better than you'd suspect . Apart from the outstanding shlock - effects , the best aspect about the film is the genuine location of a typical American small-town . Liebermann chose for a nasty looking Georgia swampland , inhabited by unfriendly people with darn ugly accents . During an immense storm , the electricity lines hit the swampy grounds and cause for the worms turn mental . ' Squirm ' starts out a little slow , with only some atmospheric music and neat set-pieces to enjoy during the first hour . But your patience is rewarded with several terrific and convincing shock-effects afterwards . In one of his earliest films as a make-up designer , Rick Baker immediately proves he's a professional artist . The acting is hard to judge since the Georgian accents are so tough to listen to at times . I particularly liked Jean Sullivan in the role of overly worried mother . It looks like she's trying to give a certain depth of oppressed paranoia to her character . Squirm surely isn't a brilliant film but horror fans can't really afford to miss it since it's a creature feature curiosum ! Killer worms ! ! !
The Mirror has two Faces and one giant Pe ?	This psychedelic 70's porn movie is stylish and oddly compelling , but still I can't bring myself to be as enthusiast as my fellow reviewers around here . Maybe I just anticipated a little more horror-elements or maybe I got a too upset because director Jonas Middleton presents a beautiful package but can't really hide the fact that there's very little in it . " Through the Looking Glass " is definitely the most ambitious porno movie of the overall rancid 70's offer , as it introduces a high social class family of three , living in a secluded mansion with a house staff . It seems like Catherine has it all made , including youthful beauty and wealth , but sexually speaking she's an extremely frustrated and unsatisfied woman . During her long and lonely days ( and nights ) alone in the house , Catherine goes to the attic to masturbate in front of the ancient mirror that reminds her of the childhood years with her father . Whether imaginary or supernaturally , the mirror ' sucks ' Catherine into a dreamy dimension where she encounters the weirdest and most perverted sexual situations . There aren't any taboos on the other side of the possessed mirror , as Catherine descents in a world of lesbian sex , outrageous Roman-like orgies and even incestuous reunions with her horny father . As the title implies , this film is indeed an adult variation on the world famous story " Alice in Wonderland " , but not nearly as demented or extreme as I had hoped . Sure Middleton hints at all the controversial themes , but there are never any genuinely shocking images on screen . The film does , however , feature some dared camera-work and several ingenious shots , like for example extreme close ups of female genitalia and even a journey into the lower body of the main starlet . Although elegantly photographed , the hardcore scenes quickly get tedious and , sadly enough , Catherine Burgess is the ONLY lady attractive enough to sexually arouse the male viewers . The other women look very random and their emotionless performances are a huge turn-off . The music is fantastic alas underused .
Compelling Gothic horror / drama	It's strange that I keep on discovering movies in which Boris Karloff actually plays the GOOD guy ! The man will always be an icon of horror-cinema , of course , but I used to think he exclusively portrayed monsters , mad scientists and psychopaths . Here in this forgotten 50's Goth epic , Karloff stars as the noble and honorable resident doctor of an Austrian castle community of which the owner ? Count Von Bruno ? is the only true sadist and murderer ! Sir Ronal Burton arrives at the castle to search for his two missing friends , of which he believes Von Bruno captured and killed them , and eventually relies on Karloff's character Meissen to save him . Von Bruno is a real villain who enjoys barbaric hunting games and holds an impressive collection of torture devices in his dungeon . Burton falls in love with his repressed wife Elga and when he's unmasked as Von Bruno's ancient nemesis , they're both locked up in the cellar . The script of " The Black Castle " is rather complex , but well constructed and rich on topics that fans of vintage Gothic cinema will certainly appreciate . The atmosphere in the extended hunting game sequences reminded me a bit of " The Most Dangerous Game " and the set pieces inside the castle looked genuinely sinister . There are more than enough sub plots and twisted supportive characters to keep the film compelling despite the lack of gruesome horror situations and make-up effects . The cast features another familiar horror face , Lon Chaney Jr . , but he and Karloff sadly don't get enough screen time to list " The Black Castle " among their most memorable achievements in acting . This was the debut feature of the respectable director Nathan Juran , who went on making fun & undemanding Sci-Fi / horror flicks like " The Deadly Mantis " , " 20 Million Miles to Earth " and " The Brain from Planet Arous " .
LOVED the trick with the canary !	Performing magic shows is literally a ' tricky ' business . Unquestionably these magicians are good artists , as they have to disguise a presumably very simple and logical trick and build a whole show around it , but at the same time the whole concept quickly tends to get boring . Just because you automatically presume there's a simple explanation for every illusion , you risk losing interest and I was more or less worrying that the movie would suffer from this exact same problem . It isn't very interesting to hear Michael Caine enlightening us about the different phases of a successful trick and it's even less interesting to constantly hear about two beginning magicians wanting to become the biggest performers of their time . Personally , I wasn't really hoping for a thriller revealing a lot of magic-secrets . I was merely anticipating a dark & sinister post-Gothic portrait revolving personal vendettas and macabre set pieces . And for the largest part , The Prestige actually delivers ! The man in the director's chair is Christopher Nolan , and both " Memento " and " Insomnia " already proved he's a terrific storyteller , as he has the talent to bring an ordinary tale much more complex than it actually is . Nolan once again uses as irregular narrative structure , with jumps back and forward into time and well-camouflaged hints that eventually all lead to a gigantically grotesque denouement . Robert Angier ( Hugh " Wolverine " Jackman ) and Alfred Borden ( Christian " Batman Begins " Bale ) are two gifted pupils of the already legendary ' engineer ' Cutter ( Michael Caine ) , both treasuring the ambition to become the nation's biggest magician . A regretful accident , resulting in Angier's wife tragic death on stage , causes their friendship to turn into intense competition and pretty soon they spend even more time sabotaging each other's shows than actually building up their own acts . When Alfred Borden eventually presents his perplexing Transported Man trick and Angier can't possibly decipher the logic behind it , the rivalry turns into a dangerous obsession that will require large sacrifices . The main attraction of this film is probably meant to be the guessing along for the tricks and the detailed exposition of a handful of basic magical acts , but honestly that whole aspect impressed me the least . With just a tad bit of concentration and the experience of having seen similar mystery-thrillers , the red herrings are fairly transparent . Also , the whole set-up of Robert Angiers ultimate act ( with the help of pop star David Bowie in a remarkable role ) is simply impossible to take serious . Whatever remains , however , is definitely worth watching . The mysterious late 19th Century set pieces are intriguing , especially the transporting machinery which seems to be inspired by the " telepods " in David Cronenberg's " The Fly " . The detailed illustration of magical tricks didn't really fascinate me , although there's one notable exception : the disappearing canary ! It's a cruel and pretty offensive old-school trick , but hilarious in case you have a weird sense of humor . Quite embarrassing , because I was the ONLY person in a sold-out theater who was laughing with this sequence . The acting performances are top-notch , but with an ensemble cast like this we wouldn't accept it any other way . Particularly Christian Bale is terrific , since his naturally mysterious charisma is ideal for a role as a magician . Scarlett Johansson's part is rather small , but her beautiful appearance helps cheering up the dark sets a lot .
They Won't Let the Sun Go Down on Us .	Danny Boyle's " Sunshine " has a powerful & compelling plot , breathtakingly stunning visual effects , masterful scenery and a constantly high level of suspense ? yet ; it nevertheless remains an " ordinary " and " prototypic " Sci-Fi movie . Boyle almost single-handedly recreated the extinct zombie genre with his previous film " 28 Days Later " , so quite a large number of fans ? myself definitely included ? expected that he would at least try and provide the dying Sci-Fi / disaster genre with a few new twists and touches but , most unfortunately , Boyle and his regular writer Alex Garland merely restrict themselves here to the recycling of vintage ideas and classic bits that already featured in Sci-Fi landmarks such as " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " , " Alien " , " Star Trek " and " Solaris " . The whole thing is extremely professionally acted and directed , but the truly ingenious and nifty aspects can be count on the fingers of just one hand . In fact the only really unpredictable surprise-twist , which comes very near to the end and all of a sudden practically turns " Sunshine " in a brainless slasher picture , is a very foolish and inconsiderate one that nearly brings down the credibility of the entire production . In the not-so distant future , barely fifty years from now , the sun is slowly but surely dying and hence the days of our own planet are numbered as well . The Icarus II , with its eight-headed crew of scientists , mathematicians and even psychiatrists , go on a mission to literally reboot the sun with a nuclear bomb , but they quickly face gigantic obstacles like mechanical defects , mutual conflicts and ? the utmost absurd obstacle of all ? a confrontation with what's left of Icarus I . As the number of astronauts decreases , the more insurmountable their mission becomes . One of the main reasons why classic Sci-Fi milestones such as " Alien " and " 2001 " were so effective is because of their convincing character drawings . When I first watched " Alien " , at too young age I must admit , I was literally convinced these people were real astronauts . It's been far too long since we had a Sci-Fi movie with a truly convincing cast and even " Sunshine " fails to deliver in this department . Actually , the characters in " Sunshine " are oppositely implausible to those in " Armageddon " . The earth's saviors there were a bunch of foul and loud-mouthed yokels whereas , here , it's a bunch of silent , introvert and inexperienced geeks and in either of the two cases you wouldn't want your fade to depend on such a motley crew . It goes without saying that the visual effects are stupendous and often even downright breathtaking . The wondrous visual exhibition begins with the opening sequence already and carries forth throughout the whole movie . The effects are so dazzling you sometimes almost literally experiences the sun burning holes through your own skin . My advise would be to enjoy the rudimentary outline of the plot and the brilliant use of special effects as much as possible , especially during the first hour of the film , because afterwards the script takes a couple of unforgivably lame twists and the whole tone becomes indigestible and preposterous .
Exterminating all Mallrats !	In this insignificant but nevertheless fun 80's low-budgeter , the sex-hungry teenagers for once aren't chased around by a killer wearing a ridiculous mask but by a troop of malfunctioning and heavily armed security robots ! Four couples that work in various stores at the Park Plaza shopping mall secretly throw an after hours party during the same night when a lightening storm completely disorientates the 3 brand new " Protector " robots and get killed off one by one . " Chopping Mall " ( how can you not love that title ? ) is a lot of fun to watch and it's easily Jim Wynorski's best effort out of more than 60 directed films . Despite the fact that " Chopping Mall " doesn't take itself too seriously and mainly focuses on satire , there really are some tense moments and properly mounted suspense sequences . The laser head-explosion sequence is famous and there are multiple other cheese-highlights . But what is perhaps the most surprising , are the engaging acting performances and the welcome amount of tasteful nudity . The most familiar cute face in the cast is Barbara Crampton who stars as a screaming beauty in between her two greatest films " Re-Animator " and " From Beyond " . Truly ingenious are the endless references towards Roger Corman's repertoire , especially illustrated through cameos of Paul Bartel , Dick Miller and Mary Woronov . Unquestionably , " Chopping Mall " is a righteous guilty pleasure of many , many horror fans .
Shyamalan's best in a while , but movie-miracles still ain't happening ?	Please note the reviews also contains slight spoilers for " The Sixth Sense " and " Unbreakable " . Pretty much like the rest of our cinema-loving universe , I anticipated the release of " The Happening " with quite an unhealthy dose of skepticism . I never even bothered to watch " Lady in the Water " , but I severely disliked both " Signs " and " The Village " and I even think his supposedly greatest accomplishments " Unbreakable " and " The Sixth Sense " are vastly overrated . Still , the formula of " The Happening " strangely appealed to me and ? unlike any of the aforementioned titles ? I felt to urge to go and see it on the big screen as soon as it got released . The trailer is downright fantastic and , even though you just know it already features all the film's major highlights , it literally oozes with suspense and morbidity . And also , for me personally , the opening of the film took away a massive load of skepticism and negative premonitions . Shyamalan doesn't dawdle for once and comes straight to the point after the atmospheric and moody opening credits . Strange , inexplicable and unspeakably tragic phenomena overcome the East coast of the United States . Starting within and around large national parks , people suddenly become emotionally and physically paralyzed and subsequently commit suicide as if they're instructed to do so by some sort of higher power . A large posse of petrified people , amongst them a science teacher with his emotionally troubled wife and one of his colleagues ' young daughter , attempt to flee towards Philadelphia by train , but the unidentifiable menace spreads out as well . The occurrences are too complex and precise to be terrorist actions and an alien attack is entirely out of the question , so the only remaining explanation would involve a spontaneous revolt of nature . The undeniable strong-point of " The Happening " is that M . Night Shyamalan emphasizes the mystery-aspect a lot less than in any of his previous screenplays . At first there are several wild speculations regarding the origin of the events , but once nature's involvement is established , the focus purely lies on survival of the characters and at least the film doesn't build up towards the infamous ? but often disappointing ? twist in the end . The concept is pretty good , however the elaboration still too often feels incoherent and unconvincing . " The Happening " contains multiple isolated moments of sheer brilliance and ? also unusual in the director's repertoire ? pure horror , but as a wholesome it still isn't as powerful as it should be . The sequences in which construction workers throw themselves off rooftops , people stand in line to shoot themselves through the head with the same gun or even lie themselves down in front of a moving lawnmower are highly unsettling pieces of intense horror and probably the most shocking images M . Night Shyamalan will ever capture on film . They're especially disturbing since they're illustrated with a great sense of elegance and style , like the supernatural suicide is some work of art . In between all the menace coming from higher and incontrollable forces , the director also grabs the opportunity to depict ordinary human beings as the ultimate monsters . In their quest for survival , common people become egocentric and dangerous aggressors . It's an ancient and overused theme in Sci-Fi movies , but still very efficient and appropriate . A final and equally typical trademark in Shymalan's films is that the cast of characters doesn't feature any heroic or implausibly witty types . Taking all this and more ( good acting , stunning photography , beautiful locations ? ) into account , I'm tempted to describe " The Happening " as a good film and a personal triumph for the writer / director , but there's something that really upsets me . M . Night Shyamalan still is an imitator ! Admittedly a very subtle and discrete one , but an imitator nevertheless . The rudimentary concepts for his most acclaimed movies may come across as original and unique , but they're always somewhat borrowed from less conspicuous older films . Genuine horror fanatics will have thought about " Carnival of Souls " and " Dead & Buried " whilst watching " The Sixth Sense " ; " Unbreakable " had oddly many ideas in common with two obscure 80's movies called " Sole Survivor " and " The Survivor " and , if you contemplate about it a little , " The Happening " is a subtle re-working of Alfred Hitchcock's " The Birds " . If you've seen this classic piece of 60's eco-horror , please take a few moments to think about the similarities .
A Stranger is a Friend you haven't met yet ? Hmm , not quite . . .	It isn't a secret that the horror industry suffers from a severe lack of originality lately . Albeit still immensely popular , the genre nowadays only brings forward remakes of older successful classics or recycled versions of one and the same concept . " The Strangers " isn't a remake , but it's pretty much identical to the earlier released movies " Vacancy " , " Funny Games " ( which also received an American remake this year ) , " Them " and probably a handful of other titles I can't think of at the moment . All these movies make full use of the ' back-to-basics ' principle . People are being tormented and terrorized by other people for no apparent reason . It's simple , usually effective , doesn't cost a fortune on special effects and location spotting , gives the director the opportunity to use all the clichés the genre has to offer and you can even easily link it to horrific events that really occurred . There's an actual spoken introduction claiming the depicted events are just one example of thousands of cases of senseless and unexplained violence that take place in America each year . Well yes , we're surely living in a rotten world . If you disregard the fact that " The Strangers " is thoroughly unoriginal and predictable from start to finish , you'll still have to admit that it's also a professionally made thriller with some extended moments of genuine tension as well as a few really efficient jump-scenes . The essence of " The Strangers " can be summarized in one sentence only . James and Kristen , a young couple residing in his father's remote holiday villa , become the targets of three relentless and sadistic masked perpetrators during one night of terror , fear and cruelty . That's the main plot , but our young writer / director Bryan Bertino uses some ancient tricks first to make us feel identifiable and sympathetic with the lead couple . The entire first act of the film revolves on their relationship issues that we gradually learn to know through brief flashbacks and the players ' body language . By the time the perpetrators arrive on their doorstep , we already feel sorry for James and Kristen and yet their suffering has yet to begin ! This exact same trick was also attempted in the aforementioned " Vacancy " , but it works so much better here . Compared to Luke Wilson and Kate Beckinsale in " Vacancy " , Liv Tyler and Scott Speedman at least argue in silence and seem a lot more emotionally troubled . The transition from relationship drama into stalk-n-terror thriller happens quite smoothly and , even though the middle-section is just an endless series of all the known genre clichés , Bertino manages to keep you alert and compelled throughout the rest of the film . The titular strangers are reasonably creepy villains , wearing uncanny masks and making clear this is nothing but a purposeless game for them . They're not in a hurry to kill their victims , but toy with their emotions instead and even provoke them to turn towards using violence first . The climax is supposed to have a shocking and deeply disturbing impact , but unfortunately , watching a massive amount of similar movies turned us all into rudderless and sentiment-free creatures . As said , what a cruel and rotten world we live in ?
Vietnam after-party . . .	SPOILERS AHOY ! ! ! Uncommon Valor is a decent - you might even say good - war movie that in fact was one of the first films that portraits the pain and depression after Vietnam . The movie mostly sets in the same year as it was shot - 1983 - a good 10 years after the last troops returned from Vietnam . At the time of the story , there still are many P . O . W kept hidden in the jungle of Laos . One of them is Kol . Rhodes ' son Frank . Rhodes ( Gene Hackman is a great role as always ) feels that his son is still alive and can't go on living with the thought that he's kept prisoner . Therefore he convinces and recruits a whole platoon of veterans to go back and release the M . I . A's . On one side , they're sponsored by the government because one big man there also has a missing son but on the other side they're being boycott because the government still is negociating with Laos to set the prisoners free without a battle . Three quarters of the movie is filled with the training and recruiting of the veterans and it's pretty needless to say that involves a lot of sentiment , emotion and even some funny moments . In that point of view , Uncommon Valor isn't really innovating or memorable but it does contain an interesting character portrait of veterans in general . We see how one soldier is faced with his old phobia again ( Fred Ward , still a very underappreciated actor in my opinion ) and another one going crazy once again because he was addicted to painkillers back in Vietnam ( Randall " Tex " Cobb in a very well cast role ) . Uncommon Valor also stars a young Patrick Swayze ( even before his Dirty Dancing role ) as the enthusiast young warrior who never fought in Vietnam but sure wants to help now in releasing the prisoners . The film is directed by Ted Kotcheff who knows his way around Vietnam stories . . . He was the one who also brought us the Rambo franchise . Uncommon Valor doesn't belong to the top list of Vietnam war movies but it certainly is enjoyable and worth a watch . Good cast and especially the locations and settings leave an impression on you .
Vampires are at large , I tell you ! VAMPIRES ! !	" The Vampire Bat " starts out fabulously , with eerie images of large bats fluttering through the dark night and a very atmospheric portrayal of a petrified little town with its superstitious inhabitants under the spell of a serial killer who seemly drains all the blood out of his / her victims ' bodies . The opening sequences of this film ( the first 15 minutes or so ) is pure vintage horror , with a suspenseful introduction to the story ( extended speeches with a detailed description of the killer's modus operandi ) and a great use of set pieces and interiors that already proved their effectiveness earlier ( the same scenery was used in Universal classics , like " The Old Dark House " for example ) . Very regrettable , however , is that the story quickly becomes tedious and predictable and the only element left to admire near the end is the sublime acting by a multi-talented cast . In the remote town of Kleinschloss ( very cool name , by the way ) , they keep on finding bodies with not a single drop of blood left in them . The scared and superstitious villagers are convinced that there's a vampire in their midst ( it wouldn't be the first time , according to the history books ) and the prime suspect is the village-idiot , Hermann , who shows a bizarre affection towards bats . The only straight-thinking authority figure is inspector Karl Brettschneider , but even he can't come up with a rational explanation for the murders . If you're somewhat familiar with the roles and careers of eminent horror actors in the 30's , you know who the real culprit is right away and ? even if you're not ? it's not hard to guess , since the clues are numberless . " The Vampire Bat " isn't a very efficient whodunit mystery , but it definitely remains a must for fans of classic horror films since it brings together names like Fay Wray ( immortal for her role in " King Kong " ) , Lionel Atwill ( " Mystery of the Wax Museum " ) , Melvyn Douglas ( Polanski's " The Tenant " ) and Dwight Fry . This latter is my personal favorite cast member here , mainly because he's a very underrated actor who always stood in the shadows of more important horror veterans . His performance of Herman the nut is truly terrific .
Severe butchering !	This is not even a rip-off from " Friday the 13th " ; it's almost an exact clone ! Most 80's slashers at least try to bring some change in setting , the killer's background or continuity , but Maylem's film doesn't . Period ! The plot features the exact same group of teenagers during summer camp . Just as it was the case in " Friday the 13th " , the teens play stupid pranks , take canoe-trips ( guided by banjo-music stolen from " Deliverance " ) and tell spooky campfire stories . The killer , Cropsy ? what's in a name ? shows strange resemblance to Jason Vorhees as he also is the dude everyone always picked on . So , this movie shamelessly steals all the elements that made F13 so popular . So what ? If you manage to find a fully uncut version , you'll be exposed to some of the most repulsive and nauseating slaughtering ever shot ! The Burning is gore to the max and that's exactly what makes it exceptional in its field . They really don't make ' em as bloody as this anymore . The nowadays horror directors should take a good look at movies like " The Burning " in order to find out how to really disgust and shock the viewers . The infamous raft sequence explicitly shows the massacre of five young teens , not leaving much to the imagination . Maestro Tom Savini's make-up effects provided this movie with a well-deserved spot in the notorious video-nasties list ! As far as redundant teen-slashers go , this is a must see !
Grace Anatomy	Released and promoted in some countries as " Cannibal Holocaust 2 : The Beginning " , this really isn't a sequel ( or prequel ) to Ruggero Deodato's legendary exploitation-classic , but more like a shameless and unscrupulous imitation with absolutely no new ideas or innovating concepts to add to the original . The screenplay is almost an exact copy of CH , with a group of power-horny TV people supposedly descending into the Amazon jungle to shoot a documentary about the lives of the last remaining genuine cannibal tribes . The crew , led by the reputedly unrelenting anchorwoman Grace Forsythe , very well knows they'll only get high viewer ratings when they serve their audiences copious amounts of action , bloodshed and repulsive images , and realize their show will be canceled and their careers will be finished if the jungle adventure doesn't turn out to be a success . So when the natives behave a little too tame and peaceful , Grace & C° see it as their own normal duty to burn down villages , kill defenseless villagers , poach innocent animals and rape the local virgins themselves , all for for the sake of sensational TV-making . Also , in good old-fashioned Cannibal Holocaust style , there's one remotely human TV-executive among the bunch who condemns the sick footage and even turns straight to the camera to raise the classic debate " I wonder who the real cannibals are ? " . Needless to say the beastly film crew eventually gets what they deserve , when they encounter the feared community of the Invisibles ; a very primitive and downright savage tribe of which the members clearly aren't interested in a TV-career . It's rather difficult to judge Bruno Mattei's " Cannibal World " . It's a thoroughly unoriginal , repetitive film and it nearly doesn't feature the same raw & shocking atmosphere of its Italian ancestors of the early 80's . Being entirely shot with modern video techniques , " Cannibal World " looks too clean and obviously fake whereas the old cannibal films literally dropped you in the middle of the jungle along with the characters . On the other hand , I can't help feeling more or less obliged to appreciate this film , just because it attempts to bring back the relentless heyday of Italian exploitation cinema ! After all , you got to have some respect for writer / director Bruno Mattei ! The man has passed the age of 70 and yet he's the last of the old guard of Italian horror directors who still has the courage to travel towards the Philipinian jungles and shoot a film with inexperienced actors and limited financial means . That alone deserves the respect of every person who ever showed interest in Italian horror cinema . Moreover , " Cannibal World " is literally stuffed with nasty gimmicks , gory massacres and super-sleazy footage . Fans of explicit disembowelment certainly won't be disappointed , as we extendedly get to see the intestines of nearly every character who walks through the screen . The unknown Helena Wagner is rather terrific as the grade-A bitch Grace and the unearthly beautiful Cindy Jelic Matic provides the slower parts of the film with essential nudity . All together , I personally think us vintage exploitation-fans owe Bruno Mattei a big and sincere " Thank You " .
Partly successful attempt to blend styles that are hard to blend .	Okay , even though I surely don't regret having watched this film , I won't be joining the other reviewers around here who all claim it's a hilarious movie and / or the best horror comedy in decades . The intentions of cast and crew are good , there are plenty of good gags and the characters are likable but overall it feels like something is missing . It sure isn't obvious to mix a splatter-horror subgenre with comical situations so the premise of this ' Shaun of the Dead ' doesn't work all the time . Nevertheless , there's enough ingeniousness and originality to make this a worthwhile film . The setting of a grey , banal London suburb with its typical inhabitants suits the story really well and the actors do their absolute best to provide this film with a human character . But it's not as hilarious as it looks and it's simply impossible to uphold a light-headed atmosphere when you're dealing with an apocalyptic theme . In case you're not familiar with the plot : 29-year-old Shaun is stuck in his monotonous life of dead-end job , nagging mother and lowlife roommate . His more ambitious girlfriend breaks up with him and just when he plans to make some serious changes to win her back , a mysterious disease resurrects the dead and turns the living into an endangered species . While the army of ravenous zombies keeps on growing , Shaun rescues his girl and some friends by bringing them to their favorite pub . Some of the gags ( like when the gang learns to move like zombies in order to keep a low profile ) are really good but the film is a bit too long and the drama eventually overrules the horror . Actually , the very best aspects in ' Shaun of the Dead ' are the numerous references towards milestone zombie movies , but I fear these sublime findings are a bit lost on wider audiences . Shaun of the Dead brings homage to the Romero trilogy , The Evil Dead and many Italian classics . For true horror fans , it's a joy to track down all the subtle tributes . Overall , this gem sure is worth renting but the hype in enjoys at the moment is a bit unmerited .
Extraordinary like Poe intended it ?	I suppose this is the best you get when three acclaimed and prominent European directors interpret the oeuvre of Edgar Allan Poe in their own typical and over-praised filming styles ? The Gothic ambiance as well as the poetic darkness of Poe's writings entirely vanish and have to make room for artsy gimmicks and personal trademarks of each director . I'm probably in a minority here , but I prefer directors like Roger Corman when it comes to Edgar Allan Poe adaptations . The seven films in HIS ultimate Poe homage are much more loyal to the original writings and at least Corman wasn't reluctant to focus on the horror aspects of the stories . That being said , " Histoires Extraordinaires " of course isn't a bad film ! Horror collaborations between legendary directors are always worth checking out , especially with the eminent cast members ? Americans and Europeans ? that were involved here ! The first story by " Barbarella " - director Roger Vadim is a really weak opener , despite the colorful decors and the unique casting of siblings Jane and Peter Fonda as lovers . " Metzengerstein " revolves on the riotous Countess Frederica who behaves ? as the narrator so beautifully says ? like a female version of Caligula and takes all her wealth for granted . That is until she meets the handsome Baron Wilhelm who obviously isn't impressed by her flamboyant lifestyle and turns down Frederica's advances . When Wilhelm accidentally dies in an arson she commanded , Frederica becomes an emotional wreck and replaces his image by a large , fiery stallion . I'm sure Vadim's segment is rich on symbolism and perverted undertones , but the screenplay is too dull and slow . Although most people seem to prefer Fellini's contribution , my choice for best episode of the three is Louis Malle's " William Wilson " . The subject matter feels familiar , being another variation on the ' doppelganger'-theme , but the narrative structure is ingenious , there's plenty of suspense & even some bloody action and the acting performances here are far superior to the ones in the other two segments . Alain Delon is simply terrific as the cruel and obnoxious Wilson , a man whose vile crimes are always rectified by his own shadow . Multiple scenes in this episode are disturbing and quite controversial and William Wilson is the only character that is portrayed like a genuine Poe-villain . Brigitte Bardot puts down a courageous performance and the De Sadean climax in which she gets whipped for losing a game of poker is strangely fascinating . If I were to rate each story separately , this one definitely earns a . " Toby Dammit " was a huge disappointment for me , mostly because Fellini films his own horror-related obsessions and totally ignores Edgar Allan Poe's . The story works well enough as a nightmarish portrait of a drug-abusing actor's descent into madness , but it totally lacks Gothic eeriness . Infant Terrible Toby Dammit arrives in Rome to star in a glorious film production ( the first religious western ever ! ) , but he only cares about material rewards , partying and running amok on national television . Pretty soon , he's haunted by the always re-appearing image of a young girl with a skipping rope . This segment is recommend only for Terence Stamp's curious performance and Fellini's terrific use of color shades but , in the context of a Poe-inspired horror omnibus , it's painfully out-of-place .
I defend this neat Werewolf film	Werewolves . . . Kim Delaney . . . and Kane Hodder as the creature . How bad could this possibly be , I wondered . The signs weren't good though . Bashed all over the net , released straight to video and hard to find on VHS . Well , I certainly didn't regret watching it . For me it was filled with pleasant surprises and loyal to the traditional " werewolf-rules " . . . This means a full moon , silver bullets and bloody massacres . Although the director is rather unknown ( at least , he was to me ) he had to change to work with some great actors . The above mentioned Kim Delaney ( my second favorite B-movie queen after Barbara Crampton ) and Kane " Jason Vorhees " Hodder ( he was also the stunt-coordinator ) Miller , the major villain in the story , also looked SO familiar . And after about 10 minutes it popped in my head : he's the funny mayor from Spin City . That was a pleasant surprise . And then for the most important factor about a movie : the story . I think , no matter what everyone says , that it was rather good . Sure , it had a few holes and the " creating the ultimate warrior " thing is far from original , but still . . . it keeps you very well focused . In order to create a new and much stronger breed of warriors , two soldiers are sent to Hungary to find the blood of a werewolf . One of them dies but the other one returns with the blood . Impatient as he is , he can't await the scientists and decides to inject the blood in his body . He becomes a werewolf and starts a killing spree . He gets shot by Miller , the brain behind the whole operation , and is frozen . 20 years later Miller finds out about a group of scientists who gained success by replacing normal skin by implanting metal skin . Miller sees his chance to continue his search for the ultimate warriors and orders the group to use the frozen corps for their further research . The werewolf elements are still active ( although I gotta admit he looks more like a giant hedgehog now ) in the corps and in combination with the metal skin , he soon becomes a very dangerous killing machine . . . . It sure can't live up to the older werewolf movies from the 40's , 60's and 80's but this still is a good effort in the genre . You have to take a risk from time to time to keep the field of horror interesting and the makers of this film did that . I thank them for that and I hope this film gets more appreciation someday . Until then , I'll do my part and recommend it to as many people as possible . Hence , this review . . .
The Murder-Show Must Go On !	Despite suffering from many flaws and shortcomings , " The Killer Reserved Nine Seats " is still warmly recommended to fans of the Italian giallo ( and we know their number increases every day ! ) . The absolute greatest and most inventive titles of this wonderful Italian horror sub genre pretty much all received fancy DVD-editions by now , so there must be some very good reasons why this film is still obscure and hard to find . And yes , it doesn't take the slightly experienced giallo-fanatic very long to figure out that Giuseppe Bennati's effort is far inferior to ? let's say ? the work of Sergio Martino or Dario Argento . Gialli are almost fundamentally blessed with a fantastic musical score , yet the opening tune in " The Killer Reserved Nine Seats " is ugly as sin and suggests an entirely wrong ambiance . The music isn't the biggest shortcoming , but it's definitely what bothered me the most as I expect a giallo-score to haunt my dreams for several more nights . On the night of his birthday , millionaire Patrick Davenant invites eight of his acquaintances to an abandoned theater that he owns but never visits . The atmosphere in the group is hostile , yet they stay close to Patrick as they all depend on his fortune . After a bit of wandering around the old theater , the first girl is brutally murdered with a dagger and the rest of the group discovers that the place carries an ancient curse . Is there really some kind of evil supernatural force luring from within the walls ? Or is one of these nine people an old-fashioned flesh & blood killer ? Let's just say the answer to this question is not hard to predict , but it'll still take many corpses before the characters know for sure . . . Let's start with discussing the BEST elements about this film ! " The Killer Reserved Nine Seats " is a decent and straightforward murder-mystery with a reasonably fair amount of plot-twists and intrigue . Not nearly as convoluted as most gialli , but compelling enough to keep you alert and hoping for a surprising denouement . Undoubtedly the greatest aspect about this film is the claustrophobic theater setting , which provides the story with an uncanny almost Gothic atmosphere . This same original setting offers the opportunity to make the murders ingenious and somewhat special . The deaths of the lesbian lovers , whose mutilated bodies are exhibited like some kind of stage tableau , are the finest examples to state this . There are several insurmountable problems with the script , however . There's way too much talking about irrelevant stuff and the characters do incredibly stupid things , like leaving the group to investigate the dark and secret corridors of the theater all on their own . Not smart . The supernatural sub plot is overall stupid and definitely not very efficient as a red herring , but I suppose it was a worthwhile attempt . The acting performances are surprisingly adequate and ? very important ? there's a fine share of genuine Euro-sleaze . Every actress takes her clothes off at least once and they all have ravishing bodies . That HAS to count for something , right ?
Intense & Confronting drama-thriller .	Crónicas is more than just another lame and wannabe provocative satire that wants to prove how the media and charismatic reporters are capable of influencing people's opinions and emotions . In fact , it does handle about that , but it's definitely not a dumb satire . It's a harsh and harrowing social drama , set in an ultimately depressing environment and focusing on the inhabitants of a country that the pubic opinion usually neglects . Here is one foreign film production that Hollywood isn't likely to remake any time soon , and even if some fancy producer would consider a remake , you can rest assured that the content and especially the whole denouement will be changed drastically . The story entirely takes place in a small village in Ecuador , where a feared psychopath has already sexually abused and killed nearly 150 innocent children . New mass graves are discovered almost on a weekly basis and the petrified community fears the murderer will never be caught . The acclaimed Miami TV-reporter Manolo Bonilla , on location with his crew to shoot a documentary on the issue , prevents a man from getting lynched by an angry mob when he causes a car accident involving a young boy . Whilst in prison , the man provides Bonilla with a lot of detailed information concerning the murders and the reporter quickly becomes obsessed with the idea of catching the killer himself . In exchange for further information , Bonilla promises the man to do an emotional TV-show about his wrongful imprisonment . " Crónicas " benefices from a powerful first half hour and especially the climax sequences are ultimately fascinating and shocking . Unfortunately the middle-section of the film is somewhat sluggish and dull , but at least you can admire the beautiful filming location and the genuinely moving acting performances of the overall unknown cast . The film contains several unsettling images of violence and human misery , but the unconventional ending is far more shocking & disturbing than on screen violence could ever be . And you can even despise the characters for their action , because deep down you realize you'd do exactly the same . This film isn't a masterpiece , but it's definitely a film you won't forget easily .
Overload ! Karen Black overload !	" Trilogy of Terror " is only a made-for-TV movie AND it got released in the middle of the 1970's , when the horror industry already more or less suffered from super-saturation , yet it managed to build up a rather solid cult reputation and a large fan-base . And it's even quite easy to see why , really , considering the prominent names involved in this production and of course the fact that it's a good & occasionally very atmospheric little chiller ! Directed by Dan Curtis , who was the one and only king of 70's TV-horror ( " Dark Shadows " , " The Norliss Tapes " ) , and mainly scripted by Richard Matheson ( " I Am Legend " , " The Shrinking Man " ) , " Trilogy of Terror " presents three simplistic but very efficient horror stories , all starring female horror icon Karen Black ( " Burnt Offerings " , " House of 1 . 000 Corpses " ) . One of the stories ? the middle one ? even stars Black in a double role , so this film is truly a treat for her fans ! Particularly the third and final segment is famous , as it's a nearly non-stop showdown between Karen Black and an outrageously aggressive Zuni voodoo-doll that suddenly comes to life . This tale doesn't really have a plot , but it's action packed and the creature's design is amazing . The creepy doll has enormous sharp teeth and constantly produces uncanny noises . Black's character Amelia bought it as a gift for a friend , but when she accidentally removes the golden chain around its waist , a malicious spirit is set free and runs amok in her apartment . The first two stories are rudimentary & fairly predictable , but still they're entertaining . In the first one , " Julie " , Mrs . Black gives image to a seemingly shy & introvert teacher . One of her students develops an unhealthy obsession for Julie's body . He drugs her and then blackmails her into attending personal photo-shoots , but the teacher turns out to be less timid than she seems ? The second story is rather curious . Any viewer with only the slightest bit of horror experience and / or logical thinking capability will predict the " twist ending " before the opening sequence is even properly finished . I can't even describe the plot without revealing the denouement . Still , " Millicent & Therese " benefices from a tense ambiance and Karen Black is simply terrific in her versatile double-role . " Trilogy of Terror " certainly isn't brilliant ( and possibly a little overrated ) , but it's well worth seeing for fans of omnibus horror and ? naturally ? fundamental viewing for admirers of the legendary Mrs . Black .
Very good . . . but something's missing .	I don't like to comment on giant blockbusters because their humongous fan base usually doesn't appreciate criticism of any kind . Oh well , my rant here contains more ' remarks ' than actual criticism , so I'm going to spill my guts anyway . Although a very good film ( and definitely a vast improvement over those dreadful Joel Schumacher films ? ) there's something essential missing in Christopher Nolan's reprising of the Batman-franchise : comic-book darkness ! Whether intended or not , " Batman Begins " doesn't seem to take place in an imaginary world where good battles evil but in a real-life drama setting where every individual has to fight for survival ? Basically not a bad idea at all , but it's not exactly the ideal setting to have a man flying around , wearing a bat-suit . Bruce Wayne ought to be a superhero but instead he's an emotionally and physically vulnerable man with phobias and no sense of morbid humor . Also , the gimmicks and designs are a lot less exhilarating than they should be . For example : the Bat-mobile here is nothing but a car-tuned Hum-V and Gotham City looks an awful lot like an ( even more ) pauperized version of New York . Yes , the script is very solid and the cast is terrific ? but by no means this " new " Batman can live up to the unequaled and blackly ingenious Tim Burton movies that launched the hype about 15 years ago . The film's opening ( featuring a young Bruce Wayne on a meditation tour in Tibet ) is long and complex but very interesting and a rewarding intro to the new Batman myth . When the story is then transferred to Gotham city , the movie becomes more action-packed and the class-A cast receives the opportunity to show off their talents . I particularly liked Gary Oldman in the ( for him ) awkward role of honest cop , Tom Wilkinson as the mighty underworld gangster and Rutger Hauer as the greedy and corrupt business manager . I personally found Michael Caine to be unfunny and sophomoric in his role of Alfred the butler and it was sad to see the role of Scarecrow played by a bizarre young nerd .
Occasionally FREAK-y !	This grotesquely mad and slightly sick-spirited early 70's horror film couldn't count on too much praise from either the critics or the audiences , and there are a couple of ( justified ) reasons for this . First and foremost , director Jack Cardiff never really makes clear what his intentions are . Does he want " The Mutations " to be a cheesy and obviously fictional Sci-Fi horror flick about a mad scientist performing absurd experiments to create a new race of human vegetables ? Or perhaps it was meant to be a harrowing and truly devastating portrait about the position of gruesomely deformed people in contemporary society , somewhat like Tod Browning's legendary classic " Freaks " ? Either way , these two extreme themes are practically impossible to fold together and the film ends up somewhere in no man's land . Nonetheless it contains several genuinely disturbing and jaw-dropping moments , most notably when the collection of traveling circus freaks exhibits themselves and ? in true Browning style ? wreaks havoc on those who mistreated them . The whole plot is actually secondary to these sequences ! The always-reliable Donald Pleasance stars as a nutball professor destined to integrate human tissue in his experiments of plant-mutation . Therefore he commands the horribly deformed & vicious owner of a circus to abduct human guinea pigs ( students attending his own university lectures , which isn't that smart ) and bring them to his private lab . When the experiments go inevitably wrong , resulting in a lizard-skinned girl and a male kind of Venus flytrap , Professor Pleasance just ' donates ' them again to the circus as new attractions . Fellow students begin to search for their missing friends and , meanwhile , the circus ' " natural " freaks plot to punish their cruel employer . The best sequence in " The Mutations " is a more than obvious tribute to the aforementioned " Freaks " and involves an attempt by the deformed people to befriend Lynch ; nicknamed " the ugliest man in the world " ( and he really is ) . One of us ! One of us ! ! Whenever the action takes place outside of the circus tent , the film is pretty much scare-free and mildly tedious . Giant and clearly fake vegetable-monsters simply aren't creepy and several little ( and stupid ) details in the script just can't be true . Like biology students driving Jaguars , for example ! Tod Browning's milestone once got banned for over 40 years and it nearly cost him his career , supposedly all because his portrayal of deformed people was exploitative and unacceptable . Once you see " The Mutations " , you'll acknowledge that Browning's film actually is the complete opposite of exploitative ! He tried to put the emphasis on how independent , courageous and perfectly able to function they are , whereas Jack Cardiff's picture really exploits the spectacle and questionable " entertainment " - value of these people's condition .
436 Mini-Maniacs !	I enjoyed " Population 436 " , I have to admit ! Sure it was very predictable and a little too tame for my usual liking ? they could have used a bucket or two of fake blood ? but director Michelle Maxwell Maclaren maintains a nicely uncanny atmosphere and everyone involved in this production showed a lot spirit . " Population 436 " feels like an honorable throwback to the ' creepy little town with a dark secret ' sub genre of the older days . It's very similar to films like " Dead and Buried " , " The Wicker Man " , " Messiah of Evil " and in a way even to the almighty Hershell Gordon Lewis ' classic " 2000 Maniacs " , with its plot about the remote little village of Rockwell Falls that holds the same number of inhabitants since more than a complete century . Government worker Steve Kady ( Jeremy Sisto ) is sent to investigate the registering habits of this little town , only to realize the locals are a bunch of deeply religious lunatics who believe they have to keep their number on 436 , otherwise God will severely punish them . Steve is warmly welcomed as a new township member , but that of course means that someone else has to be sacrificed . Writer Michael Kingston tries a little too hard to keep the events going on in Rockwell Falls a secret , even though it's all fairly obvious since the opening sequences already . This approach nevertheless results in a couple of creepy and ominous moments , like the fantastic highlight during the town's autumn festival , but there never are any real surprises or shocks to experience . As stated previously , the film also could have used a little more bloodshed , as that is the least you expect from crazy inbred rednecks living in isolated areas . Still , I very much admire the effort and , since I'm a sucker for unhappy endings it gets another extra point . The filming locations are splendidly chosen and so are the eerie musical tunes and camera viewpoints . The acting performances are far above average with Jeremy Sisto as a convincing hero and the beautiful Charlotte Sullivan as an amiable local girl . Heck , even Fred Durst did a fine job and I'm really relieved that none of his songs were on the soundtrack . Recommended !
Don't Feed the Monkey !	Some of the reviews I encountered on " In the Shadow of Kilimanjaro " complain that baboons aren't convincing and not nearly menacing enough to pass for murderous animals . Well , this is a false impression in general . During a recent trip to South Africa I made a couple of excursions and the first thing the tour guides always warn you for are wild baboons . They are extremely aggressive animals and if they spot people with food in their hands , they will relentlessly attack and steal it from them . I'm not familiar with the supposedly true event this movie is based on , but I find it to be quite plausible and ? even in case it never happened ? it's a terrific plot outline for a mature and intellectual eco-horror movie anyway . The year is 1984 and Kenya , as well as the majority of the African continent , slowly cringes under a severe drought . It hasn't rained in months , the wildlife deteriorates , the animals are dying and a local community of mine workers do whatever they can to survive . They suddenly face an even more overpowering ordeal when all the baboons in the area , approximately 90 . 000 , herd together and launch spontaneous attacks against the humans in their quest for food . " In the Shadow of Kilimanjaro " is a fairly odd and unusual 80's horror movie , since it doesn't aim for mindless shocks or bloody set-pieces , but merely thrives on atmosphere and educational values . The first half hour is really slow and moody , but this is mostly done to illustrate the atmosphere of drought and despair they characters find themselves trapped in . Once the baboons go on their virulent murder sprees , the film becomes more adventurous and horrific ( with images of ripped off limbs and half-eaten faces ) but still the violence gratuitous or overly exploitative . The make-up effects are effective and big kudos to the animal trainers , because a lot of footage was filmed using real animals . The mechanical baboons , used during the more complicated attack scenes , are definitely convincing as well . This mainly African-produced film features two international stars delivering more than adequate performances , namely Timothy Bottoms as a park supervisor ( and kind of looking like a big ape himself , what with the ferocious beard ) and John Rhys-Davies as the demanding mine owner . " In the Shadow of Kilimanjaro " is a good and original film , naturally benefiting the most of the wonderful scenery and exterior filming locations , but also boosting a unique storyline and multiple moments of great suspense .
Little known but exciting thriller	Despite the fact that director Don Sharp has a few minor classics on his name ( " Kiss of the Vampire " , " Rasputin : The Mad Monk " , " The Face of Fu Manchu " ) , the coolest of his films are still regretfully neglected ! " Psychomania " , about a gang of zombie-bikers and " Dark Places " , set in a mental asylum , both don't get the attention they deserve and Sharp's most imaginatively titled film is even forgotten completely : " Why Would Anyone Want To Kill A Nice Girl Like You ? " . This is a complex but very stylish murder-mystery , beautifully set in South France and starring the talented Eva Renzi as the unknowing key person of a political conspiracy . Upon her arrival in France , where she intends to spend a summer vacation , Jane Kerell is the target of attacks and strange events . She becomes involved with a local painter and together they discover that Jane , against her knowledge , carries around important evidence of an international crime network . Scotland Yard is looking for this evidence , but so are the gangsters , and Jane's life is in great danger . " Why Would Anyone Want To Kill A Nice Girl Like You ? " ( I love using the long title ! ) seems to start out as a typical Italian giallo , with a dazzling opening sequence showing Jane , in her Mini Cooper , chased by a white Mercedes on a deserted French mountain road . The musical guidance is eerie and the setting is wonderful . After about 40 minutes , the plot turns into a political thriller , but the suspense remains and there are several ingenious plot-twists and red herrings to keep you alert . Perhaps it's about time that this neat little film receives a proper DVD transfer , as I'm sure that many people would really dig it . There's a fair amount of action , a couple of really clever findings ( the truth-serum , the scene in the zoo , the story about the tiger and the lamb . . . ) , and an enchanting love-story . I found my copy in an ex-rental shop for 0 , 50 ? . . . In case you do stumble on it one day , somehow , don't hesitate to give it a try .
Worthwhile entry in the Hammer Dracula franchise	The fifth episode in the legendary Dracula franchise is far from the best ( the original is , of course ) but it does prove that the Hammer studios never stopped being creative in their ideas . This is yet another entirely new variant on the classic tale of the blood sucking Count , in the same delicious Victorian setting . small spoilers Early in the film , we see how Dracula is dying and how his blood clots into some sort of powder . Cut to a small Victorian community where 3 prominent townsmen are searching for thrills and therefore join a diabolical Lord Courtley ( Ralph Bates from ' Horror of Frankenstein ' ) in a resurrection-rite in order to bring Dracula back . When Courtley ( who's actually Dracula's servant ) dies in the ritual , the count avenges him by seducing and abusing the townsmen daughters ? end spoilers Settings and scenery are terrific , as usual in Hammer films , and I thought the story was well presented and a neat new addition to the cycle . The ' horror ' , however , is a bit tame and Dracula himself doesn't seem all that impressive anymore . He doesn't do much killing himself and it looks like it's becoming more and more easy to destroy him . Oh well , Christopher Lee is always worth checking out in this role , so who's complaining ? ' Taste the Blood of Dracula ' is imaginative entertainment and the criticism towards the hypocrite Victorian life-style is very efficient . Aside from Christopher Lee , this flick also has a decent supportive cast including Ralph Bates and ? especially ? Linda Hayden . If you were enchanted by her cherubic appearance in this film , make sure you check out ' Blood on Satan's Claw ' , in which she plays an evil character .
Kids , say NO to Redheads !	Oh my God , Eric Cartman was right ! I remember seeing an episode of " South Park " in which Cartman single-handedly wanted to perform some sort of genocide against red-haired kids because he proclaims them to be pure evil . With just a slight bit of lunatic imagination this low-budgeted but nonetheless artistic Canadian thriller more or less confirm the ' wicked redhead'-concept , as the red hair and titular pale skin are outward characteristics for the so-called " Succubus " . These are female demons that use their sexy appearances and steaming libidos to seduce men and then subsequently feed on their flesh during the act of intercourse . For some strange reason , Succubi are regretfully underused in horror films nowadays ( back in the rancid 60's and 70's they formed often recurring characters in sleazy European B-flicks ) but " White Skin " is a very admirable and innovative new film with a few clever twists . Literature student Thierry has a congenital aversion ? almost like a phobia ? towards girls with red hair and pale skins . His sentiments even increase when his roommate and best friend Henri gets bitten in the throat by a redhead prostitute during a nightly escapade that nearly causes a racial conflict . Completely unexpected , Thierry then falls head over heels in love with the introvert and extremely pale skinned Claire . She's a strange and mysterious girl but Thierry gladly neglects his school work and social life in favor of her , much to the discontent of Henri . Thierry even guards Claire's hospital bed when she falls victim to a vicious case of skin cancer , but then he gradually discovers she and particularly her family have a much more terrifying condition than cancer . Director / Co-writer Daniel Roby is extremely sparing with clues during the first hour of the film and literally surrounds Claire's character with an aura of mystery and oddly enticing morbidity . The protagonists ' vivid encounter with a blood-sucking redhead during the opening sequences somewhat gave an idea of what to expect , but still you keep having the impression they could go anywhere with the story . The pace is rather slow , but admittedly that is better to illustrate the growing bond between the two unusual lovers as well as in order to build up towards an offbeat and relatively shocking climax . " White Skin " isn't a gory movie and probably moves far too slow to impress the fans of recent horror stuff like " Saw IV " and " 30 Days of Night " , but it's definitely recommended to people with an interest in story ? and atmosphere driven thrillers . The fairly unknown Canadian cast does a good job . Lead guy Marc Paquet looks a bit like the older sibling of Daniel Radcliffe and the younger one of Tobey Maguire , but apparently this nerdish type of appearance works splendidly . Marianne Farley , as Claire , and particularly Jessica Malka as her insatiable younger sister Marquise are bewitching in the female leads .
Have yourself a good old-fashioned , traditional and nightmarish Cajun wedding night !	I liked this gritty and harsh exploitation / revenge feature , and don't quite understand why it's so unknown and forgotten ( and the people who do know it don't even seem to like it ) . True , the script somewhat moves too slow and quite a few sequences easily could have been cut , but the main premise is fascinating , the two main characters are likable and the pivot scenes are often so full of tension you have any nails left to bite by the time they're finished . David and Jill couldn't be happier on their wedding day . Finally reunited after David spent two years in the hell of Vietnam and they even escaped Jill's family traditional wedding ritual where they " hunt " the newlyweds and hope to ruin their first night together . Whilst hiding in a sleazy Cajun motel , David and Jill witness the execution of a corrupt businessman by hired hit men . The crazed killers knock David KO and viciously rape Jill . After this tragedy they attempt to pick up their lives again , but Jill is an emotional wreck and David has exclusively set his mind on retribution . They embark on a search to find out the rapists identities , which leads them all the way to New Orleans . One of the great things about " Nightmare Honeymoon " ? in my humble opinion at least ? is that the character drawings are more realistic and identifiable . The reason why the film doesn't contain that much violent action or rancid sleaze is because Elliot Silverstein largely puts the emphasis on the series of emotions the newlyweds go through , together as well as separately . David becomes so increasingly obsessed with the idea of revenge , he's often frightening himself and Jill suddenly questions her marriage , her feelings and even her own femininity . The final confrontation with the deranged rapist Lee ( excellent performance by John Beck ) is rather overlong but atmospheric and you genuinely pray for the couple to walk out of the showdown alive . The performances are great with very convincing roles for Dack Rambo ( awesome name , dude ) as David and the cherubic Rebecca Dianna Smith as Jill . Elliot Silverstein's direction is tight and solid . He completed this little 70's gem in between directing his two most famous and much more publicly acclaimed achievements , namely the western drama ( and predecessor of " Dances with Wolves " ) " A Man Called Horse " and horror-favorite " The Car " , about a satanically possessed vehicle terrorizing the inhabitants of a small desert town .
Charlie and the Mormons-Massacre .	Try and beat THIS for an opening sequence ! Images of women amiably chatting and young children peacefully playing in the morning sun get barbarically interrupted when suddenly a shady figure holding a shotgun comes driving up to the house . Without speaking one word , the man unhesitatingly butchers the women ( one pregnant one ) before turning towards the children and shooting them too . The latter killings occur off screen but the footage is nonetheless shocking considering the madman's emotionless modus operandi . This bit of content represents the promising beginning of a compelling and highly suspenseful ? albeit flawed ? thriller starring the almighty Charles Bronson in an unconventional ( at least , for him ) role . Charlie depicts a journalist of the Denver newspaper who sinks his teeth into the circumstances surrounding the tragic massacre and stumbles upon a story bigger than he bargained for . The murders initially appear to be a dramatic consequence of a long-running vendetta between a separated family of Mormons , but our courageous reporter gradually uncovers a convoluted and inhumanly cruel conspiracy which concerns ? of course ? eminent politicians and wealthy businessmen . I honestly expected to find a slightly higher rating and more positive-toned reviews for " Messenger of Death " around here to be honest . Admittedly the evolution of the storyline is rather predictable and the eventual settlement is too tame , but the film definitely maintains a high tempo and a good number of sequences are very tense and literally action-packed . Charles Bronson tries his hardest to come across as a plausible journalist , but there are definitely some problems regarding his character . Bronson isn't exactly known as the most talkative actor in Hollywood ; a trademark that usually fits his regular roles of mercenaries ( " The Mechanic " , " Violent City " ) and tormented avengers ( the " Death Wish " franchise ) very well . But even here his number of speeches and dialogs are kept to an absolute minimum , which isn't normal when you're a reporter . Moreover , in spite of his ' normal ' job and life-style , he still wipes the floor with professional hit men and stunt-drives his way out of an assassination attempt ! Since when do Denver journalists receive training in martial arts and defensive driving ? The remote Colorado filming locations , as well as the largely unfamiliar traditions of Mormon families , add up to the ominous atmosphere but still director J . Lee Thompson ( " Cape Fear " , " The Guns of Navarone " ) doesn't use up the full potential of these terrific . " Messenger of Death " is an interesting film , to say the least , and it deserves a bit more appreciation from Bronson fanatics as well as fans of suspense films in general .
Meet your brother , John . . . .	Dr . John Hollins is called to the hospital bed of his mother . She advises him to finish the science projects she started involving something what seems to be a long lost brother of Johns . When she dies , John and a few of his colleagues and friends drive up to her old house to clean up the place and to find out more about her science achievements . But , a horrible monster dwells around the place . This creature ( referred to as Johns brother because it sprung out of his tissue ) It's some sort of disgusting fish-creature since his " blood " contains a lot of hydrocyanine ( or however that is written ) John and the rest want to destroy it asap , but an old colleague of John's mother wants the creature to be his . I must admit this film was rather a pleasant surprise . Sure it stole some elements of classics like Alien and even a bit of " The island of Dr . Moreau . But overall , I didn't care much . What is original these days ? It's much better than I expected it to be . I was familiar with the earlier work of director Stephen Carpenter . . . I saw The Dorm that Dripped Blood and was angry for a week because I wasted time to that crap . So , in that theory , the Kindred is an improvement of 250 % . A lot of credit has to go to the actors , though . The leading role is played by David Allan Brooks . I'm not familiar with this guys career but his haircut sure is impressive . This film also stars Amanda Pays ! ! There , I just gave you an extra reason to see it . She's gorgeous as always and that British accent of hers makes her one of the sexiest horror females in history . I also noticed a blond babe who's face I've only seen before in Revenge of the Nerds . . . I don't know if that's a good thing . And I saved the best for last . . . Rod Steiger is in it ! ! This great actor , who recently deceased , plays the role of the evil scientist . He over-acts very much , but in a good way . He's great ! The part of Johns ' mother is played by Kim " Planet of the Apes " Hunter . That's a very interesting Trivia element , but her role is rather brief . The kindred is a nice attempt to make an enjoyable over the top monster film . It's got a few major holes in the plot ( like for example the chick who got killed in the road accident . . . she never get mentioned again and HOW did Anthony return home ? ? ? ) but you'll forgive the film for it . At least I did . Enough gore to satisfy the more extravagant horror lovers too , by the way .
The real beastie-boy !	Woo-hoo ! This freaky puppy needs to go on a leash ! The Beast Within is highly entertaining 80's pulp that regretfully got ignored over the years , along with so many other B-movie goodies from that decade like " Dead & Buried " , " Basket Case " or " From Beyond " . I hope that too many people won't be biased about the gory , cheap looks of this film , because it actually has got more to offer than you'd think ! The Beast Within fits perfectly in the " the little town with a secret " - sub genre that I personally adore . The screenplay ( written by Tom Holland of " Fright Night " and " Child's Play " ) handles about a newlywed couple facing a nightmare when the wife is raped by a hideous creature on a remote Mississippi road . The " miracle of life " takes place and 17 years later , the progeny of this unpleasant meeting begins to undergo a bizarre metamorphosis . The adolescent Michael is aggressive , weak and goes prowling overnight . The victims of these nightly hunts all share a common secret that slowly unravels itself and leads all the way back to the night of the rape . The plot contains quite some holes ( big ones ! ) and logicalness is totally out of the question ! Hopefully , you'll be able to look passed these flaws and see how director Mora attempts to add tension and atmosphere to his film . The obvious aspect to love naturally is the blood and gore ! The Beast Within features an infamous and nearly classic transformation and this scene alone makes the film worthy . A catchy ( country ) soundtrack and fairly good acting complete my overall positive opinion on this overlooked cult gem . Ronny Cox is quite convincing as the " official " father but it surely is the young actor Paul Clemens himself who impresses . His ultra-mad grimaces while attacking the hillbillies form the best parts of the film .
Now , THIS is good Nether-Horror !	It's remarkable what one inventive idea and a little less pretension ( and , of course , about half a million Euros more budget ) and accomplish ! " Dood Eind " and this " Sl8N8 " got unleashed more or less simultaneously in The Netherlands ? which is quite a big event for a nation with almost no cinematic horror reputation ? but they're two entirely different films . The former is a complete bunch of uninspired nonsense that I hope to forget as soon as possible , but the latter actually is a morbidly fresh and effectively gross shocker that'll certainly appeal to a much larger group of horror fans . " Dood Eind " lacked a good basic idea , if only a simple gimmick , that gave you the impression you were watching a special film . " Sl8N8 " on the other hand has a remotely original premise and it at least delivers what everyone expects , namely loads of gore and nasty set pieces . Although definitely not without flaws , the script is compelling and several sequences are literally oozing with suspense . Following the tragic death of her father in a car accident , Kristel and four of her friends travel to a closed Belgian coal mine to pick up the manuscript he was working on . Her father was investigating the life of an 19th century serial killer who practiced black magic and decapitated seven children in order to walk in & out of hell . After he got arrested , the killer - Andries Martiens ? also served as the last Vuurman ; meaning he could evade his death penalty by running into the coal mine to allow the gas to explode with a torch . Martiens died , but his murderous spirit is about to be set free by Kristel and her friends visiting the mine . The death sequences are immensely spectacular since the killer takes over the bodies of the teenagers and uses typical mining tools to commit his ghastly crimes , like pick-axes . The mine itself is a fantastic setting , as it's a dark labyrinth filled with dangerous traps and there are almost no exits . And even long before the lead characters descent into the Belgian mine , " Sl8N8 " already featured at least two very efficient jump-scenes . The movie opens with a flashback on the day of Martiens ' arrest and he actually decapitates a child on screen ! How many times have you seen that happen in recent horror films ? The other jump-moment involves the aforementioned car accident in which Kristal's father dies . It's very gritty and quite frightening , I assure you . Like so often the case in horror films nowadays , the cameras are frequently hand-held which results in hectic and unclear footage that negatively affects the atmosphere . I don't really know why many directors opt for unstable cinematography these days . They probably think it increases the involvement , as if you'd feel like you are in the mine yourself , but the end result is more annoying than it is suspenseful . The last fifteen minutes of the film contain too many weak twists and implausible escape attempts , but you'll easily forgive all that because it means more excitement and fun .
Ants in the Pants ! . . . For Real ! !	" Phase IV " is unquestionably one of the ( perhaps THE ) most intelligent and ambitious ecological horror efforts of the entire 70's decade . With its unusual but compelling narrative structure , it almost feels like you're watching a documentary on the National Geographic channel , only it's a truly horrific and disturbing one . Few creatures on this earth look less menacing than the ant , but " Phase IV " gives us a lot more insight on their intellectual capacities and their abilities to communicate with each other , and I can safely say I will never look at ants the same way again . The film also proves that size certainly doesn't always matter ! In the adaptation of H . G . Well's " Empire of the Ants " , the animals were gigantic ( as well as laughably cheesy ) and therefore the complete opposite of frightening . In " Phase IV " , the ants maintain their normal proportions , they're probably always filmed with a microscope attached to the camera , and that's what makes the horror so much more realistic . As you can guess from the title , the film is divided into four parts . Phase I concerns the establishment of a severe ecological disturbance , and by the time Phase IV gets reached , the entire human race is in lethal danger . An eminent biologist discovers that the ants of the Arizonan desert have optimized their defense mechanisms . So punctually even that all their natural enemies ( like the tarantula spider and the mantis ) have vanished from the area . He sets up a laboratory , along with an expert in the field of translating animal communication , and together they witness how the ants slowly take over control . The film is slow and rather tame in the action department , but it thrives on a brooding atmosphere and an amazingly unsettling sense of realism . The idea behind the film is creepy because absolutely nothing explains WHY the ants are revolting . There's usually something to justify the animals ' angry behavior , whether ongoing pollution or nuclear experiments , but in " Phase IV " the ants simply take over humanity because they have the power to do so . Now that's something to ponder about . It was probably the last film that ever deserved to receive the notorious ( and feared ) MST3K-treatment , as there's nothing even remotely negative about the film .
Ain't no party like a hillbilly wedding party , Yee-Haaa !	A friend and I watched " Poor Pretty Eddie " on the big screen , during a film night special appropriately entitled Rednecksploitation . Let me tell you , along with the ramshackle cinema hangar & the poor quality of the original film spool , the story & atmosphere of this movie catapulted us straight back to the glorious highlight-years of rancid 70's drive-in grindhouse exploitation ! Movies like " Poor Pretty Eddie " will not and simply cannot be made anymore nowadays , because they're filthy , always discriminating to someone , rough , women-unfriendly and shameless . If someone made something like this today , groups of protesters would march outside the theaters until the owners have no other choice but to cancel the showings . Anyway , this fabulously entertaining film is shockingly perverse , hilarious and nightmarishly uncanny all at the same time . You've never encountered a bigger bunch of disturbed rednecks , not even in " Deliverance " or " Just before Dawn " , and the script covers even the most controversial themes , like racism and rape . Leslie Uggams portrays a popular ( and rather cocky ) whose car naturally breaks down at the wrong place at the wrong time . On her way to a vacation Liz Wetherly strands in Southern Redneck Hell , at a miserable motel owned by a faded showgirl ( now an obese and depressed old lady ) , a creepy-looking hunting dog lover and last but not least the wide-smirking & clearly deranged Elvis lunatic Eddie Collins . Eddie wants to keep her there , very much against the will of ol ' Bertha , and continuously tries to impress her with his questionable singing talents , big white smiling teeth and flamboyant outfits that reveal his muscles and massive amount of chest hair . When all friendly approaches fail , Eddie rapes Liz and forces her into marrying him . Needless to say she slowly & tragically starts losing her senses . This low-budget exploitation classic naturally thrives on atmosphere & demented character drawings instead of on convoluted plotting and special effects . The lead characters are wondrously twisted , but literally every single one of the supportive characters are remarkable as well , like the sleazy tomato-sucking sheriff ( the late grate Slim Pickens ) , his slingshot operating retard-sidekick and the perverse & fat-bellied judge / pool bar owner . Many of the crazed sequences in " Poor Pretty Eddie " literally need to be seen to be believed , for example the astonishingly tasteless montage of Liz ' rape interlarded with images of two dogs copulating in front of an assembly of seemingly aroused farmers and to the tunes of another great country song . The acting performances are great ; notably outstanding are Shelley Winters ( Oscar winner AND exploitation siren , respect ! ) , Ted Cassidy ( the original Addams Family's Lurch ) and of course Michael Christian as the titular not-so-poor and not-so-pretty Eddie . The climax sequence , set during an authentic and joyful hillbilly wedding party , is terrifically violent with slow-motion massacres and a total absence of sound . The film is overall poorly made , but several shots are surprisingly imaginative and the filming locations were definitely enchanting . " Poor Prettie Eddie " is most definitely a hidden gem . Sometimes falsely promoted as a Blaxploitation flick ( with an a . k . a title " Black Vengeance " ) and the cover image here on the website makes it look like an average Psycho-inspired slasher movie , in reality the film is a totally unique and unforgettable drive-in experience .
Lunatics-de-Luxe !	Undoubtedly any horror fan will agree that " Alone in the Dark " is worth seeing if only just for the names in the cast and the type of characters they depict . The almighty Jack Palance and Martin Landau as dangerous & bloodthirsty mental patients on the loose ? Yes please , because they're both usually cast as sophisticated villains or malicious scientists , politicians , etc ? Donald Pleasance as an eccentric psychiatrist whose ideals & principals are completely opposite to those of his legendary Loomis character in the " Halloween " films ? In Carpenter's classic he insists to lock up Michael Myers and throw away the key whereas , here , he's a fanatic supporter of bringing convicted murderers and child molesters back into society ! And then , finally , Dwight Schultz , the goofy one from " The A-Team " , as the only more or less sane character in the entire story ! The concept may be derivative and the screenplay is perhaps a little too implausible at times , but kudos already to writer / director Jack Shoulder for gathering this terrific cast and moreover for convincing them to play such adversed roles . Even aside from all the aforementioned benefits , I personally think " Alone in the Dark " ranks amongst the most superior slasher efforts of the early 80's . There are hardly any dull moments in the script and several of the stalk ' n slash sequences are literally oozing with suspense and gripping atmosphere . The ambitious shrink Dr . Potter arrives for his first working day at the infamous Dr . Bain's " Haven " ; a mental institution with a more than positive attitude ! The psychopaths are referred to as " voyagers " and even the most dangerous patients of the third floor ( including a child molester , a deranged war veteran and a serial killer who spontaneously starts to bleed from his nose when excited ) are approached with a cheerful open-door mentality . There are no locks on the cell doors , so when the entire city suffers from a major electricity blackout , the loonies escape and promptly head for Dr . Potter's personal address . In their frenzied minds , Dr . Potter killed his predecessor and now they'll have their vengeance by going after his entire family . The pre-credits sequence is sublime , albeit a bit irrelevant to the main theme of the film , as it shows how the patients really feel about Dr . Bain despite his fake-friendly charisma . The first half of the film is rather tame , but compelling notwithstanding , and once Dr . Potter and his family are trapped inside the house and besieged by the mad raving ( and seemingly invisible ) assaulters , there's non-stop suspense and excitement . The murders are inventive and eerie , there are some nicely grotesque twists and the climax is suitably intense . The promising director Jack Sholder went on to direct inferior sequels in popular franchises ( like " Nightmare on Elm Street 2 " and " Wishmaster 2 " ) but he'll definitely always be remembered for this entertaining horror gem as well as for the severely underrated Sci-Fi effort " The Hidden " . Recommended
Too Much TV Can Kill You !	" The Signal " is one of the most pleasant surprises I've encountered in a long while and I sincerely hope it'll find its way towards the DVD-players of many avid fans of horror / Sci-Fi cinema and grow out to become a modest cult classic . The film , co-written and directed by no less than three people , successfully combines the atmosphere of paranoia and mass hysteria that often featured in old genre classics ( like " The Crazies " and " Day of the Triffids " ) with the hypothetical dangers of nowadays media and technology ( like TV-sets and mobile phones ) . Even more ingenious is the set-up of the script , which is divided into three separate chapters ? or transmissions ? that each feature their own unique tone and narrative perspectives . All three chapters share the same characters and story lines , but the ambiance swifts from dramatic onto blackly comical and eventually grim & apocalyptic . The wholesome of the story revolves on an unexplained signal that gets broadcast through communication devices and turn people into insane , emotionless and unstoppable killing machines . The town of the action is aptly named Terminus and , amidst all the agony and confusion , a young guy named Ben is trying to safe his lover Maya from the destructive signal and even more so from her aggressive husband . The first " transmission " revolves on Maya and how she escapes her mad-raving husband and her mayhem-infested apartment building . This episode is sober and full of suspense that actually works ! The second transmission is by far the most superior because it plays like an absurd black comedy piece with some really awesome gore / splatter moments . Maya's jealous husband Lewis invades a house because he thinks his wife is hiding there , but instead he's stuck up with a disorientated woman and her nervous landlord . They're all three partially infected by the signal already and grow gradually more berserk . Transmission two ? entitled " The Jealousy Monster " ? is tremendously entertaining despite the disturbing themes . The absolute highlight , of this episode as well as of the entire film , is the arrival of a guest who isn't even aware of the lethal virus existence . He's a pervert rambling on about sexual fantasies and he doesn't even notice the house is piled with dead bodies . The final transmission ? " Escape from Terminus " ? is more serious again ( with the exception of a talking-head situation ) and has Ben desperately trying to reunite with Maya . This episode is the weakest of all , but that's also understandable since the different story lines needed sudden closure . The final act is a bit incoherent and the climax sequence set in the train station makes very little sense , but by that time you've grown to care for Maya and Ben and you even hope for an happy ending even if it feels forced . " The Signal " boosts some really terrific acting performances ( most notably from Scott Poythress , Cheri Christian , AJ Bowen and Chad McKnight ) and the trio of directors maintain a fast-pacing throughout . This isn't the goriest film you'll ever see , but it contains several nasty bits of violence and a whole lot of blood spurting around the walls . You might have to disregard the continuity factor , as some corpses who had their heads smashed to pulpy pieces resurrect with their faces intact again . Recommended !
You'll wish it were just snakes on a plane !	This demented and adorably over-the-top gory zombie flick was presented and introduced here at the Belgian Horror & Fantasy Festival by its writer / creator Scott Thomas . He claims that , in spite of all the obvious plot-similarities with " Snakes on a Plane " , his film is definitely NOT a quick cash-in on the huge success of the 2006 summer-blockbuster and that the basic concept and the pre-production phase of " Plane Dead " actually predate " Snakes on a Plane " . Well , I don't know if all that is true , but I tend to believe Thomas because he's such a nice guy and he seemed very confident . Moreover , even if " Plane Dead " simply was a rip-off of the popular Sam L . Jackson hit , I still wouldn't care that much , because it's such a tremendously entertaining and enthusiast splatter-flick ! As long as you don't expect new and groundbreaking story lines and / or highly intellectual dialogs , " Plane Dead " honestly can't fail to amuse you . In most departments , it's even far better and more appealing to horror fanatics than " Snakes on a Plane " , because it's a lot faster , cheesier , gorier and shamelessly features all the standard clichés us genre fans love so much . Safely protected in the cargo-hold of the red-eye flight from L . A . to Paris , a mysterious scientific experiment is transported out of the US by its malicious creators . The unscrupulous Dr . Leo Bennett and his loyal researchers developed a virus that rapidly destroys human DNA , only to revive the infected victim again as a bloodthirsty and unstoppable zombie . He plans to sell his formula to the military in order to create the ultimate soldier , of course , but some unanticipated turbulence and noisy passengers on the 747-flight cause the female " test-case " zombie to resurrect a little early , and she immediately begins to feast her way through crew and passengers . Once bitten , the victim turns into a zombie as well , and pretty soon the plane is overrun by seemingly more zombies than there were passengers in the first place . It perhaps takes slightly too long before the zombies run loose on the plane , but when they do " Plane Dead " turns into a non-stop series of laughs , creative deaths and extreme gore . Apparently , only stereotypes were allowed aboard this flight and it's always a lot of fun to watch those getting killed off one by one . Naturally it's the elderly pilot's last flight before retirement , there's the heroic copper ? who eventually has to save the day - transporting a witty criminal , arguing teen couples , sexy yet empty-headed stewardesses , couples with marriage issues and Tiger Woods ' biggest competitor himself ! The gore is guaranteed to please people , as the script features several ingenious new methods to kill zombies , like an umbrella through the head , nine-iron golf clubs and of course airplane engines . Be honest , what would you rather get face-to-face with whilst stuck in an inescapable location : ordinary snakes , albeit a little venomous . . . or filthy , virulent , ravenous and outrageous zombies ? There are quite a few recognizable faces in the cast , like Kevin J . O'Connor ( the creep from " Lord of Illusions " and " Deep Rising " ) , Erick Avari and Richard Tyson . The lines and characters are often very funny , the make-up effects are delightfully campy in an old-fashioned way and there even is an occasional moment of genuine suspense . " Plane Dead " is awesome horror-entertainment and I hope Scott Thomas will enjoy the success he deserves with it .
Snake-Face !	Like most people of my generation , I only know Dirk Benedict as the Faceman in the cool 80's series " The A-Team " , where he used his womanizing skills and good looks ( hence the alias ) to seduce a new gal in every episode . It's quite interesting to see a much younger Benedict star here as an insecure and heavily bullied student who ends up being the involuntary guinea pig of a cuckoo old scientist with an obsession to turn people into snakes . Why ? Because Dr . Stoner ? splendid performance by Strother Martin ? strongly believes that snakes are the only creatures capable of surviving the inevitable upcoming ecological holocaust , so basically he's doing mankind a favor by transforming us all into snakes ! Dr . Stoner lures David to his secluded mansion where he injects gallons of serum into his veins . He tricks David into believing the injections will make him immune to all types of snake bites , but in reality he gradually mutates David into a King Cobra . Problems arise when the crazy doctor's unwary daughter Kristina falls in love with David and when the nearby police force comes to question him about his previous assistant who went missing . " Sssssss " ? in fact you have to watch it if only for the unique title alone ? is definitely a worthwhile and recommended gem for horror fans , although it's far from great . The plot is indescribably moronic , but simultaneously it's also an admirable throwback to the good old " Mad Scientist " horror movies from the 1940's and 1950's . The mad-scientist plot is actually the best part of the film , since you really witness Dr . Stoner transform from a patient and amiable elderly doctor into an obsessive and fanatic maniac who'll stop at nothing ? not even murder ? to complete his mission . Too bad the script also features too many dull moments and elements that are completely inappropriate for this type of story , like biblical references and extended hallucination sequences . The ending is also a bit of a letdown as it feels rushed , abrupt and boosts totally gratuitous footage of animal cruelty . The make-up effects are mostly superb ? that circus snake man is genuinely creepy ? and the cheesy'n'cheap 70's atmosphere is simply irresistible . Sssssssee thissssss film !
Strangers , Suspects and Super-detectives on a train !	Rather short ( 60min . ) and fast-paced last but one Sherlock Holmes adventure , entirely set on an express train and once again revolving on the theft of a very valuable diamond . Holmes and Dr . Watson are hired to keep an eye on the " Star of Rhodesia " ; a most precious jewel that travels from London to Edinburgh , along with its owner , Inspector Lestrade from Scotland Yard and a whole carriage of oddly behaving suspects . When the person who hired Sherlock Holmes is found murdered in his compartment , our master-detective has to come up with some of his most amazing deduction skills to catch the culprit . Although still highly enjoyable and compelling , this installment shows that the overall brilliant series is slightly " running out of steam " ( pun intended ! ) . Holmes ' inimitable investigation techniques are becoming less and less perplexing and the plot-twists occasionally are repetitive , or at least give the impression to be . Even poor Dr . Watson is turning more and more into a caricature of himself , here pretending to be a police officer in order to prove that he can handle the work of Scotland Yard . On the other hand however , thanks to a couple of effective and innovating elements , avid fans of the Sherlock Holmes cycle could righteously claim that " Terror by Night " is a very underrated and actually one of the best film in the series ! The train setting creates a claustrophobic atmosphere and writer Frank Gruber put a lot of effort in the characterizations of the supportive cast , making all of them look suspicious . Fans of classic cinema , horror and film-noir should all get aboard !
Yes , who DOES want to live forever ?	" Highlander " undoubtedly has one of the simplest and most basic concepts in the history of cinema , and yet it grew out to become a very hugely successful and impossible-not-to like Sci-Fi classic of the 80's decade . It doesn't get any more rudimentary than this : Scottish born clansman Connor MacLeod is born immortal ( how and / or why remains unexplained throughout the entire film ) and destined to fight mortal battles against his companions in misfortune until only one of them remains . Native Scotchman Sean Connery plays his supposedly Egyptian mentor and Clancy Brown shines as his archenemy that enjoys the eternal cat and mouse game just a tad bit too much . Macload's ordeal begins in his fatherland during the fifteen hundreds and reluctantly drags him all the way to the rancid streets of New York during the 1980's . Australian director ( this is quite the international gathering ? ) Russell Mulcahy opted for a rather ambitious and convoluted narrative structure , with continuous flashbacks that covers the protagonist's most essential life phases through the centuries . This approach isn't always very coherent and looks extremely dated by today's movie standards , but it does still effectively force the viewer to remain focused and attentive . Macleod subsequently gets banished from his clan as his immortality is considered to be devilish , learns about the agony of not growing old with someone , rescues his future secretary from the hands of Nazis and runs into conflict with the New York police department and ? particularly ? its forensics expert with a strange fascination for ancient swords . For most of its fans , yours truly included , " Highlander " remains little more than a pleasant and vivid childhood favorite , as the premise and especially the light and laser show effects aged severely . It still is a lot of fun to watch , partly because of the charming and cheesy 80's ambiance , but I sincerely doubt it will impress or even attract younger generations of action / adventure fans . The violent bits are still cool ( lots of decapitations as they are the only method to eliminate an immortal warrior ) and the mighty Queen soundtrack ( featuring hits like " A Kind of Magic " , " Hammer to Fall " and of course " Who Wants to Live Forever ) emphasize all the more that this is a genuine product of the glorious 80's .
Stylish short by Harry Kümel .	Bizarrely structured yet compelling short film based on the writings of Franz Kafka and directed by the Belgian filmmaker Harry Kümel . It's especially interesting to see Kümel's smaller TV-work before he went on directing some of our country's ONLY great horror films like " Malpertuis " and " Daughters of Darkness " in the 1970's . The story revolves on a royal who's making some sort of inventory of all the employees working on his domain when he makes acquaintance with the guard of his family vault ( = grafbewaker ) . The elderly and fatigue man claims to battle the restless spirits of the Lord's ancestors every night since more than 30 years . Initially , the guard seems crazy but he sounds really convinced and determined to continue his duty for several years more . There's a minimum on sets and no real action sequences , only dialogs and really good acting performances . The camera-work is also very stylish , with inventive angles and classy black & white filming . Julien Schoenaerts and Jeff Demedts are very adequate actors and they're still working now ? 40 years later ? for Belgian television .
Horror comedy of different clay !	Not including almost every entry in the terrific Edgar Allen Poe cycle he did , " A Bucket of Blood " unquestionable is Roger Corman's best and most entertaining film . And ? coincidentally or not ? this movie also contains many references towards Poe ( a walled-up cat ! ! ) , so maybe Corman simply needs the legendary horror author's oeuvre in order to deliver great movies ? " A Bucket of Blood " is a truly slick and ingenious little quickie that terrifically blends the classic terror premise of " Mystery of the Wax Museum " with the typical psychotronic-humor that Corman largely invented himself . Corman regular Dick Miller ( terribly underrated throughout his whole career ) gives away a near-perfect performance as Walter Praisley , a clumsy waiter and wannabe artist whose biggest wish to get as famous as the talkative stars he serves coffee to every day . His dream accelerates rapidly and unexpectedly when he covers his landlady's dead cat in clay and people proclaim it an art-masterpiece . Walter naturally enjoys his easily earned artist-status but he also realizes that he'll have to move on to bigger ( read : bloodier ) projects if he wants to stay in the picture . Dick Miller's exhilarating acting together with Charles Griffith's wit scripting skills , makes this a very fun production that every cult-film fan will enjoy watching . Although chuckles clearly have the upper hand in " A Bucket of Blood " , Corman doesn't ignore the horror entirely and some of the death-sequences are definitely more chilling than the ones featuring in other contemporary and " serious " horror movies .
Red alert	Hellboy joins the recent trend of popular comic book adaptations ( X-Men , Spiderman ) and unfortunately also the dire trend of movies that drown in computer engineered effects ( like Underworld or Van Helsing ) . The good news is that it was directed and co-written by Guillermo Del Toro , who has a terrific sense of perspective . Hellboy doesn't take itself too serious and that's why it is a lot easier to digest than an overly pretentious film like Underworld , for example . I never read any of the Hellboy comics during my youth but that isn't a necessity in order to follow the film . Apparently , he's a demon awakened by the most stereotypical Nazi's you'll ever see and nursed by an American scientist ( John Hurt ) . As a fully-grown demon , Hellboy serves the FBI as some sort of caretaker along with some other freaks of nature . There's an aqua-man that shows a lot of resemblance with the Creature from the Black Lagoon and Selma Blair who bursts into flames whenever she gets emotional . Blair's character seems to come right out of an X-Men comic . Hellboy features a few very cool gimmicks and ? surprisingly enough ? a couple of very atmospheric and eerie sequences like the one shot at the Russian cemetery when it's snowing . The plot is utterly thin but there's the outstanding performance by Ron Perlman as Hellboy to fill up the emptiness . Some of his one-liners are pathetically lame but his charisma and grimaces do the job . The big advantage about these comics-turned-into-films is that anything goes . Here you have Nazi's collaborating with Rasputin ( ? ) , Hellhounds in the subway and more of this cheerful crap . Hey , at least it was better than Daredevil .
Monstrous blubber pudding à L'Italiano	With Mario Bava being my favorite filmmaker of ALL time , I couldn't afford myself to miss out on " Caltiki " as this film ? along with the equally impressive " I , Vampire " - marks his debut as a director and then still the poor man didn't receive the proper credit he deserved for it . Riccardo Freda , the official director of the two films , is also a fairly prominent and admirable name in the Italian horror / cult industry , but both films simply have Bava's style and trademarks written all over them . His already gained craftsmanship as a cinematographer and his visionary look on directing built up during the fifties undoubtedly are the main reasons why Bava became one of the greatest of all time ; starting from the early 60's already ( with the tremendously brilliant " Black Sunday " ) and onwards . " Caltiki " clearly is a blatant rip-off of other and hugely successful " unidentified monstrous substance attacking people " Sci-Fi movies from throughout the 50's decade , like " The Quatermass Experiment " and most obviously " The Blob " . But there were " The Blob " is an overall disappointingly dull and politically correct thriller , this Italian dish of deliciousness is a downright outrageous and extremely fast-paced shocker . The main characters are much more vivid and identifiable , the body count lies much higher , the violence is more confronting and the special effects and make-up art are more explicit than those featuring in American and British horror productions of that era . And still , in spite of the familiar concept , the screenplay of " Caltiki " nevertheless attempts ( and often succeeds , I may add ) to bring some variety and inventiveness . The titular monster doesn't come from outer space , for once , and it doesn't necessarily have to consume human flesh in order to grow in size or strength . " Caltiki " has always resided here on earth and relies on radiation instead to become more dangerous . It very much likes to turn victims into skeletons , but doesn't have to ! How cool is that ? A group of scientists and their whiny women embark on an expedition near an ancient Mayan temple in order to finally find out why an entire civilization just disappeared in a nick of time . Shortly after a volcano eruption it becomes clear to them that the lake underneath the temple homes a hideous and unstoppable monster . They have the opportunity to bring back a piece of the monstrous substance when the greediest member of the crew nearly loses his arm trying to reach for a piece of treasure when he clearly shouldn't have . Instead of researching the matter , they quickly find themselves battling the thing again as it grows in size and hunger . " Caltiki " is packed with suspense and an unexpectedly large amount of violence and disturbing imagery .
School for drinking , raping & murdering . . . scoundrels .	Fernando Di Leo was undoubtedly the emperor of Italian crime-cinema during the late 60's and the 70's . The work he did on other genres wasn't exactly impressive ( anyone remember " Asylum Erotica " ? ) , but in the area of rough ' n tough exploitation thrillers he was absolutely unequaled . Di Leo has some of the sub genre's classics on his director's repertoire ( like " Milano Calibro 9 " , " Manhunt " and " The Boss " ) and he even contributed a lot to writing other filmmakers ' finest accomplishments , for example Ruggero Deodato's " Live Like a Cop , Die like a Man " and Romolo Guerrieri's " Young , Violent and Dangerous " . This " Naked Violence " somewhat predates Di Leo's greatest work , but it certainly is an extremely convoluted and ambitiously scripted gem of Italy's most glorious cinematic cult years . Granted , the title is slightly deceptive and misleading ( don't expect to see much nudity , nor violence ) , but nonetheless the complex screenplay hints at multiple controversial themes , like juvenile delinquency , teenage alcoholism , confused sexuality and rape . The movie opens bizarrely and impressively disturbing , with fuzzy flash-images of an entire classroom of drunken adolescent boys gang-raping their teacher before choking her to death with a handkerchief in the mouth . After the opening credits are finished , we learn that they're all boys with questionable backgrounds and mild criminal records , and the class they were attending actually was some kind of social project to still give them one last chance to normally integrate into society . The slightly unorthodox police inspector Marco Lamberti is charged with the investigation , but the case is very frustrating because the boys turn it into a game of blaming each other and act all innocent . Bit by bit , Lamberti discovers that the influence , as well as the heavy liquor that caused the kids to turn into rapist killers , comes from an adult who always remains in the shadows . This malicious person occasionally uses the young scoundrels for petty crimes , but now he - or she ? must have had a reason to revert to murder . The plot of Di Leo's " Naked Violence " is perhaps silly and far-fetched , but the tight dialogs and particularly the powerful acting performances make it rather plausible . Pier Paolo Capponi is splendidly cast as the stubborn cop and also the young cast members are truly convincing in their roles of menacing small-time thugs . The film is overall a bit too talkative and the script reveals too few clues to really get involved in Lamberti's investigation , but the story's evolution is always compelling and worth your complete attention . The flashbacks near the end are atmospheric and a little creepy , and the end-twist is ahead of its time albeit quite silly . Definitely worth purchasing if you're into the more challenging titles of the Italian exploitation-industry .
Behind Enemy Lines ? And loving it !	This ultra low-budgeted and virtually unknown war / drama movie is probably the most interesting from an " acting " point-of-view . " War Hunt " remarkably ? but I suppose coincidentally as well ? features the big screen debuts of no less than three names that are nowadays considered hugely famous and acclaimed . Director Sydney Pollack ( who sadly passed away earlier this year ) and charismatic star Tom Skerritt both appear in small yet memorable roles , while Robert Redford ( later star of classics such as " The Sting " and " All The President's Men " ) debuts in the fairly complex leading role of idealistic soldier in the center of a senseless Korean war zone . And yet , in spite of the more appealing great names , it's unquestionably the still underrated veteran actor John Saxon who steals the show . Even more so , Saxon owns the film and he's genuinely petrifying as the introvert soldier who appears to use the Korean War to give rein to his murderous and psychotic tendencies . When the young and inexperienced private Loomis arrives at the front during the last stage of the Korean War , his fellow soldiers immediately warn him to stay out of the way of Private Endore and his protégé Charlie ; a local orphan kid . Endore is a brilliant soldier and of immeasurably value to the American army , but that is mainly because he single-handedly decreases the number of Korean soldiers by deliberately sneaking behind enemy lines at night . Private Loomis protests against this , especially because he wants to protect the young Charlie from his dangerous colleague . The rudimentary plot of " War Hunt " is actually pretty genius , since it's the first and only film ? at least , as far as I know ? that openly suggests signing up for the army is the ideal method for psychopathic killers to get away with their incontrollable urges and even get honored for them ! Private Endore is anti-social , impolite and without manners but his superiors never cease to cover from him because he's such a powerful weapon against the enemy . The atmosphere of " War Hunt " is aptly depressing and dark , with some really brilliant musical choices and bleak photography . Presumably due to the absence of financial means , there's a severe shortage of action scenes and hence you'll have to struggle yourself through a handful of seemingly dull and redundant moments . Still , if it's not necessarily boisterous gunfire and violent battles in the trenches you're searching for , I would definitely recommend " War Hunt " , if it were only for John Saxon's stupendous performance . His menacingly painted faced , the desolate star in his eyes and his completely unpredictable and impulsive personality make this one of the greatest performances I've ever seen in a low-keyed war epic .
Over-enthusiast fan boy stuff ! But it's lots and lots of fun ! !	Maybe it's because I've seen too many overrated and disappointing wannabe-artistic horror titles lately , but I hugely enjoyed this low-budgeted zombie-splatter flick . " The Dead hate the Living " is unpretentious and enthusiast horror entertainment ; obviously scripted and directed by a guy who's obsessed with gory genre classics from the past . By no means this will ever be regarded as a masterpiece but the makers probably couldn't care less about that ! They all really wanted to make a movie that brings homage to their childhood favorites and you should try to look at it like this as well . The story handles about a clique of young horror rookies that break into an abandoned hospital to shoot their own independent movie . Naturally this ominous location hides a couple of dark secrets and , through a portal in the catacombs , zombies start to showing up . These living dead are led by a deranged doctor ( looking an awful lot like Rob Zombie ) who wishes to exterminate all forms of life ever since his beloved wife died of cancer . As you can tell , the plot is all but original and features every possible cliché this genre can suffer from . But if you're not being too skeptical , there's not a dull moment throughout the entire movie . The gore and splatter only kicks in 45 minutes into the movie , but even before this , the story is pure fun with an incredible amount of inside jokes and references towards the oeuvres of Fulci , Romero , Savini , Carpenter , Raimi and others . The digital effects are lousy , but the good old-fashioned gory make-up effects make up for them . We have torn off heads , severed limbs and ripped out intestines . Enjoy !
God is not watching us . . .	Whenever you finish watching a film , any film , it is extremely important to sit back and contemplate for a moment about what you've learned from this particular viewing experience . " Convent of Sinners " taught me quite a few things , actually . For example , nuns don't wear any underwear but some kind of easily removable diapers . Nuns apparently also never wash their hair , as they don't take off their caps when bathing . Nuns laugh , tease and make fun of each other naked in the washing rooms , exactly like college frat girls do . During the period of the Inquisition , convents kept around a mute caretaker who always walks around shirtless and the nuns insisted on washing him themselves . And the most important valuable life lesson taught here is : do not EVER get in trouble with an insane lesbian second-in-command nun , because she'll accuse you of satanic possession and ruin your life ! Despite my slightly cynical tone , I must admit I enjoyed " Convent of Sinners " quite a lot and I was honestly surprised about how stylish and un-exploitative it actually was . Especially considering the man in charge was Joe D'Amato , who has a gazillion of adult movies on his repertoire as well as a handful of crazed horror / porn hybrids like " Erotic Nights of the Living Dead " and " Caligula : The Untold Story " , but this rare & obscure ' nunsploitation ' movie is fairly atmospheric and effectively attacking the Catholic Church's hypocrite & corrupt position back in the Inquisition era . The plot follows on the saddening life-story of a young and beautiful girl named Suzanna . The film opens with the brutal & explicit scene depicting Suzanna getting raped by her stepfather . Unfair as life is , she's the one punished for the committed sins , and she's sent to a convent and forced to serve God as a nun . Suzanna's natural beauty and friendly charisma rapidly cause the Mother Superior , as well as the resident young priest , to fall in love with her . But Mother Superior is terminally ill and the convent's second-in-command nun , sister Theresa , is a jealous battle-ax who'll do everything to destroy Suzanna's life ; even accuse her of worshiping the devil . " Convent of Sinners " is supposedly inspired by a classic novel and , it has to be said , the script is astonishingly coherent and well written . Particularly the last half hour is intense , with a witchcraft trial and a truly unforgettable exorcism-sequence in which our poor girl gets a holy water enema . Eva Grimaldi is very impressive ( and stunningly beautiful ) as Suzanna and the rest of the rest of the convent sisters do very adequate jobs as well . The climax sequence is phenomenal and very saddening at the same time . This is easily one of Joe D'Amato's finest accomplishments . It's thought-provoking , involving and even a slight bit historically accurate .
Creative with Kitchenware !	Even though the truly golden years for the Italian giallo had passed since quite a while already , the decade of the 1980's still brought forward a handful of decent & memorable efforts . Two directors in particular kept this magnificent sub genre alive , namely Dario Argento ( with his " Tenebrae " and " Opera " ) and Lamberto Bava . His best known giallo may be " A Blade in the Dark " but this " The Midnight Ripper " is arguable his best effort , alongside " Delirium : Photos of Gioia " . Whatever the film lacks in originality and plausibility , it makes up in sheer suspense and gory good killings ! When the adulterous wife of a police officer is found brutally stabbed in her apartment , her husband Nikola immediately becomes the prime suspect because he's an alcoholic and doesn't have an alibi . But when more murder occur in the city , a female police psycho-analyst points out that the nature of these killings strangely resemble the style of notorious Italian serial killer . The only problem is that this killer , nicknamed the Midnight Ripper , died in an arson more than ten years ago . No , sadly the plot of this film isn't as convoluted as those of 70's gialli , but it surely holds your attention and Lamberto Bava at least attempted to add some typical red herrings . The musical score is absolutely staggering , thanks to composer Claudio Simonetti ( the main man behind the successful cult band Goblin ) . Ah yes , and then there are the murders . . . . Anyone who's familiar with other Bava titles such as " Demons " or " Macabre " knows that our director isn't afraid to stuff his films with sadistic violence and graphic gore . The gruesome murders in " The Midnight Ripper " are committed by ordinary kitchenware , such as knives , an ice-pick ( eat your heart out , " Basic Instinct " ! ) and even a blender . It's a very cool film and I'm sure that every fan of Italian horror cinema will love watching it .
Deliciously grotesque 70's horror flick !	Elderly horror films starring Michael Gough as a dangerously insane butcher are always great fun , since the gore is so over-the-top and the story lines are so hilariously inept . Just look at " Horrors of the Black Museum " or " Satan's Slave " , for example ! It simply seems that casting Michael Gough inevitably results in a horror film that can't possibly be taken serious . " Horror Hospital " lifts up this theory to an even higher level of grotesquerie , as the plot is indescribably absurd , Gough's character is more demented than ever and the script is just filled with goofs , stupidities and illogicalness ! Michael Gough is Doctor Christian Storm , supposedly a brilliant disciple of Pavlov once , but now a crippled lunatic who enjoys swooping off people's heads with his Rolls Royce ( now there's one killing method you have to see in order to believe ! ) . Although he's not very good at it , Storm attempts to control and master human feelings of sexuality so he performs brain-operations on youngsters and keeps their zombified leftovers locked away in his rural castle . You can't really be too harsh on this film , since writer / directed Antony Balch clearly opted for a light-headed and comical tone . Cliché after cliché is unscrupulously presented while the violence ( although plenty of it ) is never shocking or disturbing . Not once during the whole film I really understood what exactly Storm is trying to achieve with his operations ( my best guess is that he wants to copulate with the female patients after disfiguring their brains ) , but I gladly witnessed how he cut open their heads and served the brains on a plate for them to see ! The castle ( referred to in the movie as a " health-farm " ) is a great horror setting and there are a couple of very ingenious gimmicks . The most fun definitely is to track down all the things in " Horror Hospital " that don't make the slightest bit of sense : the machete attached to the car can't possibly reach someone's head ( unless they were all midgets like Skip Martin ) and Storm's biker-henchmen just seem to keep on coming , like they're appearing out of nowhere . This movie is one of those exquisite British horror oddities released during the early 70's ; too silly to be produced by Hammer but way too much fun to forget about them entirely . Watch it when you can !
Seriously deranged cult-stuff !	Yes , this movie really does handle about evil aliens , shaped like clowns , that strand near a remote American village . Their circus tent mysteriously appears in the woods after a meteorite crash and the klowns ( yes , with a " k " ) go on a rampage in the village to turn people into cotton-candy with their funky armory . Their mission is to take the human snacks back to their planet but a team of local dummies makes a counter-attack in their ice cream-truck ! This movie unquestionably has the most absurd premise in cinema ever and you either love it or downgrade it as being a ridiculous piece of trash . I am a great fan of this campy horror-comedy flick and I can't possibly say anything negative about it . My best defense for this movie would be that it is an ingenious and successful attempt to parody and homage the 50's and early 60's SF classics in which paranoid people witnessed alien-invasions from all over the universe . But actually , the silliness of this movie doesn't require justification at all . It feels like the idea started out as a joke between 3 brothers and eventually it resulted in a long-feature film . The acting isn't very impressive ( apart from veteran actor John Vernon in a great ' angry old copper'-role ) and the dialogues are unimaginably dumb . On the other hand , the clown-costumes are terrific and the least you can say about the plot-twists is that they're creative ( a Godzilla-clown , anyone ? ? ) . So , in case you have only the tiniest sense of morbid humor in you , I strongly recommend tracking down this " Killer Klowns from Outer Space " . It will , without a doubt , be one the most bizarre film projects you ever laid eyes on .
Bienvenue en France . . . You might not ever leave !	" And Soon the Darkness " ? which takes entirely place during the daytime ? is a fairly creepy but sadly neglected 70's Brit-chiller directed by Robert Fuest , who would later focus on horror movies that have slightly more extravagant story lines , like " The Abominable Dr . Phibes " and " The Devil's Rain " . This movie exclusively revolves on moody atmosphere and eerie setting , as there are no nasty bits or gratuitous sleaze . The film starts out rather slow but gradually gets tenser , and particularly the last half hour is terrific and nail-biting . Two young British nurses spend their holiday bicycling through rural France , unaware that another tourist girl was brutally slain in the same region two years earlier and unaware that they're being targeted by the same fiendish rape-killer who's still at large in the area . Following a banal quarrel , Jane becomes separated from her friend Cathy . The latter then mysteriously vanishes and during the search for her friend , Jane only encounters suspiciously behaving locals . Robert Fuest maintains a continuously high tension-level using only very basic tricks , most notably the inability to communicate . Jane doesn't speak French and therefore she cannot understand the warnings of people or explain what happened to her friend . There aren't any subtitles for the French dialogs , so even the viewers are unaware of what's going on most of the time in case they don't speak the language . Pamela Franklin's acting performance is very convincing and the music as well as the photography is extremely uncanny . Definitely on of the most efficient women-in-peril horror / thrillers of the early 70's .
Gives you the munchies !	Paul Bartel's ultra-low budgeted quickie is still one of the best black comedies ever made , even though I found it less funny than when I first saw it , approximately ten years ago now . Then again , it was my very first " politically incorrect " comedy and I've seen many others since ? This is a very charming film and the reasons why it works so well especially are the overly eccentric characters and the straight-faced acting performances of the talented B-cast . Writer / director Bartel and his favorite B-movie muse Mary Woronov star as an uptight and exaggeratedly square couple , the Blands , who're social outcasts in the wild L . A . region . Paul and Mary dream of opening their own little restaurant in the countryside but they have trouble financing it , while so many " swingers " waste their money on parties and bizarre sexual fetishes . After a first ? and accidental ? homicide , Paul and Mary find out that they could make easy money by luring more perverts to their apartment and kill them . The situation gets more complicated when Latino-crook Raoul discovers what the couple is doing . There aren't any special effects or gore and the set pieces aren't at all spectacular ? and yet this little gem is entertaining from start to finish ! Especially the first half ( when you make acquaintance with the bizarre Blands ) is terrific , with brilliant dialogues and offensive ? yet very clever ? black humor . It's obvious that Paul Bartel was an acolyte of the all-mighty Roger Corman , since he manages to deliver a fun movie without a large budget being required . The gags are simple - often not more than the sound of a frying pan hitting a human head ? but it works and the atmosphere is so tongue-in-cheek that you can't but love what you see . I do wish that the film had been a little longer , especially since the ending comes so abrupt ! " Eating Raoul " also contains many interesting trivia aspects , like for example the name of the co-writer , Richard Blackburn . Especially when you're familiar with Blackburn's other ( and only ) film " Lemora : a Child's tale of the Supernatural " , this screenplay is a giant change in style . The supportive cast is marvelous as well , with the dazzling Susan Staiger as " Doris the Dominatrix " and Ed Begley Jr . as a pot-smoking hippie ! Good fun !
Voyeurism through the ages . . .	The story-idea of " The Gathering " is one of the most original and unsettling horror premises in a very long time . This is a religious and supernatural thriller that focuses on mystery and ominous atmosphere , instead of grossing you out with nasty killings and / or horrible monsters . Although heavily flawed and quite illogical at times , " The Gathering " managed to surprise ( and even shock ) me with its intelligent screenplay about a small English town that stumbles upon an old and entirely buried ( ! ) church . Together with this discovery , The young Cassie ( Christina Ricci ) arrives in town , but a seemly fatal car-accident erases her memory . While her host Simon Kirkman is attempting to unravel the mystery of the buried church and its unidentified statues that witness Christ's crucification from the reverse side , Cassie starts to have visions about a soon-to-happen drama in the quiet little town . She also finds out that the stone-statues in the church look exactly like faces she keeps on seeing in her visions , although they appear to be simple bystanders . . . It's hard to summarize this movie without giving away the essence of the story , which is a terrific and stunning finding . It's a pretty damn shame that this movie never really received the attention it deserved , as the quality-level comes close to that of exaggeratedly praised titles such as " The Others " or " The Sixth Sense " . Christina Ricci is very convincing as the confused heroine . Beautiful Ricci is perfectly able to carry the entire film , although some of the supportive roles are also definitely worth mentioning , like Ioan Gruffudd ( much better here as in blockbuster garbage like " King Arthur " or " Fantastic Four " ) and Kerry Fox ( " Wisdom of Crocodiles " ) . " The Gathering " is a must see in case you're fed up with overly gore teen-slashers or uninspired remakes of horror classics . The leading lady is terrific , the filming locations are mesmerizing and the story is actually something new ! ! See it !
Obscure Holland-horror !	It seems that Dick Maas ' De Lift has become a true horror gem over the years and I even picked up that it's most wanted among cult-collectors . Well , here in the home countries ( The Netherlands and Belgium ) you can still easily find an old copy in videostores or even on flee-markets , so all you avid fanatics should come pay us a visit ! To me , " De Lift " will always remain special because it was one of my very first encounters with the horror genre but even from a more objective viewpoint , I still think it's a very decent film with some genuine scares and an impressively grim atmosphere . The plot is far from brilliant ( on the verge of ludicrous , actually ) but that's widely made up by some effective shock-sequences and Maas ' talent to build up slow suspense . After several people got injured by the newly installed elevator in a fancy building complex , mechanic Felix Adelaar is hired to do a detailed check up . Together with a persistent female reporter , he discovers that the production company has been experimenting with new chips that totally haven't been approved yet . There's a painful use of clichés , the dialogues are poorly written and ? granted ? there's a little too much talking going on . But , when the characters aren't talking nonsense , there's some pretty unsettling stuff to see ! In the scariest sequence of the entire film , the fiendish elevator plays a deadly game with a young girl while the ominous music will make you move to the end of your seat . The footage filmed in the ugly shaft is really chilling and there's some excellent low-budget gore as well , with a nasty decapitation and a vile hanging as the absolute highlights . The biggest criticism I've come about this site is about the awful dubbing but , since I'm Dutch speaking , I luckily didn't suffer from that . " De Lift " was Dick Maas ' first long-feature film and he also pleased the Dutch audiences with the happily deranged adventures of the Flodder family before emigrating to Hollywood where he remade his own debut . Even though Maas managed to recruit a great cast for this project ( Naomi Watts , Ron Perlman , Dan Hedaya . . . ) , it totally lacks the obscurity and dark cinematography of the original . Give it a look . . . . if you can find it .
Who says you're too old to watch fairy-tales ? ?	( SPOILERS coming up ) Like most fans , I fell in love with the Dark Crystal at very young age . I think I was a 6 or 7 years old brat when I saw it for the first time and I was completely astonished . I just stared at it with my eyes and mouth wide open and it was the coolest , most terrific thing I ever saw . I haven't seen it in over 10 long years now and I finally had the opportunity to buy a copy . Yet , I was a bit worried because I feared that the original impact it had on me as a kid would be lost now and the magic it once had would look silly and childish in these modern age of cinema technology . Well , I'm pleased to say that it still was an entertaining and fresh looking fable to me . This kind of tales are not bound to a certain age ? whether you're 9 or 99 years old , you'll always find yourself to be a little enchanted by the Dark Crystal . The sinister fairy-tale world of Dark Crystal exists out of two life forms . Thousands of years ago , the Crystal broke in half ; with one small piece missing and two kinds of creatures ( good and evil ) were created . ? Naturally , the evil breed is the coolest species . They look like a mixture between vultures and wild boars and their days are filled with sucking the juices out of harmless little gnomes and that sort of things . The good breed are a bunch of lame and uninteresting tortoises that only open their mouth and say ' AAAAAAAAAA ' ? A small ? Galfling ' is send out on a quest to find the missing piece of the Crystal and this has to be done before the three suns are lined next to each other . If not , the Evil boys will live and terrorize for all eternity . I think this little summary clearly proves that the Dark Crystal is a highly imaginative film , obviously made with a giant dose of creativity and goodwill . You can enjoy it no matter what age you have . If you watch this together with your little critter , he or she will be intrigued by the wonderful characters that keep on getting introduced . Also , the terrific visuals and unique settings will be loved . If you've reached a more respectable age , Dark Crystal will still be appreciated because of the subtle morbid humor and macabre atmosphere . Yet , I have to be fair and admit that the movie has aged a lot over the years . The film uses quite many conversions between hand-made decors and real environmental footage and that often looks very fake and amateurish . And perhaps , the entire era of CGI has killed the myth of Jim Henson movies ? because of the gigantic technical development in animated movies lately , some children won't be impressed at all and they might laugh it away ? Real shame !
It's new , clever and well made . Give it a chance !	Dead End is a good film to prove that the horror genre is NOT dead and that there are still young directors who approach the genre with the right attitude . The plot is nowhere near groundbreaking or astonishing , but yet you couldn't care less about that . The directors-duo ( Andrea and Canepa ? French guys ) put their energy in creating tension and socializing with the characters , rather than to gross out their audience with uninspired gore sequences . For these efforts , I think this film is a zillion times better than other over-hyped new horror titles like ' Cabin Fever ' or ' House of a 1 . 000 Corpses ' . When you withdraw the gore from those films , there's nothing left but an empty package whereas ' Dead End ' at least has some depth and intelligence . This film has a good tempo , a fair amount of suspense and it makes good use of the dark and unsettling woods where it is shot . Like I mentioned before , it's not very original . Especially for viewers familiar with some early 60's expressionism highlights , this plot ( and more particularly , the end-twist ) won't come as a big shock . I can't really mention the titles ' Dead End ' resemblances with , as that would be the biggest spoiler one can give . There also are good performances to enjoy ! Ray Wise seems to be boosting up his career by appearing in slick horror films lately . After his remarkable role in ' Jeepers Creepers 2 ' , he now stars as the lead actor in ' Dead End ' . The cute Alexandra Holden is good too and , with a little luck , I think she's might even become a big star over the next few years . The rest of the cast is rather unknown , but they all deliver above average performances . Next time you're in the videostore , ignore all the loudly announced new horror turkeys and pick this one . Dead End is the first film of Andrea and Canepa and I really hope to see their names mentioned again in future horror projects .
Psycho Trucker , Qu'est Que C'est ?	Dare we admit it ? Yes , we do ? John Dahl's " Road Kill " is the greatest road-horror movie since " The Hitcher " and , purely talking in terms of psychopathic truckers , finally a worthy successor for Steven Spielberg's early 70's paranoid thriller " Duel " . The similarities in plot between this film and " Duel " are too obvious to be coincidental , but somehow " Road Kill " never feels like a shameless rip-off . It feels far more like a tasteful homage and , of course , a re-enactment with nowadays types of characters and more modern equipment and vehicles . Good-hearted college boy Lewis Thomas ' plans to pick up almost-girlfriend Venna and drive from Colorado to New Jersey together are slightly hindered when he has to make an extra stop to bail his trouble-making brother Fuller out of jail . Fuller invites himself to tag along , installs an old-fashioned CB-radio in his brother's car and persuades Lewis ' into pulling a cruel prank upon a lonely truck driver by the name of Rusty Nail . The joke severely backfires on them when Rusty turns out to be psychopathic freak who insists on washing away the humiliation through grueling payback . Lewis , Fuller and Venna are subsequently chased , terrorized and petrified by the unseen madman in his immense truck . The first half of the film is undoubtedly superior , since the trucker's acts of terror are plausible and far more unnerving because they all occur off-screen . In the film's absolute best sequence , Lewis and Fuller anxiously eavesdrop to how Rusty expresses his fury to the guest in the motel room next to them . This is a beautiful sample of suspenseful cinema , taking us right back to John Dahl's directorial heydays of " Red Rock West " and " The Last Seduction " . The second half of the film is still highly entertaining and adrenalin-rushing , but the plot-twists become slightly too far-fetched and Rusty's persona inevitably transforms into a stereotypical horror villain . All of a sudden Rusty seems to know everything , even the slightest details , about his preys and his massive truck pops out of nowhere everywhere , like it's an ordinarily compact Mini Cooper . Still , the fast-pacing remains constant and there's a formidably nail-biting climax scene . Dahl's regular cinematographer Jeffrey Jur marvelously depicts the remote routes and unappealing roadside motels and master-musician Marco Beltrami foresees an expedient and uncanny score . The acting performances are pretty good , especially considering the two main stars previously just starred in either lame comedies ( Steve Zahn in " Happy , Texas " and " Saving Silverman " ) or lame macho thrillers ( Paul Walker in " The Fast and the Furious " and " The Skulls " ) . Leelee Sobieski's role is fairly redundant but she's terrific eye-candy , of course , and the attentive viewer will definitely recognize the voice of a legendary horror villain when hearing Rusty Nail speak .
You are twelve , forever going on thirteen , baby it's time to drink ? blood	" Let the Right one in " was one of my most anticipated viewings at the most recent Brussels International Festival of Fantasy Films , mainly due to the incredibly praising reviews all over the internet and the truckload of awards and recognitions this Swedish production already received since it first hit the global festival circuit less than one year ago . I expected a genuine masterpiece and , even though from many viewpoints that is exactly what I received , I can't help feeling a little bit disappointed with the outcome . Don't get me wrong , I was rooting for a slow-paced , emotional and unconventional vampire movie , but honestly didn't expect it to be this slow & melancholic toned . When you're watching this movie it might take a little while before you can make the mental switch in your head ; acknowledging the vampire and horror themes represent only a very small part in what is primarily a ' Coming of Age ' story and an allegory on how children in their earliest stage of puberty deal with loneliness , rejection , tender friendship and developing hormones . Much more than a captivating story , this is a beautiful and stunningly accomplished production with a unique personality . Tomas Alfredson's direction is balanced and skillful throughout , and he could rely on a highly professional team of crew members like Hoyte from Hoytema ( what's in a name ) for the superb cinematography and Johan Söderqvist to deliver a marvelously enchanting musical score . The depressing Swedish weather conditions and the spot-on depiction of typical suburban mentality also contribute a great deal in making " Let the Right One in " a truly absorbing and hypnotizing yet nevertheless laborious viewing experience . Twelve year old Oskar righteously feels alone in the world . He's the target of mockery at school and doesn't even find parental shelter at home , since his parents are divorced and neither of them foresees much quality time with him . When Oskar finally finds the courage to approach the newly moved in girl next door , a special and tantalizing friendship slowly unfolds . But the girl ? Eli ? has even far more troublesome issues than Oskar , as she's a roaming vampire with an indispensable need for human blood and the eternal struggles to obtain it . I won't go into too much detail regarding the plot , as it might raise the wrong expectations . The events as they further occur might sound boring and mundane , but they definitely aren't . " Let the Right One in " is just an indescribable and strangely unsettling film because you can't possibly predict what will happen next at any given point throughout the film . It's compelling and mentally challenging . Those qualities will unquestionably be lost in the already scheduled American remake , so do yourself a favor and catch the Swedish original as soon as you can . It might not turn out to be what you expect or hope to see , but it will nevertheless remain a worthwhile and unforgettable experience .
Biggest " pleasant surprise " in years . . .	I had never heard of this before , I didn't read reviews or thoughts or anything about this movie and I didn't even read the small texts on the cover of the box . . . This could have gone very wrong but instead of that it became 100 minutes of pure fun . So , now I'll do my best to recommend it to as many other people as possible . " El dia de la Bestia " was made in Spain , or the new great home of horror these days . Spanish directors proved themselves a lot lately and I think this guy , Alex De La Iglesia , deserves some extra credit . This guy obviously is a big lover of horror and the whole cult atmosphere around it . In a genius kind of way , he mixes a lot of appropriate elements in his movie like heavy metal music and fortune-telling . Angél is a priest who just translated a disturbing writing . He found out that the Antichrist himself will be born on Christmas day of 1995 . In Madrid , because all the signs of apocalypse looks like it . To avoid this horrible event that would mean the end of the world , he has to face Satan himself . So , he travels to Madrid and commits a lot of sins , which is pretty funny to watch . He meets a heavy-metal freak ( sorry : Death Metal ! ) and a fortune-teller who fooled many people by faking an exorcism . But when all preparations are set , Satan doesn't show up ! Did they make a mistake ? One thing is certain , they have to hurry because Christmas is only one night away . . . It wouldn't do much if I named all the actors of this movie because their names don't ring a bell . But , I can say they're all very good actors and they clearly did their best work in this film . Like I said before , this film contains a lot of humor but it never spoofs the genre . There's always a lot of respect present and I think that's a great achievement . Also , I would have thought there was a lot more gore in this film . To my surprise , the gory scenes are very limited and overall short . Gorehounds be advised because the cover and the title may make you think it's one big blood fest . Good film , nice change , great fun . . . highly recommended if you need a break from all the typical nowadays slasher-films .
Beware of Flying Voodoo Heads !	Could it be the return of genuine Cat III madness ? When I first heard about this film it certainly sounded like it , considering the involvement of director Herman Yau ( " Ebola Syndrome " , " The Untold Story " ) and the listing of several themes & keywords that are customary for this sub genre's certification . After seeing the film at the Fantasy and Horror Festival in Belgium , I must admit it's not a total throwback to the outrageous films of the early nineties , but a successful mixture between Cat III nastiness and a far more sophisticated kind of film-making . " Gong Tau " isn't as sickeningly gore and doesn't contain any absurd humor , but to compensate for all this , the script is actually coherent for once and even introduces some effective and plausible dramatic story lines . Next to the voodoo horror plot , there's a very engaging domestic drama sub plot , which honestly makes the horror far more intense , grim and disturbing . The titular term refers to the most nightmarish type of oriental voodoo that black magic artists inflict onto people for reasons of either love or revenge . The harsh Hong Kong copper Rockman Cheung loses his baby son and almost his wife when someone targets him for Gong Tau terror . The main and only suspect is a criminal Lam Chiu , who Rockman shot in the head ten years ago , but he survived and mysteriously vanished . But when the real culprit and motives come to the surface , Rockman actually depends on Lam Chiu's knowledge of the occult for survival . " Gong Tau " is reasonably nauseating and surely doesn't bother to avoid the most shocking taboo subjects ( dead babies , bug vomiting , mutilation ? ) but the violence is never fully gratuitous and Herman Yau largely remains focused on story building and atmosphere instead of sickness . The Gong Tau characteristics may sound a little over the top , as it involves heads separating from the body and antidotes that require a hodgepodge of insect venom , sperm and grease of a human corpse . The special effects and make-up are fabulous and the set pieces are marvelously sinister . Yau's direction is still as stable and reliable as it was over ten years ago , but his cast members definitely improve . Especially Mark Cheng as Rockman and Maggie Siu as his emotionally wrecked wife deliver stellar performances . The climax is insanely gory and even provides a neat ( albeit illogical ) twist . See this thing if you crave for the good old days of horror cinema to return . After " Dog Bite Dog " last year , this is another modest triumph in the Asian horror industry !
Vietnam at its most Violent & Exploitative !	Mr . Antonio Margheriti , the uncrowned KING of Italian rip-offs , and his dynamic duo of charismatic actors David Steiner and John Steiner ( though the latter only in a small role this time ) strike again with this raw and excessively violent war-exploitation flick . Clearly inspired by the success of " The Deer Hunter " and a variety of other Hollywood films about the Vietnam War , but " The Last Hunter " goes straight for shocks , fast-paced and explosive action sequences and macho behavior instead of focusing on story-building , character drawings or ? God forbid - underlying messages about the insanity of warfare . This film just loves the war in ' Nam and all dialogs like " Damn this country " or " I hate this awful war " are obviously insincere . Margheriti also couldn't resist providing his film with genuine horror aspect ! The make-up effects are extremely gore ( gorier than the ones in my horror movies for sure ) , with images of a soldier missing an eyeball , disembowelment after bombings and the severely decomposing bodies from dead parachutists falling from treetops . The battle sequences are long and exhilarating whilst the actual plot is thin and clichéd . In other words , just the way we like our Italian exploitation dish served ! Captain Henry Morris ( Warbeck ) is assigned with the important mission of blowing up a Vietcong radio transmitter , located far behind enemy lines , which broadcasts demoralizing reports and encourages the American soldiers to throw away their guns and go back home . Morris ' squad , which also includes a female report , gets killed and he's taken to a prisoner's camp for some inhumanly cruel torture . And yet , even whilst enduring the most excruciating pains , Morris intends to complete his mission , if it were only as a last tribute to all the friends and loyal soldiers he lost . Admittedly the script features every single Vietnam feature in the book , but hey , at least " The Last Hunter " is never boring and actually one of the most thrilling war movies ever made . You don't look for deep dialogs or complex characterizations here , just a lot of blood and delightful stereotypes . The " twist " at the end is extremely implausible and suddenly gives a somewhat stupid feeling to the whole movie . Truly ironic how the only remotely original twist in the entire script is also the most ludicrous one . Personally , I still like Margheriti's Indiana Jones rip offs better ( " Hunters of the Golden Cobra " , " Ark of the Sun God " ) and his ultimate masterpiece remains " Cannibal Apocalypse " , but " The Last Hunter " is undoubtedly great low-brain entertainment and comes highly recommended !
Who wouldn't love these vampires ? ? ?	Where would the horror field be if it weren't for the legendary Hammer Studios ? With their constant creativity and new variations on the general topic of vampirism they delivered some of the most important genre-films ever . Roy Ward Baker's film the Vampire Lovers is one of the most essential movies Hammer ever released and it meant a landmark turning point for the sub-genre of bloodsuckers . Due to THIS film , vampirism afterwards always got immediately associated with eroticism and lust . The Vampire Lovers influenced notorious directors like Jess Franco ( Vampyros Lesbos , Les Avaleuses ) or Jean Rollin ( Lips of Blood , The Living Dead Girl ) who practically made an entire career out of lesbian vampire movies . But this is the real thing ! A stunning screenplay , based on a classic tale by Sheridan Le Fanu , solid acting performances and an atmospheric ? almost dreamlike ? photography . Ingrid Pitt plays the best , most memorable role of her career as the gypsy vampire Carmilla . Her sensual character seduces attractive young girls at the homes of prominent men where she's at guest and turns them into weak , lifeless slaves . The worried men have to uncover the origin of this vampire wench in order to destroy her forever . ' The Vampire Lovers ' offers a nearly perfect combination of atmosphere , beauty and tension . Mostly thanks to the female cast led by Ingrid Pitt , this is the most bewitching horror tale Hammer ever told . The ravishing naked bodies of Pitt , Madeline Smith ( Theathre of Blood ) and Kate O'Mara ( Horror of Frankenstein ) will give this film a spot in your memory forevermore . And that's not a sexist remark ; it just needs to be said . Other than the charismatic female appearances , this production also depends a lot on the eerie set pieces and the nightmarishly dark images of graveyards , ruins and castles . Overall , a splendid horror film and a must see for all fans of Hammer , vampirism or gorgeous beauties .
Sober & tense Bigfoot-adventure ? . With lots of rednecks !	It's nice to see that " Creature from Black Lake " has quite a few loyal fans around this website . Nice because , even though it's not exactly a good film , it's undoubtedly a charming and spirited piece of 70's low budget film-making . The creators of this film UNOBTRUSIVELY cash in on the contemporary trend of Bigfoot-horror movies , and that's probably what makes it so likable . It's a sober and atmospheric film , practically shot in documentary-style , and it never wants to be overly spectacular or gross . Okay , maybe there weren't enough financial means to show a more impressive creature or to shoot virulent battle scenes , but then still you got to admire director Joy N . Houck Jr . for effectively using the impenetrably dark Louisiana swamplands and their population's restraint attitude . Two students from the university of Chicago head for a remote village in Louisiana to write their thesis about the legendary creature that supposedly dwells the swamps there . Long before they even come face to face with the monster , Pahoo & Rives have to deal with inhospitable rednecks that deny its existence . Just when they consider giving up , a giant ominous figure approaches their tent ? I have a soft spot for horror stories that take place in quiet outback areas , but too often these films exaggerate in portraying the locals as perverted and totally brainless imbeciles . The people in " Creature from Black Lake " are genuine rednecks ; still they don't come across like retarded stereotypes but more like members of an aloof community that wishes to protect what's theirs . The two leads are very amiable too , since they're common guys with an open spirit towards each other and towards the people they encounter , even when those aren't helpful to them . Equally praiseworthy is the feeling of constant menace lurking from behind the trees . You always expect the creature ( or something else that is scary ) to jump out from somewhere . This creepy effect is made even more intense with sober music and eerie natural sounds . A slightly higher number of casualties would have been welcome , but I sure ain't complaining . Recommended to fans of atmosphere-driven horror
Good film , surprisingly raw and obscure !	Although the twisted premise of " The Butterfly Effect " definitely sounded like my cup of tea , I was reluctant to go and see it right away , simply because I feared that the film would revolve too much on the popular teen-idol Aston Kutcher and also because it was very likely that sentiment and feel-good twists would overrule the obscurity of the basic story . Well , I'm happy to admit that I was totally wrong ( happens quite often ) and that " The Butterfly Effect " is , in fact , a powerful and honest thriller . Unlike other nowadays so-called thrillers that star popular names , the directors of this film are not afraid to add despair and in-your-face shocks , which makes it an involving and often unsettling cinema effort . Kutcher , these days better known as Demi Moore's toy-boy , also proves himself to be a fairly strong actor , capable of showing a wide range of emotions . He stars as Evan , an adolescent who suffers from severe blackouts every time he faces a trauma or difficult moment . He learns that , through these blackouts , he can cause a time warp and travel back to his childhood years when he and his circle of friends made some horrible , future-defining mistakes . He can then alter the past for everyone involved , which makes the film feel like a amalgamation of " Stand By Me " and " Time Cop " . This mood-setting introduction is already quite good , with nice character developing and some hard sequences ( Eric Stoltz in his vicious basement ! ) but the film even gets better when it seems that every time-travel goes horribly wrong . The moral of the story thus is that life can never be satisfying for everybody at once and that certain sacrifices eventually seems inevitable . You know that you've been watching a good film when you and the people you've seen it with are still discussing the story ( and more particularly , the climax ) hours after finishing it . " The Butterfly Effect " is such a film .
SEX is all that matters !	Maybe I should start by saying I'm not the biggest slasher fan around here . Sure I can appreciate the classics like Halloween and the original Friday the 13th but they were never top of my list . And the post-Scream era has blown it all . Since this movie , everybody thinks they can make a horror film . The only thing they need is a few good looking girls who can yell very loud and a stupid outfit to give to the killer . This is kinda also the big idea behind CHERRY FALLS but , compared to most others , there are several good aspects and twists in this one . The story for starters . . . The killer's targets are exclusively virgins . This of course give a lot of opportunities to insert all sorts of humor . ( shy girls , computer geeks who never get laid , slutty girls ) It's all pretty predictable but it works . For example , I laughed pretty loud when some character said about another : " She thinks Fellatio is a characters in a Shakespeare play " As most films in the genre , the film tries to be as violent as possible , I was one of the lucky ones who saw the uncut version . If you're planning to see it , try to get your hands on this version . The story develops pretty well . The killer's background gets revealed bit by bit and it's scary enough to keep you interested . A few good twists too , I may say . Cherry Falls stars a few very decent actors . Michael Biehn ( always one of the most underrated actors in Hollywood , IMO ) is very convincing as the sheriff who discovers the truth behind the gore murders . His teenage ( virgin , of course ) daughter is played by Brittany Murphy . She gained fame and fortune lately by starring in that stupid Eminem film and a few others . She wasn't that famous yet when she did Cherry Falls , so I could enjoy her part . Her boyfriend ( named Kenny ) looks a lot like a young James Spader . So if they wanna do a remake of Secretary withing 15 years , they know who to cast . . . I also recognized a dumb looking DJ Qualls ( Road Trip , The New Guy , The Core ) I think this guy is doomed to play the nerd for the rest of his life . Oh well . . . In general : Of the thousand stupid slashers who got released over the past 8 years , this certainly is one of the best . You'll forget about it pretty soon , but it'll sure give you 90 minutes of fun and violence .
On the contrary ! The more beautiful , the sweeter they die !	It's always nice to come across a worthwhile Italian Giallo that was made in the 1980's , because this wondrously unique sub genre of horror is almost automatically & irreversibly linked to the 1970's , more particularly the earlier years of that decade . During that period there were approximately a dozen of great films released each year , but this amount vastly decreased near the end of the 70's already . And throughout the entire 80's decade , only a handful of competent Gialli came out , including Dario Argento's " Tenebre " and " Opera " , Lamberto Bava's " Midnight Ripper " , Lucio Fulci's " The New York Ripper " and Alberto De Martino's " Formula for Murder " . Dario Piana's contribution " Too Beautiful To Die " could easily join this short list , but the film is sadly obscure and almost impossible to track down . Maybe - and hopefully - this might change soon , as I just noticed that Dario Piana out of the blue directed " The Deaths of Ian Stone " ; one of the movies included in the famous " 8 movies to die for " horror event . Perhaps after gaining a bit of name-fame , some clever distribution company might dig up the director's earliest effort and release it on DVD . Here's to wishful thinking , because the film honestly deserves to be seen by a wider audience . " Too Beautiful to Die " , like so many other Gialli movies , takes place in a world full of gorgeous fashion models , perverted old rich bastards , extortion and of course sadistic murders . We step into the decor of a modeling agency when they're about to shoot an extended music video ( I think ) with the girls wearing exhilarating S & M outfits and waving around dangerously sharp daggers . The models are also involved in a network of prostitution , but when a promising young beauty refuses to have sex with an elderly client , her lifeless body is dragged out of a sunken car the next morning . The autopsy proves she was shot in the head before the car got pushed of a cliff . The shoot continues and the poor girl gets replaced , but shortly after everyone who was there that night is killed off with the macabre scenery used in the video . The plot is standard Giallo material , but there are a few pleasant and thoughtful twists and director Dario Piana upholds an adequate level of suspense and mystery until the very end . The starlets are indescribably beautiful , their revealing outfits are unimaginably sexy and there's one steaming hot ( and admirably stylish ) sex sequence to make it all complete . Perhaps one advantage 80's Gialli have over their 70's competitors , they are MUCH women-friendlier and respectful . The murders are obviously rather grisly , as they are committed with eerie daggers and even a replica Iron Maiden torture device , and the revelation of the killers ' identity is absurd in a good old-fashioned way . " Too Beautiful to Die " actually only has one major downside , and it isn't even the film's own fault . It was an inexplicably popular trend back in the 1980's to stuff any movie , no matter what genre or subject matter , with annoying hit music and incredibly overlong footage of people dancing to it . Especially in the case of a whodunit , this completely ruins the atmosphere and brings the viewer out of his / her concentration . Also , another reason why 70's Gialli were so fantastic was because they featured their very own soundtrack ( usually mastered by Ennio Morricone ) , whereas this gem has to settle for contemporary popular band , like Toto and Frankie Goes to Hollywood . Apart from the cheesy 80's-flavored sauce , " Too Beautiful to Die " is a delicious Italian Giallo-dish .
Very entertaining and well made short horror stories	SPOILERS will follow . . . I remember the early 80's horror series on which this movie is based on . It was a dumb and corny series , to be honest . In fact , the TV-station in my country stopped broadcasting it after only a few episodes due to a lack of interest of the viewers . I've done some research considering its status in the rest of the world and it seems that the series didn't broke through anywhere . Then came the movie in 1990 which was a pleasant surprise . I really hope the status of the TV-series didn't spoil the ( possible ) success of the movie . Tales from the Dark Side : The movie illuminates 3 very interesting horror icons . We've got a mummy , a black cat and a Gargoyle . . . you can never go wrong with those 3 . Heck , throw in a werewolf and we've got ourself a horror party ! ! ! This film follows the old-fashioned way of combining short stories . This means : through a wraparound story . True , this thing is very dumb and childish but try to consider it to be a modern version of the fairy-tale in which a wicked witch eats a boy . I rather hear Blondie singing her classic 80's songs like " Atomic " then seeing her act , but that's just me . Then there are the stories . The first one , Lot 249 , is awesome ! ! ! It's got STEVE BUSCEMI and a freakin ' MUMMY ! ! What else could you possibly wish for ? ? . . . Several familiar faces in this story by the way . Christian Slater and Julliane Moore star as well . Buscemi ( the world's best actor ) uses a mummy to take revenge towards some rich and spoiled collage students who try to ruin his career . It's got Buscemi . . . that's all you need to know . That and the fact that it was written by sir Arthur Conan Doyle . . . Cat from Hell , the second story has a pretty good tension going for it . An old dark house with a black murdering cat . That counts as setting the right atmosphere , doesn't it . Cat from hell is a co-operation between the writings of Stephen King and zombie master George Romero . When it comes to pure " scary and creepy " , Cat from Hell is the best story . The final story , Lover's Vow , will impress you when you see it . There's no doubt about that . It's a very good and original idea , I'll admit that . But with a bit of logical thinking , you'll find out it's very cheesy . I'm not going to spoil anything of this segment . . . except for the fact that the gargoyle looks really good . One of the best I've seen . . . Recommended . . . ( btw . . . have I already mentioned it stars Steve Buscemi ? ? )
Genuinely unsettling Aussie-thriller !	747-airliner crashes just outside a little town but of the 400 people aboard , one man ( the pilot ) miraculously walks out of the disaster alive ? Even more so , he walks out completely unharmed ! Does this basic premise sound familiar to anyone ? No , it's not M . Night Shyamalan's overrated blockbuster " Unbreakable " ! This is a shamefully underrated Australian thriller , directed by David Hemmings and based on a novel by shlock-expert James Herbert . The story continues being supernatural when the confused survivor ( a very convincing Robert Powell ) is approached by a female eyewitness ( the cherubic Jenny Agutter ) who serves as some sort of medium for the unfortunate passengers that want to get in contact with their pilot . David Hemmings is mostly known for some terrific acting roles ( " Blow-Up " , " Profondo Rosso " ) but he handles directing very well , too , and builds up a chilling tension using only a limited amount of set pieces . The actual plane crash , for example , is filmed at night and in flashes , but still it comes across as quite realistic since Hemmings splendidly focuses on the panicky reactions of the people on the ground . The film also contains a couple efficient shock-moments , notably the sequence in which a noisy journalist is lured into death by the appearance of a young girl that died in the air disaster . " The Survivor " suffers from more and bigger plot holes near the end , but the eventual climax will surely satisfy fans of paranormal and freaky horror films . The atmospheric music by Brian May makes the wholesome even spookier and the remote Australian location guarantees some really beautiful images . Horror veteran Joseph Cotton ( " Baron Blood " , " The Abominable Dr . Phibes " , " Lady Frankenstein " ) has a small but intriguing role as the town's priest . " The Survivor " is much scarier and involving than " Harlequin " , which was another supernatural horror film , made by pretty much the same cast & crew one year earlier . Recommended !
Island of the Burning Nuns	If you already think the title of this user-comment is weird , just wait until you see the rest of the movie ! Mariano Baino's " Dark Waters " is an old-fashioned creepy chiller and perhaps even the most underrated horror film of the last three decades . It's definitely the best Italian horror film of the nineties , along with Michele Soavi's " Dellamorte Dellamore " , even though they severely differ in tone and content . The plot of " Dark Waters " is very confusing and contains an incredible amount of holes ; still Biano manages to create a genuinely unsettling atmosphere and stuffs his film with nightmarish images and unlikely monsters . The beautiful Elizabeth travels back to the remote and hard-to-reach island where she spent her childhood years in a convent . Even though her mother died here and despite the fact her father advised her on his deathbed never to return , Elizabeth is drawn to the convent , more particularly to the ominous dungeons and hidden passageways . The creepy setting of " Dark Waters " reminded me a lot of " The Name of the Rose " . Due to their strict and isolated life-styles , the nuns in this convent look mad and petrifying ( some of them appear to be more than 150 years old ! ) and together they hide dark and very UN-catholic secrets . It's truly odd , but also strangely disturbing , to see nuns running around with burning torches and damaged crucifixes . " Dead Waters " also features a handful of grisly images and a fairly gruesome finale , but the film is mostly about style and atmosphere . It's practically always raining on this island , the nights seem to last twice as long as the days and even the villagers that live outside the convent look spooky . The music is very good , too , and lead actress Louise Salter is fascinating to look at . If the script had been a little more coherent and structured , this would have been a brilliant horror film . Now , it's just a very good one .
This girl BITES ! !	( small spoilers coming up ) Any fellas here who tend to get lonely ? Can't get a date on Saturday nights ? Well , there is one girl that'll gladly awaits you . . . Take a look at this film and see what May has got to offer you . It's a delightful little movie that got overlooked at the 2002 box office , like so many other movies who deserved a mention . May is the funny ( in a morbid kind of way ) and touching story of a young girl who's all alone in this world . She's full of complexes and totally lacks self-confidence but she keeps dreaming about true love and appreciation . She has a weird hand-fetish , talks to her dolls and she sews her own clothes . She falls in love with a handsome guy ( an interesting trivia-element for horrorfans is that this guy is a huge fan of Dario Argento ) and she becomes the girl-toy of a nymph-lesbian . Unfortunately , they all come to hurt May's feelings and that causes her to snap . . . and how ! ! She decides to compose her own ' ideal friend ' but therefore she needs body parts . . . Any idea where to get those from ? ? May is more or less a one man's project of director Lucky McKee . I never heard of this guy before but I like his style . He's got a pretty weird and twisted world perspective but what the heck . I guess the same thing can be said about the people who enjoy watching this movie . . . yours truly included . The entire movie looks fresh and original and contains numberless references to classic horror titles . The use of music is very atmospheric and there are several bloody sequences to satisfy the more ' wild ' horror freaks . There's quite a bit of sentiment and drama in this film but I didn't let it bother me at all . The morality isn't shoved down your throat and I think that's a good thing . Oversentimental crap dialogues really could have spoiled this movie , but McKee didn't let that happen . Good on him ! ! I hope to see more of his work in the future . And I'd also love to see a lot more films starring Angela Bettis - the girl who plays the title character May . She's really talented and pretty . She carries this film like it's nothing and has a lot of charisma . Ana Faris ( the Scary Movie girl ) does a pretty good job as well . Her character is a complete bimbo , but she manages to portray her as a charming and insecure girl . In case it wasn't clear yet . . . May is certainly recommended . Especially to the people who claim that ALL the nowadays horrorfilms suck . May is another proof that excellent horror still gets made . You only have to look beyond the brainless and uninteresting blockbusters to find them .
Good . . . but not as good as I hoped .	Italian horror maestro Dario Argento and American zombie-daddy George A . Romero combining their forces and taking on the masterful Edgar Allan Poe oeuvre . . . This SHOULD have resulted in a perplexing project that tops every horror fan's favorite list ! Oh well , maybe it's not the triumph everybody ( or me exclusively ? ) hoped for , it still is a pretty good movie that easily crushes every other genre film made during the nineties . The problems already begin with a rather illogical structure and composition : we're presented to two stories of approximately an hour playtime each . Too short to bring the necessary depth and proper character drawings ; too long to make it a successful anthology . From what I've learned , there are different DVD-versions available . The one I own opens with Romero's chapter which unquestionably is the weakest of the two . E . A . Poe definitely isn't to blame for this , as his " The Facts in the Case of Mr . Valdemar " is an intriguing tale about human greed , made even more compelling by some supernatural twists and a large amount of morbidity . The script is fine ( with the ingenious adding of the hypnosis-element ) , the special effects and make up art are quite gruesome and the set-pieces are effectively creepy . It's Romero's uninspired directing that disappoints ! The camera moves through the Valdemar mansion very tame and lifeless , like he's shooting a boring costume drama instead of an unsettling horror film . Adrienne Barbeau ( John Carpenter's " The Fog " ) doesn't really convince as the despicable wife who wishes to fasten her old husband's death struggle in order to get her hands on his fortune and the cool Tom Atkins ( " Maniac Cop " , " Night of the Creeps " ) only appears in a cameo role . Dario Argento's segment is superior in every possible way and I expected no less , actually , since he was the motive power behind the whole " Two Evil Eyes " project . His presentation of Poe's very best tale ; the Black Cat ; is spontaneously brought and truly exhilarating ! It stars Harvey Keitel , in a great shape , as the aggressive and cat-hating photographer Rod Usher who kills his girlfriend Annabel during a fit of rage and tries to cover it by walling her corpse up in his house . Argento's segment has got great suspense and downright brilliant music ! The most notable scene of this chapter ( as well as of the entire movie , in fact ) is the magnificent dream-sequence that takes Usher back to the Middle Ages where he's condemned to death for killing a black cat . I'd safely recommend " Two Evil Eyes " to every self-respecting horror fan if it were for this dream-sequence alone ! ! Following Argento habits , there also is a lot of vicious gore and some sick little fantasies on the side ( to construction of a detailed Annabel-puppet to avoid suspicion ) . Overall , the film is a reasonably good waste of time in case you're an experienced horror fanatic . But , in case you want to learn more about Edgar Allan Poe beautiful work , it's probably better to purchase some of the movies Roger Corman made back in the 1960's , starring Vincent Price ( " House of Usher " , " The Masque of the Red Death " , " The Pit and the Pendulum " . . . )
The jolliest bunch of lunatics this side of the nuthouse !	I personally have a soft spot for horror films that are set in hospitals and asylums so I had a good feeling about watching this " Don't Look in the Basement " , even though its reputation is doubtful . Well , turned out I was right ! This is great , trashy entertainment with a couple of efficient shocks and delightfully absurd characters . You have to , of course , look beyond the poor productions values and the completely illogical plot but , if you manage to do that ( and if you're a fan of this type of horror , that's an essential quality ) , you'll be rewarded with an outrageous " video-nasty " in which blood and insanity form the main elements . The young and cute nurse Charlotte arrives at a remote sanitarium where she's supposed to start her new job . She finds out that the Doctor who hired her was killed by a patient and the replacement doctor-in-charge Masters seems reluctant to accept the new arrival . The life inside the sanitarium is rather peculiar , with the patients running around free and every door is kept unlocked . After a whole series of bizarre events , Charlotte discovers the horrific secrets that the institution hides . . . . The opening 10 minutes ( pre-credits ) are great and so is the completely deranged climax . Everything in between is pretty much without surprise or tension but you patiently wait because you just feel that the finale will be wild fun . The asylum's patients are textbook lunatics , but I love them nevertheless . Some of my favorites include the former judge ( who still talks exclusively in legal terms ) , the suspicious army-Sargeant and the mad-raving old lady . " Don't Look in the Basement " is great low-brained fun , especially recommended to fans of 70's trash-cinema , sick puppies and other types of scum . The lunatics have taken over the asylum , yeah ! !
SUPERnatural !	First establishment : don't even consider watching this film when you're tired and / or trying to conquer sleep ? because you'll lose . The terror in Don't Look Now is strictly psychological and whether it's a masterpiece or not all depends on the viewer's state of mind . It could become one of the most superbly chilling films you'll ever see , but at the same time you could say it's very overrated and not that compelling at all . Second establishment : the settings , scenery and locations couldn't possibly be better . Don't Look Now is almost entirely set in Venice , Italy which is the most appropriate décor to tell a paranormal tale . The story completely depends on the dark alleys , ancients cathedrals and typical waters where it's shot at . Donald Sutherland and his wife Julie Christie settled in Venice to slowly forget the death of their young daughter . While Sutherland is restoring a cathedral , his wife is approached by a blind , psychic lady who claims to be in contact with the couple deceased daughter . This spiritual woman comes with a warning ? but she can only foresee a tragedy ? not forestall it ! Nicolas Roeg is a brilliant cinematographer and he can create a hardly bearable tension without showing shocking images . The drama and sentiment in Don't Look Now is well-represented , of course , since it handles about the worst thing parents can go through ? Witnessing and living with the dead of their own child . The supernatural methods that Roeg implements are unique and it's almost impossible to discover them all in one single viewing . Perfect example of that is Sutherlands walk in the dark alley , where all the ominous elements of the little girl's dead are repeated ? That's pretty brilliant but you don't realize it right away . Some of the storytelling require a wide attention-span and I'll fairly admit that the film is overall long and pretty boring at times . Even the explicit ( and infamous ) sex sequence is way too long . Donald Sutherland is a class A actor , even though his haircut never looked so ridiculous . Julie Christie is a loveable wife and very convincing as the heart-broken mother .
It's Alive ! ! It's Alive ! ! ! . . . x50 !	Two young men , isolated up in the mountains , performing bizarre and questionable experiments on each other ? No , it isn't an early sequel to " Brokeback Mountain " but a new & clever independent horror film that I hope will be regarded as a minor cult gem within a couple of years ! The screenplay of " Subject Two " is based on Mary Shelley's almighty " Frankenstein " - tale in which an intelligent but overly obsessed scientist brings back an unwilling victim from the dead . Only , times have severely changed by now and , instead of lightening storms or voodoo rituals , science now uses Nano-technologies , cloning techniques and loads of other hi-tech stuff I totally didn't understand ! Dr . Franklin Vick ( got it ? Victor Frankenstein ? Yeah OK , you get it ? ) lures the anti-social medical student Adam to his remote mountain cabin where he kills him repeatedly ? but successfully brings him back to life every single time . These intense experiments have a severe impact on Adam , of course , and pretty soon he turns into an emotional and physical wreck . This film contains multiple praiseworthy elements that I haven't spotted in other , high-budgeted horror productions in a very long time already . First and foremost , there's the hugely original Aspen , Colorado filming location ! The total lack of civilization and the false hope for rescue is perfectly illustrated by the snowy mountains and unbearably cold winds . The limited number of cast members contributes a lot to the power of " Subject Two " as well , also because the male leads give away great performances . Dean Stapleton ( who tremendously resemblances Jack Nicholson when he was younger ) is genuinely sinister as the doc and Christian Oliver is very convincing as the mentally unstable guinea pig . This isn't exactly a full-blooded horror film , but there's quite a bit of gore and raw violence on display . The dialogs are witty and ? entirely unexpected ? the plot takes an ingenious turn near the end ! Just for that , " Subject Two " receives one well-deserved extra point . If you have the opportunity to see this smart film by Philip Chidel , don't hesitate !
Predates " Scary Movie " with nearly 20 years AND it's funnier !	" Student Bodies " is already a fairly good and successful cinematic satire , but it even gets better when realizing the film actually got released in 1981 . In other words , when the trend of prototypical 80's high school slashers still had to be launched properly , this movie already parodied all of its trademarks ! The script of " Student Bodies " deliberately intended to spoof the pioneering classics of the slasher sub genre ( such as " Black Christmas " , " Halloween " and " When a Stranger Calls " ) , but by doing so unwarily also ridicules the vast majority of slashers that still have to be made throughout the entire 80's decade . " Student Bodies " is basically one giant collection of gags that can be placed in three main categories . First and foremost , there are many slapstick jokes that aren't necessarily related to the horror genre in particular . Following the tradition of films like " The Kentucky Fried Movie " and " Airplane " , these are simply brainless absurdities causing you to laugh out loud whether you want to or not . A fine example to illustrate this type is , for instance , a student throwing a overripe tomato at the intercom in his classroom and then subsequently the camera cuts towards the principle's office where the tomato hits the speaker in the face . It's extremely stupid , yet so inventive you simply have to laugh ! Then there's the specifically horror related jokes that are either ( 1 ) brilliantly witty or ( 2 ) fall painfully flat . Most of the jokes that are meant to emphasize the clichés of the genre and to point out the stupidity of stereotypical horror characters are hilarious and very effective . Whenever an empty-headed character does something really dumb ( like leaving the door unlocked or wanders off by herself ) , an arrow appears on screen in order to make it even clearer . There's even a tally to keep us informed about the increasing body count and the killer him / herself has a heavy breathing problem , like cinematic stalkers often do . Unfortunately , however , the misfires are numerous as well and these are usually the longest-running jokes . In between all the craziness , there's also some room left for a textbook horror movie story . High school student Toby's friends have the annoying habit of showing up barbarically murdered , strangely enough always immediately after having sex . When suspicion falls upon her , Toby has no choice but to investigate what's going on herself and there are plenty of potential culprits to choose from ; including the perverted janitor , the angry shop teacher , the sneering school counselor and even the principle who insists that his school is one of the best run in the county . In spite of having a small but loyal fan base , " Student Bodies " is a relatively unknown and underrated movie . I remember when " Scary Movie " got released a good 8 years ago , many people acted as if it was the first comedy ever to parody the slasher genre . For all those people , and of course for everyone who enjoys a good laugh as well , please grab the opportunity to check out this pleasant little gem .
Awesome little film , but we demand a proper DVD release !	Although I'm grateful this obscure gem of 70's Italian exploitation cinema features in the recently released " Grindhouse Experience " box set , and although it's also available on disc under the misleading and stupid alternate title " Escape from Death Row " , I honestly think it deserves a proper and luxurious DVD edition , completely in its originally spoken languages with subtitle options ( the dubbing is truly horrible ) , restored picture quality and a truckload of special bonus features ! Heck , I don't even need the restored picture quality and bonus features if only we could watch the film in its original language . " Mean Frank and Crazy Tony " is a cheerfully fast-paced mafia / crime flick with a lot of violence , comedy ( which , admittedly , doesn't always work ) , feminine beauty and two witty main characters . Tony Lo Bianco is terrific as the small thug pretending to be the city's biggest Don . When the real crime lord Frankie Dio ( Lee Van Cleef ) arrives in town , he sees an opportunity to climb up the ladder by offering his services . Frankie initially ignores the little crook , but they do eventually form an unlikely team when Frankie's entire criminal empire turns against him and a new French criminal mastermind even assassinates Frankie's innocent brother . Tony helps Frankie to escape from prison and together they head for Marseille to extract Frankie's revenge . The script of this sadly neglected crime gem funnily alters gritty action & suspense with light-headed bits of comedy , like the grotesque car chase through the narrow French mountain roads for example . The build up towards the typical mafia execution sequences ( guided by an excellent Riz Ortolani score ) are extremely tense and the actual killings are sadistic and merciless , which is probably why the film is considered to be somewhat of a grindhouse classic . The film lacks a strong female lead , as the lovely and amazingly voluptuous beauty Edwige Fenech sadly just appears in a couple of scenes , and then still in the background . On of the men behind the camera , responsible for the superb cinematography , was no less then Joe D'Amato . Great film , highly recommended to fans of Italian exploitation , and I hope to watch it again soon in its original version .
Vampired to the Mob	It's about time John Landis delivered a worthy follow-up to " An American Werewolf in London " ! That particular classic was one of the only films ever to successfully blend gross horror situations with likable black humor . " Innocent Blood " does the same , albeit less impressively . The crime-congested streets of Pittsburgh form an excellent setting for this light-headed and often cheesy crossover between vampire horror and mafia action that also has a great cast and terrific make-up effects . Marie is an incredibly sexy but not exactly cheerful vampire with a strong appetite for human blood , yet she only feeds on criminals and other scum that doesn't deserve to live . With the large number of Italian gangsters ruling the city , Marie can easily still her hunger and simultaneously improve the safety on the streets . However , when she fails to properly eliminate mob boss Sal Macelli , he turns into a vampire as well , and his bloody intentions are far more dangerous to the world . Marie will require the help of undercover cop Joe Gennaro in order to destroy Macelli for good . The screenplay of " Innocent Blood " is rather exciting and Landis effectively gets rid of some ancient vampire clichés . Wooden stakes are no longer required to kill them , Marie does have a reflection in the mirror and the eyes of vampires suddenly take on all the bright colors of the rainbow . Natural sunlight is still pretty painful , apparently , and that's illustrated in a fantastic sequence with class actor Don Rickles . Talking about the cast , " Innocent Blood " assembles some of the best actors for a modest horror production ever . Anne Parrilaud was already famous for her role of female assassin Nikita and especially the male casting choices were splendid , with Robert Loggia , Anthony LaPlagia and Chazz Palminteri . The most exhilarating aspect about this film ( for horror fans , at least ) is John Landis over-enthusiast dedication to the genre ! There's always some classic horror film playing on TV in the background and numerous prominent filmmakers appear in small roles or cameos . Most memorable are Sam Raimi ( creator of " The Evil Dead " ) as the meat truck guy and Frank Oz as the pathologist . Highly recommended !
Beware the Pleasances !	In good old Amicus-Anthology tradition , debuting director Kevin Connor presents a nice variety of three just above average horror stories and one really terrific one . " From Beyond the Grave " certainly wasn't the production studio's best omnibus effort ( that honor goes to either " Asylum " or " The House that Dripped Blood " ) , but it has a splendid ensemble cast ( including eminent British names like Donald Pleasance , Peter Cushing , Ian Ogilvy , David Warner , Ian Carmichael , ? ) , a neat wraparound narrative and an overall pleasingly sinister atmosphere . All separate tales begin in the same location , namely an obscure and hidden antique shop manned by Peter Cushing . The customers at this shop then become the protagonists of the segments , and the attentive viewer quickly figures out that their own personal fate will also depend on whether or not they are honest human beings . The bought items ( an army medal , an ancient mirror , a snuff box and even an medieval door ) aren't necessarily essential objects in the tales , though . The first story stars David Warner ( " The Omen " ) as an obnoxious man who becomes possessed with a murderous spirit homing in his recently purchased antique mirror . The plot of " The Gate Crasher " , as this story is called , is quite mundane but it boosts a handful of grisly set pieces . The third story is a rather comical referring to " The Exorcist " , with Ian Carmichael being possessed by an invisible and hugely hyperactive elemental critter ( whatever the hell that may be ) that is attached to his shoulder . The exorcism scenes are incredibly over-the-top and the segment isn't really meant to be scary . The fourth and final story was a bit too tacky in my humble opinion , but it nonetheless has awesomely grim scenery ( the room , the portal , the axe ? ) and the beauty of actress Lesley-Ann Down . I'm deliberately saving story number two for last , as it is by far the most superior installment of them all . Most credit here must go to Donald Pleasance and his real-life daughter Angela , for their genuinely uncanny performances as the overly friendly yet obtrusive pair of low-class street merchants who gradually ' take-over ' an unhappy married man . I can't reveal too much about the plot , but the performances of Donald and particularly Angela Pleasance truly send cold shivers down your spine . Recommended !
Fascinating , but can't explain why . . .	" Figures in a Landscape " is definitely one of the weirdest and most unclassifiable movies I've encountered lately , and at the same time it's pretty difficult to explain why that is . Some movies are weird because they increasingly overpower the viewer with substantial twists and / or stylistic gimmicks , but still they constantly uphold the impression there's some kind of deeper meaning or hidden structure behind it . The films of David Lynch are like that , for example . Other movies , and " Figures in a Landscape " is definitely one of them , are weird because they never at one point feature abrupt story twists and never even seem to want to achieve a deeper meaning . Kind of like the ' what you see is what you get principle ' and don't even bother asking background information . Based on Barry England's novel - that probably only very few people have read - " Figures in a Landscape " revolves on two escaped convicts nervously running across a desolate area . Pretty much like the title implies , they are , in fact , simply figures in a landscape . We're never explained where exactly the events take place ( South America ? East Asia ? ) or what crimes the two committed in the first place . They must have been quite serious , however , as MacConnachie and Ansell quickly find themselves besieged by a menacing black helicopter and later also by army patrols on foot . The helicopter plays a devastating mental and physical game with them , as it appears to be omnipresent and in absolutely no hurry to pick them up . This is the type of film where there are no characters to root for . You won't develop any sympathy for the fugitives as they commit some truly vile acts along their way and you can't really support the guys inside the helicopter , neither , as their faces aren't even properly shown . " Figures in a Landscape " is a brooding , moody and mildly unsettling film that doesn't always makes sense and doesn't bother to involve the viewer . But , if you manage to put all the unanswered questions aside from you , this also might turn out one extremely enchanting viewing experience . Every shot , every inch of the landscape seems precisely measured and re-considered at least a dozen times before featuring in the film . The choreography is simply wonderful and the filming locations ? apparently Spanish ? are almost continuously breathtaking . The performances of Robert Shaw and Malcolm McDowell couldn't be more apt and Joseph Losey's direction is very surefooted . After seeing only this and the even more unique " These are the Doomed " , I'm more than anxious to check out Losey's further repertoire .
They sure serve their purpose ! Scary ! !	Hello , what do we have here ? Could this be a genuinely CREEPY 80's horror flick that somehow became forgotten over the years due to the genre's offer-overload ? It sure looks like it , since " Scarecrows " is a truly atmospheric and well-made film with the exact right proportions of suspense and bloody make-up effects . Yet you'll never see it listed among anyone's decade-favorites and that's a real shame . " Scarecrows " can be categorized as typically low-budget 80's film-making , but it most certainly outshines the majority of movies in that bunch thanks to the stylish directing by William Wesley ( who ? ) , the original setting and the splendidly written script . An assembly of well-organized robbers manages to escape on a hijacked plane with a loot of over 3 million dollar and two hostages . One of them ? Bert ? plans to double-cross the others and dives off the plane with the money and lands in an open field near a deserted farmhouse . The cornfield is dotted with mysterious and uncanny-looking scarecrows that come to live and start terrorizing Bert ? as well as his companions that come after him ? in the night . It may sound unbelievable but these scarecrows look genuinely creepy and sinister ! Unlike I feared , they're NOT grotesque or absurd looking monsters , but menacing entities that briefly appear in flashes or off-screen . The screenplay also never gives a definite explanation of what they really are , which only increases the morbidity . Apparently the whole cornfield is a cursed dimension and every trespasser is doomed to turn into a scarecrow , yet this theory is never confirmed . Another great story-aspect is the development of the characters . Once in the cornfield , robbers and hostages are somewhat forced to work together in order to survive . The switch from hostility to dependence is powerfully & plausibly illustrated in the script and stressed by the surefooted director William Wesley . The film also benefices from very adequate acting performances , an eerie soundtrack and professional camera-work . Actually , the only slight demerit of this cool movie is the running time ! Too short ? A bit overlong , actually , although barely 80 minutes . . . This story would have been even MORE effective if it were part of a typical horror-anthology movie ( like " Creepshow " or " From a Whisper to a Scream " ) with a playtime of approximately half an hour . The chases through the corn are occasionally overwrought . Nevertheless , " Scarecrows " is a very good movie and recommended highly to any horror fan who's tired of re-watching the same old mainstream classics .
Underrated horror omnibus	" From a Whisper to a Scream " is a very lively and surprisingly entertaining horror anthology that got neglected in the congested horror offer of the eighties . That's quite a shame because this little sickie film has several things going for it , like for example one of the very last performances of the legendary Vincent Price and a versatile range of demented and gruesome tales . This film uses a creative starting point , namely a little Tennessee town that seems to inject pure evil into the lifeblood of its inhabitants . The story begins with the execution of a female serial killer born and raised in Oldfield , Tennessee . Afterwards , an obstinate journalist goes to see Oldfield's old librarian Julian White ( who also happens to be the killer's uncle ) and he tells her four stories of past horror to illustrate what wicked influence this demonic little town has . I was expecting to see tame and ethically correct terror tales ( like the kind " Creepshow " features ) but , to my surprise , every chapter was imaginative and very violent ! The first story contains the most shocking theme ( necrophilia ! ) but it was the least convincing one and merely served as a vicious warming-up feature . Clu Gulager looks truly frightening in this chapter and the tone is effectively depressing . After the first , the fun really kicks in with three very exciting and hard-boiled tales of madness ! The second one revolves on a small time crook hunting for the secret of eternal life in the swampy wastelands around Oldfield . This chapter features a gruesome climax and haunting anti-greed message . The third story is my absolute favorite , simply because it handles about fierce carny folks ! A traveling carnival passes by Oldfield and one of the acts falls in love with the local beauty Amaryllis . But , it turns out that the carnival and its performers hide some terrible secrets and the fiendish leader won't let any of her " slaves " get away . I loved the eccentric characters in this tale , as well as the tense atmosphere . The climax here is exaggeratedly gore and a must-see sequence for fans of cheesy 80's splatter . The last episode is very spooky and enlightens us a little more on the history of this devilish little town . It's set at the end of the Civil War where hillbilly soldiers are captured and molested by . . . . children who lost their parents . Some really good scenery and atmosphere in this tale , as well as good eerie performances by the child-actors . " From a Whisper to a Scream " is an overall original and amusing horror film with quite some sickness and shocking images . Price is still great although it hurts to see this once-vivid horror veteran ageing . There are interesting cameos from Lawrence Tierney as the warden and Martine Breswick as the convicted serial killer . Recommended ! !
Run from the creep Lola , RUN !	" Creep " is a new horror film that , without a doubt , will please many genre fans simply because it's so down to the point and unscrupulous ! It has many genuine shock-moments , a whole lot of repulsive gore-sequences and a rare claustrophobic tension . What it hasn't got is logic and a solid plot but , to tell you the truth , that didn't bother me for one second . When the end-credits start to roll , there are still many unanswered questions to ponder on but director / writer Christopher Smith ( in his debut ) seemly preferred to fully focus on tension and adrenalin-rushing action instead of long , soporific speeches and theories that could explain the existence of the " creep " in the London subway . The story revolves on the young and haughty Kate , who leaves her own party in order to go and meet the famous actor George Clooney who's in town to present his new film . She falls asleep in the subway , misses the last train and she finds herself trapped in the underground subway network . Things really get terrifying when she encounters a mad-raving lunatic who lives in the old tunnels and kills / kidnaps people to experiment upon . Even experienced homeless people , security guards or sewer-workers can't rescue her from this ravenous monster ! I really dug the creep-character ! He's nauseating , hideous and primitive but in a strange way fascinating . Christopher Smith only leaves us clues and hints , and it's merely up to the viewer to guess this vile creature's origin and background . I reckon this isn't very original , and I'm sure many people won't appreciate the lack of content , but I forgive Smith and I think it's better this way than going over the top completely , " Jeepers Creepers " - style ( that particular film started out great as well , but as soon as the Creeper's identity was clear it turned into a very mediocre horror effort ) . The obvious aspect-to-love is the outrageous gore ! There's some severe butchering going on in this film and the make-up , as well as the sound effects , are very convincing . The ominous setting of the abandoned London subway during night is effectively used . There also is some acting-talent present in this film , with Franka Potenta ( Run Lola Run ) returning to graphic horror nearly five years after the cool German film " Anatomie " . Creep is terrific entertainment when you're in an undemanding mood and Christopher Smith definitely is a director I'll keep an eye on . Make sure you don't have to take the subway right after watching this film . . .
Go Team Slapstick !	Once every few years , you're presented to a slapstick comedy so hilarious you instantly forget how LOW this form of entertainment actually is . I can't give a scientific explanation to state how come it's funny to see someone ( preferably wearing glasses ) getting hit in the face by a ball ? it just is . Dodgeball is vulgar , crude and without substance ? but your stomach will hurt from laughing and don't we all need that from time to time ? In case you really want to defend this film , you can always say it features tons of unsubtle criticism towards modern American image of exaggerated health-obsession . Ben Stiller's character is the personification of the obnoxious fitness guru : ' We're better than you , and we know it ' . Opposed to him , there's Vince Vaughn as the chilled-minded , lovable guy who owns a fitness center for the underdeveloped wimps . Due to his financial situation , he risks losing his gym to Stiller except if he and his teams of misfits manage to win the world-famous dodgeball tournament . The film is a series of cheap chuckles , eccentric characters and outrageous one-liners . It's pretty funny to hear Stiller yell out lines like : ' You're a skid mark on the underpants of society ' . Or the always-amusing Rip Torn encouraging his team with the words : ' you're as useful as a cock-flavored lollipop ' . The acting is great as it can be with Ben Stiller and Rip Torn who go delightfully over the top and lots of enthusiast cameos ( Chuck Norris , David Hasselhof , William Shatner and even Lance Armstrong ) . It sure isn't Schindler's List but Dodgball is great entertainment and stress releasing .
" The Haunted and the Hunted "	" The Haunted and the Hunted " is an appropriate and much more meaningful a . k . a for Coppola's sublime debut , focusing on a cursed and tormented Irish family . The plot is grim and creative and seemly starts out as a psychological portrait about a family reuniting in the parental castle to have a memorial ceremony in honor of the deceased daughter . The girl drowned in the estate's pond 7 years before and the mother still can't deal with the loss . But then the story pretty quickly turns into a guessing game of " who is the mad axe-murderer who dwells around the mansion ? " Coppola himself delivered a well-constructed screenplay but the power of this film merely lies in the solid Gothic atmosphere instead of ingenious plotting . It's not that hard to guess the homicidal maniac's identity but the butchering he / she commits is disturbingly filmed and rather frightening . The scene in which this killer drags one of his victims through the meadow is efficiently eerie ! Francis Ford Coppola's maybe owes his success to Roger Corman but it's definitely the producer's style and trademarks that triumph here . The depressing Irish castle and other dark set pieces make the wholesome look extra chilling and uncanny . The acting is overall decent but the best performance is unquestionably given by the brilliant British genre-actor Patrick Magee ( Asylum , Tales from the crypt and A Clockwork Orange ) .
Frankenstein must be worshiped ! !	Hooray ! Here's another entry in the highly amusing Hammer Frankenstein franchise . Don't ever ask me to pick a ' best ' or even favorite in this series because I instantly love every episode I can get my dirty little hands on : ) And this fifth chapter is a true highlight as it has our Baron Frankenstein more and more evolving into a ruthless , cold villain . He blackmails a young couple ; forcing them to assist him with his diabolical experiments ( only he sees it as simple scientific evolution ) . Along with his new accomplices , Baron F . kidnaps a fellow mad scientist out of the asylum because he knows the skills to perform a flawless brain transplant . Unfortunately , Frankenstein's mad raving colleague has been drugged so much he now is a complete vegetable . Ingenious as he is , evil Victor transplants a few brains and commits a few murders to finally have the things the way he wants . After 4 prequels , numberless others adaptations and several novels , Hammer Productions ( and class-A director Terence Fisher in particular ) still manages to present the Frankenstein films as original and innovative horror adventures . It's remarkable how Cushing and Fisher completely shifted the initial horror from Frankenstein's monster to Baron Frankenstein himself ! In this film , the creature is a pathetic ' victim ' while it's Cushing who's the criminal mastermind . Needless to say that Cushing is absolutely powerful in his loyal role of the Baron . He's actually so good in preaching his medical ambitions that you often sympathize with him , even though you witness with your own eyes he's bad to the bone ! Cushing receives excellent feedback from the young actor Simon Ward and the exquisite Veronica Carlson . ' Frankenstein must be Destroyed ' is an intriguing horror film for some other reason as well . Fisher inserts a healthy dose of Romanticism in this episode plus it's also one of the first Hammer films that feature the sexual content and undertones they'll use more and more in their 70's films . Hammer's popularity tempered a bit during the late 60's / early 70's and they tried to make up for this by showing more ravishing meat ( Carlson's cleavage ) and sexual insinuations . In short , Frankenstein must be destroyed is essential horror viewing ! It has loads of tension and exciting sequences , the film is professionally made , well-acted and it features a fair amount of bloodshed .
One bride for seven brothers !	" De Johnsons " is a rare Dutch horror gem and actually a lot better than the negative-minded reviews around here suggest . It has an original and oddly compelling storyline , involving anthropology myths , incest and teenage-sexuality . The complex and ambitious script tells the story of seven portentous brothers that have only one goal in their life : impregnate their virgin-sister so that she can give birth to a creature that'll bring the world to an end . Their father once went along with a scientific expedition near the Amazone , and he got obsessed with a local monster called " Xangadix " . The subject matter seems far too complicated for a modest Dutch production like this , but director Rudolf van den Berg upholds the tension and credibility surprisingly well . The film contains several disturbing moments and there even are a couple very well-mounted gore sequences . Especially the scenes inside the fort ( where the septulets got institutionalized after butchering an entire nursery home ) and Emalee's nightmares result in very powerful horror cinema . The cast is good , with some ' famous ' Dutch stars ( Monique van de Ven , Kenneth Herdigein ) as well as convincing new talent ( Esmée de la Bretonière ) . Sure , it also has its flaws ( like the somewhat disappointing climax-scene ) but it's definitely recommended . Tip : invite some friends and organize a Dutch horror night ! You can program this film , alongside " Amsterdamned " and " De Lift " .
On the prowl . . . with Tom Savini	Like a true horrorfreak , I get a kick out of hunting down all the films for which Tom Savini did the make-up . ' Friday the 13th ' and ' Dawn of the Dead ' are the obvious ones , but the real treats can be found in the overlooked early 80's slasher section . ' Maniac ' and ' Nightmare in a Damaged Brain ' are perfect examples and so is this little gruesome tale . The Prowler doesn't outshine the mainstream horror movies when it comes to plot , characters or twists ? but it does show some nauseating and hard to digest sequences . The film also has a pretty atmospheric and mood-setting opening . We learn how young WWII soldiers return to the US after the war . One of them finds a letter of his high-school sweetheart upon his arrival in which she's dumping him . During the Graduation celebration of her school , the girl ( Rosemary ) and her new boyfriend are brutally slaughtered by pitchfork . 35 years later , the town finally decides to organize a new school-dance . Unfortunately , this event also causes the return of the army-uniformed madman . The characters aren't exactly intriguing and the climax is far from surprising , but the brutality of the killings is definitely worth it . We're even treated to lovely head-explosion that lives up to the one in Maniac . Thank you Tom Savini ! Compared with the overload of polite and ethically correct ( read = boring ) slashers , the Prowler looks fresh and very entertaining . Director Joseph Zito also signed for one of the better F13 sequels as well as a few over-the-top Chuck Norris action flicks . I took me quite some time to finally find The Prowler and I feel no shame in recommending it to real horror fans . If you can't stand blood or in case you have a sensitive throat , this film will not leave a good impression behind . Otherwise ? enjoy !
Bloodthirstier than Dracula !	" The Bloody Judge " is unquestionably one of Jess Franco's finest accomplishments , and there are several elements that contributed to this . First of all , Christopher Lee depicts another unforgettably mean-spirited and frightening horror protagonist . This doesn't always guarantee a great movie , mind you , as Franco and Lee previously collaborated to make a couple of sequels in the Fu Manchu series , and they were dreadfully boring films . The character of medieval witch hunter Judge Jeffries clearly suits Lee a whole lot better than the oddly mustached oriental master-criminal and his performance confirms this . Secondly , for one of the few times during his entire career , Jess Franco could actually rely on a decent budget ! There was enough money for fancy costumes and atmospheric scenery , and even the editing and cinematography were clearly handled professionally . Finally , you can hardly go wrong with the subject matter of medieval witch-hunting , political corruptness , vile torture footage and robust executions . Although clearly inspired by the popularity of " Witchfinder General " ( starring Vincent Price ) , " The Bloody Judge " contains more than enough own ideas and ingenuity to be considered as a success in its own right . The film opens with the extended and compelling trial of a young girl accused of witchcraft , leading to her relentless execution burning at the stake . The long opening adequately introduces the character of Judge Jeffries , but the actual plot only unfolds after this . The executed girl's sister flees up the country and falls in love with the son of an eminent politician , who also happens to rebel against the corrupt English crown . The obsessive Judge Jeffries orders his followers to capture all the rebels and submit them to torture , but the army of William of Orange is slowly approaching England to conquer the crown . The amounts of graphic violence and ? especially ? gratuitous sleaze are admirably kept rather low , and this in favor of character development and tension building . Naturally , there are a handful of brutal sequences on display ( notably the " interrogation " of poor Alicia ) but " The Bloody Judge " is mainly story & atmosphere-driven . Franco regular Howard Vernon ( Dr . Orloff ! ) has a small but terrific role as the sneering executioner Ketch . Like another reviewer already stated , Vernon here strangely resembles Marty Feldman when he played Igor in " Young Frankenstein " . Maria Rohm is enticing and beautiful as ever playing Mary or " that wench " as people insist on referring to her . " The Bloody Judge " is a good film that easily deserves a spot in my Jess Franco top five , alongside " The Diabolical Dr . Z " , " The Awful Dr . Orloff " , " Faceless " and " Love Letters of a Portuguese Nun " .
Guide me to my tomb , daddy . . .	The opening sequences show both titles ( " Horror " and " The Blancheville Monster " ) neatly after each other , as if the distributors couldn't really decide which of the two was better and / or more appropriate . They should have just called it " The Blancheville Horror " . . . Problem solved ! Anyway , that was totally irrelevant . I'm more and more becoming a fan of director Alberto De Martino ! He's been making good horror movies consistently from the early 60's until the mid 80's , yet he never received the respect and appreciation that other Italian directors did . This stylish and severely underrated picture came out alongside loads of other Gothic horror movies and , although not as brilliant as , say , " Black Sunday " or " Kill Baby ? Kill " , it's a hugely atmospheric and powerfully compelling chill-tale with an overall decent script and convincing set pieces . Only a couple of days prior to her 21st birthday , a beautiful girl travels back to her wealthy father's castle , accompanied by her new lover and best friend . Upon arrival , her brother informs her about the tragic incident that supposedly killed her father and how he got madly obsessed with the legend of the Blancheville family curse . But the new arrivals notice that there are a lot more strange things going on . Why have all the servants been replaced ? Why is the brother so nervous about the girl's upcoming birthday ? And , most of all , who or what produces those creepy screams at night in the castle's darkest tower ? " The Blancheville Monster " offers pretty much all the elements you're looking for in good Gothic horror , including eerie thunderstorms , scary black-caped monsters , ominous vaults and tight costumes that supply the female cast members with impressive cleavage . De Martino does a great directing job , spreading the suspense equally throughout the whole film and the finale ? albeit not too hard to predict ? is formidably tense . Unlike any of Mario Bava's Gothic horror movies , " The Blancheville Monster " will not haunt your nightmares , but for fans of classic horror it's definitely worth seeing .
NOT your usual type of uninspired remake !	What a totally crazy ( yet highly admirable ) ambition to remake a Herschell Gordon Lewis film and actually add story depth , detailed character drawings , mystery and an atmosphere of morbidity ! But it works . At least , ? partially it works . Horror fanatics familiar with Lewis ' oeuvre know that his films are entertaining and sensationally gross , but they always severely lacked in the plotting department . Of all Lewis ' splatter films , " The Wizard of Gore " , released in 1970 , was definitely the one with the greatest potential and it's actually most unfortunate that the basic concept ideas weren't properly elaborated . Director Jeremy Kasten and writer Zach Chassler obviously must have felt the same way , as their remake cuts down on the gore ( but luckily not to much ) and attempts to give meaning and background to the whole idea of a maniacal magician . " The Wizard of Gore " is actually quite a unique oddity in the area of horror cinema nowadays ! People always complain about the overload of needless remakes and modern directors ' lack of own creativity ( and they're right , too ) but here's finally one remake that doesn't aspire to just bluntly copy the original , but to complete and perhaps even " improve " it . The result may not be entirely successful , but it's definitely a courageous approach and an overall enjoyable and recommended experience . This new version largely maintains the same plot as Lewis ' original film . Montag the Magnificent is a thoroughly uncanny magician / illusionist who , along with his hermit assistant , tours around with a quite unique and nightmarish act . He butchers seemingly random girls from the audience live on stage , yet when the audience panics and tries to flee , the light go on and the victims are standing there back in one piece again . A young reporter quickly discovers that the girls turn up dead the next day after all and their corpses are damaged exactly like they appeared to be on stage . Severely against the will of his girlfriend , he becomes obsessed with Montag's show and becomes entangled into a web of surreal nightmares , primitive drugs , physical agony and mental deterioration . " The Wizard of Gore " is still a pretty incoherent mess in which a lot of twists make absolutely no sense and a lot of vital questions remain unanswered , but at least you get the impression that Kasten and Chassler put thought and effort into providing an explanation for the events , and that is already an accomplishment to itself . Especially given the entirely illogical mishmash of half-decent ideas Herschell Gordon Lewis left behind . Moreover , this 2007 version benefices from a supremely macabre atmosphere and all the decors and set pieces look very grim . The gore and splatter effects clearly can't hold a candle to those of the original ( at least , when it comes of outrageousness ) , but still there's some excellent carnage on display . Gore , nudity , atmosphere and immensely creepy carnival music ? These are all great elements that allow you to overlook the occasionally senseless subject matter . Another thing which makes " The Wizard of Gore " a must-see for horror fanatics is the presence of no less than three phenomenal genre veterans , namely Crispin Glover , Brad Dourif and Jeffrey Combs .
Revenge is a dish served with pumpkins .	Generally considered to be a minor classic in the tremendous 80's horror offer , " Pumpkinhead " mostly benefices from Lance Henriksen's strong lead performance , the solid direction job by Stan Winston and the compelling atmosphere that ideally balances between harrowing drama and exciting horror . It may take a little while before the story really swifts into action-gear , but at least the introduction of the characters and the build up towards why the titular demon gets summoned is well-crafted and involving . Widower Ed Harley lives with his young son and owns a grocery store in the rural outback . His peaceful life abruptly comes to an end when a bunch of city-teenagers accidentally run over his beloved son with their motorcycles . Overcome with grief and fury , Ed seeks contact with a local witch capable of resurrecting a powerful demon to extract blood-vengeance . The hideous demon with superhuman strength immediately goes after the teenagers and isolates the entire area with petrifying anguish . Ed soon regrets having unleashed this supernatural evil and teams up with the last remaining teenagers to destroy it . The titular demon's head isn't exactly shaped like a pumpkin , he merely owes his name to the fact his remainders were buried in a fields were pumpkins are cultivated . He's a tall , relentless and bloodthirsty creature that looks an awful lot like the extraterrestrial monsters in " Aliens " . This shouldn't really come as a surprise , since the talented special effects team was responsible for both movies . Director Stan Winston is an effects artist as well , and thus he perfectly knows to depict the demon at its most menacing . And not only the creature's design is scary ! The ominous forests , the superb lighting and the superstitious supportive characters all contribute to increase the tension-level as well . Lance Henriksen starred in numerous low-budget horror features that aren't worth bothering , but " Pumpkinhead " easily ranks among his best roles . His imposing charisma and cheekbones do most of the acting here , but Lance nevertheless remains a mighty fine action hero . There are sublime supportive roles for Florence Schauffler ( as the uncanny witch ) and George ' Buck ' Flower as the wise elderly man .
Sweet Child in Time ? . Will You See the Light ?	Various highly acclaimed and respected sources of criticism refer to " Children of Men " as the absolute greatest Sci-Fi movie since " Blade Runner " . I can't really disagree with that , since I never was a big supporter of this particular classic , but still " Children of Men " isn't the unhinged new masterpiece everyone claims it to be . The grim atmosphere is great , the sets are greatly depressing , some details in the script are truly extraordinary , the abrupt plot twists are shocking and the acting performances are overall stunning . Yet , somehow , the wholesome simply doesn't feel as astounding and refreshingly original as it should . It's a good film , but in case you're familiar with obscure , often low-budgeted and apocalyptic themed B-movies of the late 70's / early 80's , Alfonso Cuarón's script has surprisingly little new stuff to offer you . Several of the main story lines in " Children of Men " , like the infertility of the human race or Britain being the last remaining place of civilization ( although ? ) , are often just smaller footnotes in Sci-Fi flicks of the old days . The first 30 or so minutes of the film are the absolute greatest . Chaotic images of several of the largest and most prominent cities of the world burning down , fascist soldiers aggressively preventing immigrants from entering the UK and a ? downright brilliant ? sub plot about the last born human being bombarded to a media figure and he himself , 19 years old , not able to cope with the unwanted attention . The real plot kicks off when Theo Feron , a totally antipathetic loner , is requested ? commanded actually ? by his ex girlfriend to escort a very special girl to safety because she carries in her womb the fetus that could represent mankind's final little string of hope for survival . Their journey together is long , full of lethal obstacles and literally no one can be trusted . At least as far as I'm concerned , " Children of Men " is definitely a showcase of style over substance . What distinguishes this film from the rest is Cuarón's extremely raw and uncompromising filming style . The cinematography is everything but fancy , with shaky camera movements and disturbing visuals , the characters are uncanny and behave utterly nihilistic and the action is merciless . Clive Owen , definitely one of the coolest and most talented breakthrough actors since the new Millennium , gives another stellar performance . Personally , I wouldn't rank this amongst the 250 greatest movies ever made , like the votes and ratings around here indicate , but it's certainly a film worth checking out for mature audiences .
Very smart and promising debut ( spoilers included )	Back in 2001 ? after seeing ? The Others ' ? the entire world cried out that Alejandro Amenábar was the new standard in suspense-cinema . Too true actually , but in my opinion he already deserved this title in 1996 , when Tésis was released . This slick chiller was brought out rather anonymous , but it managed to work its way up to the highest regions of European cult cinema . As more and more people start to discover the work of Amenábar , Tésis receives more credit as well and it should be like this . It's a surprisingly imaginative thriller that fascinates you , regardless its simple plot . ' Snuff ' is the macabre topic that already inspired Anthony Waller to make his genius ( and underrated ) thriller Mute Witness and now it also forms the basic plot of Tésis . Anna Torrent is a university student who decides to write her thesis about the influence violent images have on humanity and whether it's better we are exposed to it or not . She makes contact with a fellow student who's obsessed with horror and real-life misery footage ( Martínez ? a Spanish Johnny Depp look-a-like ) but the real troubles begin when her supporting professor dies after witnessing a snuff-movie . Apparently , someone in their school is producing this type of films and the vanishing of several local girls becomes more and more clear . Tésis contains very little violent images or bloody sequences , yet Amenábar manages to build an almost unbearable tension . The development of the story is slow and the search for the ' snuff ' producers remains a mystery ? even though there aren't many suspects . The structure seems to be very simple , yet you're never totally convinced who did it . Amenábar really fools around with your suspicions and holds the truth to himself at all times . In the meantime , Tésis is a rough satire that condemns the entire society for its need and inescapably desire to witness violence and the suffering of others . Especially because of the last aspect , Tésis is a true cult-film and a subtle criticism towards American cinema . Amenábar dislikes Hollywood and that's clearly shown in his films ? rather than become a respected ? big shot ' director , he prefers to stay in Spain and help this nation's cinema develop . The lecture sequence given in Tésis states this ! He's a bright director , that's the least you can say . And he works with dedicated and equally young talent . Like Eduardo Noriega who also appears in his later movies . Noriega is a pretty boy who owes a lot to his charismatic appearance but he CAN act . Of course , Tésis isn't all perfect and stunning . The film is perhaps a bit too long ( runtime : 125min . ) and the lack of insight and clarity is likely to bother you after a while . Also , the film could have used a tad bit more ' adrenaline ' ? The film is merely psychologically intense , which is okay ? but even those stories need a bit of action . Certainly recommended ! Preferably one to watch if you're interested in the more and more upcoming Spanish thriller / horror industry . If you're interested in the topic of ' snuff ' movies , I highly recommend ' Mute Witness ' a lot more over the overhyped ' 8mm ' starring Nicolas Cage . If you're willing to expand you're horizons on Spanish shock cinema , I recommend ' Darkness ' , ' El Día de la Bestia ' and ' The Devil's Backbone '
Sick , disturbing and utterly repulsive !	It's pretty much unquestionable that " Neighborhood Watch " is a terrible and absolutely worthless movie but , just in case Graeme Whifler's only intention was to go beyond all the known boundaries of gore and sickness , it might be called a huge success after all . This is one messed up production and most of the film's footage simply cannot be categorized in terms of sickness as no horror movie has ever gone there before ! This is different than the Italian cannibal-flicks or the Asian Manga-madness , as " Neighborhood Watch " features a realistic tone and revolves on existing issues like misanthropy , self-mutilation and pure psychological terror . The first half of the film is actually just as intense and unsettling as it is nauseating and this combination led me to believe that we'd come across THE most disturbing movie ever made . Whilfer totally loses his grip on the suspense near the end , however , with sub plots that go nowhere and the atmosphere that vanishes entirely . The premise of " Neighborhood Watch " is utterly simple but it works because I'm sure that everybody recognizes some of the basic story aspects like domestic disturbance , mobbing and social nonacceptance . Young newlyweds Wendi and Bob move into a ramshackle house owned by Bob's new employer and face problems with their neighbors right away . The elderly couple next door behaves very strangely but the real threat is formed by opposite neighbor Adrian Trumbell , who distributes poisoned candy as welcoming gifts . . . Trumbell definitely ranks among the vilest psychopaths in horror cinema history ! While listening to tapes describing torture and unnecessary surgery in gross detail , he masturbates by sticking hypodermic needles in his scrotum and poking holes in his stomach with his finger ! That's right ! Pretty soon , Wendi and Bob become the target of Trumbell's unnameable lunacy and there's no one who can ( or wants to ) help them . This isn't anything like " Pacific Heights " or any other B-thriller in which some nut kills his / her neighbor's cat , but mean-spirited exploitation for people with a strong stomach only . Despite the often lack of horror experience or budget , the make-up effects and scenery are convincing and genuinely nauseating . According to Graeme Whifler , there are absolutely no taboos and even embarrassing stuff like diarrhea or close-up vomiting gets illustrated like it's the most common thing in the world . Nick Searcy , who briefly appeared in more classy projects like " Tigerland " and " One Hour Photo " , is marvelous as the sick pervert but the rest of the cast is better left unmentioned . The total absence of continuity and decent choreography makes it hard to rate this movie any higher than ; but I'm doing it anyway since I've never been more disgusted by a movie in my entire life ! That has got to be worth something , right ? In case your most recent medical check-up contained no heart or nerves problems worth mentioning , you can consider seeing " Neighborhood Watch " .
No Movie Challenge is Big enough for director B . I . G !	Go figure ! I have a strange and inexplicable fascination for the repertoire of writer / director Bert I . Gordon even though the man never made one truly good or even half decent film throughout his whole career . One thing's for sure , though ? ALL of his movies are guaranteed entertainment ; especially when he's messing around with themes like revolting nature and ridiculously over-sized beings attacking . Bert obviously adores gigantic and ravenous monsters , as illustrated in this film as well in as many more of his glorious accomplishments like " The Amazing Colossal Man " , " War of the Colossal Beast " , " Village of the Giants " and " Empire of the Ants " . I wonder if Bert himself was a short-sized man who felt the need to overcompensate through his films , or something . Aside from big animals and stuff , Bert I . Gordon seemingly also has a weakness for the writings of H . G . Wells , although he merely just borrowed " portions " of the original stories . To illustrate just how insatiable Bert I . Gordon actually was : this was already his second loosely interpreted adaptation of one and the same Wells ' novel . The incredibly silly 60's film " Village of the Giants " ( starring Ron Howard and Beau Bridges ) revolved on big and mean teenagers , whereas this version brings forward an entire mutated petting zoo ! However , in the director's defense , Wells ' original novel " The Food of the Gods and how it came to the Earth " covers both out-of-proportion humans and animals . " The Food of the Gods " once won a questionable award for being the Worst Rodent Movie of All Time , but I sincerely doubt that will stop any fans of ecological horror from having a great time watching this genuine 70's schlock adventure . The heroic football player Morgan returns to a small island resort to investigate the mysterious death of his friend and discovers that a local couple of elderly farmers have been " blessed " with a gooey substance they refer to as Food of the Gods . The bizarre fluid bubbles from the ground and turns all the animal species feeding on it , chickens as well as wasps and worms and rats , into bloodthirsty mastodons . Particularly the rats prove to be a real problem , since they reproduce like crazy and soon transform the island into one giant home for vermin . This is awesomely amusing low-budget rubbish , with a massive amount of senseless plot twists and the most stereotypical cast of characters you could ever imagine . They're all here : from the greedy and egocentric businessman over the love interest female scientist and to the superstitious local old lady . The special effects may perhaps look extremely tacky and pitiable , especially by nowadays standards , but you can clearly see Bert I . Gordon and his devoted crew put a whole lot of time , effort and creativity into the desperately wannabe menacing depiction of all the colossal animals . Do yourself a favor and ignore the embarrassingly low rating as well as all the downgrading reviews . This is the most fun a bad horror movie can offer !
Sharp teeth and an intelligent screenplay !	Wolfen ? not wolves , like a terrifically spiritual Edward James Olmos explains it to us ? is a truly inspired and solid horror film that belongs to the best genre-achievements of the 80's . Terrifically set in the pauperized wastelands of New York , where an ancient terror unconquerably reigns . Only when someone of political importance vanishes in these suburbs , attention is drawn and an investigation is started . Albert Finney is well cast as the confused police officer who slowly has to face the fact that the murders in his district are committed by inhumanly strong forces , more and more resembling to animal attacks . The script of Wolfen ( based on Whitley Strieber's novel ) is a compelling one and it's filled with original and imaginative ideas containing spiritual motivations and even historical elements . A basic script like that , accompanied by a stunning photography and convincing acting can only result in a terrific , overlooked horror classic . Two thumbs up for this film ! Director Wadleigh even satisfied the more mainstream horror fans as his film includes a couple of bloody killing sequences and a constant frightening tone . Finney and Edward James Olmos are the most impressive cast members , yet they receive good feedback from Tom Noonan ( in one of his earliest roles ) , Gregory Hines ( I don't believe I ever saw him in a horror film before ) and Diane Verona . Fans of action-packed werewolf film may face a disappointment when purchasing this film , but all other open-minded cinema audiences are in for a really pleasant surprise . Wolfen is highly recommended and thought-provoking entertainment !
Michele Soavi : Italian horror prodigy !	Soavi's third film credited as a director simply is a unique experience . It's a complex and demanding horror adventure , handling about a young German schoolteacher ( Kelly Curtis ) who becomes dangerously involved with a satanic sect led by veteran-actor Herbert Lom . The screenplay ( co-written by Dario Argento ) often is confusing , but the energy and enthusiasm Soavi puts into the direction simply make this one of the greatest Italian genre efforts ever . The Sect has a terrifically sinister premise and it's brilliantly cinematographed . Soavi clearly has eye for camera-movements and original angles . Even though this film features a rarely seen level of morbidity , you can't just categorize it as horror alone ! In a way , The Sect also is a twisted fairy-tale ( try and detect all the similarities between Miriam's adventure and ' Alice in Wonderland ' ) and a ultra-black comedy ( the sect's most devoted killer looks exactly like Charles Manson ! ) . I'd love to write more about this intriguing film but I'm reluctant to reveal too many spoilers . At any moment in this film , you have no idea what'll happen next . Anything is possible in Michele Soavi land and I'd love for you to check it out yourself ! There are a few deliciously grim sequences and great make-up effects . Highlight of the macabre unquestionably is the face-ripping scene ! And there's another great trivia detail for Italian horror buffs : Giovanni Lombardo Radice has a small role early in the film . The man is clearly aging but he still knows how to gruesomely die in films . Let's talk about Michele Soavi ! ! Unquestionably Dario Argento's most gifted acolyte , but he never really got out of Argento's or Lamberto Bava's shadow . Dario Argento ( Tenebrae , Inferno , Suspiria ? ) took Soavi under his wings because they have the same tastes in film-making and they both share a passion for horror . Very true , but I think you can't deny Soavi is a lot more subtle than his mentor and merely chooses for suspense and atmosphere rather than to rely on graphic gore . The film I saw of him ( The Sect , Dellamorte Dellamore and The Church ) all had a fair share of blood but they're not exactly the gorehound festivals Argento often delivers . I also think Soavi puts more dept and intelligence in his films . Everything he ever was involved in comes with my highest possible recommendation ?
It's creepy Miller Time !	" Retribution " is odd and unusual 80's horror , but it's often very scary and you got to admire how director Guy Magar breaks with all the dreadful clichés and stereotypes that marked the decade . The filming locations are hideous , the violence is raw & explicit and the characters are extremely anti-Hollywood . Especially our lead actor Dennis Lipscomb is someone who you'd normally NEVER see as the protagonist in a 80's horror slasher . His character George Miller is an introvert , unattractive and rather pathetic looking loner who lives in a sleazy hotel room and paints macabre stuff for a living . That's something else than the high school prom queen who's stalked by a ridiculously masked killer for being too popular , isn't it ? The movie opens with George ready to take a dive from the hotel roof top to end his sad life with suicide . He survives the attempt because , at the exact same moment , his body becomes possessed by the furious spirit of a murdered gambler . When George returns home from the clinic , everyone is very caring and concerned ( he even scores with a warm-hearted prostitute that's way out of his league ! ) , yet the homicidal spirit homing inside him makes him commit repulsive murders when he sleeps . " Retribution " is a brave little horror movie , albeit slightly overlong and sometimes focusing too much on the human interest aspects . The special effects , however , are great and the murders are incredibly gory and sadistic ! The ghost inside creepy George Miller is obviously VERY upset , as he crushes people's heads with elevators , processes bodies with frozen animal carcasses and slices stomachs . Quite a few sequences in this film definitely aren't for the squeamish ! The flashback scene near the end , enlightening us about the gambler's death , is quite shocking and you immediately understand why he's so angry ! If I were George , I would even have volunteered to complete the murder cycle ! The music and camera-work are also very effective and there are excellent supportive roles for Hoyt Axton ( " Gremlins " ) , Suzanne Snyder ( " Killer Klowns from Outer Space " ) and Leslie Wing ( " the Dungeonmaster " ) . Recommended to fans of solid B-horror .
He Sucks his own C ? ! ! !	What's the first thing on any man's mind when he's freshly released from prison ? Sex , of course ! But what about the second , and third , and fourth ? Most people would say a decent meal or a proper job , but in the case of ultimately perverted freak Rocky De Sade it's exclusively sex ; the sicker the better . Alex de Renzy's " Femmes de Sade " is somewhat of a masterpiece in its own secluded and often neglected category . It's a rough and brutal 70's porn / horror movie with an adequate storyline , decent character drawings and sadistic hardcore material . Rocky ( his last name is of course a fabulous homage to the legendary infamous marquis ) walks out of the prison gates , promptly invites himself to the house of a fellow inmate and barbarically rapes his girlfriend . He then immediately dives into the big city's nightlife , looking for more prostitutes to satisfy his sexual hunger and oppressed appetite for violence . The impressively postured and sick-spirited ex-con physically and mentally abuses a whole series of girls , until they combine forces and plot a vile & humiliating payback during a private orgy party . The film's powerful impact principally relies on Ken Turner's deranged performance as Rocky . This guy almost naturally radiates pure maliciousness & emotional nihilism , and he's literally as big as a house ! And very flexible , too , as demonstrated during the jaw-dropping scene in which he orally " pleasures " himself and uncannily forces a girl to do the same . There's a parallel storyline , admittedly just to stretch the running time a little , about an adult video store clerk fantasizing about the all the women that pass by his store . The finale is short but sweet , and you should truly prepare yourself to witness a LOT of filth , including bestiality , urinal sex and even scat . Demented 70's smut , highly recommend to all you sick puppies out there .
Yaaah Yayayayaaaa ! Yayayayayaya ! Ya ! Ya ! Yayayayayayayayaya ! ( Zuni for worthy sequel )	Twenty years after the original " Trilogy of Terror " , starring the one and only horror queen Karen Black , Dan Curtis revives his concept of presenting three unrelated macabre stories with the same actress in the lead role each time . And you know what ? It's actually a pretty decent movie and one major class above the majority of horror films released in the decade of the 1990's . The 70's original became legendary thanks to Richard Matheson's segment about an uncontrollable and mega-hyperactive Zuni voodoo-doll going on a murderous rampage . That segment had no real plot , but it offered non-stop excitement and thrills and its huge success is probably the main reason why the TV-movie got remembered and even spawned a ( belated ) sequel . Of course the sequel's final segment also revolves on the Zuni doll ; in fact it's a direct continuation of the events in the first film . Police officers recover the heavily burnt doll in an apartment and bring it to a museum for restoration . During the night shift of Dr . Simpson , the doll comes back to life and promptly goes on killing whoever crosses his path . Ironically enough , this story is actually the weakest of all three . It takes quite a while before the doll gets resurrected and even when the spastic critter is on the prowl the story has nothing even remotely surprising or innovating to offer . The first two segments are rather simplistic , but at least creative and creepily atmospheric . The first story , entitled " Graveyard Rats " , has a clichéd and derivative basic premise but there's an ingenious twist at the end . A couple of greedy lovers decide to kill the woman's elderly husband and inherit his fortune . The key for his secret stash of money , however , he took into the grave with him and when the frauds attempts to recover it , they stumble upon multiple morbid surprises with big red eyes and sharp teeth . This same story also benefices from some nicely eerie exterior filming locations and sinister creature designs . " Bobby " , the second story , is the best one and arguably even one of the finest horror-moments of the 90's . The plot revolves on a deeply saddened mother reverting to black magic to revive her recently deceased son who fell out of his bedroom widow and drowned in the ocean . It works , but Bobby returns as an aggressive and foul-mouthed psycho with a desire to send his own mother to hell . The ambiance of " Bobby " is thoroughly creepy , as the events take place in a sinister old mansion during a dark and stormy night . The youthful maniac is effectively menacing and some of the tricks he uses to drive his mother insane are fairly original . Lysette Anthony is obviously not as charismatic as Karen Black , but she does really good work and makes the most out of her one-dimensional characters . Especially in the first story " Graveyard Rats " , she also looks extremely attractive . Don't focus too much on the Zuni Doll gimmick exclusively , as this is a pretty good horror wholesome and definitely deserves a little more attention .
Lucky & Angela : a versatile dream-team !	" May " surely was one of the most impressive & remarkable debuts in the horror genre ever , the short but masterful Masters of Horror episode " Sick Girl " definitely proved that they weren't just a one-hit-wonder and now , with " Roman " , Angela Bettis and Lucky McKee make it clear that they're here to stay ! Even though not on par with the two aforementioned titles , " Roman " is one of the most enchanting and artistically creative stories of the last few years and it's guaranteed to have at least some kind of emotional impact on you . Even though the characters drawings and atmosphere building is somewhat similar to " May " , this is not a real horror film . " Roman " actually can't be categorized in just one genre , as McKee and Bettis professionally blend together sinister horror , pitch-black comedy , melodrama and psychological thriller aspects . It's a tragic & hugely ironic tale of love vs . loneliness and how they can both turn out disastrously . Lucky McKee ? pretty damn good in his first real lead performance ? is Roman , an unhealthy introvert metal worker with an extremely depressing life-style . He doesn't talk to any of his colleagues , always eats the same pork & beans dinner and drinks the same type of beer and dreadfully fears simple things like TV . The highlight of each day is for him to sit in front of his apartment window at 5 . 30pm and observe his ravishing neighbor as she goes to collect the letters in her mailbox . When he finally meets her in person ( following her OWN initiative ) , Roman loses his mind and kills her in brief a moment of rage and despair . Realizing the crime he committed , he punishes himself by staying indoors even more and ritually disposes of the girl's body parts every Sunday . The attractive new neighbor then develops a romantic interest in him , but she has issues and obsessions that even surpass those of Roman . Quite a few people blame " Roman " for its predictable ending but , even though I agree it's unsurprising , I didn't think it affected the film in a negative way . This film almost introduces a new type of predictability ! Although you know what's coming , you still somewhat hope that things will work out positively for Roman because , despite of what he did , he's a truly likable and pitiable character . Angela Bettis constantly maintains an extremely moody and harrowing atmosphere , and the film is literally stuffed with unconventional jokes and wickedly comical situations . The wholesome actually becomes a bit disturbing , because you just know people like Roman really exist ! Moreover , we all know someone in our own surrounding who rarely ever talks and always keeps a distance from the rest of the group . Makes you think what he / she does when nobody's watching , doesn't it ? The camera-work as well as the editing often looks ugly and amateurish , but personally I thought even this suited the tone of the film . The soundtrack is downright sublime and McKee receives great feedback from his two bewitching female co-stars Nectar Rose and Kristen Bell . Not for everyone , but highly recommended in case you have a weakness for atmosphere-driven and genuinely moving dramas .
See it for the names ; Love it for the convoluted plot & witty Brit-humor !	Three of the greatest horror icons of ALL time receive top-billing ( in a different and much larger font than the rest of the opening credits ) , yet after approximately 45 minutes into the film , Vincent Price and Christopher Lee only just walked nonchalantly & briefly through the screen and Peter Cushing has already died ! That doesn't mean anything else interesting happened in the meantime , however . Quite the contrary , " Scream and Scream Again " appears to revolve on several and seemingly unrelated topics that are all extremely sinister and compelling . There's the case of a missing athlete who's kept hidden in a secret hospital somewhere and each time he awakes from anesthesia , another limb has been amputated ! Then there's also the sub plot about a political party of which the members torture innocent backpackers and annihilate each other ! One of the leading officers even knows a " touch of death " - trick ! Then , finally , the third and most derailed sub plot revolves on a psychopathic killer picking up girls in dance clubs and subsequently sucking all the blood out of their bodies . When the police get on his tail , the killer turns out to dispose of superhuman strengths and he throws himself into a pit of acid rather than to get arrested . Director Gordon Hessler ( " The Oblong Box " , " Sinbad's Golden Voyage " ) doesn't reveal too many clues and the link between the three segments remains a well-kept secret until late in the film but , trust me , it all makes sense eventually . Trained and experienced horror / mystery fanatics can probably uncover some aspects here and there , but the majority stays one giant and unsolvable puzzle . Of course , when dealing with convoluted and twisty screenplays like this , the actual revelations at the end rarely ever live up fully to the mystery and anticipation that has been built up , so don't expect TOO much ! Still , " Scream and Scream Again " is a wondrously engaging movie from start to finish , with a classic end shot to boot . There's a lovely sense of British humor throughout the script and particularly Insp . Bellaver has some awesome one-liners . The almighty Vincent Price depicts another greatly demented scientist and acid is definitely a murderous attribute that should get used more often in horror movies !
Peter Cushing vs . the creepy crawlers	Island of Terror is decent British horror capable of providing its audience with some genuine frights despite of the wacky premise . It caught my attention especially because it was directed by Terence Fisher and stars Peter Cushing . These two worked together in making the finest films for the Hammer studios , like most entries in the " Frankenstein " series , " The Hound of the Baskervillers " and " The Mummy " . Island of Terror is not a Hammer film , yet it often feels like one since the set pieces are so alike and the screenplay uses the same proportions of wit British humor and severe shocks . The story takes place at a small Northern Ireland island where the local doctor has a bizarre case of a boneless corpse on his hands . He travels over to the mainland to recruit eminent scientists Brian Stanley ( Cushing ) and David West ( Edward Judd ) for helping him with this matter . Back at the island , they discover that the horror is caused by monsters that were the result of failing medical research by another scientist . The monsters look like crossovers between tortoises and elephants , feeding on bones while leaving the flesh untouched . If that's not bad enough , the creatures reproduce themselves and they're slowly moving towards the island community ? Terence Fisher makes great use of the isolated island location and the feeling of being completely trapped perfectly reflects on the screen . The story doesn't waste too much time and features more than enough action and fright-highlights to please the most demanding horror fan . The monster designs are surprisingly convincing and also the special effects are praiseworthy . The few shots of extorted corpses are efficiently icky and very well pictured . As the plot becomes more intense , Fisher terrifically adds sequences of hysterical villagers . A small but outstanding little detail . Veteran horror star Peter Cushing certainly doesn't give away his finest acting performance here , but he's always worth admiring even though he's outshined by Judd and the female love-interest , played by a gorgeous looking Carole Gray . Island of Terror isn't top class horror , at least not compared to some other films around that time , but it contains enough imagination and style to pass for excellent , undemanding entertainment . I wonder why the idea of bone-sucking creatures ( cool name : Silicates ) isn't used more in horror / science fiction epics .
Absolutely repulsive & grim horror short	This " portrait " of a serial killer is extremely short , but nevertheless long & detailed enough to make your stomach turn inside out ! Jim Van Bebber ( " The Manson Family " ) and Mark Gillespie introduce a fictional cannibalistic psychopath who spends his days grinding and devouring raw animals he picked up from the streets and yelling at the most stupid programs on TV . His living room is a total mess , with blood stains on every wall and flesh-leftovers in every filthy cover . Martin then goes on the road and picks up a young couple whose car broke down . Shortly after , the girl is locked up in a cage while the boy lies on a nasty operating table , waiting for his head to get cut off . The movie ends with images clearly indicating John Martin prepared his victims for evening TV-dinner . " Roadkill " is truly repulsive , with Van Bebber's camera zooming in on all the graphic details . It would normally be a pretty forgettable short feature , but somehow Van Bebber & Gillespie manage to create a solid morbid atmosphere that makes " Roadkill " much more effective and petrifying that most serial-killer flicks . The tone and filming style are indescribably nihilistic and raw , while Mark Gillespie scares the hell out of you as the titular madman . The music exciting and the filthy set-pieces are awesome . I didn't really care for " The Manson Family " or " Deadbeat at Dawn " , but Van Bebber's insane short films are total winners .
Djangoooooooo ! I mean , . . . KEOMAAAAAAAA !	Sublimely paced and spectacular spaghetti western , albeit mildly unoriginal and a little too much relying on the powerful charisma of veteran gunslinger-hero Franco Nero . Precisely as in " Django " , the Italian western classic that made him legendary , Nero stars as a silent and rather introvert hero who single-handedly exterminates entire gangs of baddies without even tiring himself . Keoma is a half-breed ( partly Indian ) who spent the last several years fighting in the Civil War and immediately rescues a beautiful pregnant lady upon the return to his hometown . He'll have to battle the new malicious ruler in town , Caldwell , who carelessly exiled all victims of the plague epidemic , as well as his own 3 jealous and power mad half-brothers , who betrayed their father and joined Caldwell's troops . The most glorious years of spaghetti-westerns were as good as over by the time Enzo G . Castellari made " Keoma " , but this is another old-fashioned and adrenalin-rushing installment containing all the delicious ingredients cult-fanatics adore so much . There's a minimum of dialogs but a gigantic amount of virulent gunfights , beautiful widescreen cinematography , an absolutely staggering soundtrack and loads of macho fist-fights . On top of that , " Keoma " also upholds an strangely sinister atmosphere with strange ? but stylish ? flashbacks and oddly developing relationships between the different characters . The film's first hour moves slow and director Castellari puts a lot of time into extendedly introducing even the supportive characters characters , like Keoma's beloved father and his black mentor / former slave George . However , once the final battle begins , the action doesn't stop for 30 minutes straight and masterfully builds up towards an excruciatingly intense and severely unhappy ending . The many elegant slow-motion shots and extra saddening singing voices even increase the tension and I guarantee you'll be sitting on the edge of the seat . Many people seem to complain about the unusual use of music in " Keoma " ( idem in the case of Sergio Martino's " Mannaja " ) , but I honestly thought the peculiarly sung tunes were brilliant and very appropriate .
Hoodoo ! ! Whodunit ! !	In case you haven't seen " The Skeleton Key " yet , be very careful when reading any reviews . . . The less you hear , read or even know about this film the better , because I assure that you don't want to pick up any spoilers about this surprisingly original and ingenious horror-story . " The Skeleton Key " is an old-fashioned , powerful and ? above all ? well written haunted house thriller with great acting , macabre scenery and a shocking twist-ending that stands as one of the best I've ever seen in modern cinema . Beautifully set in the swampy region of New Orleans ( morbidly enough , I saw this film shortly after the hurricane Katrina disaster ) , the story introduces a young nurse who moves into the ominous Deveraux mansion to look after its dying owner Ben . He had a nearly-fatal stroke in the dark attic of the house and , even though it looks like it was because of his old age , Caroline soon starts to suspect that something ( or someone ) nearly frightened him to death . Ben's wife Violet behaves very strangely and the old house's vicious history forces Caroline to investigate what could have happened . She discovers that the earliest occupants of the house practiced Hoodoo , which is a more spiritual variant of Voodoo . . . That's really all you can say about the story without giving away essential clues but , trust me , the rest of the film is definitely worth checking out yourself . Fans of atmospheric ghost stories ( such as " The Others " or " Angel Heart " ) will particularly enjoy this film as it contains almost no graphic violence or gory monsters . Instead of blood , there's a wide collection of truly eerie set-pieces and subtle frights . Kate Hudson delivers a great performance , especially because she's not really familiar with the horror genre . She receives good feedback from Gena Rowlands , Peter Sarsgaard and ? of course ? John Hurt . The latter is always genius , even when he hardly has any lines . Highly recommended !
Fangs Wide Shut	I can't help it , but the most fundamental pivot sequences in " Kiss of the Vampire " somewhat reminded me of Stanley Kubrick's much more recent " Eyes Wide Shut " . The story of this shamefully underrated Hammer effort revolves on young newlyweds Gerald and Marianne who are slowly lured into a highly secluded society of bloodthirsty vampires , led by the prominent Dr . Ravna and his charming offspring . Critical turning points in the script , like the masked ball and the subsequent gathering of the society members for Marianne's initiation ceremony , looked so very familiar to the psychedelic scenes in " Eyes Wide Shut " ! As if Kubrick tried hard to capture the atmospheric mood of this modest little UK horror film and transfer it to his own widely acclaimed final feature as a director . It probably never was anyone's intention to link these two movies , but it might be something fun to look out for during your next viewing . Anyway , that being said , " Kiss of the Vampire " is an exceptionally beautiful Hammer accomplishment and it urgently deserves a little more appreciation from all us fans of classic horror . It may lack the star-power ( unfortunately ) of Christopher Lee or Peter Cushing , but the photography and use of scenery are often superb and these aspects also definitely compensate for the occasional dull moment in the script . The opening sequence perhaps ranks amongst the absolute most powerful Hammer-moments ever , showing a young girl's funeral getting brutally interrupted by her own drunk father who plunges a shovel through the coffin and hereby prevents her from rising again as an undead . Although dealing with vampires , you totally don't see this twist coming and it's effectively shocking . The climax as well is incredibly ingenious , although it caused a delay a for the film's release since distributors feared it would be too reminiscent to Alfred Hitchcock's " The Birds " . Talk about underrated , Don Sharp directs with a whole lot of flair and Alan Hume's camera-work is downright breathtaking .
Fiendish Fun !	" Horror of the Black Museum " is incredibly dated , unimportant and overly silly but it remains great fun to watch and watch it again . The opening sequence is delicious and definitely the best part of the entire movie . It involves the supposedly third strange and random murder in the London region and shows a poor woman getting her eyes gouged out by a pair of ingeniously spiked binoculars . A better opening to a colorful horror movie is hard to imagine and you're automatically preparing yourself to see a blackly comical and sadist horror gem . The quality-level of this intro naturally can't be held up throughout the entire movie but the script remains involving and surprising enough to keep you amused for a good 80 minutes . Scotland Yard hasn't got a clue where to begin their investigation and ? on top of that ? they're constantly annoyed by the vain columnist and pulp-novelist Ed Bancroft . The mysterious killer's identity isn't kept secret for long ( I even assume it wasn't meant to be a secret ) but his / her insane persona is imaginatively deepened . The " Black Museum " is a technical term to describe the police archive of bizarre and unusual murder weapons that were used in murder cases . The killer here has such a private collection himself which provides the film with a couple of utterly cool gimmicks , like the previously mentioned binoculars , an acid-bath and even a mini-guillotine ! Michael Gough is seemly having a great time portraying the cripple cynic Bancroft . His performance is more than decent yet I agree with another reviewer here who already claimed that this role would be even more fit for Vincent Price . This film was the first entry of a Sadian horror trilogy , the others being the 1960 " Circus of Horrors " and " Peeping Tom " . " Horror of the Black Museum " is the weakest of the three but still a terrifically odd and sensational genre highlight .
Impressive psychological horror	Pin is a shamelessly ignored 80's chiller that urgently deserves more attention . Without exaggerating , you can safely say that this is one of the most mesmerizing and emotion-provoking films of a decade where genre fanatics were only out to get cheap thrills and see bloody violence . Psychologically speaking , this is a quite a demanding film handling about serious issues such as schizophrenia and incestuous tendencies . Normally , this is far too ambitious for an independent horror film but Sandor Stern ( co-writer and director of Pin ? ) efficiently blends it all into one seriously compelling and quite disturbing thriller . Leon and Ursula are the kids of a successful doctor ( brilliant B-actor Terry O'Quinn ) who brings an anatomically correct office dummy to live with his ventriloquism-skills . Leon is obsessed with this dummy ? Pin ? and keeps it in his parents ' house after they got killed in a road accident . Leon descents further and further into madness while ' protecting ' his younger sister and nursing the dummy . Pin ? is a very unsettling film , story-driven and very well elaborated . It all looks extra eerie because of the natural acting . This film introduces us to intriguing characters and they're played by neutral , but very devoted , performers . David Hewlett ( ' Cube ' ) is truly chilling as Leon and he often stands the comparison with Norman Bates . The cherubic Cynthia Preston looks wonderful and she's very convincing as the emotional Ursula . The climax is rather predictable but yet you still feel a little uncomfortable when it is actually shown . This film should be saved from total oblivion ! Flawless horror that sticks to you ! Favorite ' Rewind'-moment ( HUGE SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! ! ) : In a subtle and well-photographed sequence , we see how the young Leon witnesses how a nurse uses the anatomically correct Pin to satisfy her own lusts . A traumatic experience that unquestionably had a giant impact on the further development of the boy's introvert personality .
Very good thriller with loads of blood ( small spoilers )	Originality isn't really Bad Dreams ' biggest trump but it sure is an ideal film in case you're looking for a few scares and / or chilling entertainment . The plot involves a spiritual sect with a textbook leader type that performed a mass suicide ritual in the 70's . One girl survived and she awakes from her coma 13 years later . Immediately after , she's haunted by hallucinations and nightmares in which the leader returns comes to tell her she has to fulfill her promise to the group and commit suicide after all . When she refuses , the leader leads other victims into death and he easily finds them among the psychiatric patients of the hospital . As stated earlier , the plot of Bad Dreams isn't very unique and borrows elements from over a dozen other ( horror ) movies . Mostly from ' Nightmare on Elm Street 3 : Dream Warriors ' ( the image of the horribly burned leader even resembles the Freddy Kruger pizza-face ! ) and the group session looks inspired by ' One flew over the Cuckoo's Nest ' . But who cares ? Very few movies are completely original and at least this film offers spectacular amusement . Andrew Fleming's Bad Dreams upholds a good tempo , it has a great soundtrack ( including a demented version of ' My Way ' and a Guns ' n Roses classic during the end credits ) and there's enough blood and gore to satisfy the most demanding horror buff . We see how people are getting burned , stabbed or thrown from high buildings . Two poor bastards even get hacked up in a ventilation system ! Is that bloody enough for you ? And yes , at some points , Fleming even succeeds in creating tension and eeriness . Especially the sequence where Cynthia has her first hallucination in the broken elevator is memorable . Last but not least Bad Dreams has a terrific B-movie cast filled with familiar faces . Jennifer Rubin plays the lead and she suffered from the same issues before in Nightmare on Elm Street . Bruce Abbott stars as a dedicated shrink and you'll unquestionably recognize him from the one and only Re-Animator . There also are neat supportive roles for Dean Cameron ( Summer School ) , Harris Yulin ( Scarface , 24 ) and even the lovely singer E . G . Daily makes an appearance ! I say you better ignore the unusually large amount of negative reviews and give this one a look .
Where the hell is Lassie when you need him ?	Bizarre but truly original French thriller / black comedy that is strangely scary and disturbing even though you damn well know that the premise is pure and far-fetched fiction . The titular ' character ' is a cool-looking bull terrier whose thoughts and impressions we follow throughout the entire movie . Baxter's life isn't very easy , as he keeps ending up with the wrong guardians . At first , he's given as a present to an elderly lady who clearly fears him and doesn't really want him in her house . When the lady dies under ' mysterious circumstances ' , Baxter is donated to the young and cheerful couple that lives on the other side of the street . For quite a while , everything goes well and Baxter is really happy in his new family ? Until the couple's first baby is born . Baxter doesn't understand why he receives no more attention all of a sudden and sees the infant as a real threat for his own happiness . Baxter's final guardian is a lonely and introvert 11-year-old boy who teaches him tricks and commands . The kid has a dangerous interest in Hitler's persona , however , and he slowly turns Baxter into an aggressive killing machine . It may sound unbelievable , but I assure you it's very unsettling to hear a DOG hatching plots to kill people ! Although there's absolutely no violence shown on screen , there are some very macabre things going on in this film and the atmosphere is almost unbearably tense . During several of Baxter's twisted monologues , you wonder what exactly goes on in the mind of man's best friend . We can all assume that our pets love us unconditionally , but who says they're not plotting to get rid of us ? Also one of the reasons why Baxter comes across so spooky is because he talks through a very grim and monotonous voice . The actor who's credited as Baxter's voice ? Maxime Leroux ? would sure do a great job as a host of horror anthologies , or something . I particularly loved the climax of this ingenious French film . It shows that , no matter how egocentric and mean the dog is , it'll always be the human mind that is the most deranged ? even when it's a child . Don't expect a happy ending here ! Highly recommended ! !
My kind of Avenging Angel . . .	My first real acquaintance with the reigning duchess of Blaxploitation cinema , and I'm literally overwhelmed with feelings and sentiments . First and foremost : love ! I'm in love with Pam Grier already and I have yet to see the predecessor ( and supposedly even superior ) " Coffy " . Secondly , I'm truly furious at myself for all my years as a die-hard cult-cinema fanatic during which I was reluctant to get involved with the genuine highlights of Blaxploitation cinema . I watched Pam in a handful of " Women in Prison " movies and , of course , in Quentin Tarantino's homage " Jackie Brown " , but THIS is the real stuff that made her an immortal cult siren ! Okay , " Foxy Brown " is thin-plotted and often exaggeratedly gratuitous , but notwithstanding it's an incredibly fun movie to watch and Mrs . Grier simply represents total coolness . She literally shines as the strong & street-smart girl who single-handedly takes on a sleazy network of drug traffic , extortion and prostitution , run by the deplorable white Katherine Wells and her hunky lover boy Steve . Her primary motivation is retribution for the cowardly murder of her undercover narcotics officer boyfriend , but she soon inspires the entire black neighborhood to join the battle . Foxy infiltrates as a luxury call-girl , deliberately screws up bribing deals and prevents major drugs transfers from happening until the mean white criminals want her dead . There's few originality in the story lines , but the soul-soundtrack is fantastic , the action sequences are spectacularly violent ( guy mauled by airplane propeller ! ) and Pam Grier is ? well ? mega-HOT ! Every new outfit she puts on , every different hairstyle and every small peek at her luscious cleavage nearly makes you slaver . The rest of the cast is impeccable as well , with Antonio " Huggy Bear " Fargas as Foxy's unreliable brother and a small guest appearance from Sid Haig as a sleazy airplane pilot who hopes to get lucky .
Dawn of the Redneck Dead !	Well , sadly , I can't help but feeling a little bit disappointed after my much , much , MUCH-anticipated viewing of " Just Before Dawn " . Jeff Lieberman is a terrific filmmaker and he can undoubtedly do great things with a tiny budget , but I nevertheless expected to see a far more sadistic and gruesome early 80's slasher . But actually I'm beginning to think that Lieberman isn't the one to blame for this , but WE gorehounds are ! It's more than obvious that Lieberman intended to make his take on the backwoods-slasher look like " Deliverance " and absolutely NOT like " Friday the 13th " , which immensely popularized the sub genre one year earlier . The horror and constant sensation of menace doesn't mainly come from the demented maniacs with their machetes , but from the genuinely ominous and isolated Oregon forests where this movie was shot . In case the film seems slow and uneventful , this is only because Lieberman takes his time to introduce the dark woods and eerie mountains as extra characters in his film . We hardly ever see the killers in person , but there always appears to be someone luring from behind the trees or from underneath the mountain lakes . Bearing this in mind , " Just Before Dawn " becomes a highly admirable horror effort and actually a lot better than its contemporary blood-soaked colleagues . Amidst a nearly endless selection of gory and sickening slashers , Lieberman successfully puts the emphasis back on tension and character development . The plot revolves on five twenty-something friends heading for a camping vacation in the Oregon woods , where one of them owns a small piece of land . The woods are deserted and , naturally , the campers ignore forest ranger Roy's ( George Kennedy ! ) advise to return back to civilization . Shortly after , they brutally encounter an inbred family of which the twin sons have murderous tendencies . All five main characters are surprisingly likable and convincing ! No irritating stereotypes for which you don't feel sympathy anyway , like slutty girls or football jocks . As a result of this " natural " character , you automatically cheer for them , even when they eventually almost turn into savages themselves . The sublime camera-work supplies the film with an at times unbearable tension level and Brad Fiedel's chilling electronic score only adds to this effect . " Just Before Dawn " is a fine slice of early 80's horror , as long as you don't desire blood to drip from your TV-set .
This is fascinating stuff , my dear Watson !	" S . H . Faces Death " is another splendidly directed adaptation of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's immortal writings . Doyle's hero Holmes , for whom even the most complex murder-motives appear to be obvious , this time helps his loyal sidekick Watson when a series of murders terrorizes the convalescent home where he does volunteering work . The culprit clearly selects his victims with specific reasons , as Sherlock's investigation leads toward the family history of the mansion's owners ; the Musgraves . Even more compelling than the intelligent script of this film are some ingenious findings that increase the mysteriousness , like the eerie clock that always strikes thirteen times shortly before another murder is committed . Notably also is the terrific old-dark-house setting with its secret corridors , ominous greenhouse and deep dark cellars . Roy William Neill directs his second Sherlock Holmes movie , after the Washington adventure , released earlier that same year . His coordination is surefooted and definitely faithful to Doyle's initial presentation of the gifted detective . Basil Rathbone's portrayal of Sherlock Holmes remains outstanding and he's the only actor ( maybe alongside Peter Cushing ) who turns the character's typical arrogance into an extra trump . This isn't my favorite Holmes-movie ( I'm hopelessly addicted to " The Hound of the Baskervillers " ) but it sure is a highly recommended mystery / thriller .
Impressive no-budget horror	" Mulberry Street " is basically just another forgettable and mediocre creature-feature flick , but I'm rewarding it with at least two extra points because director Jim Mickle and his enthusiast cast & crew clearly went through several harsh ordeals before they could finish their ambitious project . Mickle came to introduce his film at the Belgian Horror & Fantasy Festival and explained how they had to shoot essential footage in the middle of the crowded streets of Manhattan without any official permission to film there , and how all the actors in this film are friends or in some way related to the director , so none of them received any payments . Bearing all this in mind , plus the fact that " Mulberry Street " actually shows the courage and ambition to be a different and largely atmosphere-driven new horror film , I'd say it at least deserves the respect and appreciation of avid horror fanatics and amateur filmmakers all over the world . And the film itself really isn't that bad , neither . A handful of likable characters , all recently evicted tenants of a ramshackle apartment building in Mulberry Str ; Manhattan , join together in order to survive a deadly virus that broke out in the city overnight . As a result of constant urban decay , pollution and unbearable heat , the sewer rats of Manhattan are quickly spreading a horrible disease that causes its victims to mutate into a ravenous and bloodthirsty rat-creatures . Once bitten , people rapidly turn into a zombies with the appearance and eating habits of rats , and they only look at their former friends and neighbors as rich sources of food . Clutch , a retired boxer , nervously awaits the homecoming of his soldier daughter , but first he has to protect the other tenants as the rat-zombies are quickly infesting the entire neighborhood . The engaging depiction of the inhabitants of 51 , Mulberry Street unquestionably is the biggest advantage of this film . The characters admirably aren't empty-headed junkies or filthy scum , but a close community of hard working and respectable people that are prepared to sacrifice themselves in order to save the others . This is honestly the only film I remember portraying the typical New Yorkers as unsung heroes . Even though the script reveals very few details regarding the lethal rat-virus , the chaotic situation in downtown Manhattan is eerily plausible and the overall atmosphere of " Mulberry Street " is tremendously menacing . Jim Mickle and writer / lead star Nick Damici simultaneously grab the opportunity to process a whole cargo-load of social and political criticism into the screenplay , particularly emphasizing the the war in Iraq and the problematic housing accommodation in big cities . Despite of budgetary restrictions , " Mulberry Street " also features a satisfying amount of blood and gruesome images . The make-up effects on the victims of the rat-virus are quite nasty and the zombie-attacks are uncompromising . Unfortunately the pacing slows down a bit during the second half of the film and the dialogs begin to sound repetitive . But by then , personally , I was already too impressed to allow the minor & understandable flaws to spoil my viewing experience . I really liked this film , as it has real characters and displays a righteously unhappy world-perspective . I doubt " Mulberry Street " will become a film that is easily available , so if you have the opportunity to watch it some time , do not hesitate .
Dr . Franco strikes again !	You can say a lot of things about director Jess Franco ( including negative things , mind you ) but most of all , I'd like to think of him as a very clever filmmaker who always damn well knew where there was some easy money to earn ! If there ever was a popular trend or franchise in horror cinema , you can bet your bottom dollar that Jess Franco was part of it or at least attempted to rapidly shoot a film that profited by this particular trend . In the early 80's , when the teen-slasher was immensely popular , Franco brutally hacked up young beauty queens in " Bloody Moon " and in the late 60's already , he also took over the " Fu Manchu " series . Here in this film , our beloved pal Jess further exploits the successful horror character of the evil " Dr . Mabuse " , which was originally created by no less than the German top-director Fritz Lang . " La Venganza del Doctor Mabuse " actually is one of Franco's better films of that period with delightfully twisted characters , stunning locations , truly beautiful camera-work and a terrific musical score . The story is of minor importance but it handles about the mean Dr . Mabuse and his accomplices stealing all kind of attributes from a National Research Institute ( including female staff members ) in order to complete his own , evil mind-control ray . Dr . Mabuse has this impressive and horribly scarred man-monster that kills for him while the entire police force desperately tries to catch him . This film is great and trashy entertainment , starring some incredibly beautiful cult-sirens like Ava Garden , Ewa Strömberg and Beni Cardoso . . . all wearing mini-skirts ! The action sequences are a little grotesque , but Franco's directing is very stylish and surefooted . Many of Franco's later films suffer from overlong and tedious scenes but this effort is pure excitement from start to finish . Typical Franco trademarks also include that he makes references towards his earlier films ( more particularly , " the Awful Dr . Orloff " ) and that he rewards himself with a small supportive role . Definitely one of the director's best films and simultaneously a great title to illustrate the class of early 70's euro-exploitation !
Sickening , totally incompetent , an absolute insult to good taste . . . And yet I'm SO glad to have seen it !	Honesty and openness are characteristics that you rarely ever come across in the horror genre . Doesn't it frequently happen that you purchase a title that loudly promotes itself as " the ultimate experience in pure terror " whereas , in reality , it's just another dull and totally unoriginal thriller that wasted both your time and your money ? Well , at least Mario Landi's " Giallo A Venezia " is completely different ! The brief description on the back of the VHS cover sincerely admits already that this film is a total failure when it comes to building up mystery or suspense , but takes pride in the fact that it is one of the nastiest , sleaziest and most brutal gore flicks ever produced in Italy . And let me assure you , this isn't a lie ! Every single reviewer on this website agrees that this is a sick , sick , sick , SICK film and exclusively meant for horror freaks who're constantly searching for new heights in extreme film-making . The plot of " Giallo A Venezia " is hardly worth mentioning , as Landi doesn't even attempt to involve the viewers in the search for the demented serial killer on the loose in the streets of Venice . The mutilated corpses of a young couple are found near a river and pretty soon it becomes clear that they were fanatically into bizarre sexual fetishes and perverted games . A duo of unlikely police inspectors , one addicted to eating boiled eggs and the second looking like a homicidal maniac himself , investigate the case by questioning local prostitutes and their clients . Even though the killer isn't very good at keeping his identity secret , he still manages to commit several more very gruesome and misogynistic murders . As promised , there's absolutely no tension or atmosphere and even the ' surprise ' ending is rather laughable . Although supposedly set in one of the most beautiful places in the world , every filming location and piece of scenery looks ugly and unappealing while there isn't the least bit of variety in camera-work or choreography . Mario Landi lacks all the qualities of a real director and allows his cast to do whatever they want , naturally resulting in atrocious performances . It really just is the graphic sickness that makes this movie memorable . The killer , wearing horribly over-sized sunglasses , repeatedly stabs a defenseless woman in the crotch with scissors and the camera proudly zooms in on how the blood floods down her legs ( yikes ! ) . Another poor sucker is shot multiple times and subsequently set on fire , yet he remains floundering until all his skin and flesh is burnt up . Mariangela Giordano stars as well and this woman urgently deserves a statue for being the Italian actress who suffered THE most on screen ! In " Burial Ground " , she had her nipple bitten off by a zombified teenager , in " Patrick Still Lives " ( by the same director ) she got vaginally impaled with a poker and , in this dubious classic , her leg is sadistically amputated with a rusty saw . Personally , I moved heaven and earth in order to finally obtain a copy of this notorious horror-shocker and , as disturbing as it may sound , I'm actually proud to add it to my collection , even though 99 % of the film revolves on UN-sexy sex sequences and sickening gore . Consider yourself warned ?
Don't Tell Mom The Babysitter's HOT !	I might have missed out on the first fifteen minutes of " Fright " because the only thing that repeatedly went on in my head was : " Why the bloody hell didn't I ever had a babysitter as stunningly gorgeous as Susan George ? ? ? " The unearthly beautiful star of " Straw Dogs " and " Dirty Mary Crazy Larry " walks through the opening credits wearing a minuscule yet incredibly sexy purple dress as she goes to the Lloyd's mansion to baby sit their little son ? That lucky kid ! The house lies isolated in the country and young Amanda is in for a night of morbid surprises , as an uncanny figure pops up at the window and even beats the hell out of her boyfriend ( though he was a bastard , anyway ) . " Fright " can actually be considered as an influential and progressive horror movie , since it got released many years before " Halloween " that once and for all portrayed babysitters as prototype target for demented serial killers and sleazy perverts . Obviously the number of casualties isn't very high and the evoked scares are very basic , yet " Fright " is an effective little chiller that honestly deserves to be more known and appreciated among the horror-loving crowd . The direction is solid and there are hardly any words to describe the essence of Susan George . You already know my opinion on her looks , but she's also a very decent actress and perfectly suitable to play a vulnerable and hard-screaming victim of a raving madman . The pacing slows down a bit as soon as the perpetrator has been identified , but the film most likely has made a positive impression on you already by then .
The Spy who Cybered Me !	It's actually a good thing Sean Connery retired as James Bond , as I'm sure he wouldn't be able to keep up in the nowadays spying-business , where fast cars have been replaced with hi-tech brainwashing techniques and gorgeous women are considered to be less sexy than advanced computer equipment . " Cypher " is a pretty inventive Sci-Fi thriller that often evokes feelings of fright & claustrophobia despite being utterly implausible . You know the trend in these types of movies : nothing is what it seems and just when you think figured out the convoluted plot , the writers make sure to insert a new twist that confuses everyone again . The events in " Cypher " supposedly take place in the most prominent regions of the computer world , where the major companies don't really do a lot apart from trying to steal each other's thunder . Company Digisoft literally spends millions brainwashing people and providing them with a new identity , only to let them infiltrate as spies in their biggest competitor , the Sunways Corporation . Sunways , on the other hand , constantly tries to unmask the Digisoft-rats and recruit them again as double-spies . In between this whole unprofitable business stands Morgan Sullivan ; a seemingly colorless thirty-something employee who's been selected by Sebastian Rooks ( the über-spy ) to diddle the secret policies of BOTH companies . Trust me , it's actually less complicated than it sounds and director Vincenzo Natali ( the dude from " Tube " ) carefully takes his time to introduce all the important and less important characters . The first half of the film is rather reminiscent to the sadly underrated John Frankenheimer gem " Seconds " ? starring Rock Hudson ? as it also deals with erasing identities and drastically altering your former life style . Even the set pieces seem to come straight out of that 60's film , with loads of empty white rooms and eerie corridors that seem to be endless . There's also plenty of great action and suspense , most notably when Morgan soberly experiences how the Digisoft crew inspects the results of their brainwashing-techniques during boring conventions . The middle section of the film drags a little , mainly because you already realize that it's all just building up towards multiple misleading plot-twists , and I hoped for a slightly more grim portrayal of the not-so-distant future . Jeremy Northam is perfectly cast and the adorable Lucy Liu is convincingly mysterious as the foxy lady who appears to be on his side . Regular director's choice David Hewlett has the most memorable supportive role as the uncannily eccentric Suways engineer Virgil C . Dunn . " Cypher " is well made and adrenalin rushing Sci-Fi entertainment , highly recommended to people who fully like to use their brain capacity from time to time .
Wow ! Heavy , devastating stuff	" General Massacre " is an ultra-weird film that received some extra attention from me since it's a Belgian-American co-production . With me being Belgian and this being a very rare cult gem ? this was an absolute must see . The film describes itself best as a mixture between an anti-war protest film and the psychological analysis of a deranged war freak . This review will simply be too short to sum up all the bizarre ( most very shocking ) elements " General Massacre " features but I can already tell you it contains enough controversy to last a lifetime . The story focuses on a veteran ( the General ) who served the military during WWII , Vietnam and the Korean War . He has quite a few alarming conceptions about warfare ( " politics are the extension of war " , " Civilians are as much the enemy as men in uniform " ? ) When he returns to his estate in Antwerp , he continues to live under the impression of being in command of his troops and hikes into the nearby woods fully armored . This leads to a couple very disturbing and repulsive scenes that made this production the ultimate nightmare for critics and film committees . Once sequence in particular , in which the General sees an ordinary cow as the " enemy " and butchers it , caused this to movie to be forbidden in several European countries . Granted , the cruelty often is pointless and overly explicit . The above mentioned sequence even looks too realistic ? if you know what I mean . But the message " General Massacre " brings is far too impressive to be left untold . War too easily gives deranged people an excuse to feast their perverted world perspectives and the authorities only find out when it's too late ! " General Massacre " almost completely is a one-man-project by Burr Jerger who directed , produced , stars and adapted the screenplay from his OWN novel . That's impressive to say the least . This is an unhinged authentic cult film , totally unknown to the world . Special word of thanks goes out to IMDb-boarder Dario the 2nd . Without his help , I probably never would have seen this neither !
Warning : objects in your DVD-player are SCARIER than they appear !	" Warning Sign " looks like another ordinary and routine 80's horror / Sci-Fi movie , but actually it's quite a lot better than that ! The professionally written screenplay , realistic make-up effects and stellar performances from a great cast make this one of the most underrated " science-projects-gone-bad " films ever and it's a damn shame that I only found out about it now . The basic idea behind this movie , which involves the development of secret government bio-weapon that turns random people into aggressive maniacs , is rather disturbing and not even that unthinkable if you follow the movie carefully . Strategically located in rural Utah , there's a hi-tech institute of which the people think it improves national agriculture techniques . The institute's real purpose ? biological warfare ? only becomes clear when a serious accident occurs and the whole place is hermetically sealed . The employees that are trapped inside all slowly transform into zombie-like monsters , except for one ( the local sheriff's wife ) , and her immunity becomes the only hope for rescue . This fast-paced Sci-Fi thriller offers plenty of genuine suspense and the make-up effects never go over the top , unlike in the majority of other 80's paranoid government conspiracy movies . The fear and despair of the people trapped inside the institute is very well captured and the atmosphere outside the building is even more intense . Sam Waterston , Kathleen Quinlan and Jeffrey DeMunn are all great in their leading roles and there are excellent supportive roles for Richard Dysart , Yaphet Kotto and G . W . Bailey . Although not a very experienced filmmaker , Hal Barwood's directing is surefooted and impressive . The climax should have been more exciting , though . Now the " happy ending " feels a bit too forced and implausible .
General Patton in Pornoland . . .	I'm not a big fan of Paul Schrader , but I really dug this film ! Personally , I think ' Hardcore ' is Schrader's best film , as it successfully mixes effective social drama with compelling tension . George C . Scott is truly magnificent as the hardworking , Midwesterner Jake Van Dorn who individually searches for his lost preteen daughter . At first , he cooperates with a private-detective ( a very convincing Peter Boyle ) who discovers that his offspring is now active in the hardcore porn-industry . Later , Van Dorn forms a partnership with a poor whore who brings him into contact with the right persons in the business . The first hour of this film is really good and works on many levels . Not only does Schrader mixes different social mentalities and religious convictions , he also gives a perfect portrayal of how someone is driven to complete distraction . The sequences in which Van Dorn witnesses his own flesh and blood feature in a sexfilm are truly intense and vindictive . Of course , the pornography shown isn't real ( or even explicit ) but you can easily imagine what a father's reaction would be . And please keep in mind that the film is now 25 year old and the censorship has changed a lot since then . Unfortunately , Van Dorn's private investigations aren't always credible ( Scott dresses up as a stereotypical adult film-director and organises a cast-session ) and the ending is rather abrupt and unsatisfying . Nevertheless , ' Hardcore ' is a dreadfully overlooked film and one of the most efficient thrillers of the late seventies . George C . Scott is truly brilliant and I personally think this was his best period as an actor . A year later , he starred in the unforgettable horror-chiller ' The Changeling ' and gave away an equally brilliant performance . If you appreciate good thrillers , you have to give ' Hardcore ' a chance . Highly recommended .
Two separate horses , to be quite exact . . .	With a downright celestial title like " Death Rides a Horse " , geeky fan-boys of late 60's / early 70's Spaghetti Westerns ? like myself ? are already tempted to reward the film with a high rating before it even properly begins ! Like another reviewer already pointed out : only the Italians can come up with such a glorious yet irrelevant and incorrect title and actually get away with it . First of , there are two characters qualifying to embody the titular death and obviously they each ride their separate horses . Secondly , they're never really referred to as " death " itself but merely avenging angels . Anyways , enough about the title because ? whether relevant or not ? it rocks ! As said , " Death Rides a Horse " entirely revolves on the most wondrous and popular topic of the whole exploitation movie-industry : Vengeance ! Not just one but two hyper-fast and mega-lethal gunslingers are out for revenge in this gritty and underrated , but nevertheless not entirely flawless westerns . And they aren't your average rookies , neither , as the producers managed to cast none other than John Phillip Law ( " Danger : Diabolik " , " Barbarella " ) and the almighty Lee Van Cleef ( " The Good , the Bad and The Ugly " ) . Law stars as a young and talented , but too impulsive , cowboy who waited impatiently for fifteen years to avenge the barbaric slaughter of his entire family by a four-headed gang of gold robbers . Van Cleef is the calm , controlled and experienced shootist who's out to eliminate the same criminals , yet for a slightly different reason . Before fifteen years , Ryan rode along as one of them , but then they framed him and he ended up in jail . Ryan is reluctant to take the overzealous Bill in tow , but they both quickly realize they need each other in their battle against their powerful and influential opponents . The numerous comparisons between " Death Rides a Horse " and Sergio Leone's genre masterpieces are obviously justified , but I honestly wouldn't refer to director Giulio Petroni as just another one of Leone's imitators . Of course , he shamelessly borrows loads of Leone's stylistic trademarks ( close up of the eyes , distant images of the lone desert rider ? ) and hired some of Leone's regular supportive players ( Mario Brega and Luigi Pistilli ) , but ? let's be fair here ? which contemporary filmmaker didn't look for inspiration in Leone's films ? " Death Rides a Horse " is undeniably one of the most entertaining and professionally handled Spaghetti Westerns , if you leave out the achievements of the two Sergios . The aforementioned Leone , of course , and Corbucci ( " Django " , " Vamos a Matar , Compañeros " and " The Great Silence " ) . The pistol duels , massive gunfights and bare-knuckle fights are tremendously exciting to watch and Petroni certainly doesn't turn his camera away from violence . The executions are graphically shown , often in great and shocking detail , but overall the movie remains tasteful . Ennio Morricone delivers yet another perplexing musical score ( I honestly often wonder where this man kept finding inspiration ) and the film also benefices from some enchanting external shooting locations . In all fairness , it has to be said that the film definitely suffers from a handful of shortcomings , including a couple of dull and redundant sequences and admittedly a slightly overlong running time . My main complaint , however , I cannot blame the actual film or any of its creators for ; namely the horrendous transfer to DVD . I found myself staring at a completely black screen a few times too often , and it looks as if several of my fellow reviewers had the same problem . The DVD I own is nevertheless a legitimate copy , since it's part of a three-disc Van Cleef Western box alongside " Kid Vengeance " and " God's Gun " .
Respectable remake	Regardless of your own personal opinions and sentiments , there are just certain movies you simply have to acknowledge as genuine milestones for the commotion they caused upon their release , the trends they launched in contemporary cinema and even the whole generations of younger writers / directors they influenced . Wes Craven's original 1972 film " Last House on the Left " is such a movie , even though ? theoretically speaking ? that milestone itself was already a remake of Bergman's " The Virgin Spring " . Personally I prefer some of the imitations much more , like " House on the Edge of the Park " and " I Spit on your Grave " just to name two of them , but I will never deny that " Last House on the Left " is still the most powerful and prominent . That is also exactly the overall impression I received from this new and reasonably well-marketed remake by the unknown ( at least to me ? ) director Dennis Iliadis . The remake addresses younger target groups and transfers an old story into a new setting , but it seemingly never aspires anything more . Most remakes like , say , " Halloween " or " Black Christmas " , are exceedingly bombastic on the outside but substantially void . This new version of " Last House ? " arguably softened the subject material a little ? especially in the sleaze & savagery departments ? but it nevertheless remained a bona fide horror movie that respects the intellect of its audience rather than to distract them with boisterous effects and outrageous choreography . I never at one point got the impression that this production tried to surpass or even equalize with the original , and that's a good thing because the typically grim 70's atmosphere and aura of exploitative weirdness simply cannot be surpassed ! The script is rudimentary and straightforward : a married couple and their teenage daughter ? who already had to deal with the loss of their son and brother last year ? head out to their woods-surrounded holiday resort in the countryside . The girl , Mary , goes out with a local friend named Paige , but they fall into the hands of three fugitive criminals of who the leader ( Krug ) is a stoic and relentless killer . Paige is killed but Mary is humiliated , molested and left for dead in the river . The trio of thugs subsequently seeks shelter in the house of Mary's parents , unaware of the familial link there is with the girl they just killed . Director Dennis Iliadis ' job definitely wasn't an easy one , because Craven's original film is so commonly known and widely acclaimed . The controversy and element of surprise have entirely vanished by now and thus the only trumps Iliadis has left to work with are shocks , suspense and slaughter . He clearly felt too restrained to use these trumps during the scenes covering teenage rape and misogynist violence , but the retaliation sequences are pretty damn fantastic . The last half hour of the movie is exaggeratedly barbaric , with some excessive bits of gore and bloodshed . The metamorphosis of the characters occurs somewhat abrupt and implausible ( especially melancholic-faced Monica Potter isn't very convincing as a maniacal avenger ) , the newly added characters ( like the rapist's teenage son with a conscience ) are utterly redundant and the finale is cheaply sentimental , but still all of these are forgivable defaults that get widely compensated by the carnage . Garret Dillahunt is adequate as Krug , although he obviously can't hold a candle to cult-favorite David Hess who immortalized the stereotype of perverted rapist in the original and remained associated with that character for the rest of his career .
Get your freak on , Get'cha , get'cha , get'cha freak on !	" Freaked " is pretty abnormal slapstick ; an exercise in bad taste and definitely not intended for all audiences to see . Only if you have high tolerance for vulgar pranks , over-the-top performances & effects and really dumb situations , you might end up liking ? probably LOVING this junk . This type of " humor " , as we'll refer to it , can't really be compared to anything ? not even the " Bill & Ted " movies ? as it's obscene , mad as hell and extremely offensive . And yet , this is only obvious on the surface , since the screenplay also contains much more effective jokes and occasionally terrific satire towards showbiz and typically American vanity . Alex Winter plays the overly pretentious and greedy movie star Ricky Coogan , who reluctantly accepts a job as spokesman for a giant industrial company . His first mission is to travel to South Africa and promote this dubious company's most recent product ? a lethal chemical called Zyglot ? but , instead , he and his friends are captured by a grotesque freak-show owner and get turned into circus attractions themselves . Ricky and his partners in misfortune attempt to escape the mutant farm , which leads to all kind of indescribably insane situations . It's downright hilarious to see how major Hollywood stars parody themselves , like Mr . T as the bearded lady or Brooke Shields as the dumb talk show hostess . Several other gags made me laugh so hard I nearly had tears in my eyes ! At one point , the freaks try to escape by ALL dressing up like milkmen ! Can you imagine what a giant worm or a life-sized sock-puppet look like in a milkman outfit ? Some of the grotesque special effects are courtesy of Screaming Mad George , so you can be sure they're impressive . Apparently it was Keanu Reeves underneath the wolf man make-up , yet I only discovered that after looking up the film here on this site . So , YES , the make-up is great ! Excellent stuff , but be careful to whom you recommend it !
Still the Master of Cinematic Death , even after 40 years !	Regardless of what your personal thoughts and opinions are towards " Diary of the Dead " , meaning whether you think it's a great film or just another failure in the already over-saturated horror sub genre of zombie films , everyone ought to express his / her respect and admiration to George A . Romero . I am aware that this sounds like the preaching of an overly geeky fan-boy , but it's the truth ! Forty ( 40 ! ) years after he almost single-handedly invented the sub genre and introduced the dead as an actual menace to the living , he still dominates the business area even though the competition severely multiplied over the past few decades . And , if nothing else , Mr . Romero definitely deserves some credit for evolving with the times this much and not hesitating the slightest bit to cash in on themes , technical terms and filming methods that are hugely popular nowadays . Romero's 68 years old already , and I suppose it's really not that obvious at that age to write screenplays that continuously mention post-Millennium terminology , such as YouTube , upstream and Panasonic AG-DVX100 . " Diary of the Dead " is definitely my least favorite installment in our director's legendary Dead-Series , but the film itself actually isn't even to blame . The other entries are just incredibly potent ( yes , including " Land of the Dead " ) , hard to surpass and , more personally , I'm not a really big fan of the so-called mocumentaries shot with hand-held cameras , even though they appear to become an unstoppable trend nowadays . A constantly bickering assembly of film-students are filming a horror project in a dark forest during the middle of the night when suddenly new bulletins notify them about the outbreak of a mysterious plague . All across the country , dead people come back to live and relentlessly attack the living . The true representative of a young generation that he is , director Jason Creed decides to capture everything that happens during the subsequent hectic three-day journey on film , if only to show to the world what's REALLY going on , as politicians and the media in general holds back the truth and oppresses further bulletins . The group attempts to travel to their separate homes in Pennsylvania , but on the way the encounter all types of agony and despair . The unsteady camera movements are less annoying and cause a lot less motion sickness here than in " Cloverfield " and " The Blair Witch Project " , although it's more than obvious here that professional cinematographers operated the cameras most of the time . The gross and gory effects and zombie killings are numerous and sometimes really ingenious ( brain melting through acid , sickle through the skull , archery ? ) , but talking in terms of supreme nastiness the film can't hold a candle to " Dawn " and " Day of the Dead " , for sure . Needless to see that George A . Romero also once again grabs the opportunity to criticize social themes ( like the media's influence on news spreading ) and to mock the values of today's young folks ( cowardice , coldly reporting over offering help ? ) . The first three quarters of " Diary of the Dead " are truly compelling and overall satisfying . The quality level severely drops down during the last 15-20 minutes , largely due to a few really stupid plot twists and implausible events .
Thorne's reign of sex and sadistic violence ?	Dyanne is the blouse-bursting prototype of a cult siren here in the Ilsa Series ? ' She wolf of the SS ' is a shocking ( at times downright nauseating ) exploitation tale , set in Nazi Camp 9 during Hitler's Third Reich-period . Ilsa is a perverted Nazi-officer with an insatiable sex hunger and a gruesome torture-fetish . Her camp is filled with innocent women and Ilsa performs sadistic ' medical ' experiments on them ? This results in some hard-to-watch sequences such as a girl who gets bath in water of 85 ( ! ) degrees Celsius ! Other poor victims are beaten to death by a whip , hung by their toes or infected with terrible diseases such as Syphilis . Female nudity appears on the screen every two seconds but you can hardly enjoy the looks of it , since the girls ' bodies are subjected to blood-soaked torturing and inhuman cruelty . Thorne clearly has fun in portraying the cold-hearted bitch and she proudly shows off with her oversized breasts . Following routine exploitation standards , this film has terrible acting , uninspired scenery and a weak direction but none of these aspects is top-priority , of course . She Wolf of the SS completely lives up to its infamous and vicious reputation and the cult value of this film is unimaginable . Two ' official ' sequels followed ( Ilsa ? Haremkeeper of the Oilsheiks and Tigress of Siberia ) . The Spanish cult-deity also shot a similar film with ' The Wicked Warden ' in which Thorne is called Greta . Not for the faint-hearted !
Perhaps a bit less impressive than some of Argento's previous work ? but still far above average !	( Minor plot spoilers coming up ) The Stendal Syndrome was widely announced as the director's return to the sub-genre that made him famous . The irresistible Italian Giallo ! Yet , in my humble opinion , we had to wait till 2001 ? with Sleepless ? before we saw a truly new Giallo of his . Nonetheless , The Stendal Syndrome is a compelling and intense thriller that has got Argento's bookmark all over it . Starting right away with the long and stylish opening scene , you can feel that you're about to witness a terrific thriller adventure from the master ! The stuff it handles about is rough and brutal , yet it's presented to the audience in a stylish and colorful way . You almost feel ashamed to look with such great interest at things like rape , vengeance and suffering . Argento cast his beautiful daughter Asia as a young policewoman working on the case of a serial rapist . Without knowing it herself , she suffers from a bizarre syndrome that makes her faint when looking at artsy paintings . Almost like an annoying allergy , she can't stand the image of colorful landscapes and portraits . This makes her weak and vulnerable and the rapist abuses this opportunity to rape her too . After a seemly abrupt climax , Argento continues to overwhelm the public with a series of confusing and well-considered plot twists . The last half hour of this film really lifts up the wholesome to a higher dimension and that is one terrific achievement . So , whatever you do ? don't quit watching this film till the very last second ! If you do , you'll miss out on a whole lot of aspects that truly prove the director's intelligence . Argento tried to implement an illogical and non-chronological structure at times , and that didn't really do this story well . It sometimes makes you feel like you have to focus too much on the structure instead of enjoying the magnificent scenery . The film also is a lot more psychological than previous Argento's , like he really tried to do something new here . After the Stendal Syndrome , Dario reached his ultimate low by shooting his version of the classic ' Phantom of the Opera ' tale . We had to wait until 2001 ? with the above-mentioned Sleepless ? to see him in top-condition again ! No worries , a new Argento masterpiece is always worth waiting for
Along with " Them " , THE granddaddy of all mutated monsters !	Classic 50's monster mayhem , directed by the always-reliable Jack Arnold ( " Creature from the Black Lagoon " , " The Incredibly Shrinking Man " ) and revolving on a ? duh ? giant tarantula on the loose in the Arizona desert . The critter grew to an enormous size because two overly obsessive scientists thought it would be a great idea to experiment with the possibilities of a rare & wicked disease called Acromagelia , or however you spell that . Following an incident in the lab , the already infected tarantula test-species simply walks out of the door and continues to grow a lot more whilst feeding on cattle and the occasional desert traveler . Now it's up to the local doctor and the scientist's assistant ( a woman going by the name of Steve ) to save the world ? And , also , our fate lies in the hands of a very young Clint Eastwood . It takes a little while before the tough gets going , but once the hairy arachnid tasted blood , " Tarantula " is an exciting and suspenseful creature-feature . One of the very first in its kind , actually , if not THE first ( alongside the 1954 landmark " Them " ) . It's really impressive how convincingly big & scary you can make a normal sized spider appear by only using simple camera tricks and miniature set pieces . Whenever the humongous beast crawls through the desert and over a hill , the film is uniquely atmospheric and creepy . Arnold is a talented enough director to use scenery to the fullest and the mini-landscapes look very real . Guaranteed Sci-Fi / horror fun .
Hocus-Pocus horror !	Clive Barker comes with an extremely morbid and sinister tale that almost entirely takes place in the mysterious world of magicians , illusionists and sorcerers . Indeed a very unique setting that just awaits an exquisite horror film ! One thing you have to hand to Barker . like none other author , he has the talent to portray nightmarish worlds and macabre surroundings . The three major chapters in his career as a filmmaker all are tales of pure darkness . And - unlike Nightbreed - Lord of illusions can depend on a solid script and original story aspects . Clive combines the mysteries of magic with the dangers of a satanic cult in order to create one of the most frightening horror villains ever . Nix - a diabolical personification of evil who has complete control over elements like fire , gravity and even the human will and soul ! Daniel Von Bargen ( one of the most underrated actors alive ) plays Nix amazingly and the hairs in the back of your neck will stand up as he says , ' I was born . to murder the world ' in his most vicious tone of voice . Scott Bakula is the private detective , hired by the ravishing Famke Janssen , to keep an eye on her husband who once buried Nix but now fears his resurrection from the grave . All in one , Lord of Illusion is a successful mixture of horror and detective , with gruesome make-up effects and more than enough tension to keep you focused . Barker controls the supernatural elements real well and he also injects multiple personal interests of his in his film . Like his disturbing obsession with masochism , for example , and the constant undertones of homosexuality and sexual perversion . The wholesome is served with a constant atmosphere of morbidity and very little humor . Therefore , Lord of Illusions is a very mature horror film that'll certainly frighten ( or even shock ) inexperienced viewers . Possible negative aspects about Lord of Illusions are the overall predictable twists the grotesque finale .
Leave your last words after the beep . . .	" One Missed Call " is an intense and surprisingly splatter-free thriller by Takashi Miike , creator of frenzy flicks such as " Ichi ? The Killer " and " MPD Psycho " . The film is involving and compelling right from the first minutes , as it introduces a group of identifiable young friends . Whilst in the bathroom , a girl's cell phone rings but she can't answer . The voice mail shows that the call came from her own number and from a date in the near future ! When listening to the actual voice mail , the message seems to carry the girl's last words and a disturbingly realistic recording of her deadfall . This mysteriously supernatural ritual repeats itself several times and each time the recipient actually dies on the predestined time ! More than enough reason to freak out , if you ask me ! A teenage girl and the brother of a deceased girl start to investigate the case and discover that everything relates to the strange Mizunuma family . Okay , I admit that this film's premise sounds an awful lot like " Ringu " ( even including the whole family-mystery ) , but I liked " One Missed Call " so much better than that dull and overrated " classic " . Miike's characters are more convincing , the death-sequences are far more spine-chilling and at least the set-pieces are up-to-date ! Japan is THE country of brand new technology and this finally is a movie that uses it ! No dusty videotapes here , but fancy cell phones and live television shows that exploit urban legends ! The story does get confusing at times ( especially near the ending ) and some of the overlong dialogue could easily have been cut . The biggest trumps are some small details that make this movie almost unbearably scary , like the petrifying ring tone that is used repeatedly and the wild camera-work during the TV-show sequence . Recommended ! Better watch it before the American remake ruins it again .
Beautiful darkness !	Perhaps not as mysteriously beautiful as " Cat People " or not as nightmarish as " The Body Snatcher " , but still this Val Lewton production equally is a solid horror milestone that should be viewed by everyone who wants to learn about the roots of atmospheric horror . The screenplay , adapted from the Woolich novel " Black Alibi " , is simple . . . yet powerful enough to provide the film with a good 60 minutes of pure tension . Soon after a leopard , hired from a traveling circus for a publicity stunt , escapes from a fancy nightclub , horribly mutilated bodies begin to turn up in a Mexican border town . Is the animal really tearing everyone on its path to pieces or is someone abusing the town's mass-hysteria to satisfy his / her own urge to kill ? Director Jacques Tourneur once again proves himself to be a master in creating an unbearably tense atmosphere . His excessive use of shadows and darkness turns the sets into ominous places while the constant unnatural sounds keep you alert for possible animal-attacks ! Who needs a budget when you've got this much talent and style ? " The Leopard Man " is an excellent film , one to watch preferably in series with " I walked with a Zombie " and " Curse of the Cat People " .
Prepare for a TRUE Shock-Experience !	Strong stomachs and nerves of steel are required in order to sit through this " shockomentary " revolving on the crimes and confessions of Albert Fish ; sadomasochist , cannibal and undoubtedly the most perverted serial child-killer in the history of the United States . The documentary opens with the extended analysis of the murder of young Grace Budd ; the crime that eventually ? six years after it was committed ? resulted in his arrest . The notorious letter Fish sent to the girl's mother alone , explaining in great detail what he had done to her , makes you sick with disgust and automatically causes you to contemplate how a human being can possibly act like such a cruel and relentless beast . Subsequently , Fish's childhood and the development of his bizarrely perverted sexual tendencies ( physical suffering , morbid religious aspects and the interest in young boys ) get further explored and the life-story of the monster personified becomes more incredible and astounding with each minute . Quotes like " I always had the desire to inflict pain on others ? and I always desired others to inflict pain on me " suitably draw an image of this deranged monster . If this were a fictional horror movie character nobody would ever take it seriously , that's for sure . The documentary is professionally made , with authentic images of New York during the depression era of the 1930's being altered with scenes with actors , atmospheric music and sinister voiceovers and nightmarish collages of morbid religious tableaux . The subject matter is truly engrossing and repugnant , yet fascinating to behold if you are interested in the darkest sides of the human mind . My sole complaint is one that I read in some of the other reviews already . I was hoping to get to known some new and still unknown little facts about the life and crimes of Albert Fish , but the documentary features absolutely no " scoops " or additional background .
Poe-tic Madness !	I don't know ( nor care ) how much research went prior to writing the teleplay for " The Black Cat " and neither do I know to what extent the little details about Edgar Allan Poe's private life are truthful . Basically I just assume that it was Start Gordon's intention to illustrate how creative brilliance and mental madness are two inseparable qualities a horror novelist must dispose of . The tormented protagonist in this umpteenth adaptation of E . A . Poe's legendary tale of " The Black Cat " is no other than ? E . A . Poe himself ! " The Black Cat " also marks Stuart Gordon's second attempt at the narration of a Poe tale , after his straight-to-video version of " The Pit and the Pendulum " in the early 90's . As expected , this is one of the better episodes in the Masters of Horror's second season , though slightly more flawed than I initially expected ? or hoped . Jeffrey Combs ' performance is ? as always ? mesmerizing , the filming locations and costumes are downright exquisite and perfectly capture the depressingly harsh atmosphere of the 19th Century first half , but the script is slightly lackluster and even a bit tedious at times . Combs stars as ( and creepily resembles ) Edgar Allan Poe and the story takes place during an incredibly difficult period of his life . Poe is completely out of writing-inspiration , struggles with financial problems as well as alcoholism and his beloved young wife Virginia fell victim to a severe illness . Unable to deal with all of this , he develops a strange paranoid condition where he thinks the black house cat is some kind of immortal demon that gradually destroys his entire existence . Even though the episodes in the Master of Horror series barely last an hour , this almost seems to be long in this case and the lack of relevant subject matter inevitably leads to a couple of redundant padding sequences . The actual share of the titular black cat only begins halfway through the tale , and before that it's primarily Poe's own drinking abuse that dominates . There's only one gory part in " The Black Cat " , but I assure it's one that counts ! Oh yes , this one-hour film features ? hands down ? THE greatest axe murder ever depicted . Combs receives excellent support from Elyse Levesque as Virginia . I never heard of her before , but she's quite talented and extremely good-looking . With a number of episodes still waiting on my personal must-see list , " The Black Cat " ranks as the second best of series two so far , second to Brad Anderson's " Sounds Like " .
Horror Anthology for Insiders	Movie-buffs ( and perhaps horror fanatics in particular ) are strange and unpredictable beings , aren't they ? Most of the time we're extremely skeptical and criticize ambitious new projects , yet sometimes we're easily pleased and highly enthusiast about something that is completely derivative , mundane and unoriginal . " Body Bags " is the perfect example to illustrate that : it's a horror omnibus existing of three incredibly prototypic segments and a repetitive type of wraparound story , yet I personally enjoyed it immensely . This is a good old-fashioned " sit back , relax and switch off all brain functions " type of anthology with a nice diversity in suspense , comedy , splatter and absurdity . Yet , the undeniable strongpoint of " Body Bags " is the all-star horror cast and crew , with legendary actors and even directors of the genre appearing in fun supportive roles and insignificant cameos . No less than John Carpenter directs two out of three stories and even stars as the host in the wraparound story . Clearly inspired by " Tales from the Crypt " , Carpenter plays the witty and morbid morgue employee exactly like the infamous Crypt Keeper ; though with still a little more flesh around the bones ( though not too much ) . The first story was the most effective one ! Regardless of how clichéd , repetitive and predictable " The Gas Station " is , it's a genuine horror entertainment . With the landmark " Halloween " , Carpenter obviously proved he's the undeniable master of stalk-and-slash movies , and " The Gas Station " ideally fits the pattern . During her first night working in a remote gas station , Anne receives a visit from the maniacal killer who's been terrorizing the area since weeks . It's a highly segment with cool red herrings , dumb decisions , some good gore and a neatly uncanny atmosphere . The remaining two stories are slightly less overpowering , mainly because they revolve on sillier topics . " Hair " introduces an aging playboy who cannot accept his hairline becoming thinner . He desperately starts seeking for a hair-growing method that works and finds the incredibly treatment of the slightly odd Dr . Lock . Needless to say Richard's new hairdo begins to lead its own life with terrible consequences . " Hair " is obviously the most blackly comical chapter of the three . This story isn't gory or tense , but it's a very likable satire about vanity . Finally , " Eye " centers on a successful and happily married athlete who loses his eye in a tragic car accident . He spontaneously volunteers for a brand new and risky eye-transplant procedure and slowly begins to carry on with his life . Shortly after , he begins to suffer from horrific visions and learns the eye's previous owner was a sadistic serial killer . " Eye " starts off a little slow and dull , but gradually turns into an exciting and gruesome little shock-story . With a bit of imagination , you could even interpret this segment as some sort of predecessor for the more famous Asian ghost story " The Eye " . Admittedly none of the stories are extraordinary brilliant or innovating , but they're definitely traditional and enthusiastically made . And , as said already , if you don't care about the actual stories , you can always yourself entertain by playing " spot-the-horror-star " . " Body Bags " boosts an amazing cast including John Carpenter ( " Halloween " ) , Tobe Hooper ( " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " ) , Sam Raimi ( " The Evil Dead " ) , Roger Corman ( " Pit and the Pendulum " ) , Wes Craven ( " Nightmare on Elm Street " ) , Robert Carradine ( " Orca " ) , David Naughton ( " American Werewolf in London " ) , George Buck Flower ( " The Fog " ) , Stacy Keach ( " Mountain of the Cannibal God " ) , David Warner ( " The Omen " ) , Mark Hamill ( " Star Wars " ) , Twiggy ( " The Doctor and the Devils " ) , Deborah Harry ( " Videodrome " ) and Charles Napier ( " Supervixens " ) .
Carmageddon , Aussie-style !	This truly odd and eccentric black comedy is especially worth checking out in order to notice how drastically Peter Weir's filming style changed from dared and out-of-the-ordinary cult in the 1970's to dull and politically correct rubbish in the 1980's , 1990's and 2000's . No matter how popular and acclaimed films like " Dead Poets Society " , " Master & Commander " and " The Truman Show " are , they're blunt compared to the uniqueness and virility of " The Cars that Ate Paris " . At least this film doesn't feature tiresome morality speeches and here the dialogues are , in fact , surprisingly controversial most of the time . For example ; when explaining to total strangers that you accidentally killed a old man by accidentally running your car over him , do you expect them to reply with : " Yeah , those old pedestrians are a real problem , aren't they ? " Welcome to Paris ; a remote little outback Australian town where the people go to church , love their families and where the economy entirely thrives on one thing : car crashes ! The whole town assists in deliberately causing accidents and then use the parts and accessories as currency to buy stuff in the shops . The outsiders from the accidents either end up in the graveyard , as medical guinea pigs in the local hospital or ? as in protagonist Arthur Waldo's case ? as brand new residents of Paris and close friends to the mayor . It's truly close to brilliant how Peter Weir manages to sustain the friendly and nonthreatening tone throughout the whole movie . All members of the community are basically insane psychopaths , yet you symphatize with them a lot more because the " hero " ( Arthur ) is such an antipathetic loser and the young generation ( that eventually revolts against the town's ancient habits ) are boisterous and uncanny freaks . Even the mayor , who's really the evil mastermind , is portrayed like a jolly figure with whom you'd love to chat . I know that most people wish to forget their viewing of " The Cars that Ate Paris " because it moves slow and looks dark , but the basic premise really is one of the best horror ideas ever coming from Australian cinema . And that WV Beetle covered in spikes is a highly memorable piece of scenery !
Captain Cool ! ! !	CAPTAIN KRONOS : VAMPIRE HUNTER ? . Be honest , isn't this one of the most powerful and macho sounding film titles you've ever heard ? Well , I think it is and it gives an extra status to this great film . Kronos certainly is one of the best Hammer productions and they accomplished this even without casting Peter Cushing or Christopher Lee . It's a very intriguing story that can rely on great settings , lovely costumes and a light-headed atmosphere . And above all , it's very original . Captain Kronos fools around a bit with the traditional vampire-characteristics and by doing so ; it adds a lot of values to these mythical creatures . Kronos states , for example , that vampires aren't exclusively after the blood of people , they might as well just suck the youth and beauty out of their victims . This little difference in plot is enough to create a complete and fascinating movie . Add a few very original and surprisingly good little elements to this ( like the frog-theory ) and you've got yourself 90 minutes of pure fun . Horst Janson portrays the captain . He's a strong and rather goofy looking German but the role fits him real well . He rides with Prof . Hieronymos Grost ( some sort of variant to Doctor Van Helsing with a hump ) and on their way , they free the extremely good looking Caroline Munro ( her character was sentenced for dancing on a Sunday ? which gives you and idea of the religious theme in this film ) . The image of Miss Munro might ring several bells in the heads of horror and cult freaks . She has done quite a lot horror films ( Maniac , Slaughter High , Dracula A . D ) and worked together with great , legendary directors such as Jess Franco ( Faceless ) . Captain Kronos has everything in the right proportions : some nice and gruesome make-up effects , lovely action sequences , a tad bit of humor and very good screenplay . And I do believe it was a rather influential film . The recent box-office hit Blade certainly found some of its inspiration here . Recommended !
A story to chill the bones . . .	I love cinema . I mean , I truly LOVE cinema but sometimes you have the face the fact that it can be a pretty hypocrite business from time to time . Especially since the last ten years , everybody complains that there aren't any good horror movies being made . Only uninspired Scream clones and rip-off's . But that is a lie ! ! There are good and original thriller being made but they just don't get many attention because they are " politically incorrect " . Ravenous is a perfect example of this . Made in 1999 and it stars a few familiar faces but it went straight to video in my country and I never saw it advertised . That's a real shame because movies like this prove that there are still young directors active who're creative and talented . It's up to the fans to discover movies like this and ignore the overload of mainstream slashers . Ravenous has a very solid plot . simple but effective and supported by terrific acting performances . It shows a few of the darkest aspects of the human mind and , personally , I'm really intrigued by that . Subjects like Cannibalism and ancient Indian mythes are fascinating and when they're placed in a historical setting ( Mexican-American was of 1850 ) it even becomes better . This results in Ravenous being a very atmospheric and tense movie experience that you won't forget easily . The tension is built up slowly ( a bit too slow at first ) and the atmosphere of the cold and lonely Sierra Nevada is being portrayed very well . Guy Pierce is a great choice to play Captain John Boyd . His character is a cowardly figure with a complete lack of authority . He has to go through a battle himself and he's very messed up . The shows is obviously stolen by Robert Carlyle who is used to working with director Antonia Bird . His character is demonic and - duh - ravenous . A terrific performance and Carlyle manages to play his character with a lot of black humor and satanic charisma . David Arquette's role is pretty useless but it was great to see Jeffrey Jones again . Jones is a very decent actor and - even though he's frequently cast by Tim Burton - he's often overlooked and ignored . Ravenous is beautifully shot and some of the effects and make-up is pretty gruesome and explicit . But it isn't just mindless gore and violence so no complaints there . In fact , no complaints at all . . . . Ravenous is a breath-taking movie from beginning till end and a must for anyone who believes that the genre of horror is dead .
Never been kissed ? . . . Keep it that way .	Susan , the young daughter of a hard-working mortician , has a strange passion for giant spiders , more particularly tarantulas , and engages her hairy friends to get rid of unpleasant persons in her life , like her own mother who plotted to kill her father anyway . By the time she's an attractive teenager , her passion turned into an obsession and it becomes all the more easier to find victims for the " kiss " of her tarantulas . This is a fairy enjoyable spider-feature , especially in case you like 70's drive-in horror . It's quite creepy , too ! As long as you've got a bunch of spiders , you don't really need any other form of special effects as these icky critters provide the film with more than enough genuine frights . Unfortunately , there's very little coherence in the script and all the main events seem be juxtaposed without much connection between them . Also , as the story develops , the Susan-character shows more an more resemblance with Stephen King's " Carrie " . She gets emotionally unstable , uncertain about herself , seemly all alone against the rest of the world and ? of course ? disposing of unique powers . Much like the 1978 movie " Jennifer " was a Carrie rip-off with snakes , " Kiss of the Tarantula " is a well-disguised Carrie rip-off with . . . duh . . . tarantulas ! But then and completely unexpected , the story takes another few twists that don't involve tarantulas at all , and " Kiss of the Tarantula " once again becomes a one-of-a-kind 70's shocker . The ending is downright fantastic ! This movie may not be flawless but it sure is creative .
Bad Bad Bad Bad Boy !	" Bad Ronald " enjoys quite an impressive cult reputation , despite " only " being a low-budgeted and made-for-TV film from the early 70's , so I simply had to check it out to see what all the fuzz is about . I can't deny " Bad Ronald " has something irresistibly special ! The atmosphere is thoroughly unsettling and Scott Jacoby portrays a strangely menacing Ronald . There are no special effects or bloody massacres in this film , yet it's an engaging little thriller with a fairly original premise . Ronald is a geeky and slightly peculiar teenager who lives with his dominant and overly protective mother . He's obsessed with his personally created comic book universe , yet his mother insists on becoming a prominent doctor . When Ronald accidentally murders a young girl after she mocked him one too many times , his mother sees no other solution than to construct an extra lair in their house and hide him from the cops . Then when mommy doesn't return from the hospital one day after a routine operation , Ronald remains hidden in the house and new tenants move in . Slowly going insane from loneliness and paranoia , Ronald mistakes the new tenants ' daughter for his comic book heroine . The script is a little too far-fetched to be plausible and it definitely contains too many improbabilities , like the bizarrely noisy neighbor Mrs . Shumacher , for example , and the fatal gal blather operation . But at least it's never boring or exaggeratedly ridiculous , so I'm certainly not complaining . Ronald's parental house provides the film with a uniquely sinister setting , complete with hideous wallpaper & furniture , peepholes and secret cupboard passageways . Especially considering it's a TV-production , " Bad Ronald " is well photographed , suspenseful and it approaches several themes that are appealing to fans of grim 70's exploitation . Recommended !
Yup , it's a Winner after all	Although I have yet to see a fairly large part of his repertoire , to me the name Michael Winner is synonym with uncompromising violence , sleaze and vulgarity . At least , that's the impression movies like the " Death Wish " - trilogy , " The Mechanic " and " Scream for Help " always rose . That's why it was so surprising to see that " Lawman " is primarily a talkative and story-driven western with many dialogs and convoluted character drawings instead of savage gunfights and nasty set pieces . It almost came as a relief when the whole thing ended with an excessively violent , gratuitous and explicit shootout , because that was the only moment reminding me that I was watching a Michael Winner flick ! Of course all this doesn't mean that " Lawman " isn't a good film . Quite the contrary , it's a compelling and atmospheric period western with excellent performances from the all-star ensemble cast and a plausible plot outline . Burt Lancaster is terrific as stoic lawman Maddox from Bannock ; arriving in the town of Sabbath in order to arrest seven local cowboys who accidentally killed an elderly villager during a drunken celebration . Maddox quickly experiences Sabbath is the type of town that is run by a wealthy and influential patriarch , while figures like the mayor and the Sheriff are nothing more than puppets on a string . Nobody cooperates with Maddox , the townspeople even want to chase him out of town , and puts his own life in severe danger as he stubbornly continues with his investigation . Some sources claim that " Lawman " is a remake of an older ( and better ) 50's western called " Man with the Gun " , but this isn't confirmed anywhere on IMDb . Personally , I just think there are many critics that don't grant Michael Winner the slightest positive comment and simply search for excuse to claim this thoughtful and memorable western isn't his own accomplishment . Fact remains that Winner , at the relatively tender age of 35 , competently directed a substantial western with a cast of highly respectable veteran actors including Burt Lancaster , Robert Ryan , Lee Cobb , Robert Emhardt and Robert Duvall . Particularly Lancaster is unforgettable , as he depicts his supposedly " good " character in an extremely antipathetic fashion . Marshal Maddox is stoic , distant , dry and untouchable whereas some of his " bad " opponents express a wide variety of emotions . Occasionally the screenplay is unnecessarily complex , with too many redundant supportive characters and sub plots , and the film is overall too long , but it's definitely worthwhile to sit through until the explosive climax .
Crazy Hammer Tale	The second installment in Hammer's House of Horror is a silly and predictable story , but it nonetheless breathes a sinister atmosphere and the ending is quite shocking ! The plot centers on a female journalist who goes " undercover " in a brand new weight reducing aiding group to investigate their supposedly unorthodox methods . Following the mysterious death of a fellow member in a car crash , Ruth finds out that the amateur Weight-Watchers murder their clients and pay the local undertakers to deliver the corpses at a remote countryside mansion . Ruth , along with the mortuary's assistant Andrew , tries to discover why this organization is so interested in fresh obese cadavers ? It doesn't require the mind of a genius to realize we're dealing with a bunch of cannibals here , still the development of the plot is compelling and there's a neat twist at the end regarding the background of the organization . Julia Foster is adequate in the lead , but veteran actor James Cosmo gives the most memorable performance as the harsh and brutal ' coach ' Willis . In the short film's most remarkable scene , he literally crushes the spirit of a chubby woman by constantly assuring her she's an ugly , useless and pathetic bag of fat . The final sequence perhaps comes a bit abrupt , but it's deliciously sick and even a bit disturbing . " The Thirteenth Reunion " is the first of three Hammer House of Horror episodes directed by Peter Sasdy ; a great yet underrated filmmaker who made some long-feature movies for Hammer , like " Hands of the Ripper " and " Countess Dracula " as well as the incredibly chilling TV-movie " The Stone Tape " .
Bruce Campbell kicks medieval butt in the last part of this GREAT franchise .	Well , one thing you can't possibly say about Sam Raimi's " Evil Dead " trilogy would be that it's dull or repetitive ! The series went from hardcore horror ( " The Evil Dead " ) to splatter comedy ( " Evil Dead 2 " ) and this final entry is almost pure slapstick with only an occasional flash of gore . Bruce Campbell , who evolved incredibly as an actor , reprises his role of chainsaw-swinging hero Ash who's now catapulted back in time to somewhere early in the medieval era . In order to get back to his supermarket job in the 20th century , he has to join and train a castle community in their battle against evil . Ash's very own clone leads the evil troops and they largely exist out of walking ' n talking skeletons . " Army of Darkness " is a very funny and light-headed film that ignores the horror in favor of funny gimmicks and cheerful swashbuckling . That's not necessarily a bad thing but it's understandable that most people rate it as the least good part of the series . Bruce Campbell , however , is terrific and this definitely is the role that defined him as the ultimate horror icon of the last two decades . Some of his quotes are already considered classic by now ( " Hail to the King , Baby " , " Shop smart . Shop S-Mart " ) and most fans are still secretly hoping for a third sequel . The " March of the Dead " - theme by Danny Elfman is splendid and Sam Raimi's direction is as professional as ever . Unlike the previous Evil Dead installments , " Army of Darkness " may not be a genre milestone but it sure remains great fun to watch it over and over again .
Look Ma , I caught us some jailbait !	Thoroughly unoriginal , primitive and nasty , yet compelling and strangely unsettling , " Midnight " truly is the masterwork of novelist John A . Russo . The co-writer of the legendary horror classic " Night of the Living Dead " always somewhat stood in the shadow of George A . Romero , but " Midnight " is his very own and personalized venture into the depths of grisly backwoods-horror and uncanny rednecks . Russo clearly didn't have much of a budget to work with , yet he manages to create a gripping atmosphere through eerily isolated locations , appalling characters and moody music . And even though you've endured the routine story - centering on a family of demented social outcasts terrorizing travelers - at least a dozen times before , Russo's screenplay still manages to deliver a handful of efficient frights and shocking moments . The great ( late ) Lawrence Tierney stars as an aggressive drunken pervert , and yet his character is one of the good guys , since the others are inbred Satanists , hoodlum teenagers and unfriendly hillbillies . When Bert Johnson once again attempts to rape his under-aged stepdaughter , the girl flees and hitchhikes her way down South . She fetches a ride in the van of two young boys , who rob grocery stores for fun , and together they end up in a little town where none of the inhabitants have any of their original teeth left . Deeply hidden in the woods surrounding this town , there lives a crazed family of devil-worshipers who're collecting female virgins to sacrifice to our Lord Satan on Easter Sunday . Why ? Because their late mother taught them to do this , of course ! " Midnight " is derivative of " Psycho " , " Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , " Deliverance " and a truckload of other grindhouse 70's flicks . So much even that it feels like you're watching a genuine 70's drive-in feature ! Despite released during the early 80's , " Midnight " features the soundtrack , photography and narrative style of a typically trashy 70's horror cinema . John Russo implements a raw and brutal filming style , with disturbing images of country folks and graphic violence . Tom Savini ( old friends with Russo and Romero ) was in charge of the make-up effects , so you just know there will be some deliciously succulent massacres on display . In one particularly nasty scene , the camera zooms in on one of the depraved hicks slicing a young girl's throat with a rusty saw . How can any fan of horror cinema resist that ? By no means " Midnight " will ever be considered a classic , but it's tremendous fun none the less .
The Land Never Changes , The Sea is Never the Same . . .	Ever since her husband passed away , the introvert but endearing widow Anne Osborne ( Sarah Miles ) raises her son Jonathan by herself . Life isn't easy , as Anne feels lonely and clearly needs male affection while her son dangerously gets hooked on the mildly unsettling ideas of a fellow school boy who proclaims to eliminate all adults . When the handsome and charismatic sailor Jim ( Kris Kristofferson ) arrives in town in his enormously impressive cargo-boat " Belle " , Anne finds in him a new lover and Jonathan a new fatherly role model . But when Jim stays to marry Anne , Jonathan feels that he " betrays " the sea and plots a morbid vengeance . I expected a whole lot from " The Sailor Who Fell From Grace With The Sea " , actually . The unusual title as well as the oddly designed DVD-cover always appealed to me and , moreover , the story is adapted from the works of controversial Japanese writer Yukio Mishima . This notorious author , who literally shocked the world with his sudden suicide , wrote perverse tales and had an awkward interpretation on human psychology , and thus I was anticipating a slow-brooding melodrama that is disturbing and beautifully enchanting at the same time . Unfortunately the transition to a remote English sea-town setting and its depressed inhabitants isn't totally successful and , despite remaining to be a stylish & well-made film , " The Sailor . . . " miserably fails in terms of offering genuine shocks and sheer creepiness . Writer / director Lewis John Carlino hints at several controversial themes ( like voyeurism , the Oedipus complex and " Lord of the Flies " - esquire ideas ) but never really has the courage to translate them on screen . The two main plots , about the romance between the adults and the boys ' peculiar descent into mental insanity , never conjunct like they should , resulting in a rather incoherent film that comes across as absurd and highly implausible . Although the DVD-box guarantees chills , the film sadly never becomes disturbing or even remotely frightening . Nonetheless " The Sailor Who Fell From Grace With The Sea " remains a curiously fascinating piece of 70's film-making , as the atmosphere is continuously compelling and the acting performances are convincingly emotional . Especially Sailor Jim's extended speeches about the mysteriously untameable sea are downright staggering . Because of his poetic monologues , the sea itself almost becomes an uncredited extra character and you willingly allow him to take you on imaginative journey around the world . Contrary to these mesmerizing sequences are the rather nasty and gratuitous images of the fascist children's cult relentlessly torturing animals in order to revolt against the grown-up world . The supposedly ' startling ' climax filmed on a beautiful hillside location overlooking the sea is painfully disappointing . Not having read the novel , I don't know whether or not it's supposed to end like this , but I found it to be an extremely cowardly finale after building up to it so much .
Creepy Kids in the Hall !	Over the years , many writers as well as filmmakers discovered that seemly innocent and cherubic looking children make extra-creepy horror villains ! Demonic kids almost form an entire sub genre of horror by themselves ! There usually is an explanation for their abnormal and murderous behavior , though . Either it's the influence of a satanic cult ( " Children of the Corn " ) , a nuclear meltdown ( " The Children of Ravensbeck " ) , a temporary blackout caused by a comet ( " Village of the Damned " ) or even an ordinary solar eclipse on the day of their birth ( " Bloody Birthday " ) . The youthful maniacs in this film have no real excuse for what they do . They were just born evil . And when their bus to the mental institute crashes down atop some snowy mountains , they become youthful maniacs AT LARGE ! They make it to a holiday resort where some wannabe godfather Corleone runs his crime syndicate and they start killing all the residents . " Devil Times Five " is not a very good movie , but that's mainly due to a lack of budget and a shortage of talented cast & crew members . There's very little going on in the first hour , apart from a spectacular bus crash and THE longest murder of an institute employee ( filmed in slow-motion ) . When approaching the last third of the film , the creepy moments and gory murders begin to follow each other at fast pace and the atmosphere really gets morbid . The adults are all pitiful and uninteresting characters but the five kids have quite interesting backgrounds . The oldest girl pretends to be a young convent sister , another girl is obsessed with fire and the funny black kid constantly acts like he's in the army . Their incontrollable urge to slaughter unknown people is a bit difficult to believe at times , but overall these young actors do a terrific job . " Devil Times Five " is recommended 70's exploitation , with a fairly high cult-value and several unforgettable murder scenes ( piranhas in the bathtub ! ! )
But They Do Scare The Hell Out Of The Living !	" The Dead Don't Die " is a genuinely creepy and inventive 70's made-for-TV gem that regretfully ended up in total oblivion , and this in spite of the involvement of several really highly acclaimed names in the horror industry , like writer Robert Bloch ( " Psycho " , " Torture Garden " ) , director Curtis Harrington ( " Whoever Slew Auntie Roo ? " , " What's the Matter with Helen ? " ) and a long series of veteran cast members ( Ray Milland , George Hamilton , Ralph Meeker , Reggie Nalder , ? ) . Even more impressive than the names is the screenplay's ability to actually evoke real frights and maintain a continuously unsettling atmosphere . This is story-driven suspense without fancy make-up effects or spectacular stunts , but definitely with a handful of unforgettable jump scenes like , for example , the electric chair execution near the beginning and a corpse emerging from its coffin somewhere halfway through the film . George Hamilton stars as a former sailor called back home to attend the execution of his brother Ralph for a murder he swears he didn't commit . Don vows to clear Ralph's name and find out who really committed the crime his brother got punished for . Searching in sinister places and encountering uncanny people , Don discovers that his brother wasn't actually framed for murder but merely ' selected ' for execution by an expert in the occult who wanted Ralph to serve in his army of the undead . The plot isn't exactly plausible , but nevertheless convincingly brought by cast and crew . The events supposedly take place in the 1930's and Curtis Harrington masterfully recreates the grim atmosphere of that decade with exact period details ( like vehicles and costumes ) and a cheap looking type of cinematography lacking color . Then there's also a copious amount of slick details that are just plain bizarre and indescribably eerie , like a dance hall full of near dead couples and one cute lady spontaneously combusting ! Ray Milland is terrific and reliable as always , while Reggie Nalder is one of the creepiest actors who ever lived . " The Dead Don't Die " comes very much recommended , if you can find a decent copy of course .
Dead People are CREEPY !	" Messiah of Evil " ( or " Dead People " , which is a much more appropriate a . k . a title ) is a solid 70's horror gem , surprisingly atmospheric and quite gory despite the obviously low budget production values . It's basically a zombie-movie , but surely NOT the type that George A . Romero popularized half a decade earlier with his milestone " Night of the Living Dead " . The undead souls in this film are merely background characters whilst the main storyline revolves on a young woman searching for her father since he went missing in a little seaside town called Point Dune . He was a painter and regularly sent letters to his daughters with an increasingly bizarre content . When Arletty ( what's in a name ? ) arrives in the village , she quickly discovers that the locals aren't very helpful in her search . Quite the contrary , they all seem to be part of a dead cult that patiently awaits the return of an evil messiah who cursed the entire town nearly 100 years before . Needless to say that the plot is very incoherent and full of holes ( otherwise , it would have been a much more known film ) and the pace is often painfully slow , especially during the first half . It's also a bit confusing , since there are TWO voice-overs constantly interfering each other . Opposed to all these slightly negative aspects , there are several extended and genuinely macabre sequences that'll truly raise the hair on your neck with fear ! One scene in particular is downright brilliant and features a doomed girl as she's sitting in Point Dune's movie theater . She's practically alone at first , but when the film plays the undead townsfolk continuously walks into the theater one by one , preventing the poor girl to ever walk out of there alive . The acting performances are acceptable , some of the exteriors filming locations are pretty impressive and the last fifteen minutes are delightfully gruesome ! " Dead People " is recommended to purchasers of rare , offbeat horror cinema .
My Super-Bloody-De-Luxe Slasher Remake	Boy , did this movie ever have to stand up against a whole lot of prejudices before it even properly got released into theaters ! First of all it's a remake of an 80's slasher movie and , generally speaking these don't receive a very warm welcome from the horror-loving community . With good reason , by the way , if you remember crappy remakes like " Prom Night " , " When a Stranger Calls " and " Black Christmas " . Secondly it's a remake of an original that was never highly regarded at in the first place . The original " My Bloody Valentine " , released in 1981 and directed by George Mihalka , was a rather mundane and unspectacular follower of John Carpenter's " Halloween " in the Holiday-Horror cycle that almost never receives a mentioning when people list their favorite flicks of the 80's decade . And then finally this new movie is directed by Patrick Lussier , who up until now only has his name linked to inferior horror junk like " Dracula 2000 " and " White Noise 2 " . Many people , including yours truly , where therefore pleasantly surprised to see that " My Bloody Valentine 3D " turned out a hugely entertaining and gore-soaked slasher highlight of its generation . This is a totally unpretentious and incredibly fast-paced " Hack ' em Up " movie with stupendous 3D effects and a dazzling body count . The plot is intentionally kept simple and straightforward , though a few ambitious twists and effective red herring occur when approaching the climax , in order to treat the bloodhounds among us to even more engrossing massacres , gratuitous bits of sleaze and delightful throwbacks to typically 80's genre clichés . Set in the cozy and picturesque little mining town of Harmony , the story opens with the bloody ? and I do mean BLOODY ? rampage of a miner named Harry Warden . He got hospitalized after a dreadful mining accident caused by the boss ' young and inexperienced son Tom Hanniger , but exactly one year later he escapes and kills half of the hospital staff before returning home and literally crash into a Valentine's party . Tom Hanniger and a few of his friends his friends are the only ones left alive when Sheriff Burke ( Tom Atkins ? Woo Hoo ! ) finally puts an end to Harry Warden's bloodbath . Ten years later Tom Hanniger returns to Harmony with the sole intent to sell his father's mine , but he learns that many things have changed since the tragedy he more or less caused a decade earlier . His high school sweetheart is married to the new sheriff and cheats on her and the elderly population hates Tom for his plans to sell the mine . When the vicious killer dressed in mining outfit and swinging around a pickaxe returns as well , Tom is the prime suspect as well . Is he really guilty or did Harry Warden return from the dead ? " My Bloody Valentine " is a guaranteed horror crowd-pleaser with enough ingredients to satisfy the more experienced and skeptical " older " genre fans as well as young and over-enthusiast gore geeks . The special effects are stupendous , with pickaxes and severed human heads flying directly towards the audience , and marvelously over-the-top sanguinary ! There isn't too much atmosphere or suspense , as the emphasis mainly lies on excitement , but the few sequences inside the mines nevertheless evoke some feeling of claustrophobia and fright . The attempt to insert an unexpected twist at the end is admirable . Adequate acting performances from all the young cast members and it was really fantastic to finally see Tom Atkins ( " Maniac Cop " , " Night of the Creeps " , " The Fog " ? ) star is a worthwhile horror movie role again ! Great , mindless splatter amusement .
To Hell with all the negative reviews !	Wow , talk about a pleasant surprise ! I was expecting to see a terrible , bottom-of-the-barrel exploitation fodder from the seventies , but I ended up seeing a spirited cult gem that really makes the most of its minimal budget . The story introduces Howard Martin ; an introvert and rather nerdy young man who lives alone with his mother since his sister ran away from home . This event somewhat messed up Howard's brain , since he now picks up hitch-hikers in his laundry van and savagely strangles them if it turns out they're runaways from their moms . The subject matter certainly isn't original , since it's an ordinary serial killer on the road premise and the culprit is once again an oppressed mommy's boy ( " Psycho " , anyone ? ) . Still , the screenplay of " Hitch Hike to Hell " is well thought out and features some really clever ideas that immediately gained my respect . The setting , for example , is a middle-sized town that serves as a junction for the state's most important highways , which makes it extra difficult for the police to keep an eye on all the hitch-hikers . The drama-element of the story surprisingly isn't an obstacle and actually rather captivating . This is all very nice so far , but what REALLY sold me to this movie is the dared ending that you can't possibly see coming ! The image of what might happen will briefly cross your mind , probably , but there's no way you expect the film to actually execute it ! Watch and see ! There are some some dull moments and odd padding scenes to struggle yourself through , but the acting performances are quite good and the music is adorably kitschy . I really don't understand why some people write such harsh things about " Hitch Hike to Hell " . . . Definitely recommended if you're into rare cult stuff .
To euthanasia or not to euthanasia ?	I'm not entirely sure Rob Schmidt qualifies as a " Master " in the genre of horror , since he previously just directed one horror film called " Wrong Turn " and that one was actually just was slightly above mediocre , but fact is that he made with " Right to Die " one of the best and creepiest episodes of the entire second season of the " Masters of Horror " franchise . There was a similar underdog story in season one , when William Malone made on of the best episodes with " The Fair Haired Child " even though his other long feature films " Fear Dot Com " and " House on Haunted Hill " sucked pretty badly . The story of " Right to Die " cleverly picks in on the nowadays piping hot social debate of euthanasia , but thankfully also features multiple old-fashioned horror themes like ghostly vengeance , murderous conspiracies , pitch black humor and comic book styled violence . Whilst driving home late one night and discussing the husband's continuous adultery , the Addison couple are involved in a terrible car accident . Cliff walks away from the wreck unharmed but his wife Abby is fully burned and needs to be kept alive artificially . Whilst Cliff and his sleazy attorney ( Corbin Bernsen of " The Dentist " ) want to plug the plug on her and sue the car constructor , Abbey's mum sets up a giant media campaign to keep her daughter alive as a vegetable and blame everything on Cliff . Meanwhile Abbey's hateful spirit comes back for revenge and kills someone in Cliff's surrounding whenever she has a near fatal experience with the medical devices . After a few victims , Cliff realizes it might be safer for him to keep his wife alive if he wants to remain alive as well . " Right to Die " is a stupendous episode and exactly the type of stuff I always hoped to see from a TV-series concept like " Masters of Horror " . It's violent and gory with a sick & twisted sense of humor and loads of sleaze sequences . The euthanasia theme and the whole obligatory media circus that surrounds it is processed into the script very well , yet without unnecessarily reverting to political standpoints or morality lessons . The atmosphere is suspenseful and the killing sequences are suitably nasty and unsettling . Actresses Julia Anderson and Robin Sydney both have pretty face and impressively voluptuous racks , which is always a welcome plus , and Corbin Bernsen is finally offered the chance again to depict a mean-spirited and egocentric bastard . Great " MoH " episode ; definitely one of the highlights of both seasons .
Average Hong Kong smut , but with a fantastic finale !	Perhaps the extreme cinema of the Far East simply isn't my cup of tea , but I can't possibly be as praising about " Seeding of a Ghost " as most of my fellow reviewers around here . Moreover , if it hadn't been for the excellent last half hour and the downright brilliant end-sequences , I probably would have rated the film negatively . " Seeding of a Ghost " is a difficult film to get into ? It's all very hectic at first , with the introduction of numerous characters and the entire plot synopsis as described on the back of the DVD happening in the first 10 minutes already . Oh yes , the least you can say about this Shaw-brothers production is that it's a spirited and outrageous film ! An amiable-looking cab driver accidentally runs over a sorcerer and this uncanny figure promptly informs him that very BAD things will happen to him as from that moment . He sure isn't lying , as the cabbie's wife starts an extramarital relationship with a gambler and shortly after she's raped and killed by a duo of thugs . The heartbroken cab driver , after being suspected of the murder by the police , attempts to get back in contact with the sorcerer and develops a plan to wreak havoc upon everyone who was responsible for his wife's death . The whole building up to the supernatural vengeance ( which is , according to me , the actual point of the film ) is very incoherent and contains too many redundant moments . Considering the available budget , however , it's an adequately made film with a solid director and fairly stylish camera-work . Even though you sometimes haven't got the slightest idea what's going on , you keep watching because it's intriguing and because you inexplicably know that somehow your patient will be rewarded . And , indeed , then comes the sensational finale that instantly causes you to ignore everything that might or might not had bothered you until then . The gambler's pregnant wife literally SPAWNS a grotesque and hideous monster that repulsively butchers a whole bunch of unrelated party guests . It's a non-stop series of splattering blood and guts and it kind of feels like a crossover between John Carpenter's " The Thing " and Peter Jackson's " Braindead " . You don't have to be a horror specialist to realize there are far worse films to get compared with ! The make-up effects are deliciously nasty and the smutty monster is a very engaging little creation . It's one of the greatest closures to an average film I ever saw and it forced me to rate the wholesome rather positively after all . Recommended especially to cult-hunters and other sick puppies .
Jason never looked so good ! ! ( small spoilers )	Finally , Kane Hodder takes over the part he was born to play . Hodder is a huge and impressive stuntman who really makes Jason look like the horror icon he deserves to be : filthy , soulless and extreme . Either way , The New Blood is a very decent entry in the Friday series ! You can reproach the writers of the series a lot of things , but not that they're not trying to keep it interesting and innovating . Episode seven contains a really good attempt to give the movie more depth . The gorgeous Lar Park Lincoln plays Tina . She is extremely beautiful but also pretty disturbed ? She has telekinetic abilities and accidentally uses her powers to resurrect Jason from the underwater grave where he was left in part 6 . Now she'll have to try to fight him with those same powers that gave him life again ? Which more or less makes the entire last 30 minutes of this movie look like Carrie vs . Jason ! ! Other than this creative new element , all the traditional and effective aspects are present . A lot ? and I do mean A LOT ? of young and horny teenagers are waiting to be slaughtered in the most gruesome ways . The make-up effects are great and there is a lot of yummy female flesh to admire . Diehard fans of the Fridays certainly will consider this to be one of the best entries in the series and , maybe this film will even attract other horror fans . Favorite ' rewind'-scene : A large part of satisfying killing scenes in this one , but I think I can safely say that part 7 has the coolest killing in ALL the Fridays . A young girl in her sleeping bag is brutally smashed against a tree . Classic Jason-move ! !
Lawman ! ! !	Perhaps " Ghost Town " isn't one of the best horror movies of the 80's , but at least you'll have to admit the concept is refreshing , courageous , original and semi-successful . This one of the very few horror / western hybrids ever made and particularly the accomplished atmosphere is praiseworthy . " Ghost Town " maintains an unsettling and ominous ambiance throughout , and I have to confess that was certainly the last thing I expected to find in a Charles Band production . The basic plot and conceptual ideas ( thought up by David Schmoeller of " Tourist Trap " and " Puppet Master " ) are reasonably ingenious as well , but the script is sadly very incoherent and occasionally even forgets to make the slightest bit of sense . " Ghost Town " opens with the mysterious disappearance of a young woman who literally gets sucked into a time-tornado after being deviated from the main roads and chased by an invisible horseman . The young and straight-shooting deputy Langley follows her trail and ends up in a forsaken and seemingly cursed ghost town in another era . The town's dominated by an immortal and sadistic outlaw named Devlin , and he also kidnapped the young woman ( for reasons still unknown to me ) and keeps the cursed villagers under a siege of terror . " Ghost Town " often feels incomplete , as if several extended parts of the screenplay were left out . Many things remain unexplained , but you strongly feel that - somewhere in the original script - there must have been perfectly reasonable answers to all questions ; only the ended up on the cutting floor instead of in the film . There's the aforementioned WHY regarding the kidnapping of the girl , but also the background of Devlin's character remains too vague . Still , if you manage to overlook the few shortcomings in the script , you'll reckon that " Ghost Town " is actually scarier than most contemporary horror movies , and this even without the use of gory make-up effects or many gruesome killings . This movie has other trumps for generating suspense , like the sublime choice of locations , uncanny music and creepy characterizations . Devlin is a fascinating villain and Jimmie Skaggs did a tremendous job playing him . He looks menacing , talks nasty and just loves raising hell wherever he goes . I really enjoyed those copious times where he stood in the saloon or out in the streets , spotted the deputy and shouted out " Lawman ! ! " Other supportive characters are pretty cool & creepy too , like The Dealer and the blacksmith . The end sequences are a bit weaker again , but by then " Ghost Town " will already have made a lasting impression on you ? and it's most likely going to be a positive one .
Real human misery meets Mexican exploitation	Almost 20 years before Frank Marshall brought tears to your eyes with his mesmerizing epic " Alive " , there already was the legendary Mexican exploitation director René Cardona who used the same drama as an outline for his ambitious film " Supervivientes de los Andes " . The unforgettable fatal flight of Fairchild 571 that crashed in the Argentinian Andes on October 13 , 1972 . This terrible accident cost the lives of many passengers , most of them members of a professional rugby team . But 16 people of them were eventually rescued thanks to their strong will to survive and because they fed on the mortal remains of their unfortunate fellow-passengers . Of course you can't claim that this cheaply made and roughly edited film is better than the famous 90's version but I definitely appreciate and respect this film more . After all , an exploitation film demands a lot more input from both cast and crew while the big-budgeted Marshall film , although intense , feels more like routine money-making . The sets and special effects naturally can't compete with " Alive " , but " Supervivientes . . . " delivers an equally impressive sentiment of hopelessness and creates an even more nightmarish hell of snow . Cardona's film is ambitious , surprisingly compelling and easily one of the most remarkable Mexican productions ever . I am really astonished that Cardona's take on this story isn't more exploitative and explicit . The scenes where the deceased passengers are cut open and consumed are nevertheless hard to digest , but they only serve to increase the credibility of the catastrophe and to stress the inhuman conditions of the survivors . Rather praiseworthy for a vicious director who gained fame with his notoriously bad films like " Night of the Bloody Apes " and the Santo-series . The unknown young Mexican actors do a great job and the musical score is endearing . The story is well-known , of course , so the screenplay doesn't offer any unexpected shocks . Either by history or previously having seen " Alive " , you know which kind of dramas these people still have to endure before being rescued and you can only await them . Still , this is a good film that shouldn't be bashed like too often is the case .
Ambitious Italian thriller with obvious Giallo echoes	The era of illustriousness for the Italian Gialli movies is long over and gone ? more than twenty years already , in fact ? but ambitious Italian filmmakers occasionally still breeze in to deliver new movies with plenty of echoes to this wondrous sub genre of European horror / thriller cinema . Some fine recent examples of this include " The Unknown Woman " , " Eyes of Crystal " and " The Girl by the Lake " . Luigi Cecinelli's " Visions " arguably also ranks high amongst these chosen few , although the parallelism between this film and the authentic Gialli of the early 70's is much more subtle and indistinct . Giallo-obsessed freaks , like myself , will undoubtedly spot the likenesses , but to the majority of normal film-loving audiences " Visions " will probably just comes across as a convoluted but solid , suspenseful and very engaging psychological thriller . Andrea Del Monte's script is perhaps slightly over-ambitious and pseudo-intellectual for its own good , resulting into a confusing and improbable finale , but some of the basic plot-ingredients and ideas are deeply impressive . And even though director Cecinelli and writer Del Monte are relatively inexperienced , " Visions " is also a skilfully stylish , coherently structured and adequately shot accomplishment . The opening ten minutes are unquestionably the best and most memorable ones , as they cover the latest onslaught of the smart and seemingly unstoppable serial killer known as " The Spider " . In an attempt to rescue several of his captured victims at once , the entire police squad as well as the hostages die an excruciatingly painful death . The traumatized FBI-profiler Dr . Leeman resigns and returns to his previous job ; psychiatrist in a private clinic . A certain time later one of his patients , Matt ? an amnesia patient recovering from a car accident ? accidentally stumbles upon Dr . Leeman's notes and records on The Spider's case and begins to suffer from nightmarish visions that are accurately illustrating the infamous serial killer's deeds . Suspecting some kind of psychic or perhaps even physical link with The Spider , Matt digs deeper into the case , in assistance with a fellow patient , a sexy journalist and eventually even Dr . Leeman himself . " Visions " may seem predictable and fairly obvious straight from the beginning , but there's a lot more than superficially meeting the eye . It's a puzzle gradually getting more difficult to solve with each piece that falls into place and you only comprehend the complete picture when the entire puzzle is solved . Your initial guess regarding the denouement might be correct , but nonetheless there are several twist and turns throughout the film that are simply too complex to predict . I realize this all sounds extremely vague and maybe even bit misleading , but it honestly would be a shame to reveal anything more and risk spoiling a potentially surprising viewing experience . Try and think of " Visions " like some sort of odd but unexpectedly effective crossbreed of " Saw " and " The Usual Suspects " . The special effects are top-class and overwhelming , even a tad bit exaggerated sometimes , and there are a handful of moments of grisly violence . Hopefully this clever and zealous Italian production receives a proper distribution , as it deserves a wide audience .
Bad Guys Galore !	I remember , mostly back when it got released but even still now , dull critics and sour people in general simply categorized " Under Siege " as a lousy and uninspired version of " Die Hard " on a battleship instead of atop a skyscraper . Okay , this may very well be the most apt description imaginable , but that doesn't mean this movie can't awesome popcorn entertainment ! I usually restrain from writing about anything that isn't horror or cult cinema , but I gladly make exceptions for action flicks if they A ) are extremely violent and / or B ) feature highly memorable villainous characters . These two factors happen to be very well-presented in " Under Siege " . There's an enormous body count throughout the entire movie and the bad guys ? well ? they are simply what makes this film so darn enjoyable . I've never really been a fan of Steven Seagal and agree that if his role were to be played by Bruce Willis or perhaps even Sylvester Stallone the film could even be better , but it doesn't really matter all that much thanks to Colm Meaney , Gary Busey and Tommy Lee Jones . Particularly Busey as the treacherous and psychopathic commander and Jones as dangerously demented former special agent are so terrific that you'll often even forget Seagal wanders around the ship somewhere as well . A lot of mariners are gathered on the USS Missouri to attend a Pearl Harbour memorial but mostly to participate in the captain's birthday party afterwards . The ideal opportunity for greedy Cmdr . Krill ( Busey ) and a troop of mercenaries led by William Stranix to hijack the battleship and toy around with its huge arsenal of nuclear weaponry . One thing they didn't take into account , however , is the presence of the Captain's personal friend and acclaimed chef Casey Ryback . Ryback never really liked Krill ? maybe because the latter spat in his bouillabaisse ? ? and with his secret Navy SEAL past , the terrorists are up against an opponent much tougher than they bargained for . Exactly like it was the case in the aforementioned " Die Hard " , " Under Siege " benefits mostly from its claustrophobic and nearly inescapable setting . Director Andrew Davis admirably makes great use of the ship's dark interiors and ominous mechanical chambers by having his characters stroll around endlessly with their guns ready to fire away . This is definitely Steven Seagal's best film and it would have even been better if his character was a deaf-mute , or something ! His corny one-liners are terrible , but luckily he's often accompanied by the ravishing Baywatch babe Erika Eleniak ( who also treats us to a totally gratuitous but oh-so-welcome boobs shot ) or one of the baddies . Actually , I can't even be sure if this is Seagal's best film as I still haven't seen the majority of his not-so-impressive repertoire . I sincerely doubt , however , that straight-to-video productions like " Belly of the Beast " and " Urban Justice " can be any better than this modest action hit of the glorious early 90's .
Don't we LOVE Argento ? !	One thing concerning this film should be made clear immediately , otherwise several Dario Argento fans will risk being disappointed : " Do you like Hitchcock " is a TV-movie and therefore not as outrageous and / or shocking as we expect Argento films to be ! Don't prepare yourself to see another " Opera " or " Tenebre " in which repulsive gore will burst from the screen or demented giallo plot-twists stun you constantly ! This is a decent , but overall ethically correct thriller , in which the master's touch is only detected in details and style aspects . This is by no means a bad film and please don't see this warning as sign not to watch it , but I only want to prevent that people will start making comments like " Dario Argento continues to lose his touch " etc . . . As stated above , " Do you like Hitchcock " is the first in a series of eight films produced by the Italian TV-station Rai Uno that are meant to bring the ultimate tribute to Alfred " Master of Suspense " Hitchcock . His classic titles will serve as pivot elements in newly written thrillers , of which only the pilot film is directed by Dario Argento . This general idea is terrific for a homage , I think , and admirers of classic cinema will certainly enjoy the blend of all these Hichcock highlights in modern settings . Argento's film largely focuses on two Hitckcock milestones , namely " Strangers on a Train " and " Read Window " . Giulio is a young film-student who occasionally watches his gorgeous neighbor girl across the street with binoculars . He witnesses how she and her mother regularly argue and when the mother is found murdered one morning , Giulio becomes obsessed by figuring out who did it . He discovers that the daughter recently made acquaintance with someone at the local videostore . Giulio begins to suspect that the two persons agreed to commit a murder for each other , just as it was the case in Hitchcocks's " Strangers on a Train " . It's really nice to see how Argento blends all Hichcock references into one giant tribute . Aside from the two obvious titles , there are multiple other , smaller references towards Hitchock's oeuvre and , at times , you really do need to be a specialist to discover them all . The story is compelling enough to keep you interested and some really tense moments point out that Argento is still ? and will always be ? a powerful director . For example , there's a sequence in which the hero desperately tries to flee from the scene of a crime on a scooter , but secondary influences , like the rainy weather or technical difficulties , prevent him from getting away . Do not , repeat DO NOT , watch this film in case you're searching for nasty gore ! The few murder scenes are , however , rather unsettling ( and typically Argento ! ) but they surely can't live up to most of the director's previous work . " Do you like Hitchcock " is a worthwhile thriller and I personally rated it higher than Dario's last film , " the Card Player " .
Kids do the darndest things !	I can't believe I rarely ever see this title mentioned by all you eighties horror freaks and I definitely won't be joining all my fellow reviewers here in saying that ' Bloody Birthday ' is awful viewing . On the contrary , I enjoyed it very much and I was pleasantly surprised by the ingeniousness and surprise twists it offers . Don't just refer to this film as being ' another 80's slasher ' because the victims here are rather unlikely and so are the killers . We're introduced to three cherubic-looking youngsters who were all born during a solar eclipse . At the moment they were delivered , planet Saturn was blocked by both the sun and the moon and , due to this , the kids are emotionless and seemly without conscience . This really starts to show around their tenth birthday as they go on a merciless killing spree . Granted , this stuff is incredibility far-fetched and even slightly offensive but , seriously , who cares ? Unlike many other horror films from this period , it at least attempts to bring something original and imaginative . For once , the kids ' acting is good and the entire film has a creepy atmosphere and grizzly music . The murders sequences are grim and tense , and it's always eerie to see them getting committed by angel-faced kids . I don't know who hired the 3 kids but they did a good job . Especially the girl and the kid with glasses are highly memorable . The bleak images of the heartless trio remind you of classic highlights , such as ' Village of the Damned ' , ' The Bad Seed ' and ' Children of the Damned ' . This film is nowhere near as memorable as these milestones but great fun and not one horror lover will regret watching this . Bloody Birthday was written and directed by Ed Hunt . Not particularly the greatest genius in cinema , but a pleasantly deranged fella who also brought us immensely entertaining cheesefests like ' The Brain ' and ' Starship Invasions ' . If all this isn't enough to convince you yet , Bloody Birthday has a lot of nudity . And not just any nudity , but a topless dance-act by MTV-VJ Julie Brown . Oh , and keep your eyes open for a completely redundant cameo by Joe Penny , later the star of TV-series ' Jake and the Fatman ' . Check it out ! !
Sherlock Holmes VS . Jack the Ripper ? An elementary concept . . .	Sherlock Holmes , the brightest and most eloquent of all fictional detectives ever , on the trail of Jack The Ripper , the beastly London serial killer whose crimes mainly became notorious because they never got solved . It seems like such an obvious concept to process into a Victorian horror screenplay , and yet only two movies ( at least , to my knowledge ) are dealing with the topic of a showdown between these two legendary figures . I have yet to see the other one ? " Murder by Decree " - , but I can already safely say " A Study in Terror " is a vastly entertaining and ingeniously scripted film that respectfully blends the stylish trademarks of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's works with the much more fiendish ambiance surrounding the case of the Ripper's murders . Fundamentally , this means we're treated to all of Sherlock Holmes's witty remarks and fabulously far-fetched deduction skills as well as to grim and surprisingly nasty images of sadistic murders . Holmes becomes involved in the case of the murdered prostitutes when an anonymous individual mails him a surgical kit missing one item , which is the deadly scalpel . Thanks to his amazing investigating talents , carefully observing senses and with a little help from his loyal friends Dr . Watson and police inspector Lestrade , Sherlock Holmes does not only figure out who Jack The Ripper is ; he also reveals a related blackmailing network and boosts up the lackluster reputation of the condemned Whitechapel area ! The Ford brothers ' screenplay is rather confusing and doesn't always make sense , but the dialogs are extremely fluent and instantly cause you to overlook possible holes in the plot . Besides , you aren't supposed to guess along for the Ripper's identity , as Sherlock Holmes is always several steps ahead of you anyway . Speaking of which , John Neville easily is one of the finest British lads ever to depict Doyle's super-detective ! He's actually second only to Basil Rathbone , who portrayed Holmes 14 wonderful times in Universal's cycle . Neville plays Sherlock Holmes with the exact right doses of arrogance and sophistication , and he knows how to defend himself in a physical battle as well as in a verbal discussion . Donald Houston is almost equally brilliant as the slow but helpful Dr . Watson and there's a tremendously fun little role for Adrienne Corri as the eerily mutilated Angela Osbourne . " A Study in Terror " also masterfully captures the Victorian atmosphere with lavish set pieces , colorful interior filming locations and the enthusiast music , sung in the poor man's tavern .
Unorthodox-Copper Holocaust !	You just know you're in for one hell of a thrill-ride when the movie you're watching opens with a 10-minutes-long chase sequence on motorcycles ; through the crowd-infested streets of Rome and ending with a shocking execution that truly goes against all the rules of ethically correct police work . " Live like a Cop , Die Like a Man " is a work of genuine 70's exploitation , scripted by the multi-talented Fernando Di Leo and directed by the almighty Ruggero Deodato . Deodato is , without a doubt and hands down , the KING of exploitation cinema ! A couple of years before he dedicated himself to the notorious jungle adventures ( " Jungle Holocaust " , " Cut and Run " and , of course , his ultimate masterpiece " Cannibal Holocaust " ) and brutal revenge-horror ( " House on the Edge of the Park " ) , Deodato made his one and only " Polizieschi " movie , but it's definitely memorable & unique enough to rank among the best in the sub genre . " Live Like a Cop , Die Like a Man " is an indescribably sadistic and cynical film and it's very different from the usual efforts in the " Polizieschi " genre . These raw and explicit Italian crime-thrillers always introduce macho cop characters that shoot first and ask questions later , but at least they usually have good reasons for their very unorthodox investigation techniques . They either want to avenge a murdered friend or colleague , or they're on a tight time-schedule to rescue kidnapped children or recover a stolen treasure . ( Al ) Fred ( o ) and ( An ) Tony ( o ) , the two protagonists in Deodato's film , are different . They simply cross the thin line between justice and delinquency because they enjoy it ! Much more than any other entry in the Polizieschi sub genre , " Live Like a Cop , Die like a Man " glorifies extreme violence and nearly encourages people to take justice into their own hands . Fred and Tony terminate unarmed & defenseless gangsters , force female suspects into having sex with them , burn down fancy cars and invade private clubs for no real reason and they carelessly endanger the lives of civilians . And whilst they're performing their " jobs " , they never for one second stop to pay attention to their good playboy-looks and macho charisma . This film is fast-paced and multiple isolated sequences are terrific ( the hostage-situation ! The bank robbery ! ) , but the script as a whole sadly lacks continuity and depth . There's no actual plot , as Fred & Tony are simply hunting down Rome's biggest crime boss , Roberto Pasquini , and they eliminate a lot of his accomplices and random street scum during their ' assignment ' . Most other Polizieschi flicks have a slightly more intelligent script , but " Live Like a Cop , Die Like a Man " primarily benefices from sickening violence , gratuitous sleaze and unscrupulous controversy . The editing is sharp , the lurid 70's music is fabulous and Deodato's profound direction is brilliant and ultimately praiseworthy . I read somewhere that the motorcycle chases amidst crowded shopping streets and during broad daylight were filmed without official permission . Your name simply has to be Ruggero Deodato if you risk endangering the lives of unsuspecting civilians only to shoot credible and realistic footage of Rome !
Although the film itself looks dated , the screenplay is still one of horror's best and most unsettling !	Assuming that pretty much everyone knows about the plot of this film by now , I won't pen down another synopsis . . . Personally , I always thought that Roman Polanski's " Rosemary's Baby " is much more of an intelligently scripted conspiracy-drama , rather than a diabolical horror story . The most captivating element about this film is NOT the presence of witch covens and devil-worshipers , but the depressing transformation Mia Farrow's character goes through . Rosemary Woodhouse is introduced as a healthy and happily married housewife with a strong desire to raise a family but near the end she's a tormented woman , obviously hurt and disappointed by the people she cared for most . The screenplay of this classic title ? adapted from Ira Levin's novella by Polanski himself ? definitely doesn't rush things and establishes an atmospheric portrait in which it's never really clear whether the occurring events are real . . . or fragments of Rosemary's frustrated imagination . Polanski severely tests his viewers here ! You presume that the supernaturalness is there and that there really are witches , since you mainly witness it all from Rosemary's viewpoints but . . . Aren't we imagining as well ? The constant and brutal blending of reality and hallucination is what really feels disturbing here . . . And I can guarantee it's more genuinely disturbing than showing actual witch-rites or bloody massacres . This surely isn't a film for all types of audiences , since it's very slow and almost bloodless . If you don't approach the story in the right state of mind , many sequences will seem tedious and pointless . Many aspects also look quite dated by now ( woman luckily aren't as docile and obedient to their husbands anymore ) and the intense melancholia-tone often is very hard to digest .
Invasion of the VIRTUAL Body Snatchers !	I suppose a lot of difficult and pseudo-intelligent terms can be used to review David Cronenberg's " eXistenZ " but let's keep it simple , shall we ? Anyone remember how the 1956 Sci-Fi milestone " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " revolved on Pod People and how they transformed into identical versions of themselves that behaved entirely different ? Well , the storyline of this remarkable movie is basically the same , only there aren't any aliens involved here and the equipment moved with the times . These people in the not-so-distant future ( I think ) become pod people voluntarily because it's required to play the next generation of videogames ! Through some sort of biological port is your spinal column , games are linked directly to the nerve system and you literally experience the virtual events . Oh yes , once again Cronenberg's world perspective is pretty messed up ! " eXistenZ " is the name such a game and the plot handles about the female designer ( Jennifer Jason Leigh ) and a random security guard ( Jude Law ) fleeing from and battling against the opponents of videogames whilst playing it . That's the synopsis is a nutshell , but I can assure you this film comes with a lot of bizarre & complex twists and red herrings . Naturally you have the confusing type of situations in which the protagonists can't tell whether it's reality or fiction , the double-crossing supportive characters and , of course , the various fake endings before the actual denouement ( read : the most predictable one ) is revealed . Needless to say " eXistenZ " is a truly curious movie ? It's grim , depressing and extremely violent , but at the same time oddly fascinating and really full of ingenious elements . Some of Cronenberg's gimmicks are too insane for words , like for example the deadly gun compound of rotten Chinese food ( ! ) and loaded with human teeth ( ! ! ) . The explosions of violence are very graphic and definitely not intended for people with a weak stomach and / or a faint heart . But what else did you expect , since this is still a David Cronenberg project ! THE eccentric film genius that brought us unique horror / Sci-Fi highlights like " The Fly " , " Videodrome " , " Rabid " and " Scanners " . Watch it , but only in case you're not disturbed easily !
Bizarre horror highlight	Phantasm and its sequels is a popular horror-series , but not as big as the obvious franchises such as Nightmare on Elm street , Halloween or Friday the 13th . And that's a good thing because you can't really compare this ingenious muddle with mainstream slashers . Phantasm is a complete one-man Don Coscarelli project with a good share of morbidity , humor and extravagance ? all brought together in one major cool looking packing . The plot simply has to be to be believed . The Tall Man ( terrific charismatic performance by Agnus Schrimm ) is some sort of nightmarish grave robber . Immensely strong and ghoulish as he turns corpses into ugly little dwarfs , before shipping them out as intergalactic slaves ! How does this rate on your originality scale ? ! ? Phantasm contains other ( already legendary ) elements such as the deadly flying spheres that plant themselves into the victim's forehead and then perpetrates the brain . A pretty violent thing to see , but even more appealing when you're a horror fan . Regretfully , Phantasm also suffers from a few overwhelming negative aspects . Like the uninteresting main characters of the boy and his older brother . The stress isn't laid on The Tall Man in this first episode yet , and the ultra-cool Reggie ( an ice-cream vending guitar player with a ponytail ) hasn't got that much screen time , neither . The finale is a big letdown and a bit too confusing for a late 70's horror film . So far , 4 sequels have been produced . The first one ( released in 1988 ) is a highly recommended film with an overload of macabre splattering and black humor . At times , this first sequel was even funnier to look at than the original . All the other sequels can easily be skipped .
Hooray for Boobies !	King Russ Meyer is dead ? Long live King Meyer ! That must have been one of the mottoes director Jonathan Yudis treasured whilst shooting this indescribably demented but surprisingly successful tribute to rancid 70's exploitation , and more particularly to the fabulous repertoire of the Fellini of the Sex Industry ; mister Russ Meyer himself . " Pervert ! " has a weak premise , an incoherent screenplay , monotonous & uninspired cinematography and horrid acting performances ? but we wouldn't want it any other way ! It's a silly , brainless smut-production and it advertises a famous porn star's big breasts on all the posters , that is all you need to know ! Twenty-something James drives up to his father's isolated ranch in the desert to help him out with the chores during the summer . Father Hezekiah has clearly found some new hobbies since his wife died , like making females sculptures out of rotting meat and ? more importantly ? share the bed with the large-breasted Cheryl . James , understandably , wants a piece of her as well , which leads to father / son arguments on the ranch . Shortly after , Cheryl goes missing and Hezekiah new and equally voluptuous girlfriend turns up dead . The plot then takes a couple of grotesquely insane twists and ludicrous turns , and only truly die-hard exploitation fanatics will be able to tolerate them . The first words that can be heard in " Pervert ! " are the lyrics of a song that is spot-on and immediately determines the atmosphere of the entire film : " Baby , I'm so sick ? I'm so twisted . I'm a pervert , baby ! " . Hell yeah , everyone's slightly perverted ( or at least deranged ) in this movie ! " Pervert ! " is definitely inspired by the best work of Russ Meyer . For example , the compilation of moments when James & Cheryl have sex at various places around the ranch while Hezekiah is sleeping is clearly copied from " Supervixens " and the early scene with the yummy hitch-hiker is also a textbook Russ Meyer utopia . Adult movie star Mary Carey can't act , and she honestly isn't very attractive , but she sure has an impressive pair of blouse bunnies . Jonathan Yudis set aside an interesting role for himself as well , namely the nasty and sexually confused mechanic in town . He also rewarded himself with a totally gratuitous and unexpected kick-a-toddler moment , which was priceless . " Pervert ! " is a strange , gory ( some nasty butchering , too ) and totally moronic no-budget fan-boy flick that proves that grindhouse cinema definitely isn't dead . Warmly recommended to people with a bizarre taste .
God is not available at the moment . . . but Lucifer will gladly possess you !	After one failing attempt approximately a year ago , I really wanted to give this movie another chance , if it were only to struggle beyond those confusing and headache-inducing opening five minutes this time . If you consider watching " The Antichrist " , bear in mind that the intro is extremely hectic and unappealing but the movie quickly improves after that . We open at some sort of pilgrimage location where a Holy Mary statue supposedly cures crippled people and where a man possessed by demons jumps off a cliff . This introduction is overlong and the photography is really ugly . After that , however , we're more properly introduced to the female lead character . Ippolita is bound to a wheelchair since a car accident at the age of twelve and her lonely existence causes her to lose all faith in God . She becomes an easy target for Satan to possess her body & soul , especially when she also turns out to be the reincarnation of a 16th Century witch that was burned at the stake ( hypnosis brought that up ) . Overnight , Ippolita transforms into a Satan-puppet who seduces young schoolboys and dreams about wild sex with a guy in a goat mask who feeds her toad heads ! Her loving father , brother and priest uncle do whatever they can to save poor Ippolita's soul , but the Devil within her is strong and not at all planning to leave without a ' good vs . evil ' battle . Another reviewer righteously pointed out already that it's way too easy to label " The Antichrist " as being just another Italian " The Exorcist " rip off . It only turns into a shameless imitation halfway through the story , when Ippolita moves furniture with her mind and says naughty things similar to the lines Linda Blair driveled in " The Exorcist " . The least we can do is refer to this exploitation gem as a " Rip-Off DeLuxe " , as Alberto De Martino really bothered to add new ideas and even a couple of very interesting sub plots , such as the incestuous relationship between Ippolita and her brother and the alternative voodoo-treatment by a sleazy-looking religion guru . There are quite a few redundant sequences and the slow pacing often gets on your nerves but " The Antichrist " really isn't such a bad film overall . The only truly embarrassing moments occur when the film tries to look EXACTLY like " The Exorcist " , with green vomit and rotating heads etc ? Compensating for these flaws are a cool soundtrack , fairly adequate performances and a handful of stylish scenes near the middle of the film . Particularly the orgy-hallucination is hauntingly beautiful and more fascinating than any random sequence in William Friendkin's " The Exorcist " .
Ghost Story with Panache !	I anticipated watching this movie ever since I found out about its existence , and you know what happens in such a case , right ? Oh yes , all kind of secondary factors prevented me from seeing it right away . For some reason , " Dead Silence " didn't get a theatrical release in my country , it took much longer than usual for the film to become available in rental stores and ? of course ? the first couple of weeks when it was available I just wasn't fast enough and all copies ( in several different video stores ) where taken by other clients . Now that I finally watched it , I'm pleased to say that the film lived up to my expectations and that it was definitely worth the wait . " Dead Silence " is by no means a masterpiece of horror film-making , but it's a solid and at times effectively frightening film with a few nice plot twists and awesomely morbid imagery . I don't know what the deal is with dolls , and particularly ventriloquists ' dummies , but they are creepy as hell ! Presumably one of the reasons why I subconsciously looked forward so much to this " Dead Silence " is because we haven't seen any decent doll-movies since the 1980's . Unlike the writers and director's previous success-effort " Saw " , " Dead Silence " is fundamentally a ghost story . But luckily , and maybe because it's from the creators of the sardonic " Saw " , " Dead Silence " isn't anything like the overload of boring and mundane ghost stories we received from the Asian countries lately . This movie features grisly gore , genuine scares instead of false frights and misleading images and the ominous atmosphere is constant and nearly unbearable . Following a tragic and inexplicable event that abruptly ruined his marital happiness , Jamie Ashen returns to his small hometown Ravens Fair . He has to find out who sent him the eerie ventriloquist's dummy Billy , investigate the link with a creepy children's poem and meet up with his estranged father . The local undertaker informs Jamie about the curse of Mary Shaw . She was a ventriloquist artist obsessed with all of her 101 dolls and becoming one herself after she died . She placed a curse on the entire Ashen family after one of Jamie's forefathers insulted and humiliated her during a recital . The screenplay definitely isn't without flaws & shortcomings , and Donnie Wahlberg's character ( a wannabe witty police detective following Jamie around ) is unimaginatively irritating , but " Dead Silence " is overall a truly engaging and ambitious film . Even most of the supportive characters have interesting backgrounds , like the undertaker and his wife , and the throughout atmosphere of ancient fear within the town limits of Ravens Fair is clearly noticeable . The murders are eerie , the twisted denouement ? albeit grotesque ? is terrific , the music is moody and the dolls are massively creepy ! " Dead Silence " is warmly recommended to all fans of original horror movies and particularly to the people who cherish fond & nostalgic memories of such films as " Magic " , " Curtains " , " Dolls " and " Tourist Trap " .
Irresistibly silly B-movie Magic	" Big Trouble in Little China " is a bit of an outsider in John Carpenter's overall versatile repertoire , but it may simultaneously also be his most accessible and amusingly grotesque achievement . Basically and with a slight bit of imagination , this could simply be described as a cash-in on the Indiana Jones success formula . You know : adventurous movies where the actual plot and coherence of the script are secondary to the continuous action scenes and ingenious stunts . But , since John Carpenter is a skillful and multi-talented movie narrator , his contribution is so much more than a cheap and exploitative imitation , notably a widely imaginative spectacle with witty humor , eccentric situations and a thoroughly irresistible B-movie atmosphere . Even though I just finished the film , I can't give you a proper summary of the plot ( I wonder if anyone can ) but it all doesn't matter that much , since the emphasis here lies on geeky Kung-Fu battles , ancient Chinese myths and black magic and ? most importantly ? the stereotypical all-American hero character and his glorious non-stop self-mockery . Kurt Russell , in his third successful collaboration with Carpenter after " The Thing " and " Escape from NY " is simply sublime as the sleeveless shirt wearing trucker Jack Burton who suddenly becomes involved in a network of abduction , gang wars , Oriental black magic and monstrous entities ; all happening underneath the streets of San Francisco's Chinatown . One moment Jack's gambling with his Chinese pal Wang , the next he's up to his neck in big trouble , as it turns out the notorious Chinese sorcerer Lo Pan kidnapped Wang's fiancée in order to uplift a 900 year old curse . Jack and Wang team up with the few remaining reliable people in Chinatown , among them a sexy female attorney and a geeky tourist bus driver , and set out to clear the sewers from all supernatural demons . " Big Trouble in Little China " offers non-stop undemanding pulp entertainment and popcorn humor , and that's really all you can expect from a commercial 80's film hit . There's a nice and wide selection of comedy here , from deliberately over-the-top macho one-liners ( " This is gonna take crackerjack timing ! " ) to downright slapstick situations ( Jack firing his gun into the ceiling only for the plaster to fall on his head and causing him to miss the fight ) . The entire cast give away wonderful tongue-in-cheek performances , Kurt Russell on top , and John Carpenter's direction is as adequate here as it is in grim action flicks ( " Assault on Precinct 13 " , " Escape from New York " ) and disturbing horror movies ( " Halloween " , " The Thing " ) . The typically 80's synthesizer soundtrack is awesome and the special effects team clearly had a blasting good time as well , coming up with all sorts of flamboyant hocus-pocus gimmicks . By no means is this a film that will ever top my personal list of all-time favorites , but I certainly wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to anyone who enjoys an good over-sized portion of 80's B-movie nostalgia .
A really brutal horror experience . . . but fans will LOVE it !	Zombi Holocaust is one of the biggest pleasant surprises I purchased in a long time . And that's a really positive thing to say because you probably know this kind of horror films . . . Fully made and produced in Italy in the early 80's , these movies have like a dozen alternate titles and versions . Tons of similar movies like this were made during this decade but most of them only seem promising but disappoint in the end . Zombi Holocaust doesn't ! ! This movie is an extremely enjoyable mixture of all kind of interesting and nasty horror topics . Okay , the movie is called " Zombi " Holocaust and there ARE a few zombies to detect , but Zombie Holocaust is sooooo much more than that ! ! Actually , the plot of Zombie Holocaust is about a mad scientist / doctor who uses a tribe of cannibals to perform medical experiments on . Due to those experiments , the aborigines become zombies . Now , in that simple plot summary , we've had ZOMBIES , CANNIBALS and freakin ' MAD DOCTORS ! ! ! I don't know about you , but to me that already sounds like every fan's dream . And I can assure you that - if you have the privilege to watch the fully uncut version like I did - you'll have a true gorefest ! ! The level of sickness and utterly nasty scenes is very extreme and it even surpasses the work of undeniable masters in the field like Lucio Fulci and Ruggero Deodato in certain sequences . Zombie Holocaust contains a gruesome autopsy , many throats are being slit , faces and guts are being ripped off / out etc etc . . . the gore highlights really are numberless . If I have to pick one , I'd say the scene where a zombi is hacked up for barbeque by a propeller ! ! Classic need-to-see stuff for horror fans ! ! ! Furthermore , the plot contains many , many holes and the acting is abominable . Even though O'Brien shows a lot of potential as the freaky doctor , he's given too less screentime to impress you enough . And even though Alexandra Delli Colli has a gorgeous body , ( and she proves that multiple times by showing it ) she isn't much of a talented actress . But seriously . . . who cares about all these things ? Besides , bad acting is necessary for this kind of early 80's horror . . . it adds a lot more charm to the production . Zombi Holocaust is just a magnificent splatter movie that comes with my highest possible recommendation . I've only got to known this movie recently because of all the confusing aka's . It was listed as " Zombie3 " in my local videostore and as " Zombie Holocaust " in another . But there are just way to many Italian movies called like that to let it bother you . Seek this one and enjoy it ! !
Fell in love with an Alien-rip off !	Good , gooey , undemanding entertainment , directed by Luigi Cozzi ( " The Killer Must Kill Again " ) and more than obviously inspired by the huge success of Ridley Scott's blockbuster " Alien " . The most memorable sequence in that particular Sci-Fi classic involved one of the spaceship crew-member's chest exploding on-screen . If you were thrilled by that scene , and if you're a Sci-Fi / horror fan I can't imagine you weren't , you will absolutely LOVE " Contamination " , as Cozzi revolves his whole film on the given of nasty chest implosions . A gigantic cargo ship arrives in the New York harbor , but there isn't a crew member in sight . It's quickly discovered what happened to them , as a research team stumbles upon hundreds of big green eggs that explode when temperatures increase , and cause to implode anyone standing near them . The eggs are clearly extraterrestrial , but they're transported in coffee cases , so a female military major starts an investigation to find out who's shipping these alien murder devices to all corners of the world . " Contamination " has quite an intense and suspenseful opening , but then it rapidly becomes the gory and unscrupulous video-nasty it's reputed to be . The dialogues and acting performances aren't very impressive , but the gore is delicious and leaving very little to the imagination . Plus , the make-up effects are actually quite convincing and professional , not nearly as cheesy as in most other and often non-Italian " Alien " rip-offs . The ending is marvelous , as we get to see the Martian monster that breeds the murderous eggs and , I assure you , it's bigger and uglier than the average earth-chicken . Oh , another great Goblin score , too !
Dr . West still rocks after 13 years .	Stuart Gordon's Re-Animator based on a story by H . P Lovecraft was one of the best and most entertaining horror movies of the 80's . I became a huge fan after only seeing it once and I'm sure many people with me . I now watch it regularly and it's one of the favorite DVD's in my collection . Even the sequel , Bride of Re-Animator ( obviously a tribute to the greatest sequel ever made " Bride of Frankenstein " ) was also a very decent and enjoyable gore horror story . After that it became quiet around the character of Dr . Herbert West . Now , 13 years later , the director of the sequel and producer of the original decided to create a 3rd installment . Brian Yuzna is a great name in horror . His productions are mainly great fun and the ones he directed himself were often fun and violent movies ( Society , The Dentist , Return of the Living Dead part 3 ) Still , I feared this Beyond Re-Animator a bit . 13 years is a long time and it's almost impossible to live up to the original . Luckily nobody expected him to make another masterpiece . . . just a fun and entertaining horror movie that'll do justice to the series . And Beyond Re-Animator certainly isn't a failure in this point of view . The most important thing about it is that Jeffrey Combs returns as the dedicated scientist . He sure is the icon of this series and you can see that he really feels comfortable in his role . In fact , he's the only actor worth mentioning in this production because all the others look more like wooden dolls , actually . But that's alright . Jeffrey Combs is all we need . He always has been my favorite B-actor , anyways ! Brian Yuzna and the other co-writers make a good use of the elements that made the first two films so great . The living separate body parts crawling around everywhere . That's nice to see and it never becomes too ridiculous . There's enough blood and gore to satisfy the fans of the series . The story is rather simple . . . Dr . West is in jail but he sees his chance to continue his experiments when a young doctor is hired to work there . Dr . West found discovered an important medication . He's now not only able to reanimate the dead . . . he can let their nerves and brain function again . For a while at least . . . Beyond is pure fun and average horror viewing . It'll provide you with several laughs and a few disgusting scenes . A must see for the Re-Animator fans but not so much for the average horror or movie fan .
Beware of malevolent puppeteer !	John Carradine repeatedly claimed that Bluebeard was his favorite role to play ( out of a repertoire of over 250 films , that has got to mean something ! ) and I can only confirm that his ghoulish performance is the film's biggest strength . The Bluebeard-myth is one of the most intriguing premises in horror cinema ever and even though this isn't the famous tale with the " secret locked room in the castle " , it definitely is a haunting and unsettling murder story . " Bluebeard " is set in the beautiful city of Paris where the handsome Gaston Morell ( Carradine ) tries to earn a living by painting and street theater with self-made puppets . He's very popular among the Parisians and all the young ladies secretly hope to get seduced by him . But Gaston leads a dangerous double life as the feared " Bluebeard " who strangles women and dumps their bodies in the sewers . The film features very little violence and most of the story involves the police's search for the killer's identity . With the help of slick young women , the police attempts to ambush Bluebeard by presenting the girls as potential models for a portrait . Carradine's performance is really flawless ( those eyes ! ) and the direction is very well handled . Ulmer is a severely underrated director with several other genre highlights on his name , like " The Black Cat " , " Detour " and " The Amazing Transparent Man " . The film suffers a little from an anti-climax but it's especially worth watching for the acting and the stunning photography .
A light at the end of the horror-tunnel	With all this garbage they call horror coming out these days , you almost automatically become skeptic and negative-minded towards smaller productions before you've even seen them ! My expectations on " Lighthouse " were very low ( actually , I had none ) but it turned out a pleasant surprise and it's really not that bad at all . This even is ? do I dare to use the word ? a GOOD chiller with a no-nonsense plot , some atmospheric tension , impressively staged set pieces and even a couple of authentic shock / gore sequences . Don't expect originality , of course , as the screenplay is primitive horror material with a psychopath stalking and butchering a small group of people in an isolated setting . This setting , however , is very appealing since it's an island with only an ancient lighthouse on it and the people are survivors of a sunk prison ship . Following the old-fashioned Jason Vorhees traditions , the killer carries a machete around which makes the murders nasty and body country fairly high . Every cliché you can name features here , but I personally couldn't care less because this is a fun and unpretentious thrill-ride and nothing more . The Leo Rook character is the closest thing to a scary psychopath we horror fans have seen in years and writer / director Simon Hunter deserves some praise for knowing his classics . There are a handful of terrific sequences , like the actual shipping accident and the ' Vertigo'-like camera-work inside the lighthouse . The extended sequence in the loo is damn close to brilliant !
Abby Doesn't Live Here Anymore !	Man , those big shots over at Warner Bros . have absolutely no sense of humor and / or brotherly spirit ! Of course this Blaxploitation gem , as well as the Italian efforts " Beyond the Door " and " Lisa and the Devil " , is an obvious rip-off of their smash hit " The Exorcist " . . . Even the smallest child can see that . But was it really necessary to sue the makers and force them to take these drive-in favorites out of circulation ? This is just my personal opinion , but these bizarre imitations are much more amusing than the real thing . The plots are far more over-the-top , the language & make-up effects are usually a lot more extreme and they always feature an ( unintentionally ? ) comical atmosphere . " Abby " is a prime example of 70's fabulousness ! The plot is nearly identical to " The Exorcist " , but everything else is neatly adjusted to the " Blaxploitation " standards . We have a solid , experienced and charismatic cast , including William Marshall ( " Blacula " ) , Austin Stoker ( " Assault on Precinct 13 " ) and Carol Speed ( " The Mack " ) as the titular demon-possessed preacher's wife . When Bishop Williams accidentally releases the spirit of the malicious African deity Eshu , it somehow travels overseas and takes possession of the bishop's daughter-in-law Abby . The poor lady transforms from a deeply religious and loyal wife into a foul-mouthed , aggressive and luscious tramp . She talks with a deep voice , pukes all types of nasty-colored stuff and invades disco parties to seduce random black pimps . There's a minimum of tension and intellectual dialogs to be found in " Abby " , but it's reasonably fast-paced and very entertaining . " Abby " is cheap and doesn't contain any real special effects ( like rotating heads , for example ) , but still you should give it a chance . Perhaps I'm slightly biased , as I'm a giant fan of director William Girdler . He was one of the most versatile American horror directors of the 1970's , up until his tragic & premature death .
The Fantastic Ode to Senseless & Gratuitous Violence ; by Sly Stallone .	Now that he has reached the respectable ( at least , for an action hero ) ago of 61 , it seems as if Mr . Stallone can do whatever the hell he pleases ! At several times during watching the brand new and almost indescribably violent " Rambo " , it's almost like you hear Sly thinking : " Screw everybody , I'm doing this film MY way ! " And good for him ! " Rambo " is quite possibly the most nihilistic violent film with blockbuster ambitions ever released and , albeit entirely pointless and forgettable , it inarguably delivers thrills and great entertainment . And , pardon my bluntness , but ? if you walked into the theater expecting anything more than extreme violence and senseless shootouts , well , than you only have yourself to blame for the disappointment . John Rambo now peacefully lives in a swamp in Thailand , where he fills his days fetching venomous snakes and fabricating his own boat propellers . He turned his back on warfare as well as on peace initiatives , and when a group of American missionaries politely requests him to guide them over dangerous rivers & swamps in order to bring medicines to helpless villagers in Burma , he simply replies with " F the World " . However , when a beautiful female expedition member makes the same request , Rambo accepts ? But he still objects . And with good reason , of course , as the missionaries are captured and imprisoned by the sadistic Burmese army . The pre-credits opening sequence already illustrated that Burmese soldiers enjoy toying around with their POW's , like for example forcing them to run through an a mine-infested meadow and then still executing the ones who made it , so the volunteers ' fates don't look too hopeful . Hired mercenaries are sent in to free them and guess who joins the party ? ! If you really do feel the need to defend this film , you could always say the setting and background of the story are original and absorbing . No movie script ever revolves on the dramatic situation in Burma , probably because there isn't much foreign involvement in this war , but the documentary-styled images of famine and dying children at the beginning of the film are just as haunting and nightmarish as those of the wars in , say , Rwanda , Vietnam and Somalia . But seriously , in spite of the presumably ambitious political undertones , you should primarily watch this movie because it's John Rambo kicking arse ; more relentless and barbaric than ever ! There will be blood ? and lots of it ? but there will also be exploding heads , arrows through the eye , disembowelment ( how I love that word ) , slit throats and gigantic explosions ! One particular and extraordinary adrenalin-rushing sequence simply shows Sly operating some sort of powerful machine gun ( sorry , I'm not an expert ) for several long minutes and single-handedly massacring the entire Burmese army . You know what you're watching is preposterous and just plain wrong , but it's so damn freaking awesome at the same time ! Say whatever you want about Stallone , but he's still extremely fit for his age although I did appreciate that he kept his shirt on throughout the entire film this time . His acting performance is more than satisfying as well , and he receives excellent support from several other impressively build beefcakes ( Graham McTavish , Matthew Marsden , Jake La Botz , ? ) and the lovely Julie Benz . I wouldn't exactly recommend to see " Rambo " on your first date with that lovely girl you always dreamed of , but for all other occasions , this is great stuff , pure testosterone on film ! Oh and stunningly superbe soundtrack , too !
Desperately Domestic Housewives	Regardless of their final opinions , I agree wholeheartedly with every reviewer around here who stated that potential viewers of " The Stepford Wives " should completely avoid reading anything about it . Most of the reviews and even plot synopsizes blatantly reveal the events occurring during the last fifteen minutes of the film , and that really can't be the point since the first hour and an half mysteriously builds up towards that . I simply dropped an eye on the plot keywords and already the movie was more or less " ruined " to me , so I'll do my extra best not to reveal too much but that is difficult , seeing that even referring to similar films might be saying too much . " The Stepford Wives " is a fresh and engaging Sci-Fi / suburban black comedy , adapted from a novel written by the same guy who also thought up " Rosemary's Baby " and " The Boys from Brazil " ( what further recommendation do you need ? ) and atmospherically taking place in the typically ' small town with a dark secret ' setting . The pacing is rather slow and director Bryon Forbes patiently takes the time to draw the characters and the town's mentality , so this honestly isn't the ideal film for horror fanatics swearing by violent 70's trash & exploitation . On the other hand , if you appreciate moody ambiances and unusual concepts , I can warmly recommend " The Stepford Wives " . Housewife and amateur photographer Joanna Eberhart is a bit overwhelmed when her husband Walter suddenly decides to leave Manhattan and settle in the suburban dream called Stepford . She tries to adapt but simply doesn't fit in with the other women in town , since they are so frustratingly docile and obedient to their husbands . While the male population of Stanford gathers in exclusive clubs and do whatever they please , their wives can only talk about cooking and cleaning . Joanna eventually does befriend a couple of other newly-arrived women , but when their personas also abruptly change , she's convinced there's something very wrong in this town . The plot , build-up and denouement bear some obvious resemblances to another milestone in the Sci-Fi genre ; released first in the late 50's and once again in another and equally impressive version during the late 70's . Can't really state the title , but people with only a moderate interest in the genre will already know which one I'm referring to . But nonetheless , this movie definitely has its own solid character and personality ( pun intended ) and multiple sequences ? especially near the end ? are stupendous . Terrific acting performances from Katharine Ross and Paula Prentiss and the masterful musical guidance from Maurice Small contribute to the great power as well .
Elvis has NOT left the building just yet !	The Evil Dead series already made it pretty clear and ? after Bubba Ho Tep ? there's nobody who should question this statement ever again : Bruce Campbell is one major cool dude ! Campbell stars as Elvis . Old , fat and supposedly out of his mind , he's a resident in an East-Texas rest home . An ancient Egyptian mummy that has been stolen from a museum wanders around in the area , soul-feeding on the weak victims of the nursery home . Elvis , tired of his indigent and pathetic life , teams up with a black man who thinks he's former president Kennedy to destroy the mummy once and for all . The story of Bubba Ho-Tep is remarkably simple ? Too simple actually , and if it wasn't for Campbell and a few ingenious gimmicks , this would have been an unnoticed and forgettable comedy / horror film . Bruce gives away an outstanding performance and he is the KING in ways you can't imagine . The saddening , self-criticizing monologues he gives while lying on the hospital bed are some of the best lines in recent cinema and his charisma speaks for itself . Veteran Ossie Davis gives great feedback as the ' president ' , seeing conspiracies wherever he looks . The comedy aspects of Bubba Ho-Tep show right away , yet it also is a subtle drama , criticizing the way we often mistreat our elderly by placing them in a home and leaving them to their own devices . It is these outcasts that fight back here and save the day ! Bubba Ho-Tep is filled with appealing one-liners and imaginative findings . How about the idea of a 2000-year-old mummy writing stuff like ' Cleopatra does the nasty ' on a toilet's wall , like we all did in high school ? The film also depends on the professional directing skills of Don Coscarelli . He finally found a worthy successor for his classic horror franchise ' Phantasm ' , even though that premise was a lot more complex and horrific . Recommended to fans of pop-culture flicks and bizarre gems . One of the better genre films since the new Millennium . Hail to the King , baby !
I Love Lucio !	" One on top of the Other " predates the biggest successes of Lucio Fulci as a director and definitely his still on-going reputation as The Godfather of Gore . Yet , this is one best films he ever made and it unquestionably ranks among the most solidly plotted gialli ever ! From the first minute to the very last , " One on top of the Other " is a compelling thriller that constantly introduces mysterious characters and features clever red herrings until everything sorts out nicely in the astonishing denouement . The story is suitably set in San Francisco , where the infamous doctor George Dummurier owns a private clinic but spends most of his time on the road with his mistress Jane . When George's actual wife unexpectedly dies from a fatal asthma-attack , he receives a two million dollar paycheck from the insurance company . This naturally raises questions , as everybody knew that the couple wasn't happily married . The police suspects George of murder , but things get even more complicated when a nightclub stripper , who's the reflecting image of George's dead wife , is frequently spotted in his company . Despite also being known as " Perversion Story " , this movie mainly focuses on style and tension , and the only remotely gore sequence involves an autopsy on a decomposing body . The lack of further murders or sleaze is a bit of a weakness , but this is widely compensated by Fulci's concentration on coherence for a change , and the multiple tributes to classic Film Noirs and Alfred Hitchcock's repertoire . The acting performances are at least ten times better than usual in Italian horror productions , with Marisa Mell ( " Danger : Diabolik ! " , " Seven Blood-Stained Orchids " ) and Jean Sorel ( " Short Night of the Glass Dolls " , " Lizard in a Woman's Skin " ) really leaving a good impression . The music by Riz Ortolani is mesmerizing , as always , the choreography is often very imaginative and there's some splendid camera-work with multiple great shots of San Francisco locations . In case you're an admirer of story-driven crime films , or just Italian cinema in general , this is definitely a movie you should keep an eye open for ! You were the man , Lucio . . . And we miss miss you more every day !
' SUPER ' is the only word to use here !	Russ Meyer is a God who succeeds in creating his own utopist universe over and over again . This film is just brilliant , even though the entire prudish and easily offended world will never admit it . Yes , it's a sexfilm ? So what if it is ? And besides , apart from that it also is a truly ingenious comedy and a cruel satire . After his more pretentious ( but equally terrific ) portrait ' Beyond the Valley of the Dolls ' , Meyer falls back on the themes and ideas that gained him his first successes . This being the adventures and misfortunes of a young protagonist on the run . Falsely accused of murdering his girlfriend , a handsome man hitchhikes across rural America . Everywhere he goes gorgeous , voluptuous nymphs sexually harass the poor , poor guy ( ? ? ? ) . Isn't life hell ? Charles Napier is excellent as the psycho cop , while the ' vixens ' are too hot to handle ! Every single girl who walks through the screen here looks like a fantasy come true . Supervixens constantly features cheerful music and the screenplay is very funny . Although I can imagine not for all tastes , I personally laughed sick when the Austrian chick starts squealing German while making love ! Russ Meyer often reuses stuff that also featured in his earlier movies . Like the snakebite or even the entire climax which is a more explosive update of the ' Motor Psycho ' ending . Not too original but who cares ? He's Russ Meyer so he can do anything he wants ! A fellow fan stated in his user comment that you haven't lived until you see Supervixens , and I couldn't have said it better . A must !
Vintage 80's gore !	I only have one complaint regarding this incredibly fun and deliciously cheesy gem of early 80's monster-gore . . . It's way too SHORT ! Plain and simple : " The Deadly Spawn " rocks ! It's a fast-paced series of gooey make-up effects , exceptionally cool monster designs and likable teen characters . Writer / director Douglas McKeown ( why this guy never did anything else is beyond me ) doesn't waste any time , as the pre-credits sequence shows how a meteorite crash-lands on earth and out comes a very hungry creature that promptly devours a duo of campers . There's no actual plot and you certainly shouldn't anticipate any explanations on where the alien comes from or why exactly it selected this particular place to breed . Immediately after its landing on earth the " mother " - monster settles in a cozy basement and spawns hundreds of mean but strangely cute-looking little slugs with sharp teeth and an insatiable hunger for human flesh . As you can see on the DVD-cover image , the alien invader is a truly engaging creation and it looks surprisingly convincing despite the extremely low-budget values that were involved . It's a three-headed , eyeless monster with a gazillion teeth and bites people's heads off and gnaws the skin right off of their faces . Since this all shown rather explicitly and often in close-up , " The Deadly Spawn " even got listed as a notorious Video Nasty ! Well yes , the bloodshed is really enormous and some of the deaths are quite shocking , but nevertheless " The Deadly Spawn " always features a charming and tongue-in-cheek type of humor . There are loads of references towards great classic horror films ( also because the young hero is a horror movie buff ) and the acting performances are overall acceptable . For once , the recent DeLuxe DVD release did a good job restoring sound , lighting and colors . The disc quality is a joy to behold and you'd buy the film if it were for the magnificent cover design alone . This is , simply put , vintage 80's cheese & gore and no real fan of horror can afford himself to skip it .
100 % Testosterone-driven exploitation	THIS is a totally awesome , adrenalin rushing , down and dirty in-your-face 80's Italian exploitation effort , but of course you have to be cautious who you may recommend it to ! If you're , for example , attending a convention for people with an enormous IQ and you got a couple of hours to kill , you probably shouldn't suggest watching " Fists of Steel " because the script's intellectual value is rather questionable . Or in case you're a guest at a feminist gathering , I wouldn't advise mentioning " Fists of Steel " neither , as the film is literally stuffed with macho characters and typically male showdowns . In fact , to put it rather bluntly , " Fists of Steel " is a movie for guys , and preferably guys that like their heroes invincible , their women docile , their action & violence graphic & plentiful and their dialogs and story lines rudimentary . I'm not implying you have to be a retard in order to enjoy this film ( otherwise , I'd be one myself ) but it's merely a relaxing and undemanding film to watch after a hard day's work or together with a group of friends where there's loads of beer and pizza . " Fists of Steel " is basically an attempt to cash in on the huge success of James Cameron's " The Terminator " , but without the rather complex time-traveling structure and advanced character developments . In futuristic America , where acid rain hurtles down daily and breathing poisonous air may kill you , beefcake Cyborg Paco Querak is programmed to terminate a blind & crippled environmentalist whose movement is seriously annoying big-shot industrialist John Saxon . However , Paco's conscience prevents him from finishing the job and he flees into the Arizonan desert . He entrenches himself in a cheap & sleazy motel where he falls in love with the friendly owner , arm-wrestles against aggressive truckers and patiently awaits the army of hired killers to come after him . There isn't a single moment of dullness in this movie and I was actually sad when it finished . The arm wrestling contests are incredibly entertaining to behold ( muscles all over the screen ) , the car / truck / helicopter chases are extremely exciting and the fistfights are so harsh you can almost feel them . Daniel Greene is more than adequate in his heroic Cyborg-role but the supportive cast is even better with the almighty John Saxon as the über-bad guy , George Eastman as the jealous lead-trucker and Claudio Cassinelli ( who sadly died during shooting ) as one of the relentless hit men . Cassinelli's untimely death clearly caused a scripting problem , as his character is killed off screen . As always , Sergio Martino's direction is fast-paced and competent but nothing more than that . He was one of Italy's busiest and most versatile directors during the 60's , 70's and 80's , so don't expect too much typical trademarks or personalized styles as he just wanted to finish the job quick and proper . Claudio Simonetti , the multi-talented brain behind cult band Goblin , was in charge of the music and that's another reason for avid fans of Italian exploitation film to track this puppy down . Great testosterone-driven entertainment , love it or hate it !
High Crime deserves its High Rating !	In case you're looking for action cinema without restraints , boundaries , fake sentiment or political correctness , you have to aim your senses towards the so-called Italian " Poliziottesco " movies . That is a commonly known fact , or at least I always assumed so , but still this is a vastly underrated sub genre even among cult cinema fanatics . The same great names of Italian cult cinema often return , like for example those of director Enzo G . Castellari and charismatic lead actor Franco Nero . These two prodigies often worked together , but this is arguably their finest piece of work ( or at least on par with the terrific western " Keoma " ) . The words " awesome " and " brilliant " spring to mind when witnessing a movie that opens with artsy credits and promptly continues with an exhilarating and non-stop 10 minutes ( ! ) lasting car chase sequence and then a virulent explosion . The intro immediately sets the pace for a masterfully adrenalin-rushing and hardcore-to-the-bone cop thriller , reminiscent to " The French Connection " and " Dirty Harry " only much more outrageous . Franco Nero depicts the devoted and unstoppable police commissioner Belli , who initiates a merciless crusade to cleanse his city entirely of Mafiosi , drug couriers and corruption . Belli receives voluntary cooperation from a former crime boss , but he's undoubtedly doing it for his own benefit . The support from his superiors is minimal since several prominent citizens may be involved in dirty business and , whenever Belli reaches a major breakthrough in his investigations , they try and strike back on a personal level . The overall plot , with particularly the double-crossings and betrayals between crime gang members mutually , is extremely convoluted and often very confusing but the extended and mega-violent shootout sequences don't require a lot of thinking . The villains are truly relentless and loathsome thugs without a conscience whatsoever , but Belli isn't a wussy himself , as his investigation methods qualify as quite unorthodox as well . Without wanting to ruin things , I can safely say there are a couple of very effective sentimental and dramatic moments near the end of the film ? as well as some blatant shocks ? and " High Crime " ends exactly like it begun : with a long and fascinating explosion of violence and excitement . The score is terrific and Castellari once again proves that he's a visually very gifted director , as the stylistic trademarks are often stunning to behold .
A Paranoid Android's Gotta Do What a Paranoid Android's Gotta do !	The least you can say about Aaron Lipstadt's " Android " is that it is a bit of a maverick and rarity in the universe of early 80's cinema . In an era when people automatically associated the Science-Fiction genre with either hideous invincible creatures ( " Alien " ) or adventurous fantasy ( the " Star Wars " - trilogy ) , this movie actually attempts to make a character-study / drama using exclusively Sci-Fi characters . " Android " feels like a successful mixture between the themes of " Saturn 3 " and even the embittered atmosphere the almighty classic " Blade Runner " . That is highly ambitious and praiseworthy , especially since the credits list Roger Corman's name as an executive producer and during that time he was mostly infamous for his excessively violent and exploitative rip-offs . The always amazing Klaus Kinski gives a perplexing performance as a mysterious scientist , illegally constructing androids in a space-station far far away . Dr . Daniel is continuously preoccupied with his work whilst his android assistant Max 404 plays videogames and secretly craves to learn more about being a human . The arrival of three fugitive criminals drastically alters their existence . One of them is namely a woman , and both Dr . Daniel and Max are enchanted by her appearance albeit for totally different reasons . The good doctor finally sees an opportunity to research the possibility of a female android and Max discovers emotions he didn't even know existed . It gets worse when Max learns he's disposable and rebels against superior . " Android " benefits most from its witty and inventively written script . The film is most impressive when relying on substance and acting performances , as the special effects and decors appear miserably cheap and tacky . The " surprise " ending is efficient and unpredictably without being overly far-fetched . Kinski is , as said , genius is his familiar role of eccentric and slightly offbeat scientist , but Don Opper ( who also co-wrote the film ) is at least equally astounding as Max 404 . Not only does he look uncanny and artificial , but his grimaces and movements are truly spot-on ! Extra admirable is that neither Don Opper nor director Aaron Lipstadt had any cinematic experience before they worked on " Android " together . This may be an anonymous and underrated movie , but to me it's one of the most remarkable films of the 80's . Highly recommended .
Watch out boy , she'll chew you up . . .	Writer / director Mitchell Lichtenstein at least deserves some sort of symbolic award for coming up with one of the most original and refreshing new horror concepts of the last 10-15 years . In a time and era where the horror genre is dominated by remakes of older classics and vile torture-porn movies , Lichtenstein thought up an old-fashioned and tongue-in-cheek parody with mythological influences and a small-town-folks atmosphere . " Teeth " is a splendid little film and of the most pleasant surprises I encountered in a long while , especially because it successfully blends comedy and nostalgia with a handful of disturbing themes and uncanny gore effects . " Teeth " isn't the textbook title for the umpteenth wannabe eccentric vampire movie , but a modern day processing of the Vagina Dentata myth , which handles about women with teeth inside their vagina in order to scare off random men whilst waiting for the one right hero . Dawn's teenage years aren't the easiest ones . She lives with her terminally ill mother , stepfather and insufferably rebellious stepbrother Brad in a remote little town . She's a devoted believer of sexual abstinence and even encourages her fellow schoolmates to wait with sex until marriage . Her own principles are heavily challenged when she meets and falls for new kid in town Tobey , but she still manages to control her desires . Tobey can't , however , and he painfully experiences Dawn's physically build-in defense mechanism . The poor girl's in shock when she first sees the effect , naturally , but she gradually learns to use it as a protective tool against all the abusive and malignant men out there . The Vagina Denteta folklore tale mixes terrifically with the more typical drama themes in this film , namely the ' coming of age ' chronicles and the ' dysfunctional family ' portrait . This really isn't just another random horror movie , but a wide variety of relevant and identifiable stories with loads of genuine fears and sentiments . Dawn's abstinence beliefs as well as her mental restrictions and problematic family situation are extendedly portrayed before the toothed vagina even plays a role in the script . Once the first victim is castrated , " Teeth " definitely becomes more a more light-headed , gruesome and fast-paced film . Although definitely not being the bloodiest movie ever made , " Teeth " is likely to make a lot of ( male ) viewers squirm and squeal in their seats ! The castration sequences are quite uncomfortable and they gradually more sadist . For obvious reasons the toothed vagina never gets shown , but I imagine it to look somewhat like the jaws of the Kraken monster that attacked Johnny Depp at the end of " Pirates of the Caribbean : Dead Man's Chest " . The young cast is stupendous , particularly Jess Weixler as Dawn and John Hensley as her messed up stepbrother , and the film is literally crammed with unique little jokes and witty observations . For example , it's emphasized numerous times that Dawn and her family lives very near to a nuclear plant , and you're almost forced to assume the pollution will have something to do with the girl's condition , yet it's never confirmed or even hinted at any further . " Teeth " is a very good and innovative new film and comes highly recommended to all open-minded fans of cinema .
They're here . They're dead . . . Get used to it !	" American Zombie " is probably the biggest pleasant surprise I encountered in quite a few years and I urge every fan of cinema ? whether horror or films in general ? to check it out as soon as the opportunity occurs . The film is an odd and unconventional mixture between a zombie film ( duh ! ) and the so-called " mockumentary " ( people with hand-held cameras registering the unusual situation they find themselves stuck in ) . Just because of this label , I approached " American Zombie " with extreme caution and low anticipations . Let's be honest , the market for zombie movies already suffers from over-saturation since many years and the Mockumentary forms a suddenly unstoppable trend ( " Cloverfield " , " rec " , ? ) that yet has to prove its stability . George A . Romero also joined in on the combination of zombies and shaky cameras with his latest effort " Diary of the Dead " . Now , he's an acclaimed director and even the founding father of zombie cinema , but what to expect from a bunch of inexperienced documentary makers ? Well , I love being proved wrong when it comes to innovating and new film projects ! " American Zombie " is refreshing , original , intelligent , well structured and far more stylish than it has any right to be . The subject matter may sound ridicule , but writer / director Grace Lee presents everything in a convincing style and even the cast members , who have the difficult task of depicting plausible corpses , play their roles with a constant straight face . The script uniquely introduces resurrection from the dead as some sort of congenital defect , caused by a substance in the brain that is activated in case of a violent death . There are several categories of " Revenants " , varying from the absolute braindead to the living dead with most of their vital brain capacities still intact . Throughout a period of several days , a Los Angeles film crew follows four of these " intelligent " zombies and illustrates how they live their everyday afterlife , deal with all sorts of discrimination and desperately attempt to oppress their physical decomposing . Just like normal people , these revenants have different personalities , hopes , desires , sentiments and goals to achieve . Meanwhile the film also centers on the arguments between the filmmakers mutually , as Grace wants to maintain an objective viewpoint whereas John continuously confronts the revenants with provocative questions . The revenants ' stories and the crew's constant quarrels are already fascinating to behold , but the script is uplifted to an even higher level of quality through interviews with other groups . There are scientists listing the characteristics and history of the Living Dead , Zombie-haters ( displaying various ways to destroy a dead brain ) and Zombie-chasers ( similar to people who write love letters to convicts on death row ) . Seemingly without much effort , " American Zombie " succeeds in bringing a biting satire that subtly mocks modern social issues and media sensationalism , but simultaneously doesn't lose track of story depth and character drawings . There are multiple powerful scenes in the film and you honestly come to care for the revenants ? even though the maggots occasionally fall out of their bodies . " American Zombie " is also a rather atypical " Mocumentary " ( since there are still professionals in charge of photography , sound and editing ) so the amount of shaky camera movements and extreme close-ups are thankfully kept to a minimum . Highly recommended to open-minded cinema lovers .
Bela Lugosi . . . do I need to say more ?	Normally , I'm not a big fan of vampire movies . In the great genre that is horror , I think vampires are the least interesting characters . But of course there are exceptions . Like the very original vampires in Near Dark and Fright Night and the Dracula legend ! ! I liked Gary Oldman in the role of the bloodsucking count . I loved Christopher Lee and I WORSHIP Bela Lugosi in the part . Bela Lugosi doesn't play Count Dracula . . . he is count Dracula . I've never seen a person so appropriate to play a character . His eyes . . . his body language . Those elements make the entire movie . A legend was born in 1931 with this film . It'll be told many times but never again shall it be so magical with the use of so less material . In fact , there are no effects or make-up ( except the face of Bela ) and this is one of the only movies that doesn't need that . The things that are suggested are frightening enough . It must have been a great thrill to see this movie when it came out back in 1931 . I would have loved to be there . I surely wanted to live the feeling of fear when Bela looked you straight in the eyes from the big screen . The story is known by everybody . Count Dracula buys Carfax Abbey and together with Renfield ( who was made to his slave ) he travels to England . He meets Mina , the daughter of the owner of the mental institution which lays next to Carfax Abbey . Dracula is intrigued by her and tries to make her his bride for eternity . Mina's beloved Jonathan Harker fights back and also the very bright Dr . Van Helsing who seems to know a lot about vampires . He's the only one who can beat Dracula but the time to do so is limited since Mina is already under the influence of Count Dracula . This movie is part of the great Universal monster classics . Brought out in the same year as Frankenstein ( starring Boris Karloff ) this film made a little less impact on me , but still it's an undeniable masterpiece . The atmosphere hanging around it never saw an equal . I didn't knew anything the further life of Bela Lugosi until I saw Tim Burton's film Ed Wood . Bela sure did deserve a more respectful ending to his career . Oh , well . . . he shall always be immortal for his role here as the father of all vampires .
Child-friendly but definitely not childish !	Nearly 8 years and 6 films later , this was only my very first acquaintance with the Harry Potter franchise . I obnoxiously considered myself not to be a part of the target audience ( too old and anti-computer generated effects ) , even though the copious fantasy & horror ingredients always somewhat triggered my curiosity . I literally waited until this second installment in the series was programmed on national television and I was too lazy to switch the channel . It didn't take too long before I regretted having waited this long , as " Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets " is a vastly entertaining and impressively accomplished blockbuster . Obviously I can't compare it to anything else , as I haven't seen any of the other films and never even held one of J . K . Rowling's books in my hands , but you don't need comparison in order to know this is excellent fun to enjoy with a big pack of popcorn . According to most reviewing people around here , this second film is already a lot darker and more sinister than " The Sorcerer's Stone " and apparently the series gradually grew more mature . Me , I was already quite astounded with the amount and types of morbidity featuring in this . " The Chamber of Secrets " is child-friendly , but definitely not childish . Of course there aren't any explicit death sequences shown on screen , but there's loads of creepy stuff ( giant spiders , snake-monsters , spontaneously combusting birds , ? ) that I imagine can be quite nightmarish . Following a successful rescue operation executed by his gingered best friend Weasley , Harry Potter escapes from his insufferable distant relatives and heads back for Hogwarts to attend his second year of wizardry . Even during the journey already and especially upon their arrival , it becomes obvious there's something strange going on . Perhaps Dobby , the overly humble and nervous little elf who came to warn Harry about not returning to school , was right . The rumors about the Chamber of Secrets reopening itself are getting louder and louder . This never before found chamber allegedly homes a hideous monster that destroys all the students whose blood isn't 100 % pure wizard blood . Yeah okay , the plot is slightly more convoluted that this , but obviously I can't summarize 161 minutes of film and 360 pages of book in just a couple of sentences . The important thing to know is that " Chamber of Secrets " is a spectacularly fast-paced and non-stop adventurous film full of visual gimmicks and widely versatile fantasy elements . The cast choices are excellent . The child actors do terrific jobs and particularly the teachers at Hogwarts are stupendously cast . Richard Harris ( who passed away before the theatrical release ) , Maggie Smith and Robbie Coltrane are great as the ' Good Samaritan ' teachers , but my preference obviously goes out to the more malignant and eccentric characters . Alan Rickman as the uncanny Professor Snape and especially Jason Isaacs as Lucius Malfoy provide an additional eerie atmosphere with their presence and Kenneth Branagh shines as the hoax magician and wannabe media superstar Gilderoy Lockhart .
Castle of terror and screams . . .	During the early 90's , the greatest horror films made a change in location . Southern European countries like Italy and Spain became the home of the best horror . Sure they already made a lot of brilliant horror ( with Mario Bava , Dario Argento and Lucio Fulci ) in the earlier decades but back then the American horror also was a lot better . Stuart Gordon , always one of the most talented horror movie makers , jumped right on this trend and shot this film on a beautiful location in Italy . Stuart Gordon already made some all-time favorite horror films in the 80's . The brilliant " Re-Animator " and the amazingly intelligent " From Beyond " still stand as few of the best horrors in that decade . When it comes to purely comes to the level of entertainment , Castle Freak is a not that good but Gordon manages to add some great dramatic scenes to this film . There even is a little room for sentiment . Not too much but just the right amount for a horror film . But die-hard Re-animator fans don't have to fear because there still is plenty of gore and blood as well . The make up effects are perfect as ever in Gordon's film and it's nowhere near " cheesy " . Gordon really is the best horror director alive and he had the chance again to work with his ( and mine ) favorite cast members . Jeffrey Combs is brilliant as ever in his leading role and he sure proves here that he can handle the more serious roles . He's my favorite B-movie actor and I'm still hoping that he'll get famous all over the world one day ! Barbara Crampton's role is a lot less expressive than the one she had in From Beyond but she still is adorable . The dramatic atmosphere fits her very well . Castle Freak is very underrated and it's often left out when talking about good recent horror . Certainly recommended to the fans of this terrific genre . What shall follow below is a small summary of the story . It contains SPOILERS and I advise you to stop reading if you want to be completely surprised by the movie yourself . . . SMALL SPOILERS HERE ! ! ! ! It's about an American family that is already torn apart when they hear the news they've inherited an old , big castle . The wife can't stand her husband anymore since he was responsible for the death of their son . Still both of them move to Italy together along with their blind daughter . The castle isn't completely forsaken , though ! The son of the Duchess who lived there first is kept hidden in the darkest dungeon of the castle . He has been there since 40 years while everybody thought he was dead . He escapes and filled with lust and frustrations he starts to terrorize the castle and anybody who dares to enter it . END SPOILERS ! ! !
Underrated but creepy and original thriller	Maniac Cop was written by a genius in the field of horror . Larry Cohen , who also brought us the undeniable cult classics " It's Alive " , " God Told me To " and " The Stuff " . The script of this late 80's thriller really makes the hair on your neck rise . One of my favorite thrillers for a bunch of reasons . Two of my most favorite B-movie actors are present . That's always an extra reason to give it attention . Bruce " Ash " Campbell and Tom Atkins , who became immortal to me since he starred in Night of the Creeps . There's a new cop on the streets , but you won't feel safe . . . A city is terrorized by a brutal killer who dresses like a cop . This sure causes a lot of commotion and citizens start shooting at every cop they see . Detective Frank McCrae starts an investigation to clear the name of Jack Forrest . this latter one is suspected to be the " Maniac Cop " because his wife ( who he was cheating with a female colleague ) was one of the unfortunate victims . McCrae finds out a whole other theory but it contains a huge cover up story that even involves the mayor . . . Along with Theresa Mallory , the love interest of Jack , they hunt down the real maniac and tell his horrifying story to the outside world . . . Maniac Cop is often overlooked when it comes to creepy 80's thrillers . I prefer calling it a thriller instead of horror by the way . It certainly contains horror elements , but in general you can't compare it to the typical slasher-films . I'm not saying it's a masterpiece but I'll sure keep you focused for 90 minutes and you're heart will be beating faster when the ending credits start to roll . Bruce and Tom give away great performances as ever and the Maniac Cop played by Robert Z'Dar will leave a big impression to you . It got two sequels and even they are entertaining . Overall , a good trilogy by director William Lustig , but if I only may recommend one I choose for this original . An ideal movie to see when it's late at night and you're all alone . . .
Better than all the Ringu's , Ju-on's and Jian Gui's together ! !	Perhaps I'm one of the only avid horror fans who thinks that the recent overload of Asian shockers is so over-hyped ! Films like " Ringu " or the " The Eye " ? which are praised all over the world ? simply didn't convince me and they looked more boring than frightening . Well , this blunt opinion doesn't go for the South Korean gem " A Tale of Two Sisters " . This is a stylish and utterly complex psychological terror-tale that REALLY gets under your skin ! The plot , based on a local folklore tale , might be a little too confusing to get this film listed among the all-time greatest genre achievements , but the atmosphere and tension-building surely provokes feelings of great respect . This is one of those few films that are impossible to label : the events in " Two Sisters " qualify as mind-bending horror as well as intense family drama and a deeply psychological portrait . Besides a mesmerizing story , " A tale of Two Sisters " also has all the great elements that I feel are usually missing in Asian horror films like compelling music , good acting and innovative camera-work . The mansion were the family events take place is brilliantly illustrated like a truly creepy place where secrets and danger lurk behind every door . Several sequences ( like the dinner with relatives or the nightly appearance in the girls ' room ) are pretty much the ultimate in eeriness . They really made me feel uncomfortable and I do like to believe that I've seen my share of spooky horror . " A Tale of Two Sisters " is a terrific movie-adventure and a definite must see for Asian film fanatics . A little warning for people with a short attention-span , though : this movie forces you to have your eyes and ears focused at at all time . It's also a film that requires repeated viewing , even though no one will never really " get it " for a full 100 % .
Hits you in the face like a ten ton hammer !	Holy Macaroni ! Believe the hype , folks . . . this really IS one of the most shocking , confronting and raw movies ever made ! It actually is one of those rare purchases that makes you wonder what the role of cinema is in modern society . Irréversible certainly can't be classified as ' entertainment ' , that's for sure . It merely looks like a brutal eye-opener , highly unpleasant to watch at times and it sometimes makes you even feel ashamed to be human ! Some of the stuff here goes beyond your most feared nightmares and could easily provoke depression , anti-social behavior and anxiety among influential viewers . It's real-life drama and that makes it so powerful and shocking . Irréversible is told backwards , ' Memento'-style if you wish . . . only it's a lot more effective here as it was in Memento , which actually was a pretty boring and extremely overrated movie . This very simple backwards-structure aspect gives Irréversible the opportunity to implement a couple of unique and rarely seen style elements . The first half hour ( which actually is the end of the story ) smacks you in the face right away sets the tone for a non-stop , raw experience . Also , you don't really get to know the characters until the last chapter ( which is actually the beginning of the film ) The characters are a riddle to you constantly and you can't symphatise with any of them , since you just know too little . Through wild camera movements and simplistic techno-music , a claustrophobic and horrifying atmosphere gets created and the violence is really hard to digest . The infamous scene in which Monica Belluci brutally gets raped is one of the most perverted things I've ever seen . It seems to go on forever and you can really visiualise the painful hell the poor girl is going through . I'd call Irréversible a successful combination of ancient , rough exploitation and modern art-house film-making . The brutality portrayed here is typical for the euro-shock cinema but the stylish shooting lifts it up to Cannes Festival material . Cult as pure as it comes !
Attention all shoppers , there's a huge sale on our blood & gore collection , isle 5 !	Right at the end of the 80's , a horror decade ruled by violent slashers , comes one of the coolest independent productions ever unleashed upon us , gorehounds : Scott Spiegel's " Intruder " . It looks like the most basic and primitive slasher ever made ( the story can be summarized in one phrase , namely , a group of supermarket employees are all brutally murdered by an unidentified maniac ) but if you observe " Intruder " more closely , you'll find plenty of peculiar aspects that proves that this film definitely outshines the majority of late 80's horror films . First and foremost , the names involved in the production . Sam Raimi ( by then very famous already for his " Evil Dead " films ) and Lawrence Bender helped realizing " Intruder " and , even though the budget possibilities were still very limited , their presence is an added value . Secondly , there's the truly ingenious camera-work ! The film takes entirely place in a familiar setting ? a local supermarket like every town has one ? but all the different and innovating camera angles add an unexpected amount creativity and playfulness . But the obvious element to love is , of course , the very high level of nasty and unhinged gore . One by one , all the cast members are killed in the most repulsive ways imaginable , using typical supermarket-attributes like meat hooks and garbage chutes . The murders are graphically shown , so this film isn't for the faint-hearted , but there's also a large amount of pitch-black humor to enjoy , as well as shockingly unhappy ending ! " Intruder " is a must-see for all you sick puppies out there , just make sure you purchase an uncut version ! !
Tumors Are a Girl's Best Friend	Demented , preposterous , gloriously grotesque ? William Girdler's " The Manitou " truly epitomizes all reasons why low-keyed rip-off's of 70's horror classics are often much more entertaining and worthwhile than the originals themselves . This is basically a variation on " The Exorcist " ( although undeniably an imaginative one ) , with familiar reoccurring themes like supernatural possession , the drivel of unknown languages and the inevitable battle of good versus evil . In spite of Girder's attempts to maintain a serious atmosphere and despite the fact the script is adapted from an acclaimed novel written by Graham Masterson , " The Manitou " is one of the craziest films I've ever beheld . The main premise , which I'll describe slightly more detailed hereunder , is already quite ridicule , but then the screenplay also features traitorous Tarot Card readers , elderly ladies throwing themselves down a flight of stairs , explosive séances , senile anthropologists and a totally misfit end-moral that " love " conquers all types of evil . Karen Tandy , a friendly young woman who never harmed anyone in her life , consults a specialized doctor regarding a nasty lump in her neck , which grows at an alarmingly fast rate and even appears to be moving from time to time . Perplexed with the testing results , the doctors have to acknowledge that , instead of a tumor , there is actually a fetus growing on poor Karen's neck ! Not the ' oh , look at the cute baby'-type of fetus , but the reincarnation of a 400-year-old and malicious Native American medicine man ! Yikes ! The doctors attempt to remove it , but the Indian fella - Misquamacus , or something like that - naturally sabotages the operations . Meanwhile , Karen's ex-lover and non-believing Tarod Card reader Harry seeks the help of genuine modern day medicine man John Singing Rock for the inevitably upcoming exorcism rituals . Okay , quite wacky stuff thus far , but the script goes completely bonkers AFTER Misquamacus emerges from his lumpy home . Eventually the great , almighty Indian Manitou simply turns out to be a miserable midget with one glass eye and one helluva bad temper ! Misquamacus can summon monstrous lizards and even Satan himself , yet he's unable to break through a simple circle of sand and the " spirit " of an ordinary typewriter knocks him KO . The climax centers on one major hilarious hocus-pocus battle in an improvised cosmic environment . I know it sounds like the oldest cliché saying in the book , but you simply have to see it in order to believe your eyes . " The Manitou " is a masterpiece of pure camp . The special effects are pretty dazzling , and that even includes the colorful fireworks during the finale , there's not a single moment of boredom and acting performances are far better than they have any right to be . Heck , the whole film is worth recommending if it were for Burgess Meredith's awesome cameo as the confused anthropologist alone . The set pieces , scenery and locations are just as berserk as the plot , as the hospital is full of awkward machinery that doesn't seem to have any medical functions at all . They're just there because they have colorful lights and look sophisticated . And William Girdler clearly loved the Golden Gate Bridge , because the film is stuffed with postcard images and extended pan shots of it . This last paragraph is entirely dedicated to William Girdler , because the story of his career is at least as tragically and saddening as " The Manitou " is entertaining . Girdler was clearly horror-obsessed at young age already and remained extremely busy during the next six years of his well-filled but painfully too short career . He delivered his directorial debut at age 25 , with the gritty redneck-horror flick " Three on a Meathook " in 1972 , but then he quickly specialized in cashing in on contemporary popular trends in the horror industry . He made his very own violent-cop-above-the-law flick ( " The Zebra Killer " ) , as well as Blaxploitation films ( " Sheba , Baby " , " Abby " ) and a Satanic Cult movie ( " Asylum of Satan " ) . His most famous film , apart from " The Manitou " , is the notorious Jaws-on-land classic " Grizzly " and stayed in the animals-versus-humans area with " Day of the Animals " . As incomprehensible as it may sound , Girdler never received the praise and recognition he deserved . " The Manitou " would become one of the highest grossing films of the year 1978 and his breakthrough accomplishment but , ironically enough , he didn't even live to experience the premiere on the big screen . William Girdler died at the tender age of 30 , when his helicopter crashed whilst spotting locations for already another film . With NINE fine movies in just 6 years , imagine what he could have achieved if he hadn't sat foot in that helicopter ?
This fuel will cost you even more than an arm and a leg !	" Blood Car " is a witty , refreshing , inventive , daring and surprisingly self-preserved new horror comedy that turned out a hugely pleasant surprise ; especially since I set my initial expectations very low ( as I always do with new low budgeted productions that try to blend gore and laughs ) . Horror ? good horror , that is - and comedy are two opposite genres that usually don't merge together very well , but the young ( the guy is not even 30 years old ) and clearly visionary director Alex Orr seemingly pulls it off without too much effort . This is probably because Orr stayed far away from the regular / classic horror themes ( like vampires , zombies , werewolves ? ) but actually processed current and involving news headliner issues into his script . The ever increasing gasoline prices are piping hot news at the moment , so it was just a matter of time until a clever scriptwriter would come up with the idea of cars running on blood or other horrific material . " Mad Cowgirl " is another example of a horror movie that slyly cashed in on current events ( the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease ) , but " Blood Car " is much better that that one , since it remains unpretentious and coherent at all times . In the near future we'll all be incapable of driving our car since the fuel prices are set at $33 per gallon and continue to increase non-stop . Archie Andrews is a vegan kindergarten by day , but at night he's an alternate fuel source researcher working on an engine that runs on wheat grass . Accidentally , Archie discovers that blood is much more efficient than wheat grass and builds himself the world's first and only car with a human meat grinder in the trunk . Needless to say Archie suddenly becomes extremely wanted amongst women and he even ignores the cute veggie-drink salesgirl in favor of the voluptuous and kinky meat stand bimbo . But in order to keep their relationship exciting , Archie's car needs blood ? gallons and gallons of human blood ! The concept of " Blood Car " is indeed grotesque and ludicrous , but so is the entire tone and pacing of the film . The gags vary from absurd ( like luring a girl to the trunk with the excuse of puppies hidden there ) to exaggeratedly offensive ( killing small animals with BB-guns , stuffing crippled war veterans into the trunk or even shooting a schoolgirl at close range ) , but they are all extremely funny . Alex Orr also knows all the horror clichés and stereotypes by heart and he's definitely not afraid to use them . The ending is even more terrific than I could have imagined it , as Archie is considered a true hero and savior of the nation in spite of all the murders he committed . That's the American way ! The make-up effects are good old-fashioned shlock and camp and the occasionally " amateurish " elaboration actually counts as a good thing here . " Blood Car " is definitely a gem to cherish and Alex Orr a name to remember .
A landmark in Horror	One of the most popular horror films ever made . After nearly 20 years it still scares the hell out of you . SPOILERS : Panic breaks out under a group of teenagers when they find out they all have the same nightmares . They all dream about an awfully mutilated man with a disturbing red ' n green sweater and knives for fingers . Tina is the first to die , she gets cut in her dream but keeps on bleeding when her boyfriend wakes her up . Tina's best friend Nancy seems to be the main target now . She realizes this and doesn't dare to go to sleep . When she does , she haves fights with the guy and gets hurt . Then she finds out who this maniac killer is . His name is Fred Krueger and her mother tells her he used to be a child killer . He escaped his punishment and the parents took the law in their own hands . They set fire to his shed and he burned to death . It seems now that he's back where the parents can't protect their children . . in their dreams . Nancy realizes that Fred is too powerful in her mind so she comes up with a plan to bring him out with her when she awakes . That way , he can be beaten , she thinks . . . Starting from the opening credits , you just know this is gonna be great horror . With very scary theme music in the background , you see a mutilated pair of hands create a glove with sharp knives attached to it . This movie has got everything it needs : teenagers you don't care whether they live or die , a horrifying maniac and great make up effects . This original , written and directed by Wes Craven , got a lot of sequels . Some of them were really enjoyable , some of them were pure crap but nothing beats this first one . Also very memorable : when the opening credits say : " introducing Johnny Depp "
Kitsch , a Werewolf and an utterly mad scientist ! What more could you wish for ?	This is a really cool movie and , no ? I'm not joking ! The Mad Monster is a pleasant and fairly original camp-film obviously trying to pick in on the Universal Monster successes . But who cares if it can't live up to the preciously wealthy production values of those films ? I sure don't and especially not since it features werewolves and insane men of science which are my two top favorite horror topics ! It stars the infamous B-movie legend George Zucco as the very devoted ? but equally insane ? scientist Dr . Cameron who got banned from the academic community because of his unethical and inhuman experiments . Cameron plots a violent vengeance on those who discredited them and with his groundbreaking new formulas he manages to turn his slightly retarded gardener into a ravenous werewolf . While his cute daughter is unaware of what happens in her father's lab , Cameron sends out his creation to devour his scientific competitors . I can't stress this enough : this film is fun ! Not very scary , of course , and the werewolf-transformations & killings mostly happen off-screen . And even when they do make an attempt to use special effects or make up it looks really cheap and kitschy . So , lovers of new-age computerized gore should avoid this at all costs . Zucco is really terrific and the madness can be seen in his eyes throughout the entire film ! He even holds imaginary meetings in his basement , trying to convince the world his visions are brilliant ! I love this ; Zucco surely ranks amongst cinema's most memorable demented doctors . Glenn Strange also was an outstanding casting choice to play the not-so-clever guinea pig . Strange looks an awful lot like Lon Chaney Jr . who made himself immortal one year before by playing ? . The Wolf Man ! If you're intrigued by undiscovered horror gems , werewolf horror films or just ordinary cult-amusement this is your film ! Highly recommended !
TRY to fall asleep after this ending !	Judging by the unspectacular synopsis and unremarkable VHS cover art , " Don't go to Sleep " looks like one of those random and unremarkable made-for-TV thriller / horror films of the early eighties , but it actually becomes a pleasantly surprising and rewarding experience when you finally decide to give it a viewing chance . This is a genuinely creepy , hugely atmospheric , convolutely scripted and originally themed thriller with astonishing acting performances from the entire cast ( including the children ) and a couple of jump moments you aren't likely to forget throughout your whole life . There isn't any gore or sleazy here , since it's a TV-movie , but the solid screenplay all the more proves that not a single drop of blood is required in order to saddle up the audience with nightmares . The movie begins with a family of four moving into grandmother's big house . Some time earlier , their oldest daughter Jennifer died in a horrible car accident and particularly the other daughter , Mary , had a rough time processing the loss . Already the first night , it seems as if the restless and furious spirit of Jennifer rudely attempts to get into contact with Mary through eerie noises and even by setting her bad on fire . Apparently Jennifer blames her entire family for her untimely death and seeks vengeance through her little sister . Or perhaps it's just Mary who still hasn't dealt with her death and requires urgent psychiatric help ? With " Don't go to Sleep " , director Richard Lang builds up slowly but surely towards a devastating and indescribably tense climax that literally left me speechless . Throughout the middle section there are a few loose ends and slightly incoherent sequences , but the last 15 to 20 minutes are sheer adrenalin rushing creepiness . Even the inevitable and necessary dose of melodrama ? following the death of another young child ? is extremely well handled and plausible . The movie owes a lot of its power and impact to the terrific performances of the entire cast , and particularly of the three child actors depicting the family's offspring . Usually , child characters in horror tend to be very annoying and even prevent the films from being shocking , but that definitely isn't the case here . Oliver Robbins ( the kid from " Poltergeist " ) is more than decent as the sister-teasing brat son , and Robin Ignico and Kristin Cummings are both tremendous as the deadly girls ' duo . Never knew little girls wearing traditional dresses could be this scary ! If you're a real thriller / horror buff , don't sleep before you track down a copy of this marvelous film !
TERRIFIC tale of the supernatural !	The plot of this film is rather confusing and not so involving , yet this is largely made up by the incredibly tense atmosphere and the beautifully dark filming . It really is one spooky sequence after another in this film and that's a rare quality for horror films . The title character Lemora is a female vampire queen who entices the young and fragile girl Lila Lee back to her birth region with the excuse of her gangster-father dying . The girl , who has been looked after by a strict reverend almost her entire life , begins a mysterious journey through a grim world filled with ferocious characters that are only out to take advantage of the innocent young child . When the girl eventually meets Lemora herself , it becomes clear that this latter has carefully chosen Lila to join her in the everlasting , blood-sucking life . . . The atmosphere and premise of " Lemora " are somewhat comparable with the series of European lesbian vampire-movies that Jean Rollin made ( Lips of Blood , The Living Dead Girl , Requiem for a Vampire . . . ) . Only Richard Blackburn's screenplay obviously puts the emphasis on morbidity there were Rollin goes straight for gratuitous nudity and explicit violence . This film is amazingly suggestive ! We're exposed to very few atrocities on-screen , yet every character the cherubic Lila runs into is a potential pedophile or pervert , offering her candy and favors . Heck , even the caring reverend and Lemora herself aren't free of sexual sins . . . It's truly haunting how all this is illustrated in the movie . " Lemora ; a child's tale of the Supernatural " easily is one of the most unsettling films I ever saw ! The score is very eerie and there's so much great scenery used that I can hardly mention it all . This isn't a very bloody film , though . The opening sequence , involving a gun massacre , leads you to believe that it will become an outrageous gore-flick but , don't be fooled , the psychedelics starts immediately after . Beautiful and haunting film , especially recommended to fans of atmosphere-driven horror movies and obscure cult-stuff .
Pure amusement ! Sushi horror de luxe	This team-up between the almighty Hammer studios and Shaw Brothers resulted in a very imaginative and exciting movie and I'm quite sure it easily could have been regarded as a classic if only the script was a little more solid . The Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires now simply is an entertaining fusion between Kung-Fu and vampirism , yet not good enough to be highly memorable . It all starts out terrifically , with a Chinese pilgrim traveling " many moons " in order to reach Dracula's Transylvanian tomb and to bid him help . Help to resurrect seven infamous Chinese bloodsuckers that once terrorized the population of a small Chinese village . Dracula isn't the only one heading for China as his arch enemy Dr . Van Helsing goes on an expedition to unravel the myth of the Asian vampires as well , accompanied by his son , a Swedish widow ( dreadful English accent included ) and a small army of martial-arts siblings . Van Helsing faces the 7 golden vampires that are now minions to the almighty Count Dracula . The acting performances are very weak ( with the exception of Peter Cushing who clearly amuses himself and simply is an outstanding horror actor ) but especially the guy who plays Dracula fails in his role ? . So weird not to see Christopher Lee in this role , by the way . Even though the idea of blending them in a horror movie is original , the Kung Fu fighting scenes take far too long and there are too many . Really good news for the horror fanatics , however , is that " Legend of the 7 blah blah blah " contains lots of bloody sequences and particularly the nasty decomposing process of the undead is gruesomely shot . Aside from the vampires , Roy Ward Baker also throws in a bunch of zombies , which always helps to increase the fun-level . It's eventually the incoherent plot that prevents this film from being a real success . The initial surprise effect of mixed styles is weakened near the end by uninspired twists and the tedious use of settings . Enjoy the flamboyant sequences and the overall light-headed tone as much as possible and don't ask yourself too many questions .
Herzog's " small " triumph	I'm almost ashamed to say it but . . . this film truly TERRIFIED me ! Usually speaking , this is like one of the best compliments a movie can ever receive , but I'm afraid that in the case of " Even Dwarfs Started Small " this feeling is very misplaced . Werner Herzog's minor masterpiece is intended as an allegoric social portrait , hence I'm not very proud to admit that it haunted me all night long . As wrong and unsympathetic as it may come across , these little people look naturally eerie and their appearances made an impression on me that was even stronger than the mesmerizing story . " Even Dwarfs Started Small " is a revolutionary film , pretty much covering all the daily wars every human being wages , only the protagonists are all dwarfs . Since these people's position in society already are oppressed as it is , this film looks extra powerful and compelling . All the actors and actresses deliver amazing performances , even though none of them had any experience in cinema . Especially the ' main ' character Hombre is a truly intriguing man . Other aspects that increase the depressing intensity of this film are the black and white cinematography , the extended sequences showing farm animals and ? most of all ? the raw , tribal music . This definitely was one of the toughest reviews I ever wrote , simply because this is such a multilateral classic and I regretfully can't get past my personal fear of small shapes . . .
Eccentric ? ? ? . Maybe a little	Ever since I showed interest and sympathy for the more bizarre efforts in cult cinema , people have been recommending me to check out the oeuvre by director Russ Meyer . This peculiar director and scriptwriter is often named the maestro of American Cult cinema . Unfortunately , his movies are pretty hard to find ( at least where I'm from ) and they rarely ever receive a decent release on DVD . After finally having purchased Beyond the Valley of the Dolls , I can fully second the statement that Russ Meyer truly is one of a kind and certainly a director to check out entirely . Perhaps the weirdest thing about this film is that it was co-written by the respected and Pulitzer price-winning critic Roger Ebert ! This - usually - very harsh critic joins the Meyer-madness here gladly . I doubt Meyer's typical style will appeal to many people but for the more developed cult-fans , his colorful tale of ' Hollywood Vixens ' is a true joy to observe ! You might as well call it the definition of cult ! It has everything : from bizarre and extremely eccentric characters over subtle ( and less subtle ) humor to explicit violence , sexual images and drug abuse . Wild parties are thrown in this film and offensive orgies are held . you can't imagine it yourself wild enough and Meyer adds it to his movie . Some of the biggest taboos are taken care of here shamelessly , like Nazis , drag queens , lesbians , unfaithful behavior and even abortion ! ! Keeping in mind this film was shot in 1970 , this is a pretty remarkable achievement to say the least . BTVOTD also has a terrific soundtrack and pretty likeable acting performances . The leading girls do a pretty good job in making themselves believable , even though they're rather inexperienced . Needless to say they're stunning beauties in the first place . Especially Cynthia Meyers in the role of Casey ! She's a true cult-Goddess and a wet dream for many men . yours truly included . BTVOTD ends with a truly absurd and explosive finale that easily can be considered as one of the weirdest twists in cinema history ever ! Yet , I'm very careful in recommending this film to a large public . chances are that you'll be very disgusted by this movie or even loath it terrible . Therefore , I only recommend it if you're used to seeing quite an amount of weirdness already and you're not too quickly offended .
Killa Bunnies Are A-Coming ! !	Long before Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez even considered the idea , other ambitious fan-boy directors already attempted to revive the Grindhouse cinema . Of course , these directors were inexperienced and unknown , so their movies never properly received the attention they deserved . Todd Morris ' " A Gun for Jennifer " is a prototypic example to state this theory . Judging by the story content , the gritty filming style and the excessive amount of graphic violence , it is plain obvious that Morris watched way too many exploitation & trash movies as a kid and then suddenly decided one day to gather together a bunch of friends to shoot his very own and cheap homage to 70's Grindhouse cinema . Well , I can only applaud Todd Morris and everyone else involved in this production , as I could only dream about realizing such a project of my own . Everything about " A Gun for Jennifer " is extremely basic and gratuitous - subject material as well as the elaboration - but that doesn't necessarily mean it's bad . Quite the contrary even ; a straightforward plot , amateurish acting and clumsy camera-work are almost fundamental characteristics in order to achieve an authentic Grindhouse movie ! Todd Morris borrows and even shamelessly copies several elements from older films , notably " I Spit on your Grave " , Abel Ferrara's " Ms . 45 " and the virtually unknown " Rape Squad " . It's about a beautiful young woman who flees from Ohio to New York City , for reasons explained later in the film , and almost immediately becomes the victim of scum rapists . She gets rudely rescued when a van full of tough chicks passes by and kills the rapists without hesitating . The girls apparently all work together in a nightclub and , since they got a little fed up with the endless amount of unsolved rape cases and various other acts of violence against women , they decided to form some sort of vigilante posse and roam the streets at night . Since she has nowhere else to go and because , after all , these women rescued here , the girl ? choosing the false Jennifer ? joins the gang . She gradually gets sucked more and more into a world of vengeance and violence , but also the fanatic female police detective Perez comes closer to uncovering their identities . What we have here , my dear fellow smut & exploitation fanatics ( as you are the only ones likely to read the comments for this type of movies ) , is an almost perfect tribute to politically incorrect early 70's trash ! The characters are complete stereotypes ( all men are scum , all women are tough mothers ) , the sleaze-level is extremely high in spite of very little nudity shown on screen , the soundtrack and photography make you feel uncomfortable and the violence is uncompromising to say the least . Although bringing little variety in the killings , " A Gun for Jennifer " is literally a bloodbath of a film and particularly the climax goes far over the top in depicting sick and sadistic ferocity . Deborah Twiss , who also co-wrote the screenplay , as well as her girlfriends aren't likely to win any major acting awards in their careers but the have the exact right looks , charisma and tough facials expression for this kind of role . The soundtrack is simply amazing and contains some marvelously apt songs . If you want to know what I'm referring to , just look up Moloko's " Killa Bunnies " on YouTube ! Purely talking in terms of good cinema , " A Gun for Jennifer " probably doesn't deserve a rating any higher than 5 or 6 , but I'm generously giving an 8 for sheer respect towards Todd Morris and his crew .
A must for everyone who speaks Dutch ! !	I never thought I would like this movie , but it turned out to be one of the biggest surprises in Belgian cinema history for me . My expectations were really low because of a few indicators . It's based on a book by the famous Belgian writer Willem Elsschot . It's thick and boring . They actually tried to force me to read it once when I was in school . I didn't read it and took pleasure with my F . Some of my former classmates did read it and they said it was dull , difficult and most UNinteresting . Also , I was even less enthusiast when I heard Robbe De Hert was set to direct Lijmen / het Been . He may be Belgium's most known famous director but he usually tries to be too controversial and two of his previous films ( Blueberry Hill , Brylcream Boulevard ) were failures because of that . But enough with the complaining , after all . . . Lijmen / het Been is a very good movie and not at all hard to follow . The actors very well cast and the use of decors and settings of Belgium in the 1930's are just GREAT ! ! There's plenty of humor , drama , sentiment and even a bit of suspense to detect in the whole finished product . SPOILERS Mike Verdrengh ( a true Belgian TV legend ) is brilliant as the sophisticated swindler who publishes a sort business magazine . With a lot of smooth talk and promises , he knows how to convince many people to make a special issue of the magazine around their company . Most of the people who're talked into this by him end up all broke and bankrupt . The weird title " Lijmen / het Been " ( roughly translated " to glue / the Leg " . . . yeah , I know . . . weird ) refers to both how he made his biggest deal AND the element that brought him down finally down . " Lijmen " is an expression that means smooth talking and " Het Been " refers to the handicap his last costumer suffered from . . . a wooden leg . The whole story is told through a flashback but the story is pretty chronological . No Pulp Fiction or Memento style in other words . There really are good Dutch and Belgian films out there to discover . We may not have the best reputation when it comes to cinema but we do exist . Lijmen / het Been proves that . Cinema buffs will certainly recognize the original ( and still beautiful ) Sylvia " Emanuelle " Kristel as the prostitute . Highly recommended , but please don't watch it dubbed in English , German or any other language . . . This is one of the few times that the Dutch language really does justice to the quality of the story
Grade-A perversion story	Despite realized with a large budget , despite featuring eminent names both in front and behind the camera and despite scoring reasonably well at box office , " Quills " is quite a popular movie among the fans of primitive and out-of-the ordinary exploitation movies . This selected group of cinema freaks ( myself included ) usually avoids the big blockbusters , but still took the effort to check out " Quills " and label it as a successful amalgamation between mainstream film-making and cult . This has everything to do with the legendary character of Marquis de Sade , whose notorious writings were ? and still are ? a rich source of inspiration for underground movie makers . Just think the sleazy classics directed by Jess Franco ( " Jusine " and " Eugenie " ) or Pier Paolo Pasolini's hugely controversial classic " Salo , or the 120 days of Sodom " . These are genuine cult gems and , naturally , the avid fans are interested in a full-feature film dedicated to the life of the Marquis . I don't know how accurate Doug Wright's screenplay really is when it comes to details , but it's generally known that Marquis de Sade indeed spent several years locked away inside a mental asylum and indeed he nearly got executed for spreading literature of perverse nature . Unlike I expected , " Quills " doesn't focus on how the Marquis ended up at the Charanton asylum or how he managed to convince the ordinary chambermaid Madeleine to smuggle his sex-laden stories to the outside world for publishing . The film merely revolves on how the Marquis continues to express his perversely wicked imagination even after the hypocritical Dr . Royer-Collard confiscated all of his writing-material . The absolute greatest sequences in " Quills " center on how he thinks up new stories and writes them down on sheets , walls and clothes using basic equipment like chicken bones and even his own blood and faeces . Talk about dedication ! The more his opponents realize this man is impossible to censor , the more unendurable his living conditions at the asylum get . Especially when Dr . Royer-Collard's under aged wife runs away with a young and potent architect , clearly influenced by Marquis de Sade's graphic novel " Justine " , his stay at Charanton turns into a living hell . " Quills " is a fascinating film that surprisingly doesn't hold back on strong sexual content and violence . Listening to Geoffrey Rush's insanely perverted imagination , you often get the impression you're actually watching a sleazy and exploitative 70's gem , but with the masterful set-designs and costumes of a fancy Hollywood film . Speak of the devil ; Rush obviously enjoyed depicting the Marquis and literally his every grimace and monologue is performed with diabolical delight . Michael Caine , in a rather unusual role , is perfect as the ill-tempered ' curer of evil ' , hypocritically hiding himself behind a veil of religion and political protection . Kate Winslet and Joaquin Phoenix are adequate performers but rather miscast in their roles of well-meaning supporters of artistic freedom . And , last but not least , another reason for horror fanatics to check out " Quills " is that it features numerous gruesome images of severed heads , attempted rape , cold & uncanny interior shots of a Napoleonic asylum and naughty young girls .
Hard-boiled action from start to finish	You can say a lot about John Carpenter . . . . but not that his visions as a director are limited . He's responsible for milestones in two of my favorite genres of cinema . Horror ( Halloween , the Thing ) and Action ( Assault and Escape from New York ) . Carpenter was a multi-talented director around the time this movie was shot . He was a master in creating unique suspense and atmosphere and he was way ahead of his time . The futuristic image his portrays here is exceptional , depressive and disturbing . Therefore , Assault on Precinct 13 is an absolute MUST for action-fans and cult freaks . Small SPOILERS coming up ! ! ! ! ! ! ! The plot of Assault is surprisingly simple . Several characters are introduced briefly and after a certain incident they get united in an abandoned police station . From that moment on , these different types of personalities have to fight for their lives and stick together . They're kept under siege by violent gang-members who set their mind to slaughtering everybody inside the station . How simple this may sound , it's a lot more effective than most other far-fetched movies . Carpenter manages to create a claustrophobic atmosphere in his movie that lasts for almost the entire movie ( also thanks to his intense and creepy musical score ) . The bad acting is a bit disappointing you have to keep in mind that Carpenter worked with a limited budget and rather inexperienced actors . The little weaknesses in Assault are widely compensated by the explicit violence shown on screen . For several sequences in this movie , you need to have a pretty strong stomach ? Especially when watching his most recent films ( like Ghost of Mars and Vampires ) you can't help wondering what the hell happened to John Carpenter ! ! He seemed to have lost every bit of his ancient talent . His modern movies are uninspired , pointless and not at all memorable . You can't go wrong if you stick to his classics ? like this one . Highly recommended ? Oh , one more thing ? . Assault on Precinct 13 contains the most brutal and shocking slaughtering sequence I ever saw ! ! You'll know which one I'm talking about when you see it . Enjoy ! ! !
Nak Nak Nakking on Heaven's Door !	Here we have something totally unique : an Asian ghost story ! That's not unique at all , I hear you say ? Well , it is if you bear in mind that " Nang Nak " comes from Thailand and hasn't got anything to do with the overrated and rather weak stream of Japanese horror movies , such as " Ringu " , " Ju-On The Grudge " and " The Eye " . The film is based on a perennial Thai legend that apparently everybody knows over there and finally received a reasonably well-budgeted and international-orientated film version now ! The legend revolves on the happily married couple Mak ( the man ) and Nak ( the wife ) and is set in the second half of the 19th century . Mak is very reluctant to leave his pregnant wife to go and fight in the war , more particularly because she's expecting their first child . When he returns home , still recovering from the loss of his best friend in battle as well as a near-fatal chest wound , Mak finally hopes to find peace and quiet with his beloved family . But something changed here , too ? Friends and neighbors keep telling that Nak died whilst giving birth and that Mak only lives together with the spirits of his wife and child . " Nang Nak " is one of those extremely rare films that successfully blend romance and genuine drama with horror ! This film is as moving as it is frightening and , trust me , it's REALLY frightening at times ! The story is pretty intense and heartbreaking , mostly thanks to powerful performances , yet the horror elements are definitely not ignored and multiple images are almost too grisly to process . For example : One minute , you observe the romance between two people and the next ; you're watching eerie rats eating the corpse of a murdered woman ! Near the end , the film becomes even more horrific , with exorcisms and burials all around , and STILL the story remains incredibly poignant . Not only the substance is amazing , mind you . " Nang Nak " might easily be the most stylish and beautifully photographed Asian film ever made ! A giant amount of sequences , albeit unrelated to the basic story , are truly mesmerizing to behold and illustrate sunsets , animals , wildlife and agriculture . It's almost like watching an educational National Geographic documentary AND a great movie at the same time ! Highly recommended !
Take A Look At My Face , I Am The Future !	Right from the opening minutes already , when the legendary Alice Coopers croons the cheesy but catchy and oh so apt punk-rock theme song " I Am The Future " , you just know this will be a genuine and unhinged classic in the field of 80's trash / exploitation cinema . The eighties were relatively more civilized & polished , but luckily enough " Class of 1984 " is deliciously old-fashioned and very 70's ; meaning shamelessly gratuitous and raunchy ! Supposedly this is a modern update of an acclaimed 50's movie called " The Blackboard Jungle " starring Glenn Ford and Vic Morrow , but ? even without having seen the original version - I heavily suspect the juvenile delinquents of that film to look like angelic choirboys in comparison with the psychopathic and anarchistic punk-kids of Lincoln High in " Class of 1984 " . This is more like a mingling between " A Clockwork Orange " , " Death Wish " and " The Warriors " , but all set within the walls of an everyday American high school in a not-so-distant future . The ambitious and idealistic music teacher Andy Norris starts his new career at Lincoln High , but immediately notices that the entire school lives under the terrorist reign of gifted thug Peter Stegman and his gang of crazy lackeys . The more Mr . Norris attempts to make the school a safe and educational environment again , the more vicious and personal Stegman's reprisals become . Rather than opting for the boring Michelle Pfeiffer approach , our teacher realizes that only way to oppress authority is by fighting back . The coolest thing about " Class of 1984 " is unquestionably how campy , OTT and wannabe sensationalistic it is . The opening sequences want to make us believe that the entire school is an uncontrollable wasteland ( with security devices at the entrance and vulgar graffiti everywhere ) even though there's only just one tiny gang of five punks running amok . All the other pupils are goody-two-shoes like , for example , a nerdy Michael J . Fox in one of his first film roles . Another classic yet grotesquely absurd scene shows how a student goes completely bonkers and climbing up a flagpole after snorting just a tad bit of drugs ! The absolute dementia highlight of " Class of 1984 " is when overstressed biology teacher Roddy McDowall hysterically teaches an entire class at gunpoint ! The DVD that I own ? released in 2004 - opens with a spoken intro from Mark Lester in which he declares that " Class of 1984 " is a prophetic film . This statement might just be a little exaggerated , but it is nevertheless one of the most entertaining , uncompromising and messed up movies of the glorious 80's decade .
Incomprehensible elegance	Mulholland Dr . must be located somewhere on the ' lost highway ' in the wide area of ' Twin Peaks ' ? in other words ; it's a pure David Lynch product and a film that will unquestionably divide audiences . Every time this genius ( to some , at least ) delivers a film , it immediately grows out the biggest cinematic event of the year and a topic of endless discussions . Seeing the rating on this site , it looks like many people consider this Lynch's best achievement in the weirdness field ( The Elephant Man and The Straight Story not included ) , yet I don't agree with that . No doubt it's a mesmerizing film that haunts and moves you long after you finished watching it , though . On the surface , this is a tale handling about the stereotypical life in Hollywood . You've got the young and easily impressed actress who's hoping to build up a career ( Noami Watts ) and there also is a second storyline handling about a director ( Justin Theroux ) influenced and threatened by the mob in his casting choices . So basically , this is film-noir type of story but it's crystal clear that Lynch doesn't care much for the typical genre intrigues and focuses more on what's lying underneath ? like the whole spectrum of human emotions . Oh heck , I can't explain it and neither can anyone else . But it works ! Throughout the whole film , you're hypnotized by the elegance and mystery Mulholland Dr . radiates . The bizarre and eccentric characters fascinate you and the slow-paced camera-work creates an unmatched tension that'll make you jump more than once . And yet , something is lacking here . Although Lynch can't be blamed for it , as he intended this a pilot film for a new TV-series in Twin Peaks style . HUGE SPOILER after an hour and a half of careful observing and hunting for clues , the story falls into identities switching . This sort of leaves you behind with the unsatisfied feeling of déjà-vu as you recognize it from Lynch previous classic ' Lost Highway ' . END SPOILER . After ABC declined turning this into a TV-series it feels like Lynch rushed with adding twists and turns with a disappointing climax as a result . Despite these flaws , Mulholland Dr . still ranks as one of the greatest films since the new millennium with its unique eeriness and excellent cast . Naomi Watts is terrific as the tender and fragile young actress and Laura Harring is downright breathtaking . There's a near-perfect chemistry between the two leading ladies resulting in the most sensual erotic sequences of the last few decades . There also are minuscule supportive roles for class actors like Dan Hedaya and Robert Forster .
Charlie & Telly in a gritty ' n great urban western !	There's absolutely no way that any movie can start off better than " Violent City " . Charlie Bronson on a yacht with a ravishing blond chick , then moving onto land where the couple immediately gets subjected to a wild car chase through extremely narrow streets ( and over stairs ! ) and ending with a violent shootout ! And all this time not a single word is being spoken by anyone and all we here are the sounds of squeaking tires , snorting car engines and Ennio Moricone's umpteenth fabulous soundtrack . The first ten minutes of " Violent City " are so damn brilliant I was even tempted to stop watching the film because I honestly feared things could only go downwards from that point , ha ! Luckily it didn't . Sure the pacing slowed down a bit ( only a little bit , mind you ) but a great film unfolds itself , with a simplistic but nevertheless compelling plot , gritty atmosphere and terrific acting performances by Charles Bronson ( as the silent as always but deadly killer ) , Telly Savalas ( as the sneering , sleazy and eccentric super-villain ) and Jill Ireland ( as the bimbo who appears to screw around with half of the city ) . Jeff is a retiring hit man who completes one more personal killing job when a former friend double-crosses him , leaves him for dead and runs off with his lady friend . Jeff's spectacular payback , executed at a race car circuit ) gets him noticed by the big boss of the city's organized crime network . He wants Jeff to be a part of his successful crime-family , and when he refuses an exhilarating and testosterone-packed cat and mouse game ensues . The plot isn't highly original , but several independent sequences are magnificent , like the aforementioned opening , the intense finale or ? most of all ? the scene where Vanessa gets introduced to Weber ( Savalas ) in a restaurant . Sergio Sollima is a gifted director , who primarily earned his fame in the spaghetti western genre ( " The Big Gundown " and " Run Man Run " ) . That's also exactly what " Violent City " often resembles ; a gritty urban western with Bronson in his familiar role of lone outlaw passing through a town where no one can be trusted . If I understood correctly , the titular violent city is supposed to be Michigan , where strangely everyone speaks a combination of English and Italian . Funny detail on the Dutch DVD-release is that the dubbing is incomplete . Some of the dialogs start in English but halfway the conversation swifts to Italian and back to English again . Not at all bothering , especially not in case you looked forward to this movie as much as I did .
Mass hysteria at its most intense	Just in case some stubborn people are still questioning George A . Romero's talent after his 1968 milestone " Night of the Living Dead " , we hereby present " The Crazies " ! Once again a film stuffed with subtle criticism on society and pitch black humor . " The Crazies " immediately demands your full attention with a powerful pre-credits opening sequence and the high-excitement level is upheld throughout the entire movie . The little Pennsylvanian town of Evans City is overcome with a secret , but very lethal , government virus leaving the infected either dead or incurably insane . " Trixie " initially was developed as a chemical weapon , so not one of the scientists or army officers know how to put a stop to it when innocent people are exposed to it . The simple plot and cheap elaboration are excellently camouflaged by Romero's sharp eye for detail . Right from the start , he builds up a tense atmosphere of truly realistic mass hysteria that confuses even you ? the viewer ? in not knowing which characters are infected and which aren't . They could all simply be trigger-happy Pennsylvanian hillbillies for all we know ! Although this film never really becomes " disturbing " , there are quite a few scenes that shock and that feel strangely real . You could also state " The Crazies " was quite ahead of its time because chemical warfare is much more in the picture now than it was 30 years ago , when this film got shot . Romero's premise is simple but efficient : the malfunctioning and greed of the human race is much scarier than any fictional horror monster could ever be . Best example is the military men who become eerie and threatening in their icky white suits .
The perfect contraception campaign !	( Small Spoilers ! ! ! ) Children of the Damned got released as a sequel to ' Village of the Damned ' , though not officially and not starring George Sanders . Yet , both films are fascinating , prominent Science Fiction efforts and still some of the most jaw-dropping films I ever saw . A study , let by the United Nations results in bizarre and alarming findings . Six children , from all corners of the world , score unusually high on intelligence tests . It becomes even more remarkably when it seems that none of them has a father and all of them have label mothers . One mom even declared her boy is ' not from this world ' . While psychologists and other prominent scientists from all over the world search for explanations , the group of prodigies together seek shelter in an abandoned church ? . Things are getting more and more frightening when it turns out they're telepathic and able to hypnotize humans with their minds and eyes ? Children of the Damned offers suspense from the beginning till the very end , with a few breath-taking climaxes in-between . I rarely saw a movie that has such a constant tense-level . The silent , yet intriguing children are terrifically cast and often they look scarier as most other cinema-madmen ! I know it sounds like a cliché by now but ? This is SF like they only could have made it in the old days . Scriptwriters nowadays simply can't come up with such ingenious and creative plots anymore . The script is intelligent ( with a few interesting lectures on genetics ) and the black and white cinematography helps increasing the tension even more . And , if the high entertainment values aren't enough yet ? Children of the Damned also raises a stunning ethical debate and it severely questions the statement whether humans are a superior species or not . Impressive AND thought-provoking ! What more could you possibly wish for ?
Hammer rules the horror world ! !	Peter Cushing . . . Christopher Lee . . . Terence Fisher to direct . . . Hammer to produce . Voilà , this already should be enough reasons to WATCH THIS FILM ! ! ! A few years ago , the concept of a mummy became very popular thanks to the rather decent films by Stephen Sommers starring Brendan Fraser . Call me old-fashioned but I prefer this more magical version from the golden age of horror ( 50's - 60's ) And I do mean magical cause you don't actually have to be a horror buff to enjoy this movie . My sister , for example , hates the genre but she loves the mythes of the ancient Egypt . So she loved the movie as well . It's really accessible to all kind of people . The famous archaeologist Stephen Banning and his son are on an expedition in Egypt and they discover the grave of a high female priest . They open the grave but do not realize that by doing this , they've awoke the powerful guard of hers , Kharis . ( the almighty CHRISTOPER LEE ) Back in England , a true believer of the Egyptian beliefs has came to look for the archaeologists to avenge the soul of the priest . He brought Kharis with him who answers to his commands . Kharis kills Stephen Banning and his assistant and now goes after the son , John ( the also almighty PETER CUSHING ) His only rescue can be his wife , Isobelle . She seems to have great impact on Kharis . . . . I've said it before , a great movie ! ! ! The atmosphere hanging around you will stay in your head long time after you saw it . All things about this film are very memorable so it's hard to pick out a few . I'll just end by stating again that you should SEE this film . whether you're a horror fan , a classic fan or just an admirer of good films . . . you'll all have a great time . My humble opinion : Stephen Banning and his assistant
Our little girl is becoming a woman . . . and ONE of a kind !	Spoilers AHOY ! ! ! Carrie - the movie - belongs to the finest adaptations of a Stephen King novel . I never read the book ( I don't read at all , actually ) but I can't imagine King would have wanted his story to be shown otherwise . Brian DePalma creates a terrific atmosphere here and the tension is always present . This movie is unique in many points of view . It's a perfect combination of horror and drama elements and that's not an easy thing to do . If you add a very frightening musical score to that and acting performances that are pretty close to perfection , you get the kind of film that we like to call MASTERPIECES ! ! ! The plot is pretty much the most original thing that ever came out of the pen of Stephen King . The life of a girl in her late teens , Carrie . She doesn't have any friends , she kept very close by her religious mother and most of all , she doesn't know anything about nature and growing up . When she gets her period for the first time , she's being laughed at in a very traumatic way . With the help of an understanding teacher and a few students with a good heart , Carrie is accepted at last and even invited for the senior prom . . . But , just when she thinks her luck is turning , she faces the ultimate nighmare . . . Carrie is a whole of fascinating , memorable and even touching scenes . The whole opening scene takes your breath away and then I don't even mention the entire prom scene . Horror and suspense cinema as pure as it gets . The movie is totally carried - sorry for the inappropriate use of words - by the acting performances of Sissy Spacek ( Carrie ) and Piper Laurie ( Mrs . White - Carrie's mother ) . They both were nominated for an Oscar . I don't know who won that year ( probably someone from the cast of Network ) but they didn't deserve it ! ! The Academy Award belonged to these ladies here , no doubt about that . Smaller roles by John Travolta and Nance Allen are great as well . Even William Katt did a great job here but his character looks too much like a sheep . Nice haircut dude , keep up the 70's spirit . Brian DePalma did some of his best work in the 70's and Carrie belongs to his highlights . He often gets accused of being a Hitchock imitator , but in this film he certainly proves that he can create a unique atmosphere all by himself . It has to be said . . . Carrie has one negative aspect in my opinion . Although this is nobody's fault , I would have wished the movie to be a bit longer ( that's a comment I don't give very often ) . Personally I would have loved to see a bit more background on Carrie's family situation and a better explanation of the telekinetic forces she has . Her whole mysterious powers come all of a sudden and maybe that is a bit of a shame . The supernatural elements in Carrie aren't stressed enough but that's just my opinion , of course .
Don't let the Bed-Bugs Bite !	Question for the real horror fans . Do you remember , if you've seen it at all , that sequence in " Hellraiser II " where the hysterical mental patient sees imaginary bugs all over his body and eating away his flesh ? Eventually he's offered a razor and we finally see his body like he does , covered with thousands of uncannily crawling insects . Well , " Bug " feels a little like a full-feature length elaboration of this character , only far more complicated and sophisticated , of course . What a movie this is ! And what a horror-comeback for William Friedkin , for that matter , delivering one of the most offbeat and disturbing psychological genre accomplishments of the past few decades . The story revolves on an already confused and troubled woman ( violent ex-husband , missing child , lonely existence ? ) falling in love with a guy who quite possibly is even more cuckoo than she is . Peter Evans claims to be a fugitive for the army , because he fled from a hospital where government doctors were conducting top-secret medical experiments on him . Whether or not as a result of these experiments , Peter notices an infestation of microscopic bugs in the motel where they live and gradually drags Agnes into his paranoia as well . Analysing all the events that overcame them lately , the couple isolates themselves and become more and more convinced of the conspiracy theory . " Bug " is an extremely intelligent , taut , depressing , claustrophobic and deeply unsettling portrait of warped human minds and how rapidly " sane " people can get influenced by paranoid visions . The film is reminiscent to the best works of David Cronenberg ( which is a huge compliment ) and also effectively interchanges long atmospheric scenes where barely anything happens with short but shocking and ultimately engrossing moments of nightmarish horror . Agnes ' final monologue summarizing the conspiracy , for example , is at least equally jaw-dropping as the bloody and almost nauseating scene where Peter spontaneously pulls out his own tooth because he suddenly thinks the doctors implanted bugs ' eggs in there . Tracy Letts ' scenario is slightly flawed in certain places ( Agnes ' mental downfall comes really fast ) but it's overall fantastically clever and the fact it's adapted from a stage play only works as an advantage . The very limited number of sets and characters increases the feeling of claustrophobia and the story fully relies on genius dialogs and powerful performances instead of on special effects and spectacular stunts . Speaking of which , both Ashley Judd and Michael Shannon give away stupendous performances and Harry Connick Jr . is amazing as the aggressor who eventually turns out the most normal guy of the bunch . " Bug " is surely a highly recommend film !
Surprisingly GREAT sequel	Granted , I initially feared that this film would be disastrous and a complete waste of time . All the available indicators pointed out that it was just an attempt to cash in on the huge success of the original " The Fly " , release not even a year before : quickly scripted , re-using sets and scenery of the original and the plot sounded too much like a repeating of the events occurring in the first . Well , I'm more than happy to announce that I couldn't be more wrong ! " Return of the Fly " is an excellent film and definitely worthy of its classic predecessor . It already opens terrific , with grim images of the funeral of Helene Delambre , the heroine of the first film . Her brother-in-law François is forced to tell Helene's son Philippe about the tragedy that overcame his father all those years ago . The fade of his father encourages Philippe ? a devoted scientist as well ? to continue and finish his work , accompanied by a friend and François himself . I won't spoil what happens next , as it's too different from what you expect and certainly worth fining out yourself . " Return of the Fly " is a great film for multiple reasons . First and foremost , there's the more extended role of Vincent Price . I can't explain what it is about him , but his inimitable charisma makes every movie he stars in a must-see and his monologues ( although often about tedious substance ) are compelling beyond words . Whatever he speaks about I hang on Vincent Price's lips ! Another reason to state this film's greatness is the ingenious use of multiple subplots . Aside being a cool sci-fi adventure , the " Return of the Fly " - script also focuses on typical human greed , betrayal and phobias / ghosts from the past . For some reason ( budget-related , perhaps ? ) it's entirely filmed in black and white , while the original was in color . That's hardly an obstacle , though , since it increases the eerie atmosphere immensely . Besides , the make-up effects are a lot more repellent in this sequel , so the lack of color also neutralizes the effect of the nasty " human fly " images . The ending comes rather abrupt , unfortunately and it's my own personal opinion that Brett Halsey can't handle the leading role David Hedinson did in the first . Luckily , there's the almighty Vincent Price for the good acting and the incredibly beautiful Danielle De Metz as eye-candy . In conclusion : you won't hear me say that " Return of ? " outshines the original milestone , but it equally is a must for genre fans and I can't deny that it was more fun to watch . Highest possible recommendation !
Um . . . Cancel the Greek food !	How do you review of film that is too bizarre , too extreme and generally too unique for words ? Probably just by stating that you should track it down yourself and be as amazed as the rest of us were ! " Singapore Sling " is indeed one of the craziest Euro-cult movies ever released ; a totally 100 % original hybrid between 1940's film-noir and relentless 1970's drive-in exploitation , shot in elegant black and white and introducing some of the most eccentric characters movie-goers have ever beheld . Not a single taboo is left untouched in Nikos Nikolaidis convoluted screenplay , whether it involves tasteless sexual perversions or insanely violent tendencies , and yet ? in some inexplicable fashion ? it's all beautifully illustrated in the eye of the camera . Nikolaidis main inspiration clearly goes back to the golden years of widely acclaimed noir-cinema , particularly Otto Preminger's " Laura " and John Huston's " The Maltese Falcon " , as the primarily storyline introduces a lonely detective desperately seeking for his lost and unreachable muse Laura . But this only covers a small part of " Singapore Sling's content , as the investigation leads him to the secluded mansion of a demented Greek lady and her equally insane daughter . Mother and daughter spend their days mourning over the recently deceased man of the house ( whoms body they still keep around , mummified in the attic ) and enacting sex-laden role plays of how they eliminated previous perpetrators . When Singapore Sling ? the detective's nickname ? literally tumbles down on their doorstep , he promptly becomes an important part in their deviant universe of unusual lusts and fetishes . Apart from maintaining their incestuous lesbian relationship , the women now also compete for the sexual interest of their male guest , and it doesn't take too long before ambiguous conspiracies are thought up . " Singapore Sling " implements a seriously inventive narrative structure , with all the three lead characters regularly facing the camera to talk to the audience . This perfectly portrays their different persona's without reverting too much to overlong acquaintances . The male lead is mysterious and a bit unworldly , the young girl is definitely crazy but mainly docile because she doesn't know any better and the adult lady can't possibly be categorized . She nearly always repeats her lines ? once in French , once in English ? and looks genuinely uncanny with her wild hair-styles and penetrating eyes . The odd couple's depraved sexual habits are extendedly & graphically shown , resulting in numerous jaw-dropping sequences including vomiting during intercourse , masturbating with all sorts of kitchen devices & fruit , urination , necrophilia and bondage . But apart from the strong sex , " Singapore Sling " also contains other repulsive and unusual viewing material , most notably the ladies ' nauseating eating rituals . Not only does the food ( human leftovers ? ) look disgusting , their table manners are sickening enough to put you off of having dinner for the next couple of weeks . How can a movie stuffed with such a large amount of extreme filth still come across as watchable , let alone stylish , you ask ? I have no idea , but director Nikolaidis succeeds seemly without efforts in making his film appealing to audiences much wider than just sick puppies and sexually frustrated lunatics . " Singapore Sling " is compelling and oddly comical , constantly firing off demented quotes ( " I vividly remember the day daddy took my virginity " or " corpses are the best garden-fertilizer " ) and uncensored sleaze . It's not entirely without flaws , unfortunately , as I personally anticipated more genuine horror shocks . You have to wait until the film's perplexing climax to witness the first and only bit of unsettling bloodshed and I found this to be a little too long . Also , Nikos Nikolaidis occasionally crosses the line tributing older films , as the music and even some of the dialog are a little TOO reminiscent to Preminger's classic " Laura " . Other than that , " Singapore Sling " is an absolute must-see for fanatic cult-pursuers . Special word of thanks to IMDb'er Dario 2nd !
Sexy giallo-goodness !	This is another sublime Italian giallo with a fascinating plot that you surely haven't seen or heard about before in any other movie . Whilst waiting for her husband to come home from another business trip , lovely Minou ( Dagmar Lassander ) has a frightening encounter with an assaulter on the beach . Instead of raping her , however , he tells her that her beloved husband Peter relentlessly killed a major creditor and made it look like suicide . Minou begins to notice Peter's increasingly suspicious business methods but does everything she can to avoid that the mysterious blackmailer tells his story to the police . . . and that includes sleeping with him . Is her husband really a murderer ? Is he just messing with her mind ? Is her oh-so-helpful friend Dominique , who reputed to be a nymphomaniac , really as honest as she claims ? Good luck guessing for the answers to all these questions and more , as the mystery in " Forbidden Photos of a Lady above Suspicion " is subtly and elegantly built up , leading to a tense finale that actually makes sense for a change . Without ever resorting to graphic violence or pure sleaze , director Luciano Ercoli tells a story that is full of perversion , blackmail and sexual decadence . Quite an achievement if you bear in mind that nearly every other Italian director requires at least a handful of bloody murders to illustrate the exact same topics . " Forbidden Photos . . . " uses great dialogues , atmospheric music and adequate acting performances instead . Fans of the gialli milestones directed by Sergio Martino or Dario Argento will probably regret the lack of explicit bloodshed , but surely everyone will appreciate a tightly woven plot of intrigues like this ? Wonderful giallo , highly recommended to the more experienced fans of Italian crime cinema .
The pioneer of nunsploitation-cinema !	In all honesty , I have to point out right away that this user-comment starts out with an error in its title . " The Nun of Monza " is not exactly the very first nunsploitation movie ever made . There's at least one ( and perhaps some others that I totally don't know about ) movie handling about the same topic , and it predates this version with more than five years . Only that movie ? also named " The Nun of Monza " ? is more difficult to track down than the lost continent of Atlantis and I doubt it'll ever be available in a decent version . In general , Eriprando Visconti's film may be considered the pioneer of nunsploitation , as it got released a couple years before the sub genre's most famous titles like Ken Russell's " The Devils " , Jess Franco's " The Sex Demons " and Gianfranco Mingozzi's " Flavia The Heretic " . And particularly because it was the first of its kind , you better not expect to see a movie filled with perverted sex scenes and explicit violence ! Filmmakers like the aforementioned Jess Franco or Joe D'Amato made the term " nunsploitation " a synonym with pure sleaze , as the setting offers an easy excuse to show loads of lesbian sex , insane devil-worshiping rituals and brutal whippings . " The Nun of Monza " , however , is a very serious and devastating drama , based on true events that took place early in 17th Century in Italy and emphasizing on the hypocrisy and abuse of power of the Catholic Church . The story is incredibly convoluted and often difficult to follow , but at the same time truly fascinating and the recreation of time & era are brilliant . Spaniards occupied the whole of Italy and even the poorest inhabitants of small villages are forced to pay taxes . The young sister Virginia de Leyva is Mother Superior against her will and her convent offers refugee to a handsome stud that killed a Spanish tax collector . During his stay at the convent , Giampaolo rapes Virginia and gets thrown in jail . When she gives birth to a daughter nine months later , Virginia and Giampaolo flee together , also charged with the murder of a fellow convent sister . The story is far more detailed than this , with treasonous characters and sexual corruption behind every convent door , but it's too much to summarize here . For as far as I remember the stuff my high-school history teacher attempted to tell me , the political background of this film is accurate to the tiniest detail . It's also a very well made film , especially considering the low production values ! The cinematography and decors are extremely stylish and the film also benefits from a splendid Ennio Morricone score . The acting is great with Antonio Sabato ( " Seven Blood-Stained Orchids " ) and Anne Heywood ( " What Waits Below " ) bringing an amazing and plausible chemistry on screen . A beautiful movie , but certainly not for all tastes .
The Vigorous Vincent ! The Phenomenal Price !	Basically the exact same movie as " House of Wax " - Vincent Price's first genuine horror hit released the previous year - but seriously who cares , because " The Mad Magician " offers just as many sheer thrills , delightful period set-pieces , joyous 3-D effects , sublime acting performances and macabre horror gimmicks as its predecessor ! " Never change a winning team " is exactly what writer Crane Wilbur must have thought when he penned down Price's character Don Gallico , another tormented soul besieged by fate and out for vengeance against those who wronged him . Don Gallico is about to perform his very first own illusionist show as Gallico the Great and plans to exhibit the greatest magic trick in history ; entitled " The Girl and the Buzz Saw " . Gallico's promising solo career is abruptly ruined before it even begins when his previous employer Ross Ormond appears on stage and shoves a contract under his nose , stating that all of Gallico's inventions are the rightful property of the company . The sleazy and relentless Ormond , who by the way also ransacked Gallico's once beloved wife , takes off with the buzz saw trick and programs it in the show of Gallico's rival The Great Rinaldi . Inevitably Gallico snaps and sadistically butchers Ormond , but ? also being a master of creating disguises ? recreates his victim's image and even starts leading a double life . " The Mad Magician " is an amusing and thoroughly unpretentious 50's horror movie in Grand Guignol style , with a whole lot of improbably plot twists ( the landlady turns out a brilliant crime novelist ? ) and a handful of fantastically grotesque gross-out moments ( although they obviously remain suggestive for most part ) . The 3-D delights near the beginning of the film , like a yo-yo player and a goofy trick with water fountains , merely just serve as time-filler and contemporary 50's hype , but it's still fun to watch even now and without the means to properly behold them . " The Mad Magician " is also interesting from a periodical setting point of view , as the events take place around the time fingerprints were starting to get used as evidence material and the character of Alice Prentiss is an obvious reference towards famous crime authors of that era . Needless to state that Vincent Price remains the absolute most essential element of triumph in this film , as well as from nearly every other horror movie this legendary man ever starred in . Like no other actor could ever accomplish , Price depicts the tormented protagonist who gradually descends further and further into mental madness in such an indescribably mesmerizing way . You pity Don Gallico , yet at the same time you fear him enormously . You support his vile acts of retaliation and yet simultaneously you realize his murderous rampage must end in death . Vincent Price simply was a genius actor and , in my humble opinion , the embodiment of the horror genre .
A Christmas Carol , French redneck style !	Dark & disturbing like something you've rarely seen before , " Sheitan " goes one major step beyond all the typical dysfunctional family and murderous countryside redneck clichés that are usually featuring in horror movies . This unexpectedly pleasant French horror surprise has a very ingenious script and it's also remarkably intelligent , as it contains huge amounts of biblical references and ambiguous metaphors . The film starts like any random & routine nowadays genre film , with the introduction of a group of boisterous and trouble-seeking young people on the lookout for sexual action and thrills . They're thrown out of a dance club on the night before Christmas evening , but the cute new girl suggests to all drive to her remote house in the country . They meet the slightly insane and continuously sneering caretaker Joseph , his pregnant wife Marie ( look at the names , bible experts ) and several more creepy country folks , like the French version of the " Deliverance " banjo kid and a nymphomaniac chick . Joseph and his crazy bunch are obtrusive but harmless at first , but they're gradually forcing their guests ? and the arrogant Bart in particular ? to participate in all sort of bizarre rituals , like they're planning something big and ultimately macabre . Admittedly , " Sheitan " suffers from a very slow and uninteresting start . The opening sequences at the club , as well as the whole trip to the countryside , are dull and overlong and the main characters aren't exactly the most likable ones . The film only gets exiting ( and genuinely creepy ) when Joseph's truly deranged nature slowly begins to unfold and the kids are literally trapped in French redneck hell . Director Kim Chapiron creates a grippingly disturbing atmosphere through morbid scenery ( uncanny broken dolls , scary decorations all over the farmhouse ) , menacingly eccentric supportive characters ( that kid freaked me out ! ) and hinting at taboo topics ( like incest and child abuse ) . The film is oddly low on massacres , but nevertheless many sequences are gross and downright repulsive , like the jaw-dropping birth scene near the end . Vincent Cassel is phenomenal and really petrifying as Joseph . With his maniacal grin and impressive charisma , he's the ideal guy to star in an old-fashioned horror film . Perhaps it would be a great idea to focus his entire career on horror , as the genre urgently needs a few new and memorable icons . spoiler the more I contemplate about the film's plot , the more unique it gets . The setting , ambiance and characters are reminiscent to Rob Zombie's " House of the 1 . 000 Corpses " , but better because this film has a lot more significance and depth . Basically , " Sheitan " is a re-enactment of the birth of Jesus ? Only , it's the Satanic interpretation with a crazed Joseph , goats and three very unholy wise men . end spoiler . The ending is fantastic , but maybe not appropriate for people with a weak stomach and / or viewers who exclusively swear by happy endings . France never really enjoyed the reputation of being a great horror movie nation , but it looks like they're making strong progress lately . This sick puppy is already France's third horror success ( and , hopefully , future cult classic ) since the new millennium , following " High Tension " and " Malefique " . Another great film from the same region ( the French speaking part of Belgium ) is " Calvaire " . If you like unpretentious and unconventional shockers , check out all of the above titles .
Yes Sir , I Can Zombie ? But I need a certain song !	" Six Films to Keep You Awake " is a Spanish TV initiative created / produced by the most legendary granddaddy of Spanish horror cinema Narciso Ibañez Serrador ( " Who Can Kill A Child " , " The House that Screamed " ) and featuring episodes directed by some of the country's most prominent and world-widely respected filmmakers in the genre , like Alex De La Iglesia ( " Day of the Beast " , Perdita Durango " ) , Jaume Balagueró ( " Darkness " , " The Nameless " ) and Paco Plaza ( " Rec " , " The Second Name " ) . If this is Spain's response to the similar American TV-series " Masters of Horror " , than I can only be enthusiast and thrilled to notice that the horror genre is still alive and kicking ! " The Christmas Tale " was my first personal acquaintance with the series . A vastly enjoyable one , I may add , and definitely one that makes me look forward to the five remaining installments . The plot introduces five 12-year-old but very independent kids ( four boys and a girl ) who are about to spend a life-altering Christmas vacation . They discover an unconscious woman dressed up as Santa Clause in a pit in the woods who turns out to be a fugitive and dangerous bank robber . Since this woman allegedly stole 2 million pesetas ? and since the police don't even bother listening to them ? the quintet decides to keep her trapped in the pit and question her about the loot . The situation soon escalates , as some of the kids gradually develop into merciless and sadist abductors . Things get even beyond control when a voodoo-ritual from a silly horror film , which the kids playfully imitated , turns out frighteningly real and the woman rises from the pit as a vengeful and bloodthirsty zombie . " The Christmas Tale " is versatile and chock-full of ideas in spite of his short running time of barely 70 minutes . The film seemingly unfolds as a rather disturbing hostage-thriller , but halfway changes into a more light-headed zombie horror flick . The first half more tension-driven and the second half thrives more on excitement , but the blackly comical elements as well as the energetic atmosphere are maintained throughout the whole movie . The script is also stuffed with small but highly ingenious gimmicks and delightful tributes to older horror and non-horror classics . The events take place in the year 1985 , for example . This is mainly a tribute to the kid-gang movies of that period ( like " Stand by Me " and " The Goonies " ) , but perhaps also to justify why the kids spend their school holidays playing outside instead of rotting away behind their computers . The timing and setting also provide the ideal excuses to showcase a handful of terrific 80's set pieces and songs ( like the catchy disco hit " Yes Sir , I Can Boogie " used in a masterful scene ) and there are also numerous posters and VHS tapes of elderly Spanish horror flicks to spot in the backgrounds ( like " Tombs of the Blind Dead " , " The Werewolf versus the Vampire Women " and " Horror Express " ) . The young cast members deliver tremendous performances and Maru Valdivielso is also terrific as the Santa Clause and , by the way , the only adult character whose face can be seen properly .
Quintessential Post-Apocalyptic Fable .	This simply has got to be , hands down , one of the top three most depressing and pessimistic movies I ever encountered in my life . Of all Sci-Fi films dealing with remnants of life after the apocalypse ? and believe me they are quite numerous ? this Soviet Union produced sleeper upraises the most nightmarishly realistic and harrowing atmosphere ever . Even in your worst imaginable nightmares and premonitions , the post-nuclear existence probably still doesn't look as decayed and melancholic as illustrated here in this film . Survivors are forced to live underground , in the caves and catacombs of destroyed buildings , and have little else to do but watch each other fading away emotionally as well as physically . They can't go the surface without wearing special outfits and gas masks , but even then there's nothing else to do but stroll around between ruins , car wrecks and rotting corpses . With monotonous photography and the exclusive use of a yellow-tinted picture , director Konstantin Lopushansky ( an acolyte of the Russian master Andrei Tarkovsky ) fabricates the ideally lugubrious ambiance , and he can also rely on the devoted cast and bleakly void screenplay to assist . The story revolves on Rolan Bykov as a scientist ? former Nobel Price winner , even ? who entrenched himself underneath the remnants of a library building along with his wife and a handful of co-workers . The titular letters are addressed to his son whom the scientist hasn't seen or heard from since the catastrophe . The letters and above all the hope his son is still alive somewhere is what keeps the poor man going , but how long can you hold on to hope when you see everything and everyone around you dying ? " Letters from a Dead Man " is a difficult but ultimately very rewarding cinematic experience to endure . Difficult , of course , because of the emotionally devastating imagery and atmosphere , and because there's actually very little substantial content . We literally stare at a handful of people languishing and eventually dying , with only a small hint at hope near the end . And rewarding because of the depiction of genuine humane sentiments and the thought-provoking messages . It's also highly remarkable how " Letters from a Dead Man " remains continuously vague regarding the cause of the apocalypse and eventually even searches the guilt in the own heart . In a time where movies released on the other side of the Iron Curtain ( in Europe and particularly the USA ) routinely blamed Russia for the potentially upcoming apocalypse , this tale suggests the root cause of the catastrophe lies in a human error during the launch of a space shuttle . The entire cast gives away tremendous performances . I don't know if these people are veteran actors and actresses in their home countries , but their grimaces and catatonic behavior suggest that they were selected especially for this type of discouraging parable . Fantastic film ; though obviously not fit for all occasions and / or audiences .
Extreme sport-girls in DEEP trouble !	With " Dog Soldiers " , director Neil Marshall clearly showed already that he was very talented and " The Descent " confirms this statement for sure ! In his second horror achievement , Marshall proves himself to be a versatile filmmaker , with ingenious new ideas and a good old-fashioned sense of grim and disturbing chaos . " The Descent " is quite gory , but also suspenseful and full of intrigues and surprise twists , which is a really rare combination nowadays . Marshall opted for an all female cast , which is quite innovating in horror ( especially blend with the other topic of extreme sports ) , and this evidently creases an almost natural atmosphere of competition , jealousy and betrayal that our gifted director captures on film perfectly . A circle of six friends , all into extreme sports and reckless kicks , meet to go on a caving expedition exactly one year after one of them ? Sarah ? lost her husband and 8 year old daughter in a tragic road accident . The ominous cave quickly becomes a deadly challenge when it turns out that the competitive leader Juno single-handedly the location . " The Descent " is a very exciting film , with believable characters and some excellent gross-out special effects . Marshall's directing is very tight and the film's fast pacing doesn't leave you much time to ponder about possible flaws and / or plot holes . The " residents " of the cave are effectively unsettling creations that produce frightening sounds and crawl around creepily . The ending of the film can be interpreted in several ways , which is a surprisingly intelligent and unexpected twist for such an " ordinary " horror production . In short , " The Descent " is highly recommended and , personally , I can't wait to see what Marshall's next project will be like .
Clever giallo with style & substance	Dario Argento's second horror film ( simultaneously the second entry in his animal-trilogy ) is quite a stylish giallo , successfully blending grisly brutality with intelligent plotting . " The Cat O ' Nine Tails " actually delivers more than you normally expect from an Argento film as it contains several flawlessly elaborated suspense-sequences that can easily stand a comparison with Alfred Hitchcock's best work , and no , that's NOT giving it too much credit ! The story involves a series of sadistic murders all connected with the management staff of a genetic research institute in the heart of Rome . The institute is doing some breakthrough work in linking a particular DNA structure to typical criminal-behavior and the risk for industrial espionage is high . The blind neighbor Franco Arno and his young niece Lori help journalist Carlo Giordani in his search for the murderer . It's pleasing to see how Argento clearly put more thought the plotting here than in his later , more famous , work . Even though the premise is very over-the-top and confusing , Argento makes efforts to cover every possible hole in the plot whereas - in his later work - he simply inserted more gore to distract your attention . The camera-work is fantastic and guided by a solid Ennio Morricone score . Some of the highlights in " The Cat O'Nine Tails " include a shocking scene in a train-station ( ouch ! ! ) , a cynically fun sequence at a barber's place and ? especially ? a claustrophobic scene in a vault which almost causes you to distrust the one character of who you were certain that he was in the good camp . . . You'll know what I mean by that when you see the film . . . It truly is a powerful scene . The symbolism sometimes is a little too heavy , though , and the film is slightly too long . But that's just to name two minor flaws in an overall very good horror movie . This is definitely one of Argento best films and it certainly is his most underrated one . Personally , I enjoyed it a lot more than " Profondo Rosso " which is more acclaimed but actually less intriguing . One more thing : make sure you've got your finger ready on the rewind-button during the very last sequence ! The murderer's deadfall is definitely something you'll want to see in instant replay !
The terrific odyssey of the Soggy Bottom Boys	SPOILERS ! The Coen brothers have done it again ! In a time where cinematic art and inspiration never ceases to reach new lows , they manage to deliver extremely funny and original film adventures . With their amazing sense of subtle humor and their unique talent of storytelling , the bros present us yet another triumph in a complete series of highlights . Not one film of the Coens fails to satisfy the audience and that makes them the greatest directors alive at the moment . O Brother Where Art Thou deserves most of its praising thanks to the sublime structure and the terrific atmosphere . The story takes plays in the depressing 30's and the rural way of living in this decade is transferred to the screen terrifically . A convicted prisoner escapes but he has to drag along two other ( not so bright ) prisoners because they're chained together . The makes them believe there is a buried treasure waiting for them if they stick together . They do find many adventures on their way indeed ? O Brother ? is filled with eccentric and hilarious personalities and each of them has a bunch of bizarre characteristics . Our three meet a lunatic bank robber who's merely looking for fame instead of fortune , a well mouthed Bible salesman who doesn't seem to be so religious after all , a threesome of wicked but lovely sirens , a guitar player who sold his soul to the devil and ? top of the bill ? they have to face an entire group of the Ku-Klux-Klan ! The often melodramatic and depressing subjects are presented with an overload of humor and sarcasm , which makes the whole film very unique and typically Coen Brothers . The three ? heroes ' even record their own hit and grow to be famous without even knowing it ! ! George Clooney gives away his best performance ever as Ulysess Everett McGill ? his charismatic charm and sublime vocabulary fits this movie so well . John Turturro is a regular cast for the Coen brother and no doubt that he does his best work under them . Very good side roles for John Goodman and Holly Hunter ( also frequently cast by the Coens ) as well . In short , few movies come with such high recommendation as O Brother Where Art Thou . If you appreciate good cinema , you'll love this film . Just like all the Brother's movies by the way .
Tim Burton's talent clearly shows in his early short film !	I just love this ? A classic , immortal story enriched with personal ingeniousness ! That's exactly what Tim Burton did here ! His jolly little film introduces us to the 10-year-old Victor Frankenstein who can't bear the loss of his beloved dog . A car hit Sparky and Victor doesn't want any other dog to replace him . So , he sews him back in one piece and reanimates him electrically ! This short only lasts a good half hour but that's more than enough time for Burton to inject memorable sequences , black humor and a healthy dose of social criticism . Burton mocks the life in small American villages , like he'd do it again later in his classic ' Edward Scissorhands ' . The director also knows the classic Frankenstein version by heart and terrifically reuses the settings and atmosphere here . Just look at that adorable scene with the miniature windmill near the end ! An outstanding short with humor , a bit of tension ? and even good acting ! Frankenweenie stars Daniel Stern ( C . H . U . D ) and Shelley Duvall ( The Shining ) . It can be found as an extra feature on the Nightmare Before Christmas Special Edition DVD , for example .
Love is . . . Stabbing other women in the crotch for sexual kicks !	It certainly isn't love at first sight when two restaurant employees meet each other on a rainy night . She's an arrogant waitress who yells at customers and he's a shy and introvert cook who's reluctant to drive her home after work . But when they accidentally kill a crazed hitch hiker and hide her corpse , they discover murder is a mutual aphrodisiac and fall head-over-heels in love . However , their sex-life only properly functions when the blood of innocent women is shed and thus they start a vagina-stabbing killing spree across the city . Things get even more out of control when the shy cook turns into a unstoppable psychopath who goes out vag-stabbing all by himself . " Assault ! Jack The Ripper " definitely is a mean-spirited and tremendously sleazy pinku classic , but in all honestly , I expected a little more spectacle considering its rough reputation . Due to budgetary restrictions , we sadly don't see how the women get stabbed in the crotch with the razor-sharp buttering knife , but the uncanny thrusting noises as well as the women's agonizing facial expressions leave very few to the imagination . The multiple sequences in which defenseless ladies are pursued , beaten , raped and eventually stabbed quite rank among the most misogynistic and relentless images ever shown on motion picture . I can't wait to see more movies from director Yasuharu Hasebe , as he seemed to specialize in ultra-violent pinku film , such as " Rape ! The 13th Hour " and " Black Tight Killers " . The two leads give away splendid performances and provide the film with steaming hot sex sequences , demented dialogs and blackly comical undertones . The odd and rather inappropriate disco-soundtrack is awesome and the cinematography is steady . The outrageous finale , in which the guy completely goes berserk and literally butchers a room full of young nurses , will be loved by all us depraved fans of extreme cinema .
They don't make B-films like this anymore .	Them ! is a true classic in the genre of monster films . It actually fulfills the definition of monster films . Straight to the point ! Detecting the creatures , hunting ' em down and destroying ' em . No pointless side-stories , no melodramatic stuff . . . clean and pure entertainment . In a wide desert area , a young girl is found . Walking around in shock . She's too shocked to tell what happened to her , but the police finds the trailer she stayed in with her parents . It's completely destroyed and her parents are dead . A few other people die in a mysterious way and local police and the FBI ask for help to a famous professor and his attractive daughter . They find out what is going on and it's a complete nightmare . Due to radiation from the atomic bomb 9 years ago , ants grew in to gigantic creatures and they are out to protect their queen . In order to do that , they'll kill every person who comes to close . This was a very important film in so many ways . One of the first " gigantic mutated animals " - films who were an inspiration for many many movies . . . and still are by the way . Everything a good movie needs is present : a good script , good acting , very good creatures effects for 1954 ! ! and some appropriate humor . Also one of the greatest quotes in the history of scary films : ( after killing just one nest of ants ) " I thought we had seen the end of them by doing this " " No , what we saw was just the beginning of what will be the end of us ! " Isn't that great ?
Unique and passionate film-making .	" Les Triplettes de Belleville " is a sublime animated film . We've seen quite many terrific animated films recently but don't expect this one to be anything like the ' Finding Nemo's ' or ' Spirited Away's ' you love so much . This movie has its very own style and message that simply can't be categorized . " Les Triplettes . . . " is depressing and exhilarating at the same time and totally fills you up with feelings of admiration and deep respect for the artists who're behind it . Apart from some ( brilliant ) music and spoken announcements , there's no dialogue in this film . Yet , you strangely feel what's going on inside the minds and characters of the designed characters . It's a tale of chasing your dreams , perseverance and brotherly love . Beautifully set in middle-class France , with protagonists constantly fighting poverty , we're introduced to a shy orphan living with his grandmother . The boy never asks for anything but dreams of a cycling career . His grandmother supports him throughout and gives him the possibility to purchase this dream . Several years later , the boy participates in the world-famous Tour de France . The film then takes a bizarre twist and becomes like an odd slow motion action movie slash black comedy . It's really unique and hard to describe so you better watch for yourself . Obviously , the bizarre storyline is secondary to the one of a kind style ! " Les Triplettes de Belleville " is funny but of course not in a slapstick way . Through situational humor and well-portrayed characters , it often brings a smile to your face without ever going over the top . This is a truly special film and it deserves a lot of praising for its originality . I reckon not everyone will appreciate the slow-paced style but for purchasers of cinema diversity , this is a must ! " Les Triplettes . . . " is a French , Canadian and Belgian co-production . I'm especially proud to see the latter country's involvement . We Belgians don't mean that much in the field of cinema ( especially not the animated field ) and it's pleasing to find out about some true artists living here . The magnificent " Belleville Rendez-Vous " song will remain stuck in your head for a long time and the positive energy coming from this motion picture will unquestionably impress you . This is film-making like it was intended to be : passionate and with great respect for the audience .
We're Not Worthy ! We're Not Worthy !	All cinematic values & qualities aside , you at least have to show respect for Herschell Gordon Lewis . The man was born in 1926 ! My grandpa was born in 1926 ! A lot of people's grandfathers were born in 1926 ! Can you imagine YOUR grandpa directing a movie that constantly features engrossing decapitations , disembowelment , brain removals ( through the ear ! ) , gauging eyeballs and lesbian lingerie parties ? I wish my gramps was the Godfather of cinematic gore instead of a random guy who keeps nagging about the devastating years of World War II ? At the ago of 76 , H . G . Lewis suddenly made his one-time comeback with the nearly 40 years overdue sequel to " Blood Feast " ; THE gore-movie that inspired all independent horror directors forevermore . The only characteristic proving Lewis actually is an elderly man is the fact that he doesn't evolve with the times . Lewis ' filming style is exactly the same as it was forty years ago , meaning not the slightest attempt to tell a decent story , crude & vulgar humor , hideous music , amateurish editing , depthless characters and make-up effects that are ultimately gross but not the least bit shocking or convincing . So basically , yes , " Blood Feast 2 : All U Can Eat " is quite an awful film , but not a horror freak in this world is likely to spread negative comments about it . And besides , regardless of all the ineptitude , this undeniably remains a hugely entertaining and often downright hilarious horror film experience ! The plot of the sequel is pretty much identical to that of the original . Fuad Ramses III reopens his infamous grandfather's small town catering business and promptly accepts an assignment to cater at the wedding of a local beauty and a dim-witted cop . But Fuad worships the same Egyptian ( Babylonian ? ) Goddess as his grandpa and thus all the sexy bridesmaids ' intestines end up on the catering menu during his ongoing search for the ultimate human sacrifice . That concludes the description of the story ? or were you expecting something deep & thought provoking , perhaps ? There's really no point in " defending " this movie ? Either you already were a big fan of H . G . Lewis ' oeuvre and decided to LOVE the sequel even before watching it or you never cared for his previous gore films to begin with and , in case of the latter , there's absolutely no reason to seek out this belated effort , neither . For the die-hard fans there are a handful of great surprises , like a delicious cameo of trash-director John Waters ( as a gay-paedophilic priest ! ) , purely gratuitous nudity , infantile textbook lesbianism ( " Hey girls , let's all get together and try on our sexiest lingerie ! " ) , hilarious dialogs ( " I was dropping more hints than mariner soldiers drop soap in the shower " ) and random stupidity ( some guy's corpse lying around everywhere ) . Thank you very much for this film , Mr . Lewis . I hope you enjoy your well-deserved retirement and live to be hundred years old .
Respectable Belgian horror	My beloved Belgium country hasn't got much of an impressive history when it comes to horror cinema , but at least there have always been enthusiast and visionary directors that tried to make a difference . Back in the 70's there was Harry Kümel ( whose movies " Malpertuis " and " Daughters of Darkness " are highly desired and acclaimed cult-collector items nowadays ) , then there's Jan Verheyen ( who also hosts horror movie screenings on Belgian TV ) and since recently we have Pieter Van Hees . Van Hees is an extremely devoted fan of the genre , as it is illustrated in his absurdly grotesque and engrossing short movie " Black XXX-Mas " as well as in this slow-brooding and atmospheric thriller " Linkeroever " . The title literally means Left Bank and refers to a very well known living area in Antwerp . It's a reputedly " troubled " area since the Middle Ages already , with dark historical secrets and mysterious inhabitants , and thus the ideal setting for a sinister story . Marie is a young and talented but introvert athlete who suddenly falls ill and gets forced to cancel her participation in a prominent European tournament . She moves in with her new boyfriend Bobby and , mostly out of boredom , begins to investigate the mysterious unsolved disappearance of the previous tenant . I don't want to reveal too much about the complex and extremely unsettling story , but the script hints at horrific elements such as human sacrifices , reincarnation , pagan rites , excommunication , witches and super massive black holes . " Linkeroever " is basically a typical folklore tale , but set in a present day social environment and decorated with style & content elements that are borrowed from similarly-themed international horror classics like " The Wicker Man " , " Blood on Satan's Skin " and " Rosemary's Baby " . Pieter Van Hees generates a depressing and constantly grim atmosphere through simple tricks ( autumn weather conditions , pauperized living areas ? ) and patiently takes the time to unfold the story and draw detailed character portraits . The denouement isn't that difficult to predict ? especially not when you have experience with occult horror ? but it nevertheless evokes a handful of genuine chills and nightmarish afterthoughts . Considering the fairly low budget and overall tense ambiance of the film , you shouldn't hope for a lot of bloodshed , though . Van Hees could rely on a professional crew as well . The photography , editing and musical guidance are damn close to brilliant and , following good old Belgian traditions , the film contains several dared but tasteful and quintessential sex sequences . Eline Kuppens is simply fantastic in her screen debut and she carries the entire motion picture like it's the easiest job in the world . She's a natural beauty with the talent and perseverance to make it even in the international film industry . Kuppens receives excellent support from the handsome young actor Matthias Schoenaerts and a couple of Flemish TV-screen veterans like Marilou Mermans , Frank Vercruyssen and Sien Eggers . Recommended for anyone who can speak the language and fundamental viewing for all Belgian film freaks .
Just . . . too demented for words , really !	What arguments do you use to recommend " The Baby " to any fan of peculiar cult & horror cinema who's convinced that she / he has already seen everything before ? Well , let's try this : " The Baby " is horrific without reverting to gory massacres or nauseating make-up effects , it's extremely disturbing even though the premise is far-fetched and totally implausible and ? last but definitely not least ? there's an unpredictable twist at the end that you simply have to see in order to believe it ! This is one of the most original low-budget exploitation movies of the 70's , and it's truly remarkable how writer / director Ted Post managed to make such a fascinating film out of such a demented basic premise ! " The Baby " starts out as the portrait of a dysfunctional family , but it gradually transforms into an atypical and thematic horror film with an uncanny atmosphere and frighteningly insane characters . Ann Gentry , a professional social worker in her mid-30's , takes an interest in the odd family situation of the Wadsworths . The mother lives alone with her two adult daughters and ? Baby ! Baby is a fully-grown 21-year-old male , but his mother and sisters treat him as an infant and claim that he's mentally unable to function as a mature human being . Ann is convinced that the crazy women deliberately prevent Baby from developing normally , presumably because they don't want him to grow like the careless and obnoxious men who abandoned them in the past . She quickly reverts to unorthodox methods in her attempts to rescue Baby and risks losing both her job and her life . Especially considering the cinematic era " The Baby " was made , and also the low-budget production values , the basic concept of the film easily could have resulted in a trashy and ultimately perverted B-movie . Imagine ; a grown man in a diaper surrounded by overly protective and deranged women ! In the hands of certain other directors , say , Doris Wishman or Russ Meyer , " The Baby " unquestionably would have been a non-stop series of sleazy images and shocking sex-rites , but Ted Post approaches the unusual subject matter very professionally and tasteful . There are only two controversially uncomfortable sequences , one involving a teenage babysitter and the other one being the fabulous climax . Ted Post maintains an ominous atmosphere , the Wadsworth women are downright creepy characters and the whole thing is just delightfully man-unfriendly ! Fans of graphic bloodshed and gore may be a bit disappointed , but the horrific themes of the film are definitely unique enough to compensate . Literally ALL the acting performances are splendid , but David Mooney deserves extra praise for his credible and undoubtedly complex depiction of Baby . It may not be Citizen Kane , but I guarantee that The Baby will be one of the most unforgettable and curiously engaging films you'll ever see .
Not Without My Bloodthirsty Daughter ?	" Grace " , the long feature debut of writer / director Paul Solet , is an oddly unsettling but refreshingly inventive horror-drama hybrid that can't possibly be categorized into one single genre . This film is deeply disturbing , emotionally moving , darkly comical and intellectually engaging all at the same time and that is quite a remarkable thing to achieve for a young director who only shot a few short movies before , is it not ? " Grace " literally baths in an unclassifiable grisly atmosphere , the detailed character drawings are unique and plausible and the concept ? although rationally impossible ? is nightmarishly upsetting . The announcer at the Belgian Fantasy Festival , where I watched this movie , advised for couples with young children and particularly pregnant women to leave the theater and that was definitely a good move ( not that there were many ) , as this instant gem covers pretty much all the imaginable horrors of motherhood , like troublesome conception , intrusive mother-in-laws , alternate delivery methods , loss of husband and ? worst of all ? a still born baby . Madeline doesn't really care about too much except for the 7-months-old fetus in her wombs and bringing it into this world in an old-fashioned and natural way , with a traditional midwife and vitamins instead of a hospital doctors and anesthetics . When the baby stops moving after a tragic car accident , in which also her docile husband dies , Madeline is nevertheless determined to give birth when the time is due . The baby , Grace , miraculously comes out of the womb alive and seemingly healthy , but soon after Madeline's biggest ordeal comes to the surface . Grace needs blood instead of breast milk and , the devoted mother she is , Madeline does everything within her power to provide this . Meanwhile , mother-in-law Vivian tries to do everything to obtain guardianship over Grace as she's convinced Madeline is mentally incapable of nursing her granddaughter . The sequences where Madeline " sacrifices " her own health in order to feed her eccentric baby girl are simultaneously disruptive and affectionate . This is a peculiar combination of sentiment that we're really not used to witnessing in the horror genre , but it's extremely compelling to say the least . Also the sub plot involving the aging Vivian rediscovering her femininity is disturbing , but in a totally and never before experienced fashion . " Grace " contains multiple shocking moments and grueling images , especially near the end , but the violence or bloodshed is never at one point exploitative or tasteless . So , cult loving horror fans please don't start thinking this is a modern update of Larry Cohen's early 70's crazed killer baby flick " It's Alive " or you risk feeling very much ripped off . This is an often uncomfortably slow-paced and intriguing psychological drama / thriller , with stylish photography and hypnotizing acting performances . Jordan Ladd is amazing as Madeline and this was probably the first film set where she could demonstrate her talented acting capacities , because until now I only saw her in lighter horror stuff like " Death Proof " and " Club Dread " . Ladd also receives superb support from Gabrielle Rose as Vivian ( truly a courageous performance ) and Samantha Ferris as the alternative midwife . " Grace " honestly is a movie you won't forget about easily , that is one guarantee I can give you .
Different kind of horror . . . but in a good way .	I really enjoyed watching this movie and I wish to recommend to as many people as possible . But maybe biased because I'm a huge fan of director Stuart Gordon . I have yet to see a movie of his that doesn't fully lives up to my expectations . From Re-Animator over Dolls to Castle Freak . . . they all belong to my favorite horror movies . And I do believe Gordon belongs to the most talented directors in the genre because he can handle all sort of horror topics . His debut - the brilliant Re-Animator - was a comedy splatter movie while The Pit and the Pendulum doesn't contain that much violence or gore . This movie contains an intelligent and even educational story and it has great settings and costumes of the 14th century . The Pit and the Pendulum is an adaptation of the famous short story by Edgar Allen Poe . The master of low budget - Roger Corman - already used this story once to make a great horror classic starring Vincent Price . Stuart Gordon's movie isn't really a remake of that one . They just used the same plot . Pit and the Pendulum takes place during the Spanish Inquisition . Lance Henriksen plays one of the best roles of his entire career as Torquemada . He decides whether " witches " are guilty or not and when they'll be burned for the eyes of God . A young girl , Maria ( played by Ronna De Ricci who never did anything else in her career ) who resists against his way of working is being arrested . Torquemada wants to accuse her of witchery but he's fascinated by her looks and her body . Meanwhile , Maria's husband entered the castle and he wants to free his wife . The atmosphere and the settings impress the most in this movie . The ancient castle and the torture chambers are really intriguing . The costumes are terrific as well . There isn't too much gore and violence to detect in this movie ( especially not compared to previous Gordon movies ) but they're are a few very explicit scenes that show true horror . But it's always shot with a lot of style and class . Even though Lance Henriksen is getting all the attention in this movie , there are a a few other great performances in this movie . I'd like to bring forward Jeffrey Combs . . . my favorite B-movie actor and frequently cast by Stuart Gordon . His role is pretty limited but very well acted . The Pit and Pendulum is warmly recommended to fans of atmospheric horror and historical stories . One to watch ! !
Sigh ? Childhood memories !	Roughly translated as ' Fearless John ' , this is a 100 % Belgian production . Based on a wonderful book and turned into a rather well made and imaginative animated film in 1984 . Around that time ( and long afterwards ) this local figure was more popular than international action heroes like Superman or Batman . I clearly remember the days when every kid in the schoolyard wanted to be Jan Zonder Vrees . He's a very strong and charismatic figure who lived in Antwerp , round the 15th Century . Jan Zonder Vrees is some sort of Robin Hood , only he doesn't steal from the rich . He protects the poor physically and he makes sure justice comes to the ones who deserve it . He fears nothing and accepts every challenge , no matter how dangerous and deadly it turns out to be . He's constantly looking for new thrills to live and mysteries to solve . The art and drawing skills in this film are surprisingly professional , seeing it's only is a ' small ' Belgian production . Yet , it contains a little too much lame sequences in which nothing really happens . But only the adult viewers will notice this ? through the eyes of the younger audience , all these sequences will look fascinating nevertheless . Jan speaks with the voice of Jan Declair . A famous and legendary Belgian cinema-icon who once turned down international success by declining the role of the villain in a James Bond movie . Due to the new evolutions and a lot diversion in animated cinema , this premise got forgotten a little . It all looks less impressive nowadays and modern children are already used to seeing more terrific graphics . Nonetheless , I'd like to encourage as much parents as possible to watch this film along with their youngsters . They might still be enchanted by the fable of Jan ?
There's something in the mist and it ain't gorillas !	Whenever writer / director Frank Darabont takes on the repertoire of success-author Stephen King , you can rest assured a good movie will come out of it . Just look at the rating and prestige ( especially around this website ) of the previous collaborations " The Shawshank Redemption " and " The Green Mile " . But hey , wait a minute , those movies were actual dramas that dealt with human emotions and serious issues like imprisonment , whereas " The Mist " is obviously a more straightforward horror flick dealing with miscellaneous types of monsters ! Well yeah , this is an entirely different film than the other two , but there still are many similarities as well . Basically you could claim " The Mist " is a prison movie just as well , only the setting concerns a supermarket instead of an actual penitentiary , and the menacing eerie monsters on the outside quickly become submissive to the claustrophobia and fear of your fellow man that grows inside the walls of the supermarket . So yes , Frank Darabont delivers a much more brutal and horrific film here , but it nevertheless remains a highly sophisticated and intellectual movie that easily qualifies as one of the most intense and successful genre-accomplishments of the past ten years . The story opens with the inhabitants of a small town licking their wounds after a severe and destructive storm . Multiple people , among them artist David Drayton with his 5-year-old son and neighbor , intend to quickly go to the local supermarket for extra supplies but they never thought it would become their final trip . Whilst shopping and talking about the storm with fellow townspeople , an ominous and nearly impenetrable mist embraces the supermarket and isolates the building from the rest of the world . Everyone is trapped inside when it turns out the mist is infested with surreal and hideous monsters , like gigantic tentacles , flying reptiles , over-sized bugs with lethal stings and virulent arachnids . Meanwhile , the tension inside grows equally unbearable as David and a handful of others get in conflict with a bunch of religious freaks led by the uncanny Mrs . Carmody . This is possibly the most powerful aspect about " The Mist " : the increasing suspense within the supermarket and between human beings mutually is at least equally ? if not more ? disturbing and petrifying as the sequences where a couple of brave souls risk to set foot outside the store and into the unknown . The absolute " coup-de-grâce " of Darabont's script comes at the very end , with a climax that is possible the most offbeat , unpleasant , depressing and anti-Hollywood I've ever seen in a reasonably big-budgeted and prominently produced film . Come to think of it , " The Mist " rudimentary features everything you could possibly expect from a good horror movie . The opening sequences are straightforward and don't waste any time building up towards the essence of the story , the middle section is genuinely frightening and keeps you guessing what's going on and who the next victim will become , and then finally the ending is an extremely unhappy one that leaves you with a sour taste in your stomach . That doesn't necessarily mean " The Mist " is entirely without flaws , of course . There are a couple of sad shortcomings , including the explanation of the bizarre events and the tacky use of CGI-effects . The story eventually reverts to the oldest cliché in the book to clarify the mist's origin ( gee , do you think military experiments are involved ? ) and the film also proves that giant movie-monsters are most menacing when they remain unseen . The gigantic insects and particularly the pink tentacle nearly downgrade the film towards the level of a campy ? but nonetheless amusing ? 80's B-movie . " The Mist " definitely also benefices from a talented cast of versatile and devoted actors and actresses . Many of them are friends and regular choices of director Frank Darabont ( Jeffrey DeMunn , William Sadler , Laurie Holden ? ) but they all perform splendid jobs . Thomas Jane is excellent as well in the leading role , but undoubtedly the most praise goes out to supportive cast members Marcy Gay Harden and Toby Jones . Harden plays the aforementioned " leader " of the continuously expanding group of people who believe the events are a punishment from God . She's truly creepy in her role and you , the viewer , will definitely feel the urge to walk into the screen and eliminate her yourself . Toby Jones is particularly terrific since his character Ollie gradually develops from a measly shop assistant into an unlikely and brave anti-hero . His odd looks and small posture are clashing with his constant calm and sense of rationalism . Jones ' performance is a truly impressive one . " The Mist " is a great film and a worthy contender for the honoree title of best Stephen King horror adaptation .
We repeat ? This is not an exercise !	When the nuclear alarm goes off in a secluded countryside grade and high school , all the children are sent home because the alarm supposedly indicates that a bomb attack is eminent within an hour of time . All through the journey home , and even long after that for certain children , it remains unclear whether the alarm is real or not . However , an atmosphere of fear and paranoia gradually builds itself up amongst them towards a nearly unbearable level . As you can derive from the obviously low-budgeted production values as well as from the obscurity status , " Ladybug , Ladybug " is a truly slow and uneventful film . Nothing really happens , and yet so many things happen simultaneously ! The film is a hauntingly beautiful yet modest portrayal of a generation that had to life with the constant treat of nuclear war . The strong impact comes from the conversations held between the children . They are aware of a potentially devastating war hanging over their heads , yet they're so full of plans and dreams for the future ! This is one of them films that might upset or even frustrate you slightly at first , since there's really nothing happening on the surface , but it will have a long and thought-provoking effect afterwards . This is probably also the reason why " Ladybug , Ladybug " is completely unknown out there in movie world . Nothing going on and no familiar names in the production are reasons enough for a well-intended and socially engaging film gem to instantly disappear into oblivion . Shame .
Stylish storytelling ! The absolute best Doyle adaptation ! !	Out of all the attempts to turn Arthur Conan Doyle's classic fable into a movie , this Hammer version certainly is the best one ! Doyle would be proud of this version , I'm sure . The film really breathes the atmosphere like Doyle intended it and it even stands as one of the greatest Hammer productions in general . Unlike most of their productions , the stress isn't on the violence but on the mysterious and macabre storytelling . The dark and dangerous moors of the British countryside are used to the max and provide the film with a unique setting and photography . Both director Terence Fisher and main actor Peter Cushing were at the peak of their careers in 1959 and that is portrayed in the Hound of the Baskervillers perfectly well . Cushing seems to be born to be Sherlock Holmes and he really plays the detective with the exact right amount of arrogance and stylish monologues . Not to be forgotten neither : André Morell ( leading actor in my all-time favorite Hammer movie Plague of the Zombies ) who plays a terrific Watson . Normally this role of Holmes ' assistant leads to an overacted and stereotypical performance , but Morell finds the right tone . Christopher Lee as Sir Henry Baskerville completes the ideal dreamcast . The solid and fascinating novel was turned into a perfect screenplay that loses absolutely nothing of the initial tension and magic . Right from the beginning of this film , ( when the origin of the Baskerville legend is explained through a flashback ) the sublime tone is set and you're off to experience a piece of pure cinema-art that won't stop till the last end-credit rolls over the screen .
Ding Dingelong Ding-Dong ? You're dead !	" The Bell From Hell " sadly suffers from a couple of incredibly badly dubbed DVD-versions that carelessly got dropped on the market somehow . Personally , I owned a version that I tried to watch FOUR times , but never got past the opening 15 minutes because I couldn't understand one iota of what the characters were mumbling . Luckily enough , the eerie atmosphere and dark cinematography looked so promising already that I never gave up the search for a decent version ! And I'm glad I didn't , otherwise I would have missed out on one of the most uniquely bizarre & original horror films ever made in the European continent ! This is a seriously strange movie , raw and perhaps slightly perverse , but really stuffed with ingenious story lines and highly impressive shock-sequences . The plot is twisted and introduces the handsome young Juan on the day he's released from the mental asylum . He was institutionalized for quite a long time , since the day his mother died , largely because his crippled aunt wanted sole control over the family fortune . Now that he's released Juan gets back at her and her three gorgeous daughters through wicked mind games and torture . You'd think Juan deserves his vengeance , but his sick pranks do indicate he's really insane . . . Synchronous with these events , the movie displays images of a brand new church bell being prepared for service , yet the connection with the main characters only becomes clear near the climax . " The Bell from Hell " is a really good film ! There are some very freaky scenes ( the dungeon ! ) and some hard gore ( the abattoir ! ) but director Claudio Guerín maintains style throughout his whole film . Perhaps not as brilliantly as Mario Bava or Antonio Margheriti would do it , but certainly sufficient . The music is terrific ( another Euro-horror classic that turns a harmless lullaby into a terrifying tune ) and the girls all look ravishing . Sure there are quite a few holes in the script and several continuity-errors , but any fan of European exploitation horror is easily able to look past all that . Equally ( in ) famous as the film itself is the accident ( ? ) that killed the young and promising director Claudio Guerín . Days before completing the film , he fell off the church decor . I'm sure the contemporary dictator Franco didn't attend his funeral , as Guerín's film can also be seen as a mockery of his repressive regime . Don't you love trivia ?
" HELL " perfectly epitomizes the atmosphere of the film .	Ah , the cinematic industry of my beloved home country ? I'm usually very skeptical when it comes Belgian movies , because for some reason the writers and directors in this nation always exaggerate immensely when it comes to building up atmosphere . Either the films become so over-the-top dramatic that the story becomes implausible and pathetic , or the script contains too much typically Belgian ( = rancid ) humor that brings down the quality of the story . " De Hel van Tangiers " is entirely different ! Of course , it's not the type of story that lends itself to revert to comical situations , but I was particularly concerned about the drama elements . If you're familiar with the facts in the case on which this movie is based , you just know that it is the ideal opportunity for scriptwriters to exploit the drama and sentimentality . But I'm pleasantly surprised to see that all the emotional sequences are realistic and sincere . Most of the based-on-true-story dramas try ridiculously hard to bring tears to your eyes , but " De Hel van Tangiers " achieves this simply through powerful acting performances and by maintaining an objective point of view . Even though padded with fictional aspects , the plot remains fairly loyal ( at least , as far as I recall the news reports of that time ) to the horribly inhuman drama that overcame tourist bus driver Pierre Stukken in 1996 . On his way back from Morocco , he ( renamed Marcel Van Loock in the film ) and his co-driver Wim Moreels were arrested because there was more than 300Kg of drugs hidden in their bus . Despite confessions from the company's boss , stating that the driver was completely unaware of the drugs he was smuggling , Stukken was nevertheless sentenced to five years in a Moroccan prison , only because of the corrupt system . Whilst he spent 27 inhumanly months in a place worse than hell , his helpless family is catapulted back and forth between the complex Belgian legislation without any results . " De Hel van Tanger " is a courageous and important Belgian piece of cinema , because it effectively depicts the malfunctioning of both national and international legal systems ! The Belgian government didn't do anything for the poor family until the media got too closely involved and particularly the mismanagement of non-European prisons is forcefully criticized . The comparisons between this film and " Midnight Express " are fairly just , as both films terrifically capture the gritty and claustrophobic atmosphere of foreign prisons . The sequences inside the prison's walls are genuinely shocking and definitely not appropriate for people with a weak stomach . The place is filthy , the cells are severely overpopulated and you can't even afford half-decent food if you don't exchange it for cigarettes . Observing Marcel's physical & mental deterioration in this god-awful place is honestly depressing and therefore the title " Hell of Tangiers " is aptly chosen . The film owes a lot of its power to Filip Peeters magnificent and truly devoted performance . Peeters lost over 30kg of weight to make for the role and , near the end of the film , it really looks as if he spent those 27 months in hell . The rest of the cast exists of solid performers who are all quite famous and reliable according to Belgian standards and Frank Van Mechelen's directing is more than satisfying as well . With the financial help of commercial TV-stations , Flemish cinema is moving upwards lately and " De Hel van Tanger " is proof that things are moving towards the right direction .
Jacqueline The Ripper !	Particularly all the sour people , who continuously claim that the Hammer Studio ran out of inspiration and professionalism during the early 1970's , should view " Hands of the Rippers " , as this is still a highly inventive and marvelously put together period piece . The basic premise of this film is perhaps one of the most ingenious ones ever to come out of the legendary British studios and director Peter Sasdy presents the wholesome with great emphasis on both suspense AND gory bloodshed ! The French version's title ( which I own ) literally translates as " The Ripper's Daughter " and this sums up the synopsis much better than the official title ever could . During the opening sequence , the notorious late 19th Century London serial killer Jack the Ripper is identified by his own wife and their little girl ? Anna ? painfully witness how her mother too gets slaughtered by her father the monster . Years later , the shy and introvert girl is under the custody of a phony spiritual medium / female pimp but her traumatic memories come to the surface and force her hands to kill as well . Dr . John Pritchard , an early follower of Sigmund Freud , takes Anna in his house and hopes to cure her disturbed behavior by using therapy . However , since he doesn't know what exactly inflicts Anna's murderous rage , several more people ( even inside Pritchard's household ) are killed . " Hands of the Ripper " lacks a bit of star-power ( no Peter Cushing or Christopher Lee in the cast ) , but the film is fast-paced and the originality of the plot results in multiple tense sequences . Moreover , the setting of London during the turn of the century is greatly captured , with people slowly recovering from the actual Jack the Ripper murder case and reverting too easily to fear & hysteria when it seems there's a new maniac on the loose in the city . The murders are sensational and really , really gruesome and they're extra shocking since nearly all victims ( all but one , actually ) are sympathetic characters you didn't wish this cruel fate for . This is also one of more intelligent Hammer films , as the screenplay efficiently blends together historical horror with accurate psychological theories and yet still manages to throw in some pure camp and typical Hammer-brutality ! The climax , set in the St . Paul Cathedral's gallery of whispers , is breathtaking and almost hauntingly poetic . Truly one of Hammer's most underrated and sadly forgotten horror-highlights .
A Nightmarish Trip !	I really like where the Hammer House of Horror series is going , as the quality level increases with every episode I watch ! The first one ? " Witching Time " was nothing spectacular but still fun to watch , number two ? " The Thirteenth Reunion " ? already featured the more typically Hammer trademarks and suspense and this third installment " Rude Awakening " is actually very good ! The plot may not be entirely original and plausible , but it's incredibly fast-paced and rich on atmosphere as well as tension . Denholm Elliot , the cool bloke from " Raiders of the Lost Ark " , stars as a middle-aged estate agent haunted by a series of hallucinating nightmares ? Or perhaps it's just one giant nightmare ? Or maybe he's not even asleep to begin with ! On Friday the 13th , Norman Shenley is lured to a remote and supposedly abandoned mansion where an uncanny voice tells him that he shouldn't have killed his wife . Suddenly the idea of murdering his wife and run off with his attractive secretary Lolly becomes very tempting , but Norman can't tell anymore whether his thoughts are real or all just dreamed . Peter Sasdy's directing is as surefooted as ever , as he creates confusion even among the viewers by implementing a bizarre dream / reality structure . The secretary's looks and attitude , for example , change in every dream and you never get to know the real her until the short movie's climax . " Rude Awakening " is low on explicit violence and bloodshed , but it oozes a dark atmosphere and most of the characters ? especially the supportive ones ? are pretty disturbing . It's a fantastic little film that'll keep you glued to the TV-screen for a good fifty minutes .
River of the Alligator God	Much more than the obvious Italian Jaws rip-off this appears to be , " Big Alligator River " is like a well-scripted and ambitious jungle-exploitation classic . The film was directed by Sergio Martino ? an eminent filmmaker in the Italian horror field ? and on many different levels it's almost like a sequel to his earlier triumph " Mountain of the Cannibal God " . That particular movie mainly draws your attention by mentioning a gruesome cannibal-tribe , but the essence of the story handled about anthropology and learning to understand the curious religions a certain primitive tribes . " Big Alligator River " is exactly like that ! There naturally is a giant alligator swimming around , devouring people , but I really defend that the actual emphasis of Martino's film lies on the African tribe members who believe that this animal represents the wrath of a native God . According the beliefs of this tribe , the Alligator-God is furious because a Western businessman built a tourist complex , neglecting the environment and recruiting the natives as slaves . Almost immediately after the arrival of a first group of wealthy tourists , both the alligator and the war-hungry tribe start a bloody killing spree . Surely , I can't deny that " Big Alligator River " cashes in on the huge success of Steven Spielberg's creature-feature milestone " Jaws " a great deal . Particularly the character of Joshua , who owns the resort and ignores all the warnings about the dangerous presence of the alligator in order not to disturb his clients , is an exact copy of the hypocrite mayor in Spielberg's movie . There are some more obvious influences of other horror movies in the script but , overall , " Big Alligator River " is a solid independent film with a fair amount of suspense , gore and admirable camera-work . Despite the fact that the DVD-cover shows a totally naked woman being eaten by the croc , the film contains few sleaze or gratuitous sex . The filming style is elegant and Martino's camera has more eye for the African wildlife than for the ravishing bodies of the female stars . Judging by the other user-comments around here , I seem to be the only one who thinks that the giant alligator looks rather convincing ( especially considering the budget of this type of movies ) and especially the many close-ups of his pupils come across as quite frightening . The acting is very satisfying and , naturally , Barbara Bach's good looks are a treat for the eyes . " Big Alligator River " is warmly recommended to fans of Italian horror .
Beautiful ? but I hope you have a wide attention span !	This early version of the legendary story is ( so far ) the oldest film I've ever seen . Personally , I find it fascinating to purchase movies made before my grandparents were even born . The entire concept of cinema as a form of art is scarcely out of the egg it all still looks so grotesque . I did learn something from this film ? these ancient milestones aren't necessarily brilliant but impressive beyond belief . The Hunchback of the Notre Dame often gets referred to as one of the first ? horror ' classics but much more than that , it's a historical spectacle with massive sets and groundbreaking elements . The actual plot is so easy to summarize but you get so much more than that ! Like a very detailed and imaginative portrait of Paris in the 15th century , the variety of social classes and an idea of medieval interpretation of the law . At some times in this film , you almost get the idea Quasimodo and Esmeralda are just second-class puppets in what is primarily a historical and educating documentary . Magnificent without a single doubt ? but time-consuming and ponderous to sit through ? Although , I have to say I hunt down the extended version , furnished with a stained musical track and lasting 140 minutes . The actual plot and the presentation of Quasimodo's personality is still unparalleled and touching beyond comparison . Lon Chaney is simply outstanding as the unworldly and deformed ? freak ' who's willing to sacrifice his life unconditionally to rescue the girl who once treated him in a human way . He might be hideous , but he's the only who's pure , honest and free of prejudices . Lon Chaney's facial make-up and hunch are early horror triumphs . Along with his natural charismatic appearance , the Quasimodo portrayal provided Chaney with the immortal status of horror-cinema icon . Even though he already starred in over a hundred films before The Hunchback , he'll always be remembered starting from this point of his career . Like none other actor , Chaney gave a face to Quasimodo and that is not exaggerated ! Multiple other well-respected actors gave image to Quasimodo after Chaney ( like Charles Laughton , Anthony Quinn and Anthony Hopkins ) but only he will truly be remembered for it . Same goes for Lon's personification of Erik in ' Phantom of the Opera ' which is his greatest achievement in cinema along with Hunchback . The Hunchback of the Notre Dame is over eighty ( 80 ! ) years old now and it still stands as one of the most overwhelming heavyweights in cinema ever . Some of the sequences shown here are pure mythical inheritance . Like Chaney acrobatic movements while tolling the massive bells ? or his descent off the Notre Dame's walls ! Still , this film might not be for all tastes as it's too bombastic all together and Woresly's direction is kind of rough and ponderous . He surely put too much energy in it , as it was the most ambitious project of his career . Therefore , it's hard to stay focused continuously as the shots of Medieval Parisian streets seem to be endless
Next Picturesque Stop on the Road Map : Baker Country , USA !	Aw , why did they opt for " Trapped " to be the official title , whereas " Baker County , USA " is such a unique and wondrously ominous title for a movie handling about psychopathic Tennessee rednecks ! There are about fifty movies called " Trapped " ! There's one with security-trained Dobermans keeping a guy inside a shopping complex and another one with Kevin Bacon hijacking a woman and her asthmatic daughter , so do you honestly want to mix up those lame plot outlines with a movie about lunatic yokels hunting down a bunch of college students ? Baker County , USA ? all the way ! Enough nagging about titles , especially since we call the films whatever we want , anyway . This stuff is terrific ! It's an early 80's and Canadian produced Indie-film with character drawings and themes that were especially popular during the decade of the 70's , namely crazed clodhoppers living in private mountain-communities and brutal blood-vengeance . Henry Silva , who played in numerous Italian cop thrillers and action flicks , was never cast better as a tyrant leader of a small mountain colony that swears by its own ancient system of law and order . Silva's naturally menacing charisma and particularly perpetrating stares make him one the most nightmarishly memorable backwoods villains ever ! The first half hour revolves on Henry and his docile men playing the roles judge , jury and executioner on an outsider who was caught having sex with Henry's beautiful but bored wife . Four college students camping in the remote hills witness the assassination of the man covered in tar and feathers , but when they try and notify the police they quickly discover everybody the entire area is petrified of mad-raving Henry . " Baker County , USA " is splendidly fast-paced and grimly atmospheric 80's trash effort . It's more than obviously inspired by classics such as " Deliverance " ( there even is the banjo soundtrack ! ) , but there are more than enough original elements to distinguish itself as well . The exterior filming locations are sublime ( the opening sequence is astounding ) , there's an admirable portion of suspense and the action / death sequences are quite spectacular and bloody . The climax in particular is a gripping mixture of tension and extreme violence , resulting in quite the fireworks ending ! Noteworthy also is that the youthful campers are actually likable characters , for once . They try to do the right thing , don't make overly stupid decisions and don't try to play heroes . Their behavior is plausible and most likely how everyone would react when facing a toothless mob with pitchforks and barrels full of hot tar . William Fruet directed this hidden gem and always treasured a deep admiration for his work , since he accomplishes quite a lot with a minimum of budget . Admittedly , " Spasms " was one of the worst pieces of crap I ever saw , but " Funeral Home " and " House by the Lake " are definitely low-budget highlights .
Quite deranged . . . rather great !	It's ' granny goes gaga ' in this genuinely creepy bone-chiller , surprisingly well directed by Peter Walker and penned down by David McGillivray . The power of this ' Frightmare ' simply lies in its primitive goal to shock and to disturb the viewer by showing the disastrous fade of poor , innocent victims . small spoilers The eerie black and white opening sequences introduce us to an elderly couple on trial for a series of savage murders . Dad is pretty much sane and a devoted husband , but mum suffers from cannibalistic characteristics . 15 years later , they're freed from the asylum and declared properly sane . Even though they now live in a quiet farm outside the town and receive many visits from their oldest daughter Jackie , mommy ( Dorothy Yates ) resumes her old disgusting habits by enticing lonely people to the farm with the offer or reading their futures in cards . Things get even more complex when Jackie's psychiatrist boyfriend digs up matters from the past and the couple's youngest daughter Debbie seems to have inherited mom's relentless sense of cruelty and taste for blood . end spoilers There's very few background in the story and not even a proper attempt to analyze the psychological elements the plot handles about . Frightmare wants to shock you , and from that viewpoint , it's a very successful package of eeriness . Multiple scenes are loaded with tension and leave you with a very uncanny aftertaste in your stomach . There's quite a lot of offensive gore in the film and the mind-blowing climax skyrocketed the cult-value of this film , back in the early seventies . If you're not too easily petrified , I certainly recommend checking this film out .
Say hello to the best debut in cinema . . . EVER !	If you would think Scorsese , Coppola or Stone are the greatest living directors . . . you're wrong . Sure they're good but when it comes to pure talent . . . The Coen Brothers pale them all . Every single film they've produced is a masterpiece and this debut of them says all about their genius . Marty ( Dan Hedaya ) owns a bar in Texas . He hires a private detective to kill his cheating wife Abby and her lover Ray . This detective ( hilariously played by M . Emmet Walsh ) prefers to just earn the money without doing the killing and leaves him behind for death . Ray ( John Getz ) thinks that Abby ( a magnificent Frances McDormand ) shot Marty and decides to finish the jobs and puts him under the ground . So actually , the whole basic story is already told before the movie pops open but if you think that's the end . . . you don't know the Coen brothers . Without using very much scary scenes they succeed to build up a unique tension and creepy atmosphere . The plot outline gets shook up a few times and you don't learn much by watching the very introvert characters . If you live yourself in completely , you start to play detective yourself and it's wonderful if a movie is able to make you do that . It's all a bit like the better Hitchcock movies ( including the filming-methods Coen uses ) Suspense is in the intelligent story ! Basically . . . Blood Simple is nothing more than a cheap B-Movie . . . but a damn good one and a must see for all cult lovers . And that's how the Coen brothers will continue their career . Unpredictable but always very original . Although all their movies are very divergent , their unique ( and brilliant ) style can always be recognized . Just compare this film with the second one they made : Raising Arizona . They look completely different but still you can immediately point out they were made by the same guys . No one in the film industry puts his signature so clearly under a movie than Joel and Ethan do . And it seemed like true talent hooked up together in the early 80's . The Coen brothers were close friends to director Sam Raimi who made ( the also excellent debut ) Evil Dead . No , if you're looking for a little more than the usual cheesy Hollywood films . . . the Coen brothers are what you need . Their visual style and methods make them the greatest directors who ever lived . Typical for these guys is that their plot grow from simple to very complicated . Look out for that , you can find that in every single movie they made . They also have the privilege of working with Hollywoods ' finest actors . Frances McDormand to name one ( she sleeps with the director of course ) but several others . . . The names in this first movie Blood Simple aren't the biggest out there but they're all over-talented . Blood Simple may be the best film of the 80's ( along with David Lynch's Blue Velvet ) and also counts as one of the best ever made . A must see for every self-respecting fan of cinema . . . it's that SIMPLE !
Good , good very good ! And ? it's Dutch ! ? !	This movie opens with what probably is the best and most atmospheric thriller-sequence ever filmed in the Netherlands ! While the credits are shown , a serial killers swims through the canals of Amsterdam , viciously lurking at potential victims that moor by the quayside . This scene is simply terrific and it somewhat feels like how Dario Argento would direct " Jaws " ! Yes , it really is THAT intense and THAT disturbing . When the professional diver / maniac then comes out of the water , he brutally kills a prostitute and this means the first murder in a long series that'll terrorize the entire city of Amsterdam . Police inspector Eric Visser ( Huub Stapel , with whom director Dick Maas already made the commercial successes " De Lift " and " Flodder " ) and his team try very hard to catch the killer but he always escapes thanks to his vast knowledge of the canal-network . With " De Lift " in 1983 , Maas already proved that he was the only Dutch director of his generation capable of bringing unsettling and tense horror stories , but " Amsterdamned " is an even better movie because the atmosphere feels more realistic and the story is a lot more involving . With all the abrupt plot-twists and the extremely violent death-sequences , you could almost describe " Amsterdamned " as the only Dutch GIALLO ever made and it's perfectly able to compete with some of the better Italian efforts in this lovely sub genre of horror . Even the chilling musical score ( composed by Dick Maas himself , as well ) feels very giallo-like . Of course , the film isn't entirely flawless . Some action scenes ( like the grotesque speed-boat chase ) are just a tad bit exaggerated and the one many red herrings eventually ruin the credibility . Still , " Amsterdamned " unquestionably is one the best Dutch-spoken thriller ever and even horror fanatics across the ocean should consider importing it , if it were only for the nasty and downright shocking scene in which a severely mutilated corpse is dragged over a glass-topped tour boat filled with boy scouts . Great stuff ! !
Awesome fun ? on a Plane !	Despite the totally ridiculous title - which pretty much summarizes the entire movie ? and the shameless presentation of literally every single cliché and stereotype in the horror movie business , " Snakes on a Plane " actually is a pretty unique film . Why ? Because it finally is a summer blockbuster that completely lives up to its ( internet ) hype and exactly delivers what you expect from it ! Plenty of fast action , a handful of scary jump-moments , beautiful empty-headed girls all around and an undeniably cool Hollywood star who constantly fires off catchy one-liners . That's what it looks like from all the trailers and internet marketing campaigns and that's also what you get . It's a good old homage to monstrous B-movies , similar to " Tremors " and maybe even " Eight Legged Freaks " , only this film entirely owes its success to the wildly enthusiast internet fans that already worshiped the idea long before they even began shooting the actual movie . The script of " Snakes on a Plane " isn't all laughs and stupidity , mind you . There's a reason why the poor passengers of this red-eye flight are attacked by a seemly endless amount of aggressive snakes and several sequences contain suspense as well as visual flair . The different species of snakes are fascinating to behold and even the computer-engineered ones come across as convincing and not at all over the top . . . Except for one snake in particular , but at least that critter supplies the movie with an adorably grotesque cheese moment . Some of the snake-attacks and killings are remarkably gruesome and the acting performances are overall satisfying . David R . Ellis ' directing is solid and he frequently proves that " Snakes on a Plane " is more than just a rapidly created fan boy horror movie . It's a cool and immensely entertaining throwback to good old B-movie times . Highly recommended .
Morbid Science Requires a Woman's Touch ?	Much rather than the trashy and exploitative cash-in it's reputed to be , " Lady Frankenstein " is , in fact , a remarkably impressive and very ingenious variation on the legendary Mary Shelley story ! It all may look silly , and of course it is sometimes , but Mel Welles ' film contains a lot more style and dazzling Gothic atmosphere than the majority of contemporary Italian exploitation flicks . There's not one boring moment in the entire film and the plot actually brings forward some bright story lines that widely surpasses the imagination of scriptwriters over at big studios like Hammer and Universal . Horror veteran and personal favorite Joseph Cotton ( " The Abominable Dr . Phibes " , " Baron Blood " ) portrays the over-ambitious and slightly obnoxious Baron slash scientist Frankenstein who gets killed by his own creation after not carefully considering the dangers of his experiments . The horribly deformed monster he resurrected escapes and starts a killing spree in the area , causing mayhem and fear among the villagers . Meanwhile , Frankenstein's intelligent but equally stubborn daughter Tania continues her father's work , using the weak-minded men at the castle as reluctant research objects . The given that the " mad scientist " is a woman in this case , is already terrific in my humble opinion , and yet " Lady Frankenstein " features two supplementary sub plots that are definitely worth mentioning . The Frankensteins , both daddy and his girl , do business with a duo of filthy-looking corpse snatchers whose characters are obviously inspired by the real-life killers Burke & Hare and , unlike in most previous Frankenstein adaptations , there's even room for sexual intrigues and romance . With her sensual charisma , it's a lot easier for Tania to convince her patients to sacrifice themselves in the name of science . . . The make-up effects are rather poor , but the set pieces are effectively uncanny and director Welles often succeeds in creating a tense atmosphere with the use of eerie sounds and a wide range of unnatural colors . Some of the mumbling supportive characters are difficult to understand , but Rosalba Neri and Joseph Cotton are a pleasure to behold and they're clearly having fun in their roles . There's quite a bit of typical euro-sleaze in this film , but it never gets too graphic or overly vulgar . The ending is just marvelous and the whole concept of a relentless feminist Doctor is strangely fascinating ! Highly recommended .
Rough , nasty and entertaining Mexican exploitation	Not an easy puppy to come across , but this " Treasure of the Amazon " surely is warmly recommended viewing for every fan of trash , pulp or the glorious exploitation cinema . I was lucky enough to catch it on a national TV channel , during a cult-themed night . This is a Mexican take on the extremely popular jungle adventures of the early 80's , complete with sleaze , gratuitous violence and a once-famous Hollywood cast . We witness how three separate groups of Westerners sift out the dangerous Amazon jungle looking for gold . All three groups encounter wild animals and a savage tribe of head-hunters but eventually it's the typical human greed that is the biggest threat . " Treasure ? " is action-packed ( not one dull moment ) and extremely rich on gore sequences . Highlight of this is a semi-disgusting scene in which a gold-digger is torn apart by ravenous crabs ! This particular scene is bit by bit copied from Lucio Fulci's " The Beyond " , by the way . Director Cardona Jr . simply replaced the tarantulas with crabs . Much footage comes straight from other ( more budgeted ) films or nature channel documentaries but that only increases the terrific cult value of this production . The cast performances go from lovely OTT acting ( former miss world Ann Sidney ) to completely-not-interested acting ( John Ireland as the priest ) . Donald Pleasance is utterly cool as the uncanny Nazi wandering through the jungle to refund the resurrection of his Third Reich . Stuart Whitman shines for the first time again since " The Mark " as the tough jungle rat Gringo .
Hey there , sssssssssssssssssssexy !	Fans of atmospheric and story-driven 60's horror all over the world should urgently combine forces and catapult " The Snake Woman " out of oblivion and into the list of favorites ! Despite the compelling storyline and an acclaimed director in the credits ( Sidney J . Furie ) , this early 60's chiller incomprehensibly got neglected over the years , whereas other ? much worse ? horror films from that period received unnecessary fancy DVD-releases . This is a solid thriller , filmed in stylish black & white and filled with fluently written dialogues . The events take place during the late 19th century in a little Northern English town inhabited by superstitious and easily petrified people . Since many years , a brilliant scientist successfully keeps his wife's mental illness under control by injecting her with snake venom . When the wife dies whilst giving birth to a daughter , a local witch claims that the newborn child is pure evil and must be destroyed . The scientist is killed by an angry mob but the baby girl is miraculously saved with the help of an understanding doctor . 19 years later several corpses are found in the Moors , containing a lethal amount of snake poison . The frightened villagers believe that the curse of the snake woman has struck them , but the young Scotland Yard inspector doesn't believe in old-fashioned witchery and investigates the case . Sidney J . Furie impressively manages to maintain the mysterious atmosphere throughout the entire film and makes great use of the rural locations and spirit of the era . You can truly sense the fear of the villagers when they're confronted with yet another new murder and their belief in the supernatural , voodoo and evil curses is impeccably portrayed . The subject matter of venom and reptiles in general apparently got researched in detail . For example , the snake girl has no eyelids , she's highly sensitive to certain sounds and she regularly sheds her skin . It's little details like this that make mythological horror so great ! My only complaints are that the movie is too short ( runtime 68 minutes ) and that there isn't enough background to Atheris ' ( the snake woman ) character . What happened to her in those 19 years ? Does she hold a grudge against the town or does she just kill by instinct ? The acting performances are very adequate and the paranoia end sequences are typically 60's . This baby just screams for a proper DVD-release !
Thizzzz izzzz exzzzzellent zzzztuff !	Never thought that a movie involving people chasing a fly for half of the time could be so fascinating ! " The Fly " is a genuine horror / sci-fi classic and fundamental viewing for everyone who was ever interested in either of these ( or both , of course ) genres . The whole premise of this milestone is silly and incredibly grotesque , yet very disturbing and it's brought to an even higher quality-level by the top-class performances of a devoted cast . Hedinson stars as the brilliant scientist Andre Delambre who discovered a method to transfer matter from one capsule to another and ? convinced of his safety ? he uses himself as a guinea pig to test if it works with humans , too . Terror begins when an ordinary housefly accidentally makes the transfer with him and the two beings exchange heads and a limb . Slowly going mad , Hedison has to beg his wife Helene to destroy what's left of him and his invention , because it's too dangerous for the world . One of the reasons why this film is so compelling is because of the ingenious structure . The story opens with Hedinson's brother ( another great role for Vincent Price ) receiving a call from a hysterical Helene who claims to have killed her husband and , for a long time , we're left in the dark whether she committed an act of madness ? or a favor to her husband . " The Fly " contains several classic scenes ( in one way or another , everybody must know about the " spider-web " finale by now ) and the special effects are more than satisfying . Great film ! Terrific entertainment ! !
Let the Feastivities begin !	After nearly having abandoned all hope to ever state it , the time is now finally here ! Ladies and gentlemen , please welcome something entirely new and original : FEAST . This really great and immeasurably entertaining film directed by John Gulager exclusively thrives on one brilliant idea , namely it's the first and , so far , only anti-clichéd horror film of the post-2000 era . Simply put , this means " Feast " will feature guaranteed shock surprises and unexpected plot-twists . For once , you won't be able to guess which characters will get killed and in what order . Quite the contrary , I daresay that some of the characters of which you automatically expect them to survive will die and even a lot faster than you can imagine ! The element of surprise in " Feast " is totally refreshing and the characters behave so damn realistic . They're cowardly , egocentric , traitorous , whiny , despicable and extremely obnoxious , but ? face it ? this is exactly how real people would react and behave in situations where their own precious lives are in danger . As fun as it usually is to witness the good guys surviving and the bad guys getting what they deserve , in reality all you need to survive a certain ordeal is a large dose of luck . Not only does director John Gulager dispose of the right attitude and approach to make a horror film , the basic concept of " Feast " , as well as the elaboration of the script , is also quite creative and very comical . The film smoothly opens with the inventive introduction of the characters who're are all either regular guests or staff of a redneck tavern in the rural outback somewhere . The camera freeze-frames everyone to provide us with the characters ' names as well as some fun trivia , like the life-expectancy for every single character . Literally immediately after the introductions ? still during , actually ? the dark tavern is viciously attacked by a ' family ' of carnivorous creatures that vaguely look like hybrids between Razorbacks and Tremors . The awkward posse is trapped inside the tavern overnight , and they're forced to work together if at least some of them want to make it out alive . Granted , the plot is a little too skimpy for " Feast " to ever be referred to as a masterpiece in the genre , but it's full of action , incredibly fast-paced and bloody as hell ! Several people loose either their heads or limbs , get eaten or blown to pieces following a counterattack plan gone wrong . The make-up effects are very professional , gross and thankfully achieved the old-fashioned non-CGI way . The dialogs are fluently written and often really funny and the entire cast delivers spirited acting performances . Quite a few familiar faces in the cast as well , like former soft-core queen Krista Allen , Duane Whitaker , Balthazar Getty , Jason " Jay " Mewes and TV-screen legend Clu Gulager , who's the director's father . Terrific B-movie splatter fun for over-enthusiast new horror fanatics as well as elderly & more experienced admirers of the genre .
. . . And We Would All Go Down Together	Wow ! Can you say ? disturbing ! ? ! With " My Friends Need Killing " , the undeservedly mocked director Paul Leder ( " I Dismember Mama " , " Ape " ) delivers one of the cheapest but also one of the all-time grittiest and most confronting post-Vietnam thriller / drama portraits ever ! Like its own subject matter , this film is thoroughly unpleasant and depressing to watch , and the poverty-row production values actually contribute a lot to the powerful impact of the story . This is one obscure 70's gem sensitive souls and people with a weak stomach should stay far away from , as it's a genuinely shocking drama revolving on thought-provoking themes such as post-Vietnam traumas , guilt , retaliation and mental instability . Greg Mullavy gives an incredibly strong performance as Gene Kline , a man who lies awake night after night haunted by visions of the inhuman crimes he and his unit buddies committed in Vietnam and unceasingly hears the agonizing screams of their victims . Then , one morning , he writes his army comrades and subsequently visits them all with the vast determination to kill . Some of them , like Gill and Walter , deliberately banned the ' Nam atrocities from their minds and others , like Les , still struggle daily as well , but Gene vividly refreshes all their memories and foresees a suitable punishment . Considering the budgetary restrictions , the massacres obviously aren't too bloody , but the atmosphere of the " My Friends Need Killing " is almost unbearably excruciating and bitter . Even during the ex-soldiers ' talkative reunion sequences , you simply feel how Paul Leder is building up towards a disturbing highlight . Mullavy is terrific , with a seemingly natural glance of despair and madness in his eyes , and he receives excellent support from the largely unknown cast . The song during the opening credits is catchy ( and typically 70's ) and the camera-work is surprisingly inventive for such an underdog film . " My Friends Need Killing " is definitely a cruel , relentless and nihilistic-toned piece of 70's film-making that is guaranteed to pester your thoughts long after seeing it . Music buffs will have noticed the title of this comment was borrowed from Billy Joel's Vietnam hit " Goodnight Saigon " . Goodnight Saigon , all right ? and also goodnight Texas , San Diego , Los Angeles and San Francisco .
Welcome to the morbid Dollhouse !	Apparently there are more export products coming from Switzerland than just fancy watches , pocketknives and cuckoo clocks ! For instance this harrowing and severely devastating exploitation gem , which undoubtedly WILL affect you in some way . Superficially , " Mosquito The Rapist " appears to be another load of sick-spirited & extreme 70's trash , but if you make the effort to observe the film closer , you'll discover that it's actually an intense and tragic drama rather than just euro-smut . Werner Pochath portrays an anonymous deaf-mute man in his early twenties , working as an accountant and living in a ramshackle studio that he decorated with uncanny dolls . Flashbacks show that his father was very abusive and he regularly witnessed how his little sister was sexually assaulted , so naturally he carries a truckload of childhood traumas with him . He keeps his perverted " desires " under control by regularly breaking into morgues and mutilating girls ' corpses as well as slurping their blood through a homemade glass straw . This particular device has two little points at the end , which makes it look like vampire's teeth . When his secret love-interest ( a hippie-girl that lives in his building ) tragically dies , the mutilations become far more sadistic and he eventually turns to brutal murder . The scenes showing " Mosquito " inside the morgues are quite repulsive . He pokes out the eyes of corpses , cuts open their torsos and sucks their blood while lying on top of them . Yet , even more impressive is the constantly grim & disturbing atmosphere director Marijan Vadja manages to sustain ! This boy's entire existence is so sad and so depressing that you simply can't bring yourself to fully abominate him . It's probably the only film I've seen in my whole life where I felt compassionate for a depraved pervert . There's a minimum of dialogue , but tons of saddening music and unpleasant images of a pauperized society . These are all aspects that emphasize the dramatic themes of the film and NOT the exploitative sleaze & violence . " Mosquito The Rapist " is also a shockingly well-made and even stylish film ! The camera-work and editing are competently handled and even the acting performances are adequate . Those who're expecting a cheap , bottom-of-the-barrel exploitation flick will surely be ( pleasantly ? ) surprised . You can always raise questions regarding what's the point of making such a movie and / or what the added cinematic value is . Of course , there's none ? But still this shouldn't keep fans of cult films from purchasing this obscure baby ! It's at least a dozen times better than it looks ! Note : this user comment is dedicated to IMDb-user Scott-from-Modesto . Without his help , I probably never would have found this movie .
Murder and Mayhem in the family !	Roger Corman apparently isn't the only director who can do Edgar Allen Poe adaptations , even though he undoubtedly remains the reigning king thanks to his SEVEN masterful films during the early 60's starring Vincent Price . The least you can say about this movie is that it's a likable effort . If you compare the oeuvres of exploitation master Jess Franco and early 19th century author Edgar Allen Poe , an amalgamation of their works seems nearly impossible and ridiculous . And yet , " Night of the Skull " is a very compelling and atmospheric Gothic horror film , worthy of Poe's good reputation and a class above the majority of Franco's other movies . The screenplay is based on Poe's " The Cat and the Canary " and revolves on the despicable Marion family as they gather around to hear the will of the murdered patriarch Archibald Percival . Since his death was unnatural , the inheritors all of a sudden get to hear a completely unexpected testament that divides the family fortune differently . Then at night comes a skull-masked killer to eliminate all the family members in gruesome ways , referring to the four basic elements water , wind , earth and fire . Our good old pal Jess manages to create a wondrously sinister Goth atmosphere , complete with dark mansions near the seaside and loud thunderstorms . There's always a certain level of suspense to enjoy and the murders are impressively barbaric . Especially the first murder , that of the family patriarch , is quite creepy . This movie probably contains the smallest amount of sleaze in a Jess Franco movie ever ( even Lina Romay keeps her clothes on at all times , which is truly odd ) , but there's constant hinting at perverted themes , such as incest , voyeurism and adultery . The decors are great , the acting is more than adequate for once and the recent DVD release looks very nice . This film isn't dubbed , which is a real pleasure . Definitely top 3 Franco material , alongside " Faceless " and " The Awful Dr . Orloff " .
You can't tame what's meant to be wild !	Joe Dante's The Howling is a superb film handling about the coolest creatures in the horror field : Werewolves ! ! Unfortunately , this sub-genre isn't really packed with masterpieces so that's an extra reason to particularly praise this one . Plot , screenplay and acting are terrific ! The Howling contains several very creepy and atmospheric moments while the special effects and the make-up are outstanding ( that transmutation scene ! ! ) . It may look like this film starts out a little slow and out of its horror-field but you'll soon forget about this during the second half of the movie . And , after witnessing the overwhelming finale , I'm pretty sure you'll regard this like a true genre-highlight . The Howling can depend on a clever crew and a more than devoted cast . Dee Wallace is quite impressive in her role of Karen White . She's a journalist suffering from a trauma after she nearly got raped and killed during an undercover assignment for the TV-news . As some form of therapy , she and her husband Bill join a bizarre spiritual movement called ' The Colony ' . Karen soon gets the impression that something is not quite right in this group and that several members have animal characteristics . Other than a very entertaining and well-elaborated film , The Howling also is a purely ingenious tribute to other genre-classics . Joe Dante brings homage to Universal Pictures ( The Wolf Man , WereWolf of London ) as well as too Hammer Studios ( Curse of the Werewolf ) and a whole lot of titles directed by his mentor , Roger Corman . This simply is an excellent film , period . Over twenty years old by now but it still looks fresh and adequate . It has everything : tension , atmosphere , a bit of gore and a grim sense of humor . If you're interested in purchasing all the fundamental films that made the horror genre ? then add the Howling to your list !
Sends you on a nostalgic and otherworldly voyage of your own ?	I vividly remember reading and listening to the tales of the courageous " Sinbad the Sailor " as a child , but for some reason I never watched any of the acclaimed movies until now . Well , to be entirely honest , it's mainly the work and involvement of special effects wizard Ray Harryhausen what makes the Sinbad movies acclaimed , as his legendary name is linked to the production , the special effects and the scripting . Harryhausen undeniably delivered great craftsmanship here , but the success of " The Golden Voyage of Sinbad " also relies on the superb work of others , like the competent direction of Gordon Hessler ( the underrated horror director of " The Oblong Box " and " Cry of the Banshee " ) and the magnificent casting choices of John Phillip Law ( " Diabolik " , " Barbarella " ) , Caroline Munro ( " Maniac " , " Captain Kronos " ) and Tom Baker ( " Dr . Who " ) . Last but not least there's Brian Clemens terrific script , which is fast paced and plentiful of adventurous action . The movie opens with Sinbad obtaining a golden amulet by coincidence , when a winged gargoyle drops it on his ship . Later on , a lively nightmare and a heavy thunderstorm cause Sinbad and his crew to go off course and arrive on an island where the sailor's courage and knowledge are desperately needed . The amulet Sinbad holds is just part of a puzzle and there's still one piece missing . The island's Vizier ? wearing a golden mask since a fire destroyed his face ? searches for the third piece , but so does the malignant sorcerer Prince Koura . Sinbad and his crew embark on a dangerous and long journey to find the missing piece , along with Vizier and a ravishing girl slave with a mystical birthmark on the palm of her hand . The evil Prince Koura follows the trail and practices his black magic art against them , but every magical effort weakens him . " The Golden Voyage of Sinbad " is the prototypic example of a versatile mythological fantasy flick . The heroic titular protagonist consecutively battles against a ship's figure siren come to life , a Vishnu-like deity holding no less than six swords in each arm , a centaur , a griffin and his nemesis when turned invisible . Harryhausen's stop-motion effects are extraordinary and perfect to the smallest detail . The battle sequences as well as several others ( like the escape from the ruined temple , for example ) are very suspenseful and the set pieces are enchanting . Caroline Munro has the yummiest cleavage ever ( another highlight in the movie ) and Tom Baker makes a perplexing bad guy .
Brilliant director !	Multi-talented director Michael Haneke delivers another staggering and ultimately disturbing film , only the shocks are of a completely different kind than the ones in " Funny Games " or " Benny's Videos " . This is a dark and very depressing drama in which Haneke investigates how different types of people would respond if they experience the apocalypse coming . How relentless and self-centered are we towards other people once civilization changes into a waterless wasteland with almost no food or shelter ? The events in the film clearly take place after some sort of huge disaster . . . We never really get to know what happened to the world , we don't even know what year it is or where exactly we the story takes place . Perhaps this lack of explication is for the best , because the characters need to focus on today or else they're lost . Their pasts , no matter how successful they were , are gone and irrelevant . The first shock ( only 5 minutes into the movie or so ) remains the most efficient one ! After the opening sequence in the cabin , you're guaranteed to watch the remaining of the film with your eyes and mouth wide open ! Anne and her two children are doomed to travel around in constant darkness , encountering other groups of people with the same problems . When they attempt to raise a new and smaller community , all the social issues like jealousy and hate show up again , subtly suggesting that the origin of all catastrophes lies within man himself . . . Michael Haneke's style is very different than the typical Hollywood filming style . He clearly doesn't give mankind much credit and compares us with hungry wolves that don't hesitate one second to devour a weaker prey . Haneke also isn't a traditional storyteller and refuses to focus on one ( or a few ) characters in particular . At first , we follow Anne and her children , but they don't necessarily remain the protagonists throughout the whole film . It may sound confusing , but Haneke professionally edits it all together into one mesmerizing portrait . The cinematography is depressing and beautiful at the same time , whereas the locations are plain and simply nightmarish . Whatever may have happened to the world here , you hope and you prey that you don't wake up in a similar situation .
Ain't No Party Like Hackman's Hunting Party !	Why this film is still so obscure and unknown goes beyond my ? admittedly limited ? comprehension . It has a good plot , albeit obviously a response to " The Wild Bunch " and basically just another ( western ) interpretation of the legendary classic " The Most Dangerous Game " , the cast is excellent with both Gene Hackman and Oliver Reed in great shape and there's plenty of rough and gritty violence . The filming locations are exquisite and ? possibly to further cash in on the success of Italian Spaghetti westerns ? the producers even hired and Italian composer . Riz Ortolani's music is definitely one of the best elements about the film . Gene Hackman was never as vicious as here in this movie , portraying Brandt Ruger ; a rich , obnoxious and egocentric bank owner who enjoys throwing hunting parties for his selected circle of equally depraved and wealthy friends . When a posse of bandits , led by the ever handsome Oliver Reed , kidnaps his wife , Brandt alters the route of their planned hunting trip and goes after them . Not so much because he loves his wife ( played by the ravishing Candice Bergen ) , as he actually neglects and abuses her all the time , but because he's Brandt Ruger and nobody is supposed to touch what belongs to him . Ruger gets crazier and more determined to raise a bloodbath with each minute that passes , whilst his wife and her abductor fall in love . Hackman's character is truly the nastiest and most hateful type of villain there is : relentless , mad and unpredictable , but also cowardly as he continuously avoids confrontation with his opponents and shoots them from a safe distance with his technically advanced riffle . " The Hunting Party " is slightly overlong and contains a handful of tedious sequences , notably the romantic parts and the whole sub plot revolving on Melissa learning her kidnapper how to read . Still , there's always some type of ominous atmosphere , since you expect Gene and his docile accomplices to pop up out of nowhere at any given moment . The climax is very powerful , haunting and even quite depressing . The action is of course rather monotonous , since we exclusively witness people getting shot , but the images of cowboys dying in slow motion ( and bathing in blood ) are gritty and exploitative . The three leads are amazing and " The Hunting Party " comes with my highest possible recommendation if it were only for witnessing the final showdown between Reed and Hackman , two of the greatest actors that ever lived .
A tenement , a dirty street . . . now look your head's bowed in defeat	review title lyrics : Marc Almond ? The Days of Pearly Spencer " Tenement " is hostile , mean-spirited exploitation in which the cheapness of production is only surpassed by the brutality in tone . Also known as " Slaughter in the South Bronx " , this nasty movie perfectly lives up to his reputation of shocking urban horror class-sick ! The story opens with a gang of thugs being arrested for drug-abuses and other insane felonies committed in the basement of an apartment complex . The other tenants hope that this will finally mean the end of all crime in their neighborhood , but the gang returns the exact same night already and plots annihilate everyone in the building . The first half hour seems slow and not at all eventful but , in reality , you feel that the tension is being build up towards a claustrophobic highpoint that'll stand for pure mayhem . " Tenement " is very extreme with some of the most disturbing death-scenes ever shot on film . Luckily the special effects are so weak , because the violence is already shocking enough in concept . There's a woman raped and barbarically beaten to death , other tenants are stabbed with rusty pokers and one guy dies after a seriously sick heroine-shot . Furthermore , we have slit throats , electrocution and a truly repulsive castration . Yikes ! ! There are no real heroes among the tenants and you feel like every character has an equal chance to die ( and they most likely WILL before the movie is over ) . " Tenement ? Game of Survival " is hugely controversial cinema and easily one of the most jaw-dropping movies I ever beheld . Enter at your own risk ! !
Welcome to the Wildnerness ; we got fun & games !	Call us uncivilized savages if you must , but who honestly doesn't enjoy raw and barbaric adventure-movies in which the blood and violence literally bursts from the screen ? In case you were thrilled by movies like " Battle Royale " , " Blood Camp Thatcher " or even the more classic milestone " The Most Dangerous Game " , you simply have to see " Wilderness " ; a brand new British survival-horror effort directed by Michael " Deathwatch " Basset . After the suicide of a fellow inmate , a troop of juvenile delinquents ? for whom all hope for rehabilitation was given up long time ago ? are sent to a prison island for a severe lesson in elementary life-values . On the island , however , a mad-raving psychopath lies in wait for them and even the innocent guards and some random girls become defenseless targets . Trained and equipped like an experienced hunter , the killer annihilates nearly the whole gang by using deadly booby-traps and ravenous dogs . As you can derive from this brief plot description , originality isn't " Wilderness " biggest trump and the script doesn't even bother to keep the killer's identity secret for a long time . But seriously , who cares about aspects like these when a film is so adrenalin rushing and blood-soaked ? The " hunting humans " - premise is mixed with the textbook 80's slasher plot of a revenge-seeking killer , but you aren't given a chance to grumble about the banality , as there is gore and excitement everywhere ! The island itself is a captivating location , resulting in masterfully choreographed sequences and some utterly imaginative booby-traps . Unlike in his previous film " Deathwatch " , Michael J . Basset definitely doesn't cut back on the blood & gore here , and we're gladdened with close-up shotgun action , amputated body parts , chopped of heads and loads of aggressive dog-action ! The character drawings are very well processed and Basset fully uses the nihilistic and totally lackadaisical nature of youthful criminals . These young social outcasts don't care about anyone but themselves and pretty soon there are sub plots involving betrayal , jealousy and cowardly behavior . The sound & visual effects are terrific and Peter Robertson clearly has a talented eye for versatile camera-work . Following films like " Dog Soldiers " , " 28 Days Later ? " and " The Descent " , this " Wilderness " is yet another piece of evidence that the British horror industry is working on a remarkable revival nowadays . Highly recommended !
Duck ? and Cover ; German style !	This downright hilarious horror / comedy short instantly reminded me of those OTT and laugh-out-loud propaganda films , clumsily disguised as educational videos , featuring in satire shows like " The Simpsons " and " South Park " , where people ? and preferably children ? are informed about the dangers of all kinds of events or evolutions . Remember the volcano eruption video in " South Park " ? Or the sexual guidance video enacted by bunnies in " the Simpsons " ? Or maybe even the factual and just plain wrong educational films spread by the American Government during the early 50's , like " All Women Have Periods " . " Forklift Driver Klaus " is a brilliant German short , following the new employee of a large warehouse on the first day he owns the license for driving around the forklift . Klaus is proud and extremely enthusiast to drive around in his machine , but encounters all the bloody hazards that come with the job . The preachy voice-over reminds him never to transport people , personally repair mechanical issues or drive through crowded places on the work floor , but Klaus ignores them all and faces the gruesome consequences . The accidents are harmless at first , with a colleague falling off the forklift , but they rapidly get totally demented and by the end of the film several employees are decapitated , impaled or cut in half . . . including Klaus . This deranged short film is utterly tasteless and therefore highly recommended to all people with a sick sense of humor . It started as a clever spoof on inaccurate safety training material , but it ended as a horror-extravaganza that can't possibly be taken seriously .
My Complex & Sadist Killer !	Anyone who ever saw " My Dear Killer " is most likely to agree when I claim that it's nearly impossible to find another horror film with a more convoluted plot ! I never thought I'd say this , but this movie almost exaggerates with the constant adding of new twists and complexity ! " My Dear Killer " , which is a giallo in the purest definition of the term , features nearly a dozen murder victims and an equal amount of suspects . Paying close attention to the development of the plot is difficult enough already , so guessing along for the killer's identity is pretty much out of the question . And yet , it's another wondrous example of Italy's finest horror sub genre , with brutal slaughters , controversial themes and great music ! Giallo-regular George Hilton ( " All the Colors of the Dark " , " Case of the Bloody Iris " ) plays Peretti , a police detective charged with investigating the eerie murder of an insurance inspector . He was obviously getting too close to someone's dark secrets and , in order to solve the case ; Peretti has carry on with the decapitated victim's research . All traces lead to the unsolved kidnapping and eventual murder of a young girl in the area . The killer clearly doesn't know how he is to getting caught , as he precautionary starts to eliminate everyone close to the case . Be advised that the above is a very vague description of the plot , as a more detailed summary would cover several pages . Apart from a few minor holes in the plot and a handful of illogicalness , " My Dear Killer " is a hugely compelling and intense murder-mystery . Especially the violence will appeal to hardcore horror fans , as the killer even uses circular saws and construction machinery ! Tonino Valerii is not a very eminent Italian horror filmmaker ( or at least not as eminent as , say , Dario Argento , Lucio Fulci or Sergio Martino ) , but his directing is truly stylish and he obviously read the " big book of giallo-guidelines " carefully before he started making this movie . Highly recommended !
The Road to Hell is paved with awesome QT dialogs !	For the first time in my life , I actually regret not being an American citizen . Why ? Because only in the U . S of A . you could see " Death Proof " as it was initially intended by the genius filmmaker Quentin Tarantino ; namely as a more or less short ( + / - 75 min . ) segment in a double-feature tribute to the long-lost days of Grindhouse house cinema . Over here in Europe - Belgium to be more specific - , distributors feared that the audiences would not understand the concept and therefore they opted to release both segments separately and , to my biggest regret , without the fake trailers in between . At least , that's the official version . It's also possible they wanted to make double the money on the same film , because the films were released with a period of two months in between . Of course , a running time of barely 75 minutes isn't satisfying anymore in this day and age of expensive cinema tickets , so both segments had to be expanded with additional footage in order to attract people . Now , naturally , the padding is exactly what ruins the concept & basic idea of " Death Proof " , as gritty 70's-type exploitation movies are supposed to be short and to the point ! Without even having seen " Grindhouse " , I could perfectly point out the footage and dialogs that were added to " Death Proof " as these are the exact same sequences that bring down the overall atmosphere of the story . That pretty much concludes my rant , because I nonetheless still very much enjoyed the extended version of " Death Proof " , despite the fact that it obviously robbed Quentin Tarantino of his initial intentions . The majority of dialogs may be unnecessary and overlong , but they still remain brilliant examples of QT's writing talent . This basically means that every line spoken is exciting , stimulating and always smoothly refers to another highlight of the 70's pop culture . There isn't a single line or detail in the screenplay that doesn't bring homage to another movie . Some of the references are obvious , whereas other ones are subtler and a true joy for the exploitation connoisseurs to discover . The actual plot is rudimentary , like it should . For reasons that remain unmotivated , the psychopathic Stuntman Mike terrorizes groups of young & luscious women , using only his menacing " Death Proof " car . He hangs around lurid bars and shops , where he extendedly observes their behavior and overhears their conversations before stalking them in his diabolical vehicle . The first clique of girls ( among them the gorgeous Jordan Ladd , Rose McGowan and Vanessa Ferlito ) forms a fairly easy target , but the second group ( Rosario Dawson , Sydney Tamiia Poitier , Zoe Bell ) is much tougher and fights back , resulting in a head spinning and masterfully staged chase across the forsaken countryside . Kurt Russell is tremendous as the utterly deranged Stuntman Mike and he clearly hasn't had this much fun playing a character since " Escape from New York " , back in 1981 . The girls are all terrific and damn sexy , with the exception of Jungle Julia who exaggerates too much with her rough - black - chick - from - the - hood act . Also , awesome soundtrack ( courtesy of numerous older films ) , delightful editing & sound effects and remarkably cool cameos , including QT himself and fellow director mate Eli Roth . Brilliant film-making , whether or not in its original form .
Director Fulci in a chameleon's skin . . .	The more you see of Fulci's work , especially his older films , the more you have to acknowledge that this man was a very versatile filmmaker who deserves to be remembered for a lot more than just his gory zombie-movies ! After having seen the stylish crime drama " One on top of the Other " , followed by this wonderfully psychedelic giallo , it actually becomes difficult to believe that Lucio Fulci went on making so many eyeball-stabbing & gut-spilling gore flicks ! The bloodshed in this film is kept to a minimum in favor of the complex but hugely satisfying story and a large amount of atmospheric set-pieces . Carol ( Florinda Bolkan ) is the happily married daughter of a rich and prominent politician , but she nevertheless suffers from mental issues and disturbing nightmares . In one of her hallucinations , she violently kills the sexy drug-addicted neighbor with a dagger . When the girl is found butchered exactly like Carol described it to her psychiatrist , she's temporarily homed in an institution while the police carefully observes her friends and relatives . Fulci creates as splendid early 70's atmosphere , with drug-parties , orgies and hippie-characters that could have come straight from the Woodstock concert . The great score and imaginative cinematography also contribute in making this a great example of the giallo genre , yet it are the very intelligent plot twists and red herrings that impress you the most . After about half of the movie , you think you figured out who the killer is , but then Fulci adds a couple more of engaging twists . The murder of the blond girl is quite uncanny and there are several more frights and icky make-up effects to find in Carol's visions , so even the gorehounds among us will be fairly satisfied . The denouement speech could have been a little shorter and not all the supportive cast-members give away equally good performances , still a GREAT film !
Complex but overall " paralyzing " giallo !	Aldo Lado's directorial debut is a mixed bag of confusion and greatly innovating ideas but , eventually , it's the director's ingeniousness that triumphs , and he makes this " Short Night of the Glass Dolls " a must-see experience for Italian horror fans , more particularly the admirers of typical gialli . Lado's intelligent script combines different styles like typically Hitchcockian thrillers , detective stories and near the end even pure occult horror ! American reporter in Prague Gregory Moore is pronounced dead in a local hospital but his brain functions are very much alive and slowly reconstructing the fiendish conspiracy that put him into this disturbing medical condition . Gregory's stunningly beautiful girlfriend Mira vanished shortly after a social gathering and , during his private investigation , he discovers that many prominent citizens hide macabre secrets . I realize this is a very basic description of the story , but it really is all I can say without revealing essential clues . The actual denouement , albeit far-fetched , is truly unexpected and the grand finale at the hospital left me completely speechless ? which is a rare event ! Even though it was only his first horror effort , Aldo Lado proves himself to be a master when it comes to building up tension and he has a talented eye for imaginative camera-work . The classy location of Prague provides this film with one of the most beautiful settings in European horror cinema ever and Lado could also count on mesmerizing musical guidance by Ennio Morricone . The song entitled " Short Night of the Butterflies " is a real beauty . Highly recommended to fans of atmospheric , story-driven horror movies .
Not your usual brain-eating corpses . . . and that's a good thing !	First of all : PLEASE don't let the misleading , rather silly sounding title discourage you ! I walked with a Zombie is another brilliant result of the collaborations between producer Val Lewton and director Jacques Tourneur . Released one year after the simply astonishing movie ' Cat People ' , this is yet another intelligently elaborated and genuinely original genre-masterpiece . The solid screenplay contains a rarely seen before amount of eeriness and handles about a young ambitious nurse who goes to San Antonio in order to take care of Jessica . Jessica is the wife of plantation-owner Paul Holland and she suffers from a bizarre mental paralysis , supposedly caused by a tropical fever . She is ? in fact ? a zombie only not the type of walking corpse you usually expect in horror movies . Betsy , the nurse , is somehow convinced that Jessica may still be cured and turns to the Voodoo-community that is living on the island as well . Just like he pulled it off in Cat People , Tourneur manages to bring suspense in a subtle way . Without bloody images but with a unique photography and efficient set pieces ! I walked with a Zombie contains great dialogs , intriguing characters and mind bending plot-twists . This is an intelligent and demanding film , especially made for people who take this genre serious ! It ranks slightly under ' Cat People ' but light-years above most other horror films . Check it out !
Let's make Jessica immortal ! !	" Let's Scare Jessica to Death " is a uniquely grim and atmospheric low-budget horror production that'll still give you goosebumps , even though it's a good 30 years old . The movie was obviously inspired by George A . Romero's " Night of the Living Dead " ( actually , which horror made after 1968 wasn't ? ? ) but it's definitely powerful and original enough to stand on its own , as a must-see obscure horror film . The charismatic cutie Zohra Lampert plays Jessica ; a mentally unstable girl who has just been released from a health institution after a period of six months . Accompagnied by her husband and a friend , she leaves New York to settle down in a quiet , rural region where she can start over . During the journey already , Jessica feels that something isn't right and she suffers from visions and voices that seem to warn her for something . She keeps it to herself , since she's afraid of going crazy again , but her eerie presentiments slowly come true . Arrived at the farmhouse , the trio encounters a seemly cherubic girl who looks an awful lot like the woman who drowned in the lake on her wedding day . . . . only that was nearly 100 years ago . Not much gore to find here , only genuine scares and slow-paced creepiness ! " Let's Scare Jessica to Death " is an intriguing film , although you have to focus very carefully in order to keep up with the ? at times ? confusing screenplay . Especially the " voices " that Jessica keeps hearing inside her head supply the film with a terrific spooky effect . Also , the little morbid details are great ! The trio's conveyance , for example , is an ancient hearse and Jessica likes to draw artsy pictures out of tombstones . The acting is very good and John D . Hancock does a great job directing this overlooked classic . I'm pretty sure that the entire tense end-sequence at the lake influenced the success-story of " Friday the 13th " . I wouldn't say the film looks dated by now , although it certainly wouldn't appeal to the modern young genre fans . It's subtle and suggestive instead of explicit and nasty , and those are qualities nowadays horror rookies don't appreciate anymore . " Let's Scare Jessica to Death " is hard to come across , but surely worth looking for . Hihgly recommended .
One of the nastiest highlights ever made !	Murder , mayhem and mutilation ? shown in all its pride and glory ! Buio Omega a . k . a Buried Alive a . k . a Beyond the Darkness is a finger-licking and ultra-gory sleazefest . D'Amato's film certainly is a landmark in the Italian shlock / sick cinema as it contains some of the grossest and explicit nauseating sequences ever shot on film . The young and introvert Frank cannot live without his recently deceased girlfriend Anna , so he digs up her corpse , embalms her and keeps her around his mansion . After this , he descents further into madness and starts to kill girls randomly and his freaky housekeeper Iris assists him . Now , Frank is pretty messed up in the head but Iris is just downright insane ! ! She makes a hobby out of dismembering dead bodies and she breastfeeds the 22-year-old Frank ! The first half hour may seem a little lame and low on bloodshed but , as soon as the gore kicks in , it doesn't stop till the end credits role and it becomes more and more repulsive by the minute ! D'Amato servers a disturbingly realistic embalming-process along with some detailed torturing scenes , dissections and gruesome butchering ! Of course , like it should in Italian's nastiest , there are a lot of perversely orientated undertones present such as necrophilia , cannibalism and even a variant on the ? Oedipus'-theme ! Joe d'Amato never was world's most brilliant director . That's okay , since he never claimed to be and he always clearly mentioned his influences . He's more like a businessman with more adult films on his repertoire ? The horror films he made are vicious but technically weak , all together ! Nonetheless , Buio Omega is an exception ! Unlike his other horror films , Buried Alive has tension , a great soundtrack , a constant morbid atmosphere and even a bit of surprisingly good acting ! Cinzia Monreale , who plays the dead love-interest Anna , became more famous after starring in Fulci's masterpiece the Beyond and the creepy aunt Iris also starred in a few delightful ' babes behind bars ' flicks . The circle of fans that likes this kind of films is rather small ? but they're very devoted . For them , Buio Omega is a must see !
A series of wonderfully sinister events !	Please , don't make the same mistake as me and my girlfriend and postpone your viewing of " Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events " simple because it looks too much like a children's film . Although younger audiences may be the priority target group , this film definitely isn't childish and actually a lot scarier and more sinister than most nowadays horror films ! Not gross or violent , of course , but authentically grim and macabre like a real fairy-tale ought to be ! Here in Europe , we aren't very familiar with the books of Daniel Handler ( Lemony Snicket ) but , even by judging this film alone , I dare to say that his work appeals to me a lot more than for example Harry Potter or the latest Pixar movies . The story centers on three adorable and gifted children who're abruptly orphaned when their parents die in a mysterious fire . Their search for a new home and well-meaning new guardians is constantly interfered by the malicious Count Orlaf ( Jim Carrey ) who hunts after the Bauedelaires ' family fortune . The main reason why this film is so genuinely unsettling is because the story relentlessly uncovers the deepest fear of every child , namely the death of parents and the large risk of ending up with ill-natured new guardians . Most fairy-tale don't even dare to bring up this nightmarish idea , but " Lemony Snicket . . . " entirely revolves around it . Equally effective are , of course , the ghoulish landscapes , the dark scenery and the amazingly eccentric characters . Most of the time , it feels like you're watching a typical Tim Burton film and that's a giant compliment , since his style is practically unique ( sinister , witty and heart-warming all at once ! ) . There's a lot of CGI but it's not annoying for once , since all these exaggeratedly fake special effects ( the leeches , Aunt Josephine's seaside-house ) contribute to the wonderfully morbid atmosphere . The cast is terrific as well , with Jim Carrey as Count Orlaf in one most memorable performances to date . I have to admit I initially feared that Carrey's performance would be far over-the-top , but he's surprisingly mature and convincing . The Bauedelaire-children are very well cast as well and so are Billy Connolly and Meryl Streep in the most important supportive roles . The great cast is completed with respectable names ( Luiz Guzmán , Catherine O'Hara , Jennifer Coolidge . . . ) in small roles . Sublime film , highly recommended for all type of audiences !
Ah , the mentally insane . . . you gotta love ' em !	( Small SPOILERS ) It's such a shame that this film wasn't produced by the Hammer studios ( or Amicus ? or maybe Tigon ) , because if that were the case , it probably wouldn't be so underrated and overlooked as it is now . Dark Places has suspense , a professional director , a great cast and ? especially ? a truly cool plot . Asylum administrator Edward ( Robert Hardy ) ' inherits ' the large mansion of a deceased patient . The legend says he hid a fortune somewhere in the walls of this house but he also went mad there after the murder on his wife , his two children and the governess . Edward begins the search for the lost money but there are more rivals in the field . The town's doctor ( Christopher Lee ) and his ravishing sister ( Joan Collins ) constantly try to intrude the house and even the seemly honest notary ( Herbert Lom ) becomes greedy ? but then , the house itself becomes the biggest threat . As you can read , this film offers great excitement . Asylums , treasure-hunting and haunted houses ! What more could a Brit horror-fanatic possibly ask for ? The tense climax is terrifically built up and the film features quite a lot gore considering the time it was shot . The budget is low and the project obviously lacks efficient make-up effects . But the wholesome is very atmospheric and quite original so I don't really care if it doesn't look too convincing . ' Dark Places ' was directed by Don Sharp , who previously made the Hammer classic ' Rasputin : the Mad Monk ' and several other great horror titles , such as ' Psychomania ' ( very underrated as well ) , ' The Brides of Fu Manchu ' and ' Kiss of the Vampire ' . Robert Hardy plays an excellent double-role , while Lee and Lom look as ghoulish as ever . The nearly perfect cast is completed by two stunningly beautiful actresses : Joan Collins and Jane Birkin . In case you're a devoted Hammer fan , or just an admirer of ghostly 70's stories , Dark Places is the ideal film for you . Severely underrated horror fun !
Cruelty is on the menu ! !	There aren't that many horror movies about cannibalism ( at least not compared to other sub-genres like murdering maniacs or vampires or zombies ) but the ones out there enjoy a world wide status of being very controversial . Especially this movie is , along with Deodato's Cannibal Holocaust , the perfect representation of this macabre topic . In a very explicit way , both these movies show the darkest side of ( in ) humanity and there will always be at least a few sequences that shock you . . . no matter you're the most hardened horror fan or not . In my personal opinion , Cannibal Ferox is a bit better than Holocaust because of the deeper thoughts and emotions behind it . I also enjoy the style of director Umberto Lenzi over Deodato's . Cannibal Ferox starts with both a written and spoken warning that this motion picture contains at least two dozen scenes that may be seen as shocking and disturbing , and that you shouldn't watch this movie if you're quickly offended in any possible way . Usually , these warnings are very exaggerated and just an instrument of marketing but in this case , it really has a point . The gore and violence shown in this film gets under your skin a lot more as when you're watching other horror films . Just because one simple reason . . . the existence of Cannibalistic tribes is unlikely , but not completely impossible . As I said before , Cannibal Ferox is made by Umberto Lenzi . This man is obviously obsessed by horror and just like his famous - fellow Italian - colleagues Lucio Fulci and Lamberto Bava , he likes to portray it ways that don't leave much to the imagination . We're talking about eyeballs getting stabbed out , braincracking , tearing apart a complete human body and that sort of things . Unnecessary to say that people with a weak stomach better avoid it . Perhaps the most interesting aspect about Cannibal Ferox is the moral Lenzi tries to tell . Are it in fact the cannibals who're inhuman ? ? Or goes the greed , madness and curiosity of the civilized world even beyond their cruelty ? ? . . . Who ever said Italian horror is only meant to shock and offend people ? Pure talking cinema , Cannibal Ferox is far from being perfect ( or even good at times ) The acting is below average , especially in English dubbed version and there are a few obvious continuity goofs . Some sequences seem like they are " unfinished " and that makes you think Lenzi wanted to do more with it but just couldn't . All these negative elements are made up by some great nature and ' wild-life ' footage , including a few fascinating animal rituals . This means : If you're hurt more by seeing an animal suffer then when you see a human get slashed , Cannibal Ferox isn't recommended neither . If you're looking for a challenge to watch . . . Cannibal Ferox is what you need .
Two degrees of Barbara Steele in a marvelous Gothic tale	Fans of the ravishing goddess Barbara Steele will immediately rank " Nightmare Castle " among their favorites , simply because she plays a lovely double-role . And , either blond or brunette , Barbara remains the most gorgeous actress who ever lived ! But , luckily enough , " Nightmare Castle " is more than just a one-girl-show . It's an atmospheric and ominous Gothic tale with genuine moments of fear and darkness . Steele shines as the adulterous Muriel Arrowsmith who's tortured and eventually put to death by her husband , the sinister Dr . Stephen . The guy exclusively lives for his secret scientific experiments in the basement and , in order to keep custody over the castle , he remarries the countess ' mentally unstable sister Jenny ( Barbara again ! ! ) . Stephen developed the diabolical plan of driving his new wife insane by the eerie castle surrounding , but it looks like he'll be whizzed by the restless souls of Muriel and her lover that still wander around the castle . The large and ugly looking castle is effectively used as the location for all sort of morbid barbarities . The torture dungeon , the laboratory , the greenhouse ? All these are very impressive horror settings . It's pretty obvious that director Mario Caiano attempts to cash in on Steele's success that started with Black Sunday in every possible way , but still his film has enough personality to stand on its own as a modest but not-to-be-missed classic . I do admit that there are some tedious sequences in the script , though . The best way to struggle yourself through these is focusing on the downright brilliant musical score by none other than Ennio Morricone . Beautiful Barbara receives good backup from the malevolent actor Paul Muller . Fans with a passion for Euro-exploitation movies will definitely recognize him from Jess Franco highlights like " She Killed in Ecstasy " , " Virgin among the Living Dead " and " Lesbian Vampires " . This " Nightmare Castle " is warmly recommended viewing , preferably together with " Black Sunday " , " Castle of Blood " and " Satan's Sister " . Make it an all-Barbara Steele day ! !
Creepy craftsman-ship !	Perhaps not as mesmerizing as " Cat People " or as disturbing as " The Body Snatcher " , but this still definitely is a genuinely creepy golden oldie horror gem like only the great Val Lewton could produce them back in the 1940's . This dark and atmospheric chiller takes us aboard a giant ship in order to examine the mysterious deaths of several crew members . They all seem like unfortunate accidents , but pretty soon the young and ambitious officer Tom Merriam suspects that Captain Will Stone abuses his power in order to get rid of rebellious personnel . The film is terrifically cut in half when the ship sets ashore and Merriam prosecutes the influential and highly respected captain . From then on , the nemesis between the two is frighteningly illustrated and a drama on-board the ship seems inevitable . Richard Dix is outstanding as the tormented Captain Will Stone ! He looks naturally eerie and definitely not man to argue with . The black and white photography is stunning and the constantly sung sailor-song will remain stuck in your head , even long after you finished watching the movie . The Val Lewton horror of course isn't very explicit ( considering the time and budget ) but this movie does contain at least one truly unsettling sequence ; when a giant chain crushes a crew member . My advise is to watch this classic as soon as you can , if it were only for the ultra-eerie mute in the supportive cast !
Paul Kersey : Architect & Arse-Kicker !	" Death Wish " has always been one of the easiest movie-targets for critics to bash , because it's overly violent , gratuitously explicit and ? supposedly - the whole movie is nothing more than a promotional campaign to encourage more people to buy a gun and protect their loved ones and personal belongings . Perhaps the violence & bloodshed form the most memorable parts of this film , but the screenplay and character drawings are far more complex than it superficially seems . Not talking about any of the sequels here , but the original " Death Wish " is as much a dramatic portrait of a torn man as it is a harsh & relentless vigilante thriller . The main character , Paul Kersey , is not just a randomly trigger-happy gunman . Heck , he doesn't even become a wild bloodthirsty animal immediately after a trio of thugs murdered his beloved wife and abused his daughter so badly she turns into a silent & traumatized vegetable . The story introduces Paul Kersey as a warm-hearted and reasonable man who acknowledges society's issues and even tends to defend the underprivileged people , unlike his fellow colleagues . The tragedy that overcomes his family literally tears him up inside and , after a professional trip to Arizona where he re-discovers his bounding with guns , Paul dwells the New York streets to cleanse them from all the scum . " Death Wish " is , as surprising as it may sound , much more realistic then most revenge-thrillers . Kersey doesn't just exclusively go after the thugs that harmed his own happiness , as that would be impossible . Neither does he rescue defenseless old ladies when their purses are being snatched , nor does he provoke burglar attacks . He simply takes on every criminal who crosses his path . Naturally this spawns a large-scaled police investigation as well as a lot of variable media attention . Particularly great about " Death Wish " is the sense of filming location . The dark , narrow alleys and the gritty , forsaken parks of New York feel effectively menacing and ominous . Director Michael Winner's views are clearly a bit conservative in some ways , but he has a strong feeling for atmosphere and suspense and he obviously knows Charles Bronson inside & out . Winner , who previously made three films with the veteran actor already ( including " The Mechanic " ) , allows Bronson to act like he prefers : silent , but charismatic with very little dialogs but a lot of tough and emotional grimaces . The violence is remarkable and often downright malevolent , but imaginably realistic and confronting . The sequences showing the assault of Kersey's wife and daughter ( starring a youthful Jeff Goldblum in his very first film role ever ) are deeply unpleasant and disturbing to behold . A period masterpiece , but still shocking today .
The Lord Works in Mysteriously Disturbing Ways ?	This unimaginably obscure gem of horror perfectly epitomizes why I , and surely many regular members of this website with me , absolutely worship the 70's decade ! " The Night God Screamed " is genuinely creepy without there being much of a budget for make-up effects , the concept is very original and I even daresay unique , the tone throughout the whole film is devastating and grim , the acting performances are far better than they have any right to be and ? even though it didn't even need one ? the script provides a very clever and almost unpredictable twist near the end . Quite a number of 70's horror movies revolved on satanic cults and devil worshiping ( " Enter the Devil " , " The Devil's Rain " , " Race with the Devil " ? ) , but this film centers , or at least partially centers , on the members of a fanatic Catholic movement and I assure you these Jesus freaks are equally uncanny as Satanists ; if not uncannier . Billy Joe , a self-acclaimed prophet oddly resembling Jesus Christ himself , and his herd of brainwashed disciples crucify a preacher before the eyes of his poor and defenseless wife Fanny . The woman testifies in court and the culprits are sentenced to death , but naturally not before Billy Joe swears he'll avenge himself . A certain time later , Fanny becomes stalked and terrorized by religious maniacs , not coincidentally whilst she's babysitting the ( adolescent ) kids of the judge that sentenced the verdict . In case of movies like " The Night God Screamed " , the lack of budget is actually the biggest trump . Director Lee Madden obviously searched for different ways to create suspense and an atmosphere of disturbance , other than the usual visual shocks effects and grisly murders , and he definitely succeeded ! The remote rural settings are sublime , the music is chilling and all the characters are terrifically cast . Jeanne Crain is excellent as the dame in distress and especially the Jesus freak dude is supremely eerie . But , undeniably , the biggest triumph here remains the simple yet effective story . " The Night God Screamed " doesn't rely on zombies , vampires or supernatural phenomena . The menace here comes from seemingly normal human beings , with their unpredictable moves and dark twisty minds . It's a truly great film , and I know it's difficult to track down , but luckily enough the people looking for this type of cinematic gold are very persistent .
eXTRaOrdinary Sci-Fi fodder . . .	Nasty , cheap and very UN-British " Alien " - rip off from the UK , oddly compelling and containing a handful of powerful and memorable sh ( l ) ock-sequences . The film certainly doesn't cut back on the gory and grim images , making it look a lot more like typical drive-in junk instead of an English horror achievement . The title means absolutely nothing but presumably refers to the malicious alien-race that abducts family men from their homes , only to send them back three years later as infiltrating and telekinetically gifted monsters . This is what happens to poor Sam Phillips during a vacation with his wife and son . He disappears , nobody believes the little boy who saw his daddy getting sucked into a gigantic spaceship and mommy starts a new life with another man . But three years later , a hideously crawling alien impregnates a lonely housewife and ? the morning after ? she ( very ) painfully gives birth to a fully-grown Sam-clone . The evil alien in human shape returns to his old " home " and manages to inflict his monstrous powers onto his son . " XTRO " is a strange mix of genuinely gross material and over-the-top cheesy scenes . The previously mentioned birth-sequence , for example , is pretty disgusting but only minutes later we're treated to a murder committed by a life-sized G . I . Joe doll ! Both scenes are the complete opposite in tone , yet they ( and several other downright bizarre stuff ) strangely match together in this wonderfully oddball Sci-Fi romp . " Xtro " also even managed to scare me , since it features a midget-clown ( ! ) that appears in little Tony's room out of the blue . Perhaps it's just my personal phobia towards dwarfs ( no offense to little people ) , but his little painted and grinning face looked seriously eerie . It freaked me out ! There are no other terms to summarize this film than just plain & simply GOOFY and ODD ! You'll never again see so many twisted story lines blend with surreal elements , kitschy comedy , gratuitous nudity ( oh yes ! We love you Maryam d'Abo ! ! ! ) and gruesome make-up effects . And , even though overall inept and rather dumb , it's simply impossible to give a low rating to this exceptional horror gem ! If you're into eccentric cinema , you must ? MUST check this baby out !
A true Spanish exploitation highlight !	I absolutely love ? love ? LOVE these seventies eurohorror-flicks ! And Amando De Ossorio's Tomb of the Blind Dead is one of the purest efforts this sub-genre brought forward ? You may expect foxy ladies , raw cinematography , creepy musical guidance and some slightly perverted undertones . The basic plot involves a creepy Spanish myth of devil-worshiping Templars who leave their tombs at night and dwell around the ruins of a deserted ghost town . The zombies look very filthy and they move in terrifying slow motion ! The few sequences in which the blind dead ( blind because their eyes were pecked out by crows ) chase their victims on their doomed horses are brilliant and some of the most effective horror ever shown . Prepare yourself for a genuinely apocalyptic ending as well , one that'll leave you speechless ! Of course , the film is filled with improbabilities and some immense structure holes , but De Ossorio's ingenious visions are so surprising that you easily forgive him for this . Highly recommended ! ! Tombs of the Blind Dead may very well the best exploitation film I've seen so far , along with ' Mark of the Devil ' ( German ) and ' Cannibal Man ' ( Spanish as well ) . Three sequels followed , but so far I haven't had the luck of tracking them down ?
Finally ! An obscure video-nasty worthy of its reputation !	The notorious " video-nasties " formed a rather ambiguous milestone period in the horror genre . From one viewpoint , still now it's an excellent checklist for horror fans to use and track down as many rare flicks as possible with a questionable reputation . On the other hand , however , this exact same list contains way too many titles that should have been long forgotten by now , but instead gained a totally undeserved cult reputation . " Night Warning " is the exception to this rule , actually . Here we finally have a video-nasty that is raw , creepy and genuinely unsettling , yet it's totally unknown and nearly impossible to find . The film can be described best as some kind of demented soap opera with truly disturbing themes and the absolute most offensive one-liners you're likely hear ever . Mrs . Cheryl Roberts stands as one of the craziest ladies cinema , as her devotion for her 17-year-old nephew Billy is rather unhealthy and , well , actually quite sick ! After the death of his parents when Billy was just 3 years old ( in a very suspicious car accident , I may add ) , aunt Cheryl raised him . But now little Billy is growing up fast and aunt Cheryl loses her last bit of sanity when he becomes an independent young man and intimate with girls his own age . When she murders a plumber and tricks Billy into believing he attempted to rape her , the rather unorthodox police inspector Carlson starts digging into the family's past . The film isn't really that gory , apart from a couple of moments , but the tone and atmosphere are quite unsettling . Bo Svenson portrays the most memorable character ; the cop who's even crazier than auntie Cheryl herself . He's a severely homophobic , perverted , racist , obnoxious and downright mad copper that rather neglects all the evidence in the murder case just to obtrude his own twisted world perspectives on his suspects . " Night Warning " is a lot more intelligent , progressive and experimental than it looks and it's definitely a couple of classes above your average 80's slasher in which barely dressed prom queens are running around screaming their guts out . It's a sick-spirited but intriguingly curious oddity that just demands a proper re-release on DVD .
He's a Role Model to us All !	Let Mr . No Legs be a source of inspiration for all of us . Not because he's a relentless one-man killing squad , of course , but because he's the living proof that you can still chase your dreams and realize your ambitions even if you're physically disabled ? Yeah right , enough with this rubbish ! " The Amazing Mr . No Legs " is a totally demented ? in idea as well as execution ? exploitation feature with a premise that is unique and refreshing and production values looking so cheap and amateurish that you simply have to show admiration for the cast and crew . If you just imagine what these guys could have accomplished if they had a proper budget at their disposal . The titular anti-hero controls the complete drug-business of a major town and acts as judge , jury and especially executioner whenever someone screws up or tries to double-cross him . Although he hasn't got any legs ( duh ! ) , everyone fears and obeys Mr . No Legs because he's merciless , is an expert in martial arts and drives around in a heavily armored wheelchair . When the sister of a dedicated cop gets killed in a drug execution it means the start of a devastating war between the good cops , the bad drug deals ? and everyone in between . The script is surprisingly convoluted and well written , but those are not the main reasons why this film will stick to your memory . It has girl-on-girl bar fights , wild shootouts , bad acting , sword fights , odd cars and virulent chases and much more . " The Amazing Mr . No Legs " is extremely violent , but never actually shocking since the effects and stunts aren't exactly convincing . Some people might take offense upon seeing the fighting sequences involving the handicapped lead character , but then again , I don't suppose easily offended people are likely to put " Mr . No Legs " on their Christmas list . The slow-motion sequence where actor Ted Vollrath demonstrates his genuine martial arts skills is literally jaw-dropping . Ever seen a guy with no legs kick someone repeatedly in the stomach ? No legs ! ! The titular ought to be considered as one of the greatest cult icons ever : a truly menacing , bad to the bone and self-reliable villain . " Mr . No Legs " is not an easy movie to come across , but definitely worth the search .
Klaus Kinski . . . Bringer of DOOM !	The first thing that should be made clear to every cinema-fan who considers watching Herzog's " Nosferatu " is to AVOID all language-dubbed versions ! To see the formidable Klaus Kinski is always a great pleasure , but to hear him talk in a dubbed voice is just downright atrocious and almost a crime against nature ! No matter how beautiful the cinematography and filming locations remain , seeing this film in a wrong language can simply ruin everything . That being said , Herzog's interpretation of the legendary Dracula story is a very , very strange movie ! This shouldn't surprise anybody , as this director ? as well as his regular protagonist Klaus Kinski ? upholds his eccentric reputation with every movie he completes , but still this is one of the weirdest projects in the history of the horror genre . Even though Bram Stoker's Dracula tale spawned a whole lot of different film versions , Herzog's film is a direct remake of the silent F . W . Murnau classic of 1922 . That film is generally considered as one of the all-time greatest genre classics and thus it was quite an ambitious and even perilous idea of Herzog to update it . The tone and atmosphere are very similar to the original film , meaning that Count Dracula is portrayed as a dismal and almost piteous creature that lives in total isolation and exclusively longs for some ( female ) affection . He is , however , the bringer of doom , forced to feed on human blood and always surrounded by an army of ravenous rats . Young Jonathan Harker , played by Bruno Ganz who recently startled the world with his mesmerizing performance of Adolf Hitler in " Der Untergang " , is assigned to travel to Dracula's remote castle in the mountains of Transylvania and present him the buying contracts for a house in Wismar . Upon seeing a picture of Harker's lovely wife Lucy ( that's right , NOT Mina ) , the Count gets obsessed with her image . He puts a spell on Jonathan and prepares his own journey to Wismar , accompanied by his army of rats that carry around the plague . It's most remarkable how , in this film version , Dracula's terror affects an entire town ! Not just Jonathan Harker and his wife Lucy suffer , but the coming of Nosferatu ( = bringer of plagues ) threatens the whole population of Wismar . The most intense sequences of the film involve long rows of people carrying the coffins of their departed family members or the increasing mass-hysteria among the last survivors . Other than for the fascinating modifications in the basic screenplay , " Nosferatu " is highly recommended viewing for the staggering photography . Werner Herzog's talented & detailed eye for beautiful landscape images widely surpasses every other horror director's visions and this is easily the artiest vampire movie ever filmed . Harker's journey through Transylvania , with its fog-enshrouded nights and uncanny mountain roads , is paralyzing to observe and the ominous images of Dracula's somber castle are equally impressive . Klaus Kinski is indescribably brilliant , as always , and thus far the ONLY actor whose charisma alone sends cold shivers of fear down my spine . His performance , along with the photography and not to forget the masterful use of music , all contribute in making this one of the most unique horror films of the 70's decade . It has some flaws too , but they're mere details and really insignificant compared to all the great aspects .
Who's Your ( Step - ) Daddy ?	Yes , I am aware of the fact the rather vulgar and tasteless subject line entirely misfits the overall tone of this film , but when else am I going to have the chance to use this clichéd saying in a review ? " Stepfather " is a provocative and mildly controversial " Lolita " - themed drama , but with a healthy sense of humor and extremely likable characters . Britney Spears provided the best one-line plot description imaginable for this film : Not a Girl , Not yet a Woman . After the sudden and accidental death of her mother , beautiful 14-year-old Marion insists on staying with her manic depressed stepfather instead of returning to her natural father . The girl soon openly confesses Rémi she has romantic feelings for him and doesn't really make it a secret that she wants to sleep with him . Rémi tries very hard ( honestly , he does ) to resist the temptation , but what's a lonely man to do when a scantily clad young gal keeps throwing herself at him and continues to sneak into his bed at night ? Most of the ? admittedly overlong - film focuses on Rémi fighting , accepting and regretting his own feelings towards Marion , but still the film never really feels boring and there are plenty of neat details to keep you pleased . The narrative , for example , is ingenious as several characters ( including Rémi ) explain the story whilst facing the camera . He works as unsuccessful pianist in a restaurant and the camera often pans around him as he's narrating his own life with people dining in the background . It's also quite remarkable how the script never reverts to being gratuitous exploitation , even though all the themes hint towards that direction . A truly ravishing and often barely dressed minor literally offers herself at this potent , thirty-something guy , and yet there are no explicit sex sequences or gratuitous insinuations being made . Ariel Besse ( 16 at the time and a terrific actress ) strips fully naked a couple of times , but all the sex & nudity sequences are elegantly presented and not the least bit offensive . Patrick Dewaere is great as well and it was quite a shock to discover he committed suicide shortly after the release of this film . According to several sources , including the IMDb , the actors struggled with depressions and mental torture for years and years . The only consolation he had was that his own mental condition gave an even deeper dimension to his character in " Stepfather " . Recommended .
Thou Shall Respect thy Wife ? Or Else !	Unless I'm mistaken , which actually happens quite often I must admit , this is one of the only Moroccan horror movies ever made ; and that little trivia fact alone should be more than enough reason for genre fans to check it out ! Considering the practically non-existent horror reputation of Morocco , it's fairly normal writer / director Jerome Cohen Olivar opted for a spooky story based on a local folklore legend . I use the word " normal " because each and every country on this planet probably has a handful of urban legends and folklore fables and they form the ideal and most easily accessible source for horror movies . The title refers to the name of an avenging angel / ghostly spirit wreaking havoc upon abusive men . Kandisha lived in the 14th century and was married to a wealthy but unfaithful prince . He abused her and locked her away in a cellar , but Kandisha got her vengeance . Over and over again , in fact , because it is said that Kandisha is the guardian angel of all mistreated Moroccan women . The rational but nevertheless sensible female attorney Nyla Jayde ? who still struggles with the loss of her child ? is asked to defend in court a woman who claims her husband was decapitated by the furious spirit of Kandisha . Nyla is very skeptical at first , but gradually turns into a firm believer of the legend as she digs deeper into the history of the legend . " Kandisha " is an extremely slow-paced but atmospheric and unsettling film . It's also too easy to just label this as horror , as " Kandisha " is far more ambitious than that . It's primarily a moving drama , a compelling courtroom thriller AND a truly poignant observation of the position of women in nowadays societies . The director easily could have turned this into a much more violent and exploitative shocker , especially since the titular ghost likes to chop heads off , but thankfully the film continuously remains subtle and tasteful drama . This is a vastly impressive film with captivating characters , a fascinatingly developing plot and a highly original twist-ending . The acting performance of Amira Casar as Nyla is breathtaking and I really wonder how David Carradine ended up on the set of this film , even though it's only for a brief cameo . Definitely recommended !
Going Up the Country , Got to get some Kicks !	This baby fully represents my personal favorite kind of cult cinema ! Released in the early 70's , obscure and almost completely untraceable , opening to the tunes of a moody and excessively outdated crooner's song whilst picturesque images of the peaceful countryside accompany the opening credits and ? last but not least ? introducing hard-laboring but conservative and slightly unworldly farmers as the lead characters . There's a proper name for this kind of movies and it's called " Hicksploitation " . But " Sunday in the Country " is definitely more than just that ! Obviously cashing in on the tremendous success of Sam Peckinpah's " Straw Dogs " , this Canadian produced gem shamelessly glorifies urban violence and entirely revolves on the " protect what's yours " principle . It's also a revenge / vigilante thriller , but not the ordinary type . Usually the protagonists in revenge-thrillers themselves , or their dearest relatives , are subjected to torture and humiliation before extracting their well-deserved vengeance , but the lead character in " Sunday in the Country " , farmer Adam Smith ( another fabulous and expedient role of Ernest Borgnine ) , never really becomes directly affected by criminal violence and simply does what he does because he thinks the law isn't harsh enough . Smith is a seemingly noble widower , looking after his farm and granddaughter without ever missing a Sunday morning church service . On this particular Sunday , three relentless bank robbers ( two of which resembling sophisticated bankers themselves instead of violent criminals ) are at large in the countryside and have already butchered a young local couple before seeking refugee in Smith's secluded farming estate . But he's prepared for their arrival and grabs the opportunity to extract some good old-fashioned Biblical punishment on them rather than to notify the police . It may superficially look like a senselessly violent and sadistic exploitation flick , but " Sunday in the Country " is actually far more competent and inventive than it first seems . The plot juxtaposes two entirely different types of psychopaths and leaves it up to the viewer to decide who's the most dangerous . On the one side there's Leroy the outrageously spastic and most likely Atheist criminal and , opposed to him , the obsessively Catholic and stoically controlled trigger-happy farmer with his own brand of justice . It's a nice little psychological undertone to a seemingly bland and rough exploit movie . The violence & bloodshed is quite uncompromising , Ernest Borgnine and Michael J . Pollard are amazing ( the rest of the cast can be ignored , though ) and the atmosphere is undeniably 70's . A must-see for hillbilly-connoisseurs .
Faceless , topless , tasteless . . . In Franco-world , Less means MORE !	Jess Franco's " Faceless " is late 80's euro-exploitation with the typical storyline of early 60's euro-exploitation ! Namely , a celebrated surgeon who kidnaps and kills beautiful women in order to restore the beauty of his own sister who's face got horribly deformed in a very banal acid-accident . Franco , among other prominent horror directors , already made similar movies in the 60's , like " The Awful Dr . Orloff " which he still refers to whenever he has the opportunity . In fact , " Faceless " is pretty much a remake of that film but , since it's the 80's , our director can now insert a lot more nauseating gore and sexually perverted sub themes . The result is one of the most energetic Franco movies ever , with enough sleaze and sadism to satisfy even the sickest puppies among us ! There are extremely graphic facial operations that'll nearly make your stomach turn , random bloody executions and an uncanny sidekick ( Gordon ) who feasts his lusts on the female corpse-leftovers . In between all the sickness , Franco takes the time to create a stylish and truthful portrait of the Parisian night life and the dialogues are much more adequate that usually in his films . Last but not least , " Faceless " is blessed with one of the greatest ensemble-casts in exploitation cinema ever , with Anton Diffring ( " Circus of Horrors " ) , Brigitte Lahaie ( " Island Women " , " Fascination " ) , Helmut Berger ( " Salon Kitty " , " The Damned " ) and Caroline Munro ( " Maniac " , " Captain Kronos : Vampire Hunter " ) . The biggest names regretfully only appear in cameos , like Telly Savalas and Franco-regular Howard Vernon ( " The Sadist Baron Von Klaus " , " Miss Muerte " , " Zombie Lake " . . . ) . My advise : see this film ! !
So old ? and yet so futuristic !	Fritz Lang's groundbreaking landmark remains one of the biggest mysteries in the world of cinema . How can a movie that'll soon turn 80 years old still look so disturbingly futuristic ? ? The screenplay by Thea Von Harbou is still very haunting and courageously assails social issues that are of all ages . The world has been divided into two main categories : thinkers & workers ! If you belong to the first category , you can lead a life of luxury above ground but if you're a worker , your life isn't worth a penny , and you're doomed to perilous labor underground . The further expansions and intrigues in the screenplay are too astonishing to spoil , so I strongly advise that you check out the film yourself . It's essential viewing , anyway ! " Metropolis " is a very demanding film-experience and definitely not always entertaining . But , as it is often the case with silent-cinema classics , the respect and admiration you'll develop during watching it will widely excel the enjoyment-aspect . Fritz ' brutal visual style still looks innovative and few directors since were able to re-create a similarly nightmarish composition of horizontal and vertical lines . Many supposedly ' restored ' versions have been released over the years ( in 1984 and 2002 , for example ) but the 1926-version is still the finest in my opinion , even though that one already isn't as detailed and punctual as Lang intended it . " Metropolis " perhaps is THE most important and influential movie ever made . " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " , " Star Wars " and " Blade Runner " owe their existence ( or at least their power ) to it .
Their love is like bad medicine . . .	Some of cinema's most fascinating & involving court dramas are inspired by notorious historical cases , and Robert Lynn's masterful Indie-production " Dr . Crippen " is definitely no exception . The factual case of Hawley Harvey Crippen was one of the most talked-about events back in 1910 , because he was the first person the police ever arrested with the aid of wireless communication techniques ( cleverly processed into the film as well ) and - moreover - he was executed despite the fact that it was never fully clarified whether he intentionally murdered his wife or that he accidentally gave her an overdose of medicine . Especially since the true circumstances of Belle Crippen's death remain unknown to this date , the film also remains quite vague about it and only suggests a hypothetical situation of what could have happened . Writer Leigh Vance opted for an ingenious and rather unusual narrative structure in which extended scenes at the courthouse are interfered with extended flashbacks about how the accused got there . The first chapter largely focuses on portraying what type of woman Belle Crippen was . She was an arrogant and selfish woman , openly committing adultery and humiliating her docile husband in public ( " you're unattractive , but you're my husband so I guess I have to sleep with you " ) . The second chapter subsequently depicts Dr . Crippen's sincere affection for the young Ethel Le Neve , who works as an employee in his medical cabinet . Despite Belle having many lovers , she threatens to ruin Crippen's career and reputation if he would choose to leave her for Ethel . The second segment ends on the night of Belle's death . The film's first hour is compelling enough and the case's background is of course essential need-to-know information , but the pacing is rather slow and several sequences appear to be a bit tedious . The last half hour , however , is close to brilliant and literally had me on the edge of my chair . Terrified of the possible consequences , Dr . Crippen convinces his sweet but extremely naive mistress to flee to the United States , disguised as father and son . The alert captain recognizes them and uses the newly invented wireless communication system to inform Scotland Yard about Crippen's whereabouts . The finale is absolutely powerful and unforgettable , handling about the verdict in court and the prison days prior to Dr . Crippen's execution . For as far as I read about the Crippen case in reference books and various websites , this film is very accurate and complete . Even the characterizations are truthful , which actually makes you sympathize with the Dr . ' s side of the story , as he and Ethel experience true love whereas Belle is an insufferable battle-axe . On the other hand , if it was just an " accident " , how could he bring himself to dismembering his wife's corpse and hide it from the police ? As you can tell , this film is extraordinary involving and thought-provoking . Donald Pleasance gives away a tour-de-force performance as the titular character , once again reassuring us he was one of the most talented , but sadly underrated , actors who ever lived . The cinematography is very tight and wondrous , which shouldn't come as a big surprise considering the man responsible was Nicolas Roeg . Very much recommended !
Awesome , mega-cool Spaghetti Western !	" Vamos A Matar , Compañeros " is another terrific and indescribably entertaining Spaghetti-western from the talented hands and brains of Sergio Corbucci ( " Django " , " The Great Silence " ) . Damn , what a fun movie this was ! This film amazingly pairs two of the coolest and most brilliant contemporary Italian acting icons in the genre ( Franco Nero & Tomas Milian ) ; it has the catchiest Ennio Morricone score imaginable , a sublime albeit unobtrusive " Viva the Revolution " atmosphere , delightfully insane villains and a pleasing amount of exhilarating & violent shootouts . Franco Nero plays a smooth-talking Swedish weapon salesman , dealing with the corrupt & greedy army General Mongo . Tomas Milian is an ennobled street bandit also fighting for Mongo . They team up ? reluctantly ? to kidnap a certain professor Xantos , who teaches his youthful students to fight a bloodless revolution , but once they found and freed him from his prison cell , the way back to San Bernardino is still very long and full of obstacles , like defeating a marijuana-addicted criminal ( the always-amazing Jack Palance ! ) with an artificial hand and a loyal pet-falcon . " Compañeros " is just pure fun ! It's definitely not as sophisticated as Sergio Leone's Spaghetti Western efforts and not even as politically engaged as most revolutionary westerns , but its entertainment value is enormous ! The on screen chemistry between Franco & Milian is irresistible , mostly because they constantly argue and try to abandon each other , and whenever the action sequences are about to kick in the splendid title song begins to play . Jack Palance is deliciously OTT as loathsome gangster , while Iris Berben ( as Lola the cherubic freedom-fighter ) and Karin Schubert ( as Zaïra the helpful prostitute ) provide the film with some welcome eye-candy and even nudity . The script demonstrates a great and almost unique sense of humor , the filming locations are often extremely enchanting and the action sequences are rough and ingeniously filmed . " Compañeros " is a total winner and highly recommended to fans of the genre .
Lifestyles of the Rich and Gamers	It's almost tragic to establish that in Hollywood Jackie Chan exclusively gets cast to appear in lame action-comedies ( like " The Tuxedo " and " Rush Hour " ) , whilst in his home country of Hong Kong he's at least righteously offered to play serious roles and to be a genuine hard-fighting icon of action movies . " New Police Story " is everything but comical , it's a harsh and hardcore-to-the-bone cop thriller with an extreme overload of violent shootouts , dazzling stunts and relentless executions . The story is fairly original and adapted to the new type of crime-waves representing the post-2000 era , with Chan playing the cop who's up against an entirely new breed of villains : bored and spoiled rich kids obsessed with video games and committing violence purely for kicks . The youthful gang members inventively rob banks even though they don't need the money , have an insatiable appetite for destruction and ? oh yeah ? they really hate cops . When inspector Chan is a little too confident on TV about catching the thugs , they set up an ambush to sadistically slaughter Chan's entire team . The pain and guilt of losing his team drives Chan to drink heavily and neglect his police work , but a younger colleague slowly convinces him to solve the case and avenge his dead team-members . Like most Asian productions , " New Police Story " is rather long for an action film ( slightly over 2 hours ) but it's never boring or unnecessarily sentimental , not even during the relatively long period when inspector Chan mourns over his departed friends and colleagues . The action sequences and stunts are downright sensational ; the highlight being an excessively destructive bus-out-of-control scene through the crowded streets of Hong Kong . " New Police Story " in an almost non-stop and adrenalin-rushing series of spectacular stunts , but it's also very praiseworthy for Jackie Chan's tour-de-force acting performance . This is his first film in which his acting talent is actually a lot more impressive than his fabulous martial arts skills . Especially the sequences in which his character stumbles through dark alleys at night , incredibly drunk and heart-broken , are harrowing and very realistic . Grim , sadistic violence and real drama are very difficult themes to mix together , but this film seemly pulls it off without too much trouble . " New Police Story " isn't intended for the faint-hearted , but if you like your heroes invincible , your criminals ultra-evil and your action rough & explicit , this film comes with my highest possible recommendation .
Dark & gritty giallo ; sadly forgotten .	The last film by underrated director Alberto De Martino ( " The Antichrist " , " The Killer is on the Phone " ) is a truly suspenseful but incomprehensibly neglected giallo , containing pretty much all the trademarks that makes this Italian horror sub genre so magnificent and addictive to the fans . There are some very disturbing themes ( child abuse , phony priests ? ) , loads of creepy moments , plot twists left & right , outstanding music and ? last but not least ? a handful of really sadistic murder scenes ! Especially the opening sequence , which is some kind of prologue , is a powerful piece of horror ! What is it about ordinary child dolls that make them so creepy ? When the anonymous man , dressed up like a priest , assaulted a little girl and the broken head of her doll bounced down a flight of stairs , it really sent cold shivers through my spine ! Years later , the young girl from the prologue is an adult woman bound to a wheelchair . She inherited a lot of money but uses her fortune to stimulate fellow handicapped people to practice sports and to remain positive-minded . She ? Joanna ? falls in love with her personal coach and they get married right away . Naturally , he's only after her money and starts terrorizing Joanna by making her relive the childhood trauma that crippled her . The repeated images of a sinister looking priest , guided by eerie tunes and a nursery rhyme , provide " Formula for a Murder " with a ton of genuine scares and Alberto De Martino's directing is very resolute . The acting is quite competent , with David Warbeck ( " The Beyond " , " The Black Cat " ) in a glorious greedy villain role . Due some plot holes and a lack of originality , this movie might not be able to compete with Italy's best horror efforts , but it definitely deserves more attention . Many formerly obscure and unknown Italian gialli received marvelous DVD-releases and , hopefully , " Formula for a Murder " will be given the same treatment really soon . In the meantime , good luck tracking this baby down !
Kids can be so cruel . . .	" Mean Creek " is a captivating and powerful drama , surprisingly well-acted and genuinely movie WITHOUT turning to cheap sentiment and pointless moralizing . The often heard comparison with modest 80's masterpiece " Stand by Me " is reliable and well-earned , because Jacob Aaron Estes ' long feature debut story regularly equals the intensity and grim ambiance of that terrific generation-defining portrait . Rory Culkin , who annoyed the hell out of me in " Signs " , is really good this time as the amiable kid Sam bullied by the neighborhood's most feared fat kid George Tooney . His older brother Rocky calls in the help of rough , nihilistic Marty and together the come up with the terrific plan to teach chubby George a lesson . Needless to say their simple plan goes horribly wrong and the initially banal canoing trip will irreversibly ruin all the youthful participants ' lives . Depite the grisly DVD-cover , " Mean Creek " is a very stylish and mannered film that patiently takes the time to introduce its characters and even subtly forces you to symphatize with all of them . Estes ' cleverly delays and delays the crucial payback sequence until the ultimate moment when you absolutely don't want it to happen ! The last ten minutes are more or less disappointing , but I honestly wouldn't have known how to terminate such a story neither , so that's fine . The filming locations are stunningly beautiful , the photography is enchanting and ? as mentioned already ? the acting performances are pretty amazing . There are as good as no adult characters in this film but the young cast members behave very professional and mature . Especially Carly Schroeder , the only girl in the group , is a promising young talent . Warmly recommended !
Spanish Horror Sale ! Two for the price of one .	Bigas Luna's " Anguish " is a uniquely curious and creatively constructed Spanish horror film that'll unquestionably impress you a lot more than the average routine and dull 80's ( American ) slasher picture . Luna presents an odd film-within-film structure and , surprisingly enough , both segments contain equal amounts of suspense , creepiness and gruesome images . At first , we follow a middle-aged and slightly insane mother-obsessed optometrist as he goes out at night to butcher as many people as possible & cut out their eyeballs for his collection . His freaky mother ( the squeakily voiced midget Zelda Rubinstein ) commands him under hypnosis and his modus operandi isn't exactly subtle , as John removes his victims ' eyeballs sadistically and without the slightest sense of emotion . Okay , pretty twisted & sick horror tale we got here , or so you think until , after the first couple of murders , it suddenly becomes clear that mother & son's crazed adventure is just an ordinary movie being watched in a fully-occupied theater . We're subsequently introduced to two attractive young girls ? one of them feeling very uncomfortable with what she sees on screen ? and then " Anguish " truly becomes a one-of-a-kind experience , since a totally new ( and supposedly non-fictional ) psycho-killer plot develops itself parallel with the macabre ( and fictional ? ) events on screen ! Yeah okay , I realize this all sounds very confusing and perhaps even a bit stupid , but director Luno presents it all dead serious and plausible . Simultaneously with John entering a movie theater in " The Mommy " ( the title of the first movie ) to collect more eyeballs , an actual deranged psychopath spots the two girls and intends to kill them . The film-within-film concept has been done before , but usually very messy and resulting in a severe anti-climax . In " Anguish " , however , the tension is masterfully developed and the transitions from ' old ' movie to ' new ' movie are literally perplexing . Michael Lerner's eyeball escapades are grotesque and really gore ( with extreme close-ups of gouged out eyes ? yuck ) , whereas Patty & Linda's nightmarish trip to the movie theater is intense and claustrophobic . The final twist is predictable , yes , as Luna attempts to connect the characters of both films with each other , but I honestly think I would have been disappointed if something similar wasn't done . The acting performances are excellent . Especially Michael Lerner and Talia Paul are splendid , and even Zelda Rubinstein is tolerable . She annoyed the hell out of me in the overrated " Poltergeist " films , but her odd appearance is ideal for an artsy Spanish horror experiment like this . " Anguish " is a terrific film for trained genre lovers , regretfully underrated and misunderstood to this date . Highly recommended !
Politics through pigs	Finally , after many years of searching I now had the opportunity of re-watching one of the movies that had the most impact on me during my childhood . I saw this animated classic in elementary school , but I guess our teacher at that time didn't have a clue about the film's actual content , as I mainly remember the sight of several kids being genuinely terrified and crying bitter tears over all the sad and tragic events that occur on screen . George Orwell's " Animal Farm " may be a colorful cartoon with all sorts of animals , but it's definitely a long way from being a feel-good and typically Disney-styled story with cheerful songs and happy endings . This is a devastating and disturbing political allegory that honestly isn't even meant for the eyes of young children , partly because of the complex references towards historical persons and mainly because of some really shocking and unforgettable scenes . It's a retelling of the Bolshevik revolutions , set on a badly run farm and with animals illustrating real-life influential personalities , such as Leon Trotsky , Joseph Stalin and Tsar Nicholas . So , unless my elementary school teacher wanted to to be ahead of her time and educate us about malfunctioning societies , she made a real strategic error showing this to a bunch of 8-year-olds . Of course , one could always state that " Animal Farm " teaches more valuable life lessons than just Bolshevik history . It's a tale about greed , treachery , suffering and survival . Mr . Jones , the owner of Manor Farm , has lately been neglecting and abusing the animals due to heavy drinking . This is the sign for Old Major , the oldest and wisest animal on the farm , to encourage the others to overthrow Jones ' reign and set up their own community with equal rights for everyone . The plan works terrific at first , especially with the pig Snowball developing plans for improvement and the horse Boxer laboring extremely hard , but soon one of the other pigs ? Napoleon ? begins to take over the bad habits of the previous human owner . Napoleon claims pigs are superior , exploits all the other animals and breaks all the laws written on the stable wall . With his personally trained army of bloodthirsty guard dogs , the other animals have no choice but to obey Napoleon and work extremely hard for only a minimum of compensation . " Animal Farm " is more of an intellectual cartoon for adults rather than an emotional one for children ( sort of like " When the Wind Blows " ) . It's not exactly the type of film that makes you merry , with sober voice-over guidance by the stern voiced Gordon Heath and a number of sequences that are downright depressing . For example the " elimination " of Snowball ( representing the visionary Trotsky ) and the saddening faith of Boxer ( personifying the naive and always obedient working class ) are unforgettable moments in an overall unforgettable film .
Not Mexi-Trash ? Spanish greatness !	My sincerest apologies to the other reviewer , but " Dr . Curry " is clearly a Spanish production instead of a Mexican one and it certainly isn't trash ! Quite the contrary , this is a very stylish and experimental short-movie that involved quite a lot of talented Spanish filmmakers both in front and behind the camera . The producer is no one less than Nacho Cerdà , who built up an enormous cult reputation with his own trilogy of short films centering on the theme of " Death " ( of which " Aftermath " is unquestionably the most notorious one ) , multi-talented director Jaume Balagueró ( " The Nameless " , " Darkness " ) makes a brief but memorable appearance as a crazed priest and writer / director David Alcalde himself is currently working on a remake of " Who Can Kill A Child ? " , which is arguable the greatest Spanish horror film ever made . So you see , the crew of " Dr . Curry " definitely weren't amateurs and the film itself is an uniquely odd & creepy little gem that I highly recommend to all fans of obscure Euro-horror . The titular character is a brilliant but slightly deranged and power mad doctor who invented a pill that transforms people into braindead and maniacal beings . The authorities are after him and Curry attempts to flee , but the immense success of his own invention turns against him . His mistress , maid and even taxi drivers and airplane pilots are all addicted to the medicine and prevent Dr . Curry from leaving the country . The film deals with mad scientists and out-of-control medical experiments and , in combination with the classy black & white cinematography , it instantly reminds you of those fabulous European Gothic horror movies that came out during the late 50's and early 60's , like " Eyes Without A Face " , " The Diabolical Dr . Z " , " The Horrible Dr . Hitchcock " and many more . The set pieces at Dr . Timothy Curry's laboratory are lavish and the film even features some delightfully bloody murders and morbid images . This awesome little gem can be found on the German super-de-luxe DVD edition of Nacho Cerdà's trilogy of short films and it comes with my highest possible recommendation .
Voulez Vous Tuer Avec Moi ?	I vividly remember being there during the theater-release of this film in 2003 , here in the French speaking part of Belgium , but it took another two years ( until it was unleashed upon on the American market ) before " Haute Tension " became the gigantic cult bomb it is today . Well , better late than never because , if there really is ONE recently released horror movie that deserves the full attention of every avid genre fan on this planet , it's Alexandre Aja's sensational breakthrough project . " Haute Tension " stands for pure horror and this is not an exaggeration for once ! It's a simple yet effective story with loads of genuine suspense , sublime choreography and a lot of gory shock-moments that can easily be considered as classic already . The story starts off as any ordinary B-thriller , with female friends Marie and Alex driving towards the countryside to stay at Alex ' parental house . No further playtime is wasted after this brief intro , as a nightly perpetrator gruesomely butchers the family members and kidnaps Alex in his ramshackle van . The murders in this film are so exceptionally brutal and graphic that every devoted horror fan will instantly add them to their list of favorites ! We have a new & very inventive decapitation method , some grisly circular saw action , a genuinely unsettling axe-murder and more ? For the first time since his legendary work for gore classics like " The Beyond " , " Cannibal Apocalypse " and " House by the Cemetery " , make-up artist Giannetto De Rossi was offered the opportunity to really go crazy again ! The effects are convincing and very , VERY disturbing . And yet , those who fear that " Haute Tension " is exclusively about blood and guts can still enjoy " Haute Tension " too , since it features some masterfully mounted suspense sequences . The much-discussed ending is my only complaint , and then it's only a small complaint . Clearly influenced by the newest plotting trends in horror , Aja added an abrupt twist ending to his film that is rather hard to take serious . To me personally , this twist is unnecessary ( yet still tolerable ) and I already would have considered " Haute Tension " a success without it . Nonetheless ? great stuff ! ! !
Black > blackest > THE ADDAMS FAMILY !	Sadly , I never actively witnessed the legendary TV-series starring John Astin as the original Gomez Addams . I'm from a younger generation so I only heard about its brilliancy by the massive cult-followings . I am a big fan of the concept of sarcastic black comedy , however , and therefore I was very much looking forward to Sonnenfeld's film . The daily rituals of this family are just great ! Mom and dad and their macabre passion for each other , siblings constantly thinking up deadly games and a bodiless hand racing around the massive castle ! It's all very black and depressingly portrayed , but the humor is hilarious and ultra-effective . The characters remain serious no matter what madness they proclaim and even the driest forms of vulgarity are considered to be the most normal things in the world ? The scenery and locations are simply brilliant and all the side-characters that pass by ? way too many to list ? carry a special place in my heart . The main storyline in ' The Addams Family ' actually is of minor importance ? A long lost uncle returns to the family , but he's brainwashed by greedy lawyers in order to steal the Addams ? fortune . Look closely to this film ? the amount of jokes and funny , little details there to discover is endless and terrifically worked out . This may very well be one of the funniest comedies I ever saw , but I can imagine it's not for everyone's tastes . Sensitive topics such as death , masochism and torture are constantly being mocked ! I just have to mention the cast ! I hope they paid good money to whoever was in charge of the casting ? Every character in the family is just delightfully chosen and ? as a viewer ? you'll always associate them with the roles they played here . Anjelica Huston as the gorgeous witch , Raul Julia ( R . I . P ) as the poetic madman , Carl Struyken as Lurch ! ! Not to mention Christina Ricci , who truly bewitched me in all possible ways . She's the same age as I am and when I first saw this film at the theater ( aged 10 ) ? I head over heels fell in love with her ! It's amazing how she gives image to Wednesday Addams ! She doesn't move a muscle when she speaks and her appearance is sexy and spooky at the same time ! ' The Addams Family ' is highly recommended entertainment and easily one of those few comedies you'll never grow tired off . The entire cast and crew returned for a sequel in 1993 ? One that is marvelous as well , by the way !
Proud to be Belgian . . . and SCUM !	No , this isn't the porno-version of Bob Clark's legendary 70's slasher , but an extremely twisted and rather sick-spirited Belgian short movie that will cover ten of the craziest minutes in your entire life ! Writer / director Pieter Van Hees surely has a demented world perspective , as he messes with pretty much all the sacred topics in life like religion , Christmas , marriage and children . The mini-plot is a mature & sadistic version of the Little Red Riding Hood fairy tale , only she's a teenage drug-whore , the wolf is a cannibalistic Nazi police-officer and the usually friendly hunter is an aggressive black burglar who disguises as Santa Claus ! He violently slaps children in the face and sleeps with the housewives whilst , parallel with these events , officer Wolfgang rapes and devours Little Red Riding Hood . This short promisingly opens with the words : " There are no good and bad guys . . . There's just bad guys and guys that are even worse ! " . And at least in this script , the characters live up to this statement . The on-screen violence is extremely graphic , with torn open torsos , wild gunfire and one entirely sickening head explosion sequence . For the true trash-fanatics , we'll even throw in some full-frontal nudity and provocative sex images ! With all the vile and demented black humor featuring in this little short , I was really proud to discover that it was made in Belgium ( where yours truly is from as well ) . In case the brief plot description sounds a little too harsh for you , there's a truly ingenious little wraparound story explaining how all the events are merely just happening on God's video game . " Black XXX-Mas " is brilliant and available for free on the internet ! It'll be ten minutes you won't regret spending in front of your computer .
Sergio Stivaletti is a Genius !	" Spider Labyrinth " is a strange and slow but engaging Giallo-type thriller that doesn't have any big names involved in the production ( except maybe ? if you're an insider ? special effects wizard Sergio Stivaletti ) but it nevertheless stands as one of the greatest undiscovered gems of late 80's Italian horror cinema . Around this time , the Giallo ( which is essentially a stalk & slash movie with some additional trademarks ) ran low on inspiration , but this movie brings some imaginative diversity to the sub genre by adding occult sub plots . Sort of like Sergio Martino already attempted to achieve in the early seventies with " All the Colors of the Dark " . The plot opens with a brief but atmospheric flashback / dream sequence immediately clarifying the protagonist's link and phobia for large spiders ; a small detail that will prove very relevant later in the film . Alan Whitmore is an American professor studying ancient dead languages . He's part of his university's project called Intextus , which concerns professors from all around the globe collaborating to translate and comprehend one specific long lost language . The correspondent in Budapest ? Prof . Roth ? hasn't been heard of in a long time and , since his input is particularly fundamental , Alan is assigned to travel to Hungary and meet up with him . Alan arrives in an overall uncanny and hostile environment , but nevertheless comes into contact with Roth through his amiable and stunningly beautiful secretary Genevieve . Shortly after , Prof . Roth is found murdered under mysterious circumstances and Alan gradually becomes sucked deeper and deeper into a ( spider's ) cobweb of occult conspiracies . Slow and indistinctive at first , " Spider Labyrinth " marvelously unfolds into a hugely macabre and unnerving thriller . Considering the plot ( and perhaps after a few slight changes ) and some of the malignant characters , THIS should have been the final chapter in Dario Argento's Three Mothers trilogy ! Director Gianfranco Giagni may perhaps be a relatively unknown name in the Italian horror industry , but he promptly proves himself to be capable of maintaining a grisly atmosphere throughout the film and even proportionally builds up more tension towards a literally mesmerizing climax . The sinister Budapest filming locations form the ideal setting for a tale like this , but everything else is entirely Giagni's accomplishment ( like , for example , empty swings and toy balls bouncing seemly by themselves ) . Then , last but not least , there's the work of Sergio Stivaletti in the special effects department . The effects ? and particularly those during the finale ? are shocking and masterfully nauseating . I've always been a big fan of Sergio Stivaletti's ' art ' and once again he surpassed himself his own craftsmanship . If you like horror , and I do mean Horror with a capital H , I guarantee you'll be staring at the last fifteen minutes of " Spider Labyrinth " with your mouth and eyes wide open . Bravo , Mr . Stivaletti !
Brilliant early Argento	The first film that fully credits Dario Argento as the sole director turned out a compelling murder-mystery , stylishly completed with an excellent score , sublime photography and gripping moments of suspense . In other words , an authentic giallo like only a real Italian master can deliver them ! As it is common standard in this type of horror films , the actual climax ( usually this means the killer's identity and motives ) is slightly inferior to the creation of setting and atmosphere . Yet , in this adaptation of Wallace's novel the plot twists are credible and the finale is satisfying . The story focuses on an American novelist who moved to Italy due to a severe writer's block . One night , he witnesses an attempted knife-murder in an art gallery . Even though he and his girl are becoming the main target of the serial killer at large , our hero finds himself to be more and more obsessed with the tracking down the murderer . Dario Argento is known especially for his violent and explicit horror titles , but this first film of his completely depends good old fashioned suspense and involvement . You almost get the feeling that the killer is on YOUR tale . The comparison between Argento and Alfred Hitchcock surely isn't exaggerated ? at least not when it comes to " Bird with the Crystal Plumage . Really all aspects about it are impressive . Even the dialogue and acting , normally critical letdowns in Italian horror productions , are convincing . The film is given the finishing touch by a few extremely ingenious details like an eccentric , cat-eating painter and a stuttering pimp ! Viva la giallo ! !
Delightful product of the rancid 70's !	Who else than Roger Corman could have been responsible for a Jaws rip-off that widely surpasses the original when it comes to brutality , shamelessness and exploitative gore ? " Piranha " is a very engaging and often gross film , filled with tongue-in-cheek humor and very rich on cult aspects . Joe Dante's directing is sublime and John Sayles ' screenplay ( " Alligator " , " The Howling " ) terrifically blends black parody with genuine chills and exciting action . The story is well set in a remote Texas area where the mad scientist Robert Hoak ( good supportive role by Kevin McCarthy ) is still working on a new secret weapon to use in the Vietnam War , even though it's already over . ' Operation Razorteeth ' revolves on artificially bred piranhas that are able to survive in cold saltwater and they reproduce at a dazzling speed . When the perky investigator Maggie and the estranged drunk Paul accidentally allow these finned flesh-eaters to escape in the local river , it's up to themselves again to save the nearby tourist attractions from the ravenous little monsters . That's certainly not an easy thing to achieve , considering the fact there are many corrupt politicians , businessmen and army commanders who attempt to cover the whole thing up . " Piranha " is yet another fine example to demonstrate that the 70's were the most outrageous years for horror cinema . The witty script generally steals wholesale from Spielberg's Jaws but it's unscrupulous enough to add social mockery and even clean images of innocent children getting slaughtered . I said it before and I'll say it again : they simply don't make movies like this anymore ! ! ! Throw in some extra sleaze , camp , absurd characters and stylish music and you've got yourself one of the very rare true American exploitation movies ! Like it's pretty much the trademark of director Dante , he stuffs his film with cinematic in-jokes and endless references towards other genre classics . Keep your eyes open for all the winks at titles like " Moby Dick " , " Creature from the Black Lagoon " etc . . . Although the tone of the film is overall light-headed , I do wish to stress that " Piranha " simultaneously is an authentic horror film with loads of shlock and aggressive gore ! The nasty little fishes devour their human victims in gruesome ways and what's left over isn't exactly pretty to look at . Bradford Dillman and Heather Menzies do well as the leads but it's supporting cast in particular that is worth naming . The Roger Corman regulars Dick Miller , Kevin McCarthy and Paul Bartel shine as the hypocrite and greedy Texans , but the casting choice that personally pleased me the most is Barbara Steele as the female scientist Dr . Menders . This legendary Gothic horror actress finally received some recognition outside Italy where she was forced to flee to in the late 50's after fruitless attempts to make it as an actress . This was Steele's third ( more or less ) prestigious 70's horror film , after Jonathan Demme's " Caged Heat " and David Cronenberg's " Shivers " . In this " Piranha " , Barbara still looks very attractive ( in her own shrewish way ) . This film is great entertainment and I'm not in the least embarrassed to say that I appreciate it even more than the almighty " Jaws " .
Bravo ! ! Standing ovation , even .	Considering they had already successfully reprocessed the three most legendary horror tales by the time the 1950's were over ( Dracula , Frankenstein and the Mummy ) , it's was pretty much inevitable that the British Hammer Studios would also attempt at making their own version of " The Phantom of the Opera " . Personally , I was a little more skeptical about this idea at first because , unlike the aforementioned stories , Gaston Leroux ' classy novel does NOT revolve on shocks or gruesome images as much . Hammer is great but , let's face it , subtlety and elegance aren't exactly their biggest trumps and those characteristics happen to be fundamental when you're bringing a tale about murder & mystery in an opera house . Well anyway , I love it when my assumptions are wrong ! Hammer's Phantom is a truly masterful film , extraordinary stylish and benefiting from some of the most enchanting film sets in the history of British cinema . Scriptwriter Anthony Hinds slightly altered the original storyline without really detracting the merits of Leroux ' original tale . The story is set in England to start with , but that doesn't really matter . More noticeable is the portrayal of the phantom's persona , as he's quite an emotional weakling here and not even committing the vilest of the crimes himself . The real villain in this version is the obnoxious opera owner Lord Ambrose D'Arcy , played by the brilliant and still vastly underrated Michael Gough . Lord D'Arcy is getting praise and credit for an opera he didn't write himself . The real artist is the poor professor Petrie , who supposedly died in a fire but lives on beneath the opera house , hiding his mutilated face behind a mask . His life mission is to ruin all the recitals for his Joan of Arc piece , but when the talented Christine Charles becomes the new lead singer , his plans change and he wants her to make it the mesmerizing opera it was intended to be . The script may not be entirely flawless ( all the wrong people are punished ! ) and the grand finale is kind of a letdown , but the beauty of this whole production really compensates for everything ! Terence Fisher ' directing is accomplished as always , the decors are often breathtaking and the music occasionally even sent cold shivers down my spine . And that does not happen frequently , believe me . Herbert Lom may not be as charismatic as Lon Chaney , but his phantom performance is still very convincing . " The Phantom of the Opera " is perhaps Hammer's ' tamest ' horror movie when it comes to eerie images and violence , but it's another vintage classic and highly recommend to anyone who appreciates good storytelling .
Gives a whole new meaning to the word ' remake '	This TV-movie is truly remarkable . It's a remake of an undeniable classic , and that word usually brings tears to your eyes . Remakes normally are a lame excuse used by uninspired directors to make more money out of a good idea . You know the drill of the average remake : bigger , louder and as less tribute to the original as possible . William Friedkin's take on 12 Angry Men is the exact opposite of all this . It's a modest re-telling of the story but obviously made with endless amounts of professionalism and respect towards the original . Taken up to an even higher level by on of the best ensemble casts of the nineties ! All members of the jury are familiar faces and some of them give away the best performances in their entire career . The acting level of the cast during some of the intense discussions and debates almost burns holes in the screens ? it's that perfect . A very special word of respect and worship goes out to Jack Lemmon , Hume Cronym and George C . Scott . These 3 late legends of the big screen kept on giving amazing performances till they sadly passed away . May their souls rest in piece , cinema will never forget them . Of course , I can't give this version the honor of being better than the original masterpiece starring Henry Fonda , but nevertheless it's an intense and fascinating courtroom drama that'll leave no soul unharmed . Naturally , one could ask the question if it was really necessary to create an update of 12 Angry Men ? the answer to that would be ? no ' of course , but what the heck . Almost every remake , sequel or spin-off is unnecessary , but that doesn't mean they can't be enjoyable .
Monster movie Numero Uno	God , how much I wanted to be there back in 1931 when this film got released . The hype of it , the horror . . . that would have been amazing . It's over 70 years old now and it still remains the strongest , most powerful monster film ever made . This film means a lot to me , but it especially means respect ! Respect for the creators , the incredible cast ( Boris Karloff will always be the creature . Even in another 70 years ) and the special effects creators . The atmosphere hanging around this movie is absolutely amazing . The images of the dark and mysterious windmill still makes your blood pump faster . The loud and vicious thunder never cease to frighten you . . . You can't afford to call yourself a horror freak before watching the originals . Like Bela Lugosi as Dracula , Like Lon Chaney as the Wolf man and . . . Like Boris Karloff as the Creature of Frankenstein . This film was the beginning of what will become a huge and fantastic genre in cinema and therefore I think everyone should see it . Multiple Times ! ! ! ! My humble opinion on Frankenstein . . .
Heroic swashbucklers and ferocious cannonade !	Nearly 80 years old and ' Captain Blood ' still is one of the greatest sea-adventures ever made . It initially served as an appropriate answer to ' Mutiny on the Bounty ' , also released in 1935 and starring Clark Gable . This film launched the terrific career of Errol Flynn , who only appeared uncredited in other film until then . Captain Blood is a compelling and versatile story about a young Irish doctor , named Peter Blood . After giving medical attention to rebellions , he's sold as a slave to the wondrously beautiful Arabella Bishop ( Olivia de Havilland ) ? niece of the rancorous Colonel Bishop ( Lionel Atwill ) . Blood escapes slavery and , together with his faithful crew , he starts a successful and diverse career as a pirate in the Caribbean sea . Yet , the unanswered love he feels for Arabella never really allows him to be fully free . Naturally , this film doesn't feature as many outrageous swordfights as in later pirate movies , but the decors and scenery are breath-taking and very inspired . Some neutral sequences ( mainly in the beginning of the film ) can be considered tedious , but long and delightful patriot speeches and exiting battles make up for those . Errol Flynn does a great job as the rebellious captain , even though his handsome looks don't really match the image of a feared pirate . Special mention goes out to Basil Rathbone , flawlessly cast as a French corsair . Highly recommended if you're a fan of classic and nostalgic cinema .
Outstanding comedy for people with no morals	Denis Leary , the greatest stand-up comedian in the history of stand-up comedy ( of course , in the humble opinion of yours truly ) delivers his best work with this No Cure For Cancer show . This is an unscrupulous spitfire of criticism on topics that no other normal person dares to process . The opening announcement summarizes the wholesome quite well actually : " Ladies and gentleman , due to illness , the part of Denis Leary will be played by ? Denis Leary ! " . With the biggest disdain in his voice and body language , Leary talks ( yells , actually ) about out-of-the-question topics such as drug-abuse , rehabilitation programs and even cancer . Short examples include him claiming drug abuse is something you simply have to experience , or that all rock stars belong dead or even that cancer is something you should be proud of ! I especially enjoyed his on-going rant on dreadful anti-smoking campaigns ! He's standing there , lighting one cigarette after another , and shouting he is never going to quit ! Go Denis ! ! The style of comedy Leary brings isn't exactly the " rollin ' over the floor laughing your ? off " humor but merely the kind of gags you secretly giggling with , not really knowing whether you're supposed to find it funny or not . He also goes over the top quite a few times , but you forgive him simply because he's so fanatic in what he does . For example : he nearly goes berserk when venting his spleen on the French people and , even though his lines aren't very admirable , it's still terrific amusement due to his on-stage behavior . I think every person on this planet would be offended by at least one chapter in this show . So you better leave all your morals and principles at the door before you start watching it . But , if you got any sense of sarcasm in you , this show is a must !
Brothers against Evil : Traditional , Flesh & Blood Hillbillies	" Demons follow a strict pattern , ghosts want revenge ? People are just crazy ! " This piece of dialog , which is an actual quote taken from the show , is the best possible summarization of this fifteenth episode in the magnificent show " Supernatural " . So far , this is the only installment that doesn't live up to the name , as there's absolutely nothing supernatural about the type of evil the Winchester brothers encounter here . Whilst scouting around in a remote Minnesota countryside town where there is a mysteriously large amount of unsolved missing person cases , Sam himself disappears in a parking lot . With the help of a local police detective , Dean quickly discovers the root of the evil . Rather than mythological monsters or restless spirits , the brothers are up against the sickest and most unpredictable kind of enemy . A family of hillbilly hunters deranged as hell and probably as inbred as they come , uphold their tradition of capturing unsuspecting people and hunt them down again in the woods . " The Benders " is definitely the most effectively unsettling episode of the first season because , let's face it , there's nothing scarier than flesh and blood human beings . The Bender family is a collection of eerie redneck freaks , with obligatory bad dental hygiene and sniveling laughs , and their modus operandi of abducting victims and holding them is inventive but admittedly a bit too sophisticated for a bunch of yokels . The basic plot of " The Benders " is inspired by one of the oldest but still one of the greatest horror / cult movies ever made , namely " The Most Dangerous Game " . This 1932 film has been imitated numerous times , with variable success , but never surpassed in terms of quality . This " Supernatural " episode brings another terrific homage to the cinematic landmark . Due to the typically remote backwoods setting and the archetypal redneck characters , the script is also stuffed with references and little tributes towards tons of other ' Hicksploitation ' movies , most notably " Deliverance " , " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " and " Just Before Dawn " .
Quality level on par with Leone !	I realize it's quite a challenging promise , but Damiano Damiani's spaghetti western " A Bullet for the General " can easily compete with the best works of eminent Italian directors such as Sergio Leone and Sergio Corbucci . It's a superbly scripted and amazingly fascinating adventure with class-A acting performances and masterfully choreographed action sequences . The screenplay easily ranks among the most ambitious ones ever written in the genre , blending the atmosphere of the infamous Mexican Revolution with the more typical western-themes like brotherhood , gunslinger gangs and personal vendettas . Being a lot more politically engaged than the other contemporary euro-western efforts , Damiani's " A Bullet for the General " is definitely required viewing for all the fans of vintage cult cinema . The movie opens with a brilliant and extended sequence in which El Chuncho's gang of bandits ambushes a train full of soldiers and civilians . The notorious posse kills military men and robs them off their guns in order to support the revolution led by Mr . Elias . During their raid on the train , El Chuncho's gang receives unexpected help from a young American who pretends to be a military prisoner . He , Bill " Gringo " Tate , requests El Chuncho to become a member of his gang and to ride along as they rob trains and liberate villages . The obstacle-packed journey slowly brings the posse to Mr . Elias ' secret hideout place , where they plan to sell the stolen armory . The young Gringo is loyal to the gang and never turns down a fight , yet his suspicious behavior reveals that he has other intentions for tagging along all the way through Mexico . Most summaries ? including the one of the DVD cover I watched ? carelessly reveal the reason for Gringo's odd interest in El Chucho's gang , but I'm convinced the film is a lot more compelling and involving if you don't know , so you won't hear it from me ! It's much more exciting to hunt for clues and hidden messages yourself , and I assure you there are plenty of them ! The plot is marvelously developed and only at the end you'll notice how effective and important all the little details in the script are . Despite an enormous body count and the displaying of several executions , " A Bullet for the General " isn't the violent spaghetti western I anticipated to be . The massacres nearly aren't as nasty or explicit as in any of the numerous " Django " clones , for example , and Damiani merely creates a suspenseful atmosphere through intelligent dialogs and suggestive situations . The filming locations and set pieces are simply breathtaking and every member of the cast performs his / her role impeccably . Gian Maria Volonté is even greater here than he was in Sergio Leone's " For A Few Dollars More " and " Fistful of Dollars " . He receives excellent supportive feedback from Lou Castel ( " Orgasmo " ) and Martine Beswick ( " Dr . Jekyll and Sister Hyde " ) . My only real complaint is that the legendary Klaus Kinski only briefly appears ? despite his top billing ? as El Chuncho's deeply religious brother . Kinski is an amazingly charismatic actor , and I secretly hoped his role would have been larger . Other than that , " A Bullet for the General " comes with my highest possible recommendation !
Run Humphrey ! RUUUUN ! !	Probably the least famous film that pairs Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall ( next to " To have and have not " , " Key Largo " and ? of course ? " The Big Sleep " ) but still a very powerful film-noir and a feast for all senses . " Dark Passage " is an adaptation of the glorious David Goodis novel in which a man , wrongly convicted for murdering his wife , escapes prison and attempts to clear his name after he's given a new identity and appearance through plastic surgery . He's assisted by a gorgeous young girl whose father went through a similar hell but thwarted by ancient enemies and small time crooks all over San Francisco . Like it is mostly the case with 40's cinema , I simply worship this production for its mesmerizing dialogues and utterly stylish cinematography . You can't but realize that cinema is the purest form of art when you're beholding the interactions and chemistry between our legendary on-screen couple . Yet , it also is the first time that there are actual flaws to detect in a prestigious movie like this . The plot contains a few holes and it's not always clear what connection the different characters share . The fact that Bogie's face is kept hidden until late in the movie is quite silly too , especially since his masculine voice is all over the place . No matter how ingeniously director Daves and cinematographer Sid Hickox try to camouflage Vincent Parry's face , you just patiently sit and wait for Humphrey to take of his bandages . " Dark Passage " contains loads of exiting action-sequences and non-stop suspense . This unquestionably also is THE movie that makes the greatest use of San Francisco as a location . All the obvious and less obvious aspects of this wondrous city are very well presented in the sublime photography . Dark Passage is an undeniable work of art and regretfully still a very underrated film . Watch it !
Giallo essentials !	The true golden years for Italian giallo-cinema only lasted less than a decade ( approximately from 1965 to 1975 ) and after that it was only the acclaimed director Dario Argento who sporadically managed to deliver a good old-fashioned Italian murder mystery . Yet in this relatively short period , several directors were responsible for a huge amount of terrific gialli , with story lines going from basic to extremely absurd and complex . Sergio Martino's " The Strange Vice of Mrs . Wardh " is a simplistic example of the giallo-genre and perhaps that is why it still ranks amongst the best and most successful ones ever . This film pretty much defines the sub genre , with its detailed murders of beautiful women , innovating camera-work , gorgeous music and ( most importantly ) the exact right amount of plot-twists to keep the story believable and compelling . The story revolves on the unearthly beautiful Mrs . Wardh ( giallo-star Edwige Fenech ) who finds herself stalked by a black-gloved killer who already murdered some of her closest girlfriends . Mrs . Wardh is an easy target since her estranged husband is often away for diplomatic duties and her sexually perverted ex-lover Jean still regularly contacts her . She looks for shelter in the macho-arms of a new lover ( George Hilton ) , but even he can't guarantee her safety , as the killer seems unstoppable . The amount of graphic murders is rather limited ( especially compared with later , more infamous gialli ) but they're nevertheless unsettling and extremely well shot . Even when there aren't any ladies being knifed to death , this is a very suspenseful thriller , most notably during the tense garage-sequence . Sergio Martino proves himself to be a master of cinematography , with original camera angles ( scenes shot in the reflection of sunglasses or through the peephole of a hotel door ) and enchanting outdoor locations ( the murder in the park , the climax car chase ) . The flashback sequences , in which Mrs . Wardh revives her masochistic relationship with Jean , are almost pure poetry and guided by a wonderful Nora Orlandi score . The music is so good that no other than Quentin Tarantino re-used it for his 2004 masterpiece " Kill Bill Volume 2 " . The acting of the entire cast is far above average . Even the women , who're basically selected on looks because they appear topless , are very convincing . In case you developed an interest in Italian horror cinema , but don't yet know where to start your journey , this film is the ideal choice . In case you're already hooked on the obvious giallo-classics directed by Dario Argento and Mario Bava , " the Strange Vice of Mrs . Wardh " ( as well as every other film directed by Sergio Martino ) almost becomes fundamental viewing .
The Demons are among us . . .	Seeing that this movie was made in 2001 , it gives you a great feeling . . . pure talking cinema , that is . Namely , that it's still possible to make a terrific supernatural thriller with a great story . We've only seen bloody slashers since 1996 without even an attempt to tell a story . In that point of view , Frailty sure is one of the best motion pictures since the new Millennium . And I'm very glad it came from the hand of Bill Paxton . I knew he was able to pull off something like this . In general , he still is one of the most underrated actors ever but many people begin to understand that he is among the greatest minds in Hollywood . This may easily be the best directorial debut coming from an actor since Gary Sinise's " Of mice and Men " . . . And no , I didn't forget Mel Gibson , I hated Braveheart . . . that's all . Now , when we're talking about the plot . . . it doesn't give you a great feeling at all . This movie has the ability to scare you and , even more important , it makes you think . It's about a father who received a vision from God himself . He and his sons are chosen to serve Him . They get a list and the ability to separate demons from humans and then destroy them ( the demons I mean ) The father and the youngest son Adam fulfill this mission but Fenton , the oldest son , thinks that it's just murder and he tries to stop his beloved family . When you're fascinated by the story ( and I can't imagine you're not ) , you can't help thinking about the fact that there ARE people like this walking around . . . claiming they have a mission from God . I certainly wouldn't call this movie fiction , so in that point of view , I'd even say it's scarier than absolute classics like The Exorcist or . The Changeling . And then there are the plot twists and the surprise elements . Don't believe these people who'll tell you it's predictable . Even when you're living the story and focus on every single minute , you'll still be shocked at the end of this film . It's terrific in every single way . As an actor , Bill Paxton does what always do : give away a flawless performance . Powers Booth is excellent as ever and even Matthew McConaughey delivers in this movie and he's not my favorite actor at all . Honorable mention as well for the 2 boys who both do a fine job . No seriously , if you just like me keep complaining about the fact that they don't make movies anymore like they used to . . . you've got to give a chance to Frailty . You'll be very impressed and touched . The second viewing is even better as you start to discover many many hidden clues . . . .
Vincent Price is the KING . . . of agony !	In between basing no less than seven movies on the wondrously macabre writings of author Edgar Allan Poe , the mega-versatile cinema wizard Roger Corman also found the the time to adapt a famous William Shakespeare play and turn it into an effectively creepy and atmospheric 60's chiller . The greatest actor who ever walked the earth ? Vincent Price , who else ? ? plays another malicious but emotionally tormented protagonist in the English kingdom of the late 15th century . He is Richard Plantagenet , unlikely to ever inherit the throne in a righteous way , but willing to kill blood relatives in order to become King of all England . But immediately after murdering his own brother and other innocent people that stand in his way , the restless spirits of his victims come back to haunt him in visions . " Tower of London " is a fascinating history lesson , perhaps not very accurate , but at least vastly entertaining and providing more than enough genuine frights and atmosphere . Continuously descending further into madness , sir Richard submits his victims to uncanny medieval torture devices , like a stretching-rack and a rat cage that gets placed on a poor guy's head . The photography is in stylish black & white , the costumes are downright enchanting and the use of medieval vocabulary sounded like pure music to my ears . Vincent Price is amazing , as always , portraying the historical madman that also suffered from a hereditary handicap . The performances of the supportive cast are sadly a bit hammy . For some reason and unlike most other masterpieces starring Price , this baby is rather difficult to find but definitely worth searching for . A must for fans of classic horror .
I ate his PENIS ? with some Fava-beans and a nice Chianti	Well , here you have it . . . The most grueling , sickening , disturbing , controversial , unbelievable and shocking horror movie EVER made , and yet it's all real . " Cannibal " is the ideal motion picture to state that the hard facts of reality will always surpass fiction . If this film had simply sprung from the imaginative mind of any random horror scriptwriter , it probably would have been laughed at , because surely nothing as vile , grotesque and far-fetched like this is ever likely to happen in our sophisticated society , right ? The factual case of Rohtenburg cannibal Armin Meiwes is unquestionably one of the most perplexing crime cases in the history of mankind and , even though you know it's all true , you're often still staring at the screen in total disbelief . Even though the case is only a couple of years old , it already inspired no less than FOUR long feature films . Marian Dora's version is the first one I watched , but I sincerely doubt that any of the other three will defeat " Cannibal " when it comes to truthfulness , shocking impact or the explicit depiction of mutilation & manslaughter . This film is indescribably hardcore , with a continuously gritty & devastating atmosphere as well as graphic imagery that will undoubtedly disgust even the toughest and most experienced horror fanatic . Strange and surreal as it may sound , " Cannibal " primarily is an unconventional love-story and a portrait of two men who're social outcasts due to their unacceptable sexual desires . They're not crazed psychopaths or heroine-addicted losers , but introvert gay men with sexual needs only the two of them comprehend . The film soberly opens with Meiwes persona ( though nameless in the film , as well as his victim Bernd Brandes ) carefully looking for male company but always returning home alone again . He then finally meets his ' soul mate ' via the internet and they promptly begin a fairly passionate relationship . Then soon follows the actual reason why the two met each other , namely the killing and ' consumption ' of The Flesh . The victim is castrated at his own request and they both eat the penis before he's killed and eviscerated in extended and horrifying details . If watching " Cannibal " initially feels awkward and uncomfortable , don't immediately think you purchased the wrong movie . It has to be said , the first 40 minutes of the film are . . . um . . . due to the lack of a more fitting term : extremely GAY ! The two protagonists constantly walk around naked , fondle each other and Morian Dora eventually even includes rough footage of homosexual intercourse . Admittedly this is all quite uncomfortable to watch , but it does help a great deal to make the two characters more convincing and at least it provides them with a more likable background , rather then to simply portray them as maniacs . Also very impressive and unforgettable during these first 40 minutes are the uncannily grim photography and especially the chilling musical score . Dora compares the case of the Rohtenburg cannibal with the legendary fairy-tale of Hansel & Gretl , which results in a truly atmospheric into sequence and a handful of brilliant hidden gimmicks , like the sounds of opening doors resembling Hansel cage in the Brothers Grimm's story . Then , when the actual horror starts , " Cannibal " turns into the most stomach-churning movie I ever beheld , and that honestly isn't an exaggeration . The make-up effects are incredibly realistic and deeply disturbing . The already-notorious castration sequence is nearly unwatchable and the dissection of the victim's body near the end of the film goes on uninterrupted for eighteen whole minutes ( make sure you purchase the uncut version ! ) and it's by far the most shocking thing ever captured on film . If you think movies like " Hostel " , " Saw " or that ridiculous " Murder-Set-Pieces " were cruel , " Cannibal " will damage your stomach beyond repair . The acting performances of Carsten Frank and Victor Brandl are excellent , but the English dubbing is a total disaster . Luckily enough , there only are about 15 lines being spoken throughout the entire movie , and they're rather primitive and simply phrases like " I'm your Flesh " or " You're too weak to do it " . All I can say is that this is a extraordinary and unforgettable experience to behold . Very few people will be able to sit the whole film through , but it's an absolute must-see for avid collectors of extreme cinema and warmly recommended to everyone who's sick and tired of goody-goody mainstream horror films .
Fulci's AWESOME Django cash-in !	Lucio Fulci was an awesome human being and still pretty much a deity in my crazy little world ! Mainly for his gore flicks and giallos , but here he proves that even westerns can be a specialty of his . " Four of the Apocalypse " isn't really that impressive , but his unofficial contribution / cash-in to the Django series is fantastic entertainment , with a solid story , exhilarating music and several truly cool gunfights . Franco Nero , the number one male symbol of Italian Westerns , stars as a Texan gold digger who's called back to this hometown by his old friend . It seems like the entire town has been monopolized by a certain Mr . Scott and his men can get away free with randomly killing everyone they please , including women , children and elderly folks . Even Tom Corbett's parental farm has been taken over by Scott and his brother Jeff became a low-keyed alcoholic . . . even more than he already was . It's up to Django ( although he's not called Django ) to reinstate law & order and to revive his brother's desire to kill . " Massacre Time " is actually a rather unusual western . No matter how cool and charismatic Franco Nero is , he's really getting his butt whooped by George Hilton , who plays his hard-drinking yet straight-shooting brother Jeff . It's a fast-paced genre-highlight , with a delightful ' shoot - first - ask - questions - later ' mentality as well as a handful of ingenious twists in the plot . No nonsense , just hard boiled macho-action , particularly during the last half hour . The song " Back Home Someday " sung by Sergio Endrigo is easily the best western song I ever heard . Highly recommended , if you're fortunate enough to stumble across a decent copy . Note : user-comment dedicated to Dario _ 2nd ! The man with the largest collection of films imaginable .
Extremely Violent , Very Professional !	There are good cops , there are bad cops ? and then there also are awesomely barbaric Italian cops ! Back in the early 70's , when the best scoring films in Hollywood were raw & violent crime-thrillers like " Dirty Harry " and " The French Connection " , the Italian film industry immediately attempted to cash in on this trend and produced films that easily surpass the excitement-level of their American counterparts . The already hard-working local directors , who almost exclusively made horror films and westerns until then , like Umberto Lenzi , Fernando Di Leo and Enzo G . Castellari , suddenly also became specialists in the fields of outrageous car chases , deafening gunfights and aggressive personal vendetta techniques . Even though usually filmed on a tight schedule and wasting a minimum amount of budget , these crime-thrillers always are highly professional and technically superior films with impressively fast-paced camera-work and flawless editing . Sergio Martino joined the temporary hype as well , and ? as it was the case with his splendid gialli-achievements ? he delivered one of the absolute greatest efforts in the sub genre . His " Violent Professionals " has it all ! The script is great and terrifically convoluted ( courtesy of Ernesto Gastaldi ? him again ) , the lead hero is immensely charismatic and merciless and the action sequences are so incredibly outrageous they're guaranteed to make your head spin . Practically all of these Italian crime-thrillers introduce heroic coppers who literally balance on the edge between right and wrong themselves . They're supposed to uphold the law and arrest criminals , but they rather act as judge , jury and executioner in one and prefer to kill a gangster rather than to bring him in for questioning . The opening sequence of " Violent Professionals " makes this perfectly clear , as the handsome and rough Inspector Giorgio Caneparo pursues a couple convicts through the Italian countryside after they escaped from a prison transport and killed several policemen and innocent civilians . Even after the criminals had already surrendered themselves , Inspector Giorgio guns them down anyway ! This sequence is rather irrelevant to the rest of the movie's plot , but it's a terrific appetizer nevertheless and it gives you a good idea of the main character's personality . The actual plot revolves on the same Inspector Giorgio infiltrating in the organized crime network of Milan , because he wants to find and personally punish the bastard who killed the Milan police commissioner ( and his own best friend ) . With his aggressive fighting style and vast knowledge of bank robbing techniques , Giorgio quickly gets himself noticed and he's soon hired as the getaway driver of one of Milan's most notorious mob bosses . The script isn't always waterproof , but the basic premise of " Violent Professionals " is compelling and engaging enough to keep you close to the screen throughout the whole playtime . The action is top-notch , with some of best car crashes / chases ever shown ( the same ones actually feature in Lenzi's " Almost Human " ) and a whole lot of bloody executions . It's also an amazingly raw and relentless film ! Poor , defenseless children and innocent hostages die just as brutally as the real baddies and you shouldn't count on a happy ending in which the hero walks towards the sunset with his loving girlfriend . Quite the contrary , Sergio Martino often captures a surprisingly gripping & melodramatic atmosphere here ; especially in the sub plot centering on the affair with Inspector Giorgio and the drug addict informant Maria Ex . The De Angelis Brothers ' score is one of the most enchanting ones I ever heard and it's perfectly appropriate for all the uneven differences in the film's tones . Luc Merenda is just as imposing and memorable as his fellow bad-cop actor colleagues Tomas Milian , Ray Lovelock and Maurizio Merli . Very much recommended if you're looking for thrills and suspense .
Thank God they still make good horror ! !	I'm sure many horror-lovers will agree with me when I say that the genre has seen better days . It started with one slasher film named Scream and it all went down the hill from there . That's why I'm glad to see Stuart Gordon is still active in this field . His films based on stories by H . P Lovecraft has given us some real classics in the past . The highlights were off course Re-Animator and From Beyond . Castle Freak was a little less but still good . And so is this Dagon ! ! The story of Dagon is set at the coast of Spain . In a little town of Imboca . A long time ago the villagers turned their back to God to worship a God of the sea instead . This God , Dagon , provides them with gold and much fish so that the town of Imboca became very rich . They now have to bring human sacrifices to Dagon to keep him happy . And they are all changing their human form to go life into sea . The leading characters in the film , Paul and Barbara , are celebrating their success in the business world on vacation in the area of Imboca . when their boat crashes during a storm they have to search for help . Barbara is taken prisoner immediately to serve as sacrifice to Dagon . Now Paul has to try and find her , but he's got several surprises waiting for him . . . The biggest relief about this Dagon is probably the original story . No bunch of teenagers being slaughtered by a psycho this time ! ! The Stuart Gordon team always provides their films with great make-up effects . This goes for Dagon too . The shock effects really do their work and are pretty gore from time to time , but never over the top . Just the way we like it . Nevertheless there is one negative remark to make : the absence of Lovecraft actor N°1 ( and also one of my personal favorites . . . ) Jeffrey Combs . Ezzra Godden isn't bad at all in the leading role , but Jeffrey would have made the project complete , I think . Maybe he was too old already . This film was dedicated to Spanish actor Francisco Rabal who played the part of Ezequiel . He died only a month before the Spanish release . My humble opinion :
Giallo Magnifico ! ! !	Gorgeous girls and gruesome horror . . . . that's pretty much all this " Carnal Violence " has got to offer . But let this just be all I was expecting and hoping to see ! Sergio Martino's milestone giallo is a prime example of everything this brilliant Italian horror sub genre represents and everything the fans adore so much . Truly beautiful girls ( all with exhibitionist-tendencies ! ) attending a Roman college are stalked and brutally slain by a killer wearing an eerie mask and a red ' n black scarf . When a second girl is found horribly mutilated , the few remaining girls flee to a countryside villa to recover , but the malevolent butcher follows them . The plot is pretty much standard , there aren't as many twists here as in other gialli and Martino inserts a couple of authentic clichés ( black gloves , broken dolls . . . ) but there isn't a boring moment to detect anywhere ! This movie is incredibly suspenseful from start to finish and the extremely violent images are somehow illustrated stylishly . Some of the make-up effects are quite staggering and especially the death of Carol ( in the woods ) impressed me enormously . The climax , in which the last remaining heroine desperately hides for the maniac , is amazingly compelling and it makes this movie a must for all giallo-fans . The score is breath-taking and the acting is far above average as far as I'm concerned . People that keep nagging about the supposedly " awful " dubbing should either stop watching European horror or learn Italian . The version of " Carnal Violence " I purchased was entirely dubbed in Spanish but I didn't allow this to bother me for one second . I was too occupied becoming one with the creepy atmosphere and the ravishing eye-candy . " Carnal Violence " absolutely , positively is a GREAT horror gem and it all the more proves that Sergio Martino is a shamefully underrated director . His horror movies are hard to come across , but oh so worth it !
Torn , beaten and broken beyond repair !	" Broken " is one of the most intense , disturbing and grueling low-budget horror films of the past two decades , especially because the female protagonists in the story ( who're subjected to endless torture and all possible types of humiliation ) aren't granted a single moment of hope or salvation throughout the entire playtime . This film somewhat feels like a throwback to the nihilistic and misogyny exploitation efforts of the redneck 70's , but with the nauseating gore effects and detailed sickness of nowadays shock-cinema highlights , like " Hostel " and " Wolf Creek " . The opening sequences immediately assure us that " Broken " isn't intended for the eyes ( and stomaches ) of squeamish people , as we witness a woman tied up by her neck from a tree and her only chance to escape is by cutting the rope with a razor . Slight obstacle , though . . . the razor is sewn to the inside of her stomach and needs to be picked out manually . This sequence alone is sickening , shocking , incredibly hard to watch and it was enough reason for several people to leave the theater already . Be warned and advised : you better wait at least a couple of hours after finishing dinner in case you plan to watch this film . A brief message before the opening credits also states that " Broken " is based on true events . Even though this warning should be interpreted rather loosely , there's nevertheless some truth in it . The character of " The Man " , and especially his modus operandi , is inspired by the Alaskan serial killer Robert Christian Hansen , who kidnapped random woman and released them in the woods only to hunt them down again . The Man's main target is a single mother named Hope , but she gradually grows stronger and more recalcitrant . Driven by the desire to see her daughter again , Hope eventually even fights back . . . . " Broken " is a truly respectable film , because it was made with almost no money but with a very dedicated cast & crew . Clearly every penny went straight to the make-up effects , while the performers weren't paid and the shooting took place during weekends . How encouraging to know there still are passionate filmmakers out there ; men and women who're prepared to do everything in order to present their genre film to real horror fanatics ! The gore is naturally staggering , but it never really feels completely gratuitous and / or overly exploitative . The excruciating violence always serves a purpose and Boyes & Mason constantly sustain an agonizing atmosphere . The photography is surprisingly professional , as the duo of directors actually succeed in depicting the ambush-filled woods as a supportive characters that is almost equally menacing as The Man himself . " Broken " is a powerful and sinister , albeit unpleasant viewing experience in survival horror that is guaranteed to impress even the most hardened genre fan . And if you think you've seen everything , just wait for the absolutely unforgettable and mean-spirited finale .
Disturbing , passionate and gruesome !	Wow ! If you're about to watch " Imprint " , you should prepare for sixty of the most intense and horrific minutes of your life , as Takashi Miike's contribution to the " Masters of Horror " - franchise is , in one word , perplexing ! I have yet to see the director's acclaimed masterpiece " Audition " but , until then , this is definitely my most favorite piece of his work ! The themes and style here are totally different to , say , " Itchi the Killer " or " Fudoh " , but it's disturbing and terrifying on entirely different levels . The story is macabre and definitely has an Asian folklore feel to it , but the torture sequences and perverted sub themes are typically Takashi Miike ; meaning very explicit , shocking and on the verge of sickening . It's also a real pleasure to see the hugely underrated actor Billy Drago star in a glorious horror project again ! He also appeared in the recent ( and surprisingly great " The Hills Have Eyes " - remake ) , so here's to hoping that this charismatic actor is in the middle of making a successful comeback ! Drago plays a mysterious American who travels through Japan all by himself to find the lost love of his life . He arrives on a crazy island where only prostitutes and their pimps live and discovers that the woman he loved passed away . Her sad story is told to him by a deformed whore who also has a lot of other peculiar revelations to share , each one more morbid and repellent than the other . " Imprint " was banned in the States for some obvious reasons , notably the incredibly unsettling torture scene in which a poor girl's fingers and gums are used as a pin-cushion ! I'm used to a lot , but this particular part was really hard to watch . Other deeply shocking moments of the story include a brutal and detailed abortion sequence and the overall nihilistic attitude towards unborn humans . This short movie is beautifully made , with sublime camera-work and masterful make-up effects . Miike's directing is solid as a rock and proves that he truly deserves to be called a " Master of Horror " . " Imprint " is often hard to watch but impossible to forget . Highly recommended !
The Hills are Alive with the Sounds of . . . SLAUGHTER ! !	I dislike the nowadays and boisterous remakes of classic horror movies as much as the next person but , ever since the news came that an update of " The Hills Have Eyes " was in talks , I had great expectations towards it . There are reasons for this rather enthusiast anticipation , actually . Unlike " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " or " The Fog " , to name just two examples , Wes Craven's original 1977 screenplay was open for improvement AND Alexandre Aja would be just the right man for the job , as his own project " Haute Tension " is definitely one of the best horror films since the year 2000 . That particular film wasn't really a masterpiece of plotting , but it was genuinely grim and barbaric and those are exactly the qualities a film like " The Hills Have Eyes " require as well . The new screenplay follows Craven's original fairly strict , except that the eyes in the hills aren't of members of an inbred family anymore but of an entire community of horribly mutated ghouls . Deep in the New Mexican deserts , a small village of coal miners once refused to leave the area at the time the American government decided to test nuclear weapons there , and now they still prowl the wasteland , assaulting travelers that dare to leave the main highways . The Carter family is next on the menu , and the mutants really don't care whether the victims are females , elderly folks or even newborn babies . . . Alexandre Aja delivers the exact right amount of disturbing tension and really a lot more gore than you could possibly dream of . Much more than the overrated Eli Roth , this young French filmmaker is the new prodigy of horror . Strictly talking in terms of cinema , " The Hills Have Eyes " is also a more than decent production . The dialogs are fluently written and the characters are a lot more likable than in the original . By them I primarily refer to the members of the Carter family , as Michael Berryman's charisma as creepy Pluto remains unequaled . Altering the background of the desert-people into mutants was a pretty intelligent move by Aja , though . Despite being sadistic and utterly repulsive-looking bastards , these people are basically a sort of " victims " themselves , which brings a lot of extra depth and unsubtle social criticism in the overall simplistic story . I'm sure this film also had its share of flaws , like the editing being a little too MTV-ish perhaps , but the thrills and fast pacing were just too overpowering to have me bother about them . Kudos also to the terrific selection of songs , the convincing cast of actors and actresses and ? last but not least ? the personal trainer of those brilliant German Shepard dogs !
Takes you on a magic " giallo " carpet flight .	What we have here is another sublime yet criminally neglected giallo-highlight that urgently deserves to be out there on DVD along with the big boys ! Once you witness how amazingly compelling and suspenseful this film is , you too will probably wonder why the hell it is still so unknown and incredibly difficult to purchase . " House of the Yellow Carpet " implements a unique and highly creative structure , the convoluted plot-twists are actually plausible for a change and ? most of all ? director Carlo Lizzani upholds a genuinely unsettling atmosphere throughout the entire film . The script is adapted from a stage play and this really shows , as there's just one main setting and only four characters that gather there . Exactly like in the terrific Audrey Hepburn thriller " Wait Until Dark " ( also based on a play ) , the lack of filming locations increases the tension and , moreover , provides the film with an awkward feel of claustrophobia . Also , the titular yellow carpet might be a hideous piece of interior decoration , but it's definitely a cool gimmick for a movie that falls into the category of " gialli " ! The opening sequence immediately sets a sober tone , as a husband overhears his wife talking in her sleep about sex with another man . The next morning , we learn that the couple placed an ad to sell an old inherited yellow carpet that hardly fits in their apartment . When she's alone later that morning , the woman receives a visitor who pretends to be interested in the carpet but the strange & uncanny man promptly ensues to psychologically terrorize Franca about her deepest desires and hidden childhood secrets . I know it's not much of a summary , but it's really all that I can tell about the story without revealing essential elements . And , trust me , this is the type of film for which you don't want to know already how it ends . " House of the Yellow Carpet " is not as violent or sick-spirited as most contemporary giallo-efforts ( partly due to the budget ? ) , but the lack of gore is widely compensated by a stylish photography and great dialogues . The acting performances are highly satisfying too , with a splendid role for the Swedish veteran actor Erland Josephson ( " The Unbearable Lightness of Being " ) . Excellent film , truly recommended .
Thought Vietnam was rough ? Wait until you visit the Cajun Swamps !	Thank the heavens for John Boorman ! If it hadn't been for his classic " Deliverance " , we never would have had the stream of gritty and relentless " Backwoods " action & horror movies . Most of them are just a cheap excuse to make fun of stereotypical rednecks and depict gratuitous violence , but some are truly great films that come damn near to the quality level of " Deliverance " itself , like Walter Hill's " Southern Comfort " . This exhilarating backwoods survival chiller uses some of the best exterior filming locations ever , the suspense and atmosphere of madness gradually builds itself up , the ( almost ) all-star cast is terrific and the violence is extremely rough at times . A nine-headed squadron of the Louisiana National Guard enrolls into a training practice in the Cajun Swamps and soon get lost . They borrow three canoes of the local population without asking and when one of the soldiers playfully ( but stupidly ) fires off blanks in their direction , the unseen Cajuns hillbilly-poachers respond with real bullets . This inflicts a disturbing cat and mouse game between the soldiers ( with minimal ammunition and no knowledge of the area ) and the seemingly invisible Cajuns ( with their primitive hunting instincts and inventive booby traps ) . Usually in this type of flicks , it's obvious to choose which side you're on , but in " Southern Comfort " you have to think at least twice . The soldiers aren't exactly warm and friendly men , neither , and you're more than often tempted to think they're somewhat responsible for the mess they're in . After all , they did steal the canoes , they did set fire to one of the Cajun's homes and they did yell obscure things at them ! The finale , set in an actual Cajun community , is truly nail-biting , absorbing and strangely educational , what with all the portrayal of typical rituals like dance parties and barbecuing ! Another masterful period accomplishment from Walter Hill , who also made the brilliant cult classic " The Warriors " and the family-western " The Long Riders " .
The twisted world of David Lynch	I'm always a bit worried when I'm about to express my love towards this movie by the genius director David Lynch . . . I figure it's the perfect indicator for psychiatrists to claim that you're completely nuts : ) But what the heck , they're a lot of nutballs on this website , so I can speak my mind freely . Indeed , I love this movie . . . although ' love ' may be a wrong term to describe my feelings towards it . This movie ' fascinates ' me is a much better saying . Usually , a movie is something in which you can live yourself in . . . in order to escape the stress of real life . Eraserhead is the exact opposite of that ! When watching this film , you can only hope that you'll never awake in the wold like Lynch shows it here . The horrible noises , the colorless and tasteless locations and the insensible characters . . . you all hate to love it . Eraserhead takes a walk with your emotions , you don't know whether to be disgusted or intrigued by it . So you'll feel uncomfortable when watching it and that's a wonderful experience for a cinema freak ! Eraserhead is the ultimate cult film in my opinion and a must see for every fan of this delicious genre . In fact , I would go so far to say you can't call yourself a cult-freak if you haven't seen it yet . David Lynch begins his highly impressive career with this one and it still lives on . Eraserhead isn't his best film at all ( certainly not when it comes to storyline ) but it's his most deep and personal tale . 25 years old and still the " weirdest " film ever . That's an achievement , certainly with all this artistic filmmakers lately . . . or , at least , they try to be . . . ) I want to encourage as much people as possible to see this one , but it's for the best that some groups of people avoid it . Surely not recommended if you're depressed or suicidal . . . The image of Jack Nance and the rest of the cast could even put you more down , I think . The tagline of this movie - " In heaven , everything looks fine " - could become a stimulus , I'm afraid . Pregnant women and young couples in love should beware as well ! ! This film is the ultimate nightmare for that what should be the greatest miracle of life . . . The hideous but yet harmless " baby " ( I really don't know how I should call it , actually ) is the purest form of horror that ever occurred on the screen . You must have respect for director David Lynch . If you imagine how hard it must have been to create and finance this production . But it worked . . . hell , even comedy legend Mel Brooks was deeply impressed . Based on this film , he decided to let Lynch direct " The Elephant Man " a few years later . By that , David's career was launched and of course he made a masterpiece out of it . For me personally , his highlights were the 80's with terrific movies like " Blue Velvet " , " Dune " ( very underrated , in my opinion ) and " Wild at Heart " at the end of the decade . And let's not forget the best TV-series ever made : " Twin Peaks " . Please , watch this movie ! ! Three times in a row if possible . I know a lot of people who just stopped watching it after half and hour ( or less ) and yelled " What the f is this ? ? ? " . Real shame , if you ask me . It's an insight to a great mind and a unique event . If you really don't see the magic of it , at least try to admire the very stylish haircut of the main character . I'm thinking of doing the same thing with mine . . .
Requiem for an organized crime network ?	Following the huge success of the first series , mostly in its native country Belgium but on the international export market as well , a second series of " Matroesjkas " was inevitable . Most of the story lines were even readily written when the first series still aired on TV , for that matter . But still , the last thing anyone can claim is that this second series is simply a continuation and cash-in on the popularity of the original . The second ? and undoubtedly final ? series has a much more internationally orientated character , more convoluted plot outlines , the atmosphere is even more disturbing and there's a lot more violence ( especially when approaching the finale ) . Several characters of the first series return , but there are also numerous new ones that get introduced ; often even viler and more malignant than the original crime syndicate members . If you haven't seen the first series , it isn't of much use to watch part two . Even if you don't necessarily require the main characters ' backgrounds and previous crimes , there still are loads of references towards stuff that happened in the first season . The story picks up again three years later , with the earlier than expected release from prison of Ray Van Mechelen and Eddy Stoefs , two of the gang's most prominent members . They meet up to search for their former pal Jan Verplancke , who stole all their money and disappeared towards Thailand to open a sex club . They also intend to boost new life and energy into their former activities , but the Belgian sex industry has changed severely during their three years of absence . There are new and relentless players on the market ( Belgian as well as Russian mob organizations ) , docile and " cheap " girls can only still be found in poor Eastern European countries and the relationships between the former partners have watered down into sheer hostility and complete distrust . The Antwerp police continuously try to disable the organization but perhaps they don't even have to , as they are likely to kill off each other first . The carefully researched and elaborated scenarios , courtesy of Guy Goossens and Mark Punt , still pay and extended deal of attention to character development and human emotions . It's a remarkable and highly praiseworthy accomplishment ? especially for a Belgian production ? how the numerous and often extremely versatile story lines and sub plots merge together throughout all ten episodes . Whether it concerns the hopeless situation of the girls or the downwards spiral into utter madness of the villains , everything is near perfect to the greatest detail . Even more the case than in series one , part two of " Matroesjkas " isn't always suitable for viewers with a sensitive nerve system or easily upset stomachs . There's a lot of misogynic violence , brutal executions , rape , extortion , excessively foul language , mental agony and revenge . But , as I stated in my review of the first series already , what else do you expect from an allegory focusing on the sex industry ! If you want it to come across as realistic and plausible , extreme violence and exploitative sleaze are fundamental .
Highly recommended Suspense zombie film	When we think about zombie films , first titles that come to mind are George A . Romero's trilogy , the Return of the living dead series and maybe Peter Jackson's Braindead . All good films off course but this 1966 film should definitely be on this " top of mind " list . It contains all ingredients off the ideal horror film : suspense ( only the George Romero films have that too , most others are more funny than scary ) . Several scenes just give you the creeps and you stare to them with your eyes wide open . Also , great acting performances by rather unknown actors . The accents are typical British and very appropriate in the atmosphere of the film ( in my opinion , of course ) the make-up effects and the creepy music just make the whole film complete . No negative remarks from my side ! ! ! But perhaps what makes the film excellent the most is the very original story . . . Zombies rise from their grave and have only one mission : hunt the living ! ! . . . normally . . . In this Hammer production ( of course Hammer . . . you gotta love ' em ) the zombies are brought back by men , for whole other causes . . . The highly respected Dr . Forbes receives a letter from one of his former students . This man , Dr Peter Thomson , now is the doctor in a small village in Cornwall . A lot of young men died in this village and he's calling Dr . Forbes for help . Dr . Forbes and his daughter Sylvia go there to help him out , and they too soon discover that there's something very strange going on . they want to perform an autopsy on one of the bodies to find out more about the disease but this ain't possible because all of corpses disappeared . When Peter's wife becomes a victim of this disease too , both the doctor's do everything to discover what in God's name is going on . One man in town is a great mystery . . . Mr . Hamilton . He recently came to town and now own the old mine . This mine was very profitable in the past but it had to be closed because many worker lost their lives . Nobody knows much about Mr . Hamilton , except that spend many years in Haïti . . . the country of voodoo . Telling more about this film would be a real shame cause the it's definitely worth checking out . If you're in the mood to see a good zombie film , but a little more scarier than usual . . . this is your film
Fear . . . but mostly beauty , seduction and complexity !	Paolo Cavara may not be the most famous horror director of Italy , but he certainly deserves the endless respect of true genre fans for the movies he made in the Mondo Cane-series and ? his TWO genuine Gialli masterpieces ! " The Black Belly of the Tarantula " is generally considered to be a classic in the genre , but this " Plot of Fear " is rather difficult to obtain and therefore still sadly underrated . This is an almost indescribably stylish Giallo-cocktail , properly blending together all the fundamental ingredients and many more . The plot is extremely convoluted , like it should be , and covers multiple themes including secret sex-networks , diamond smuggling and of course a bizarre series of grisly murders . The witty police Lieutenant slash playboy Lomenzo investigates several murders that are unquestionably connected , as the killer left behind drawings of a famous children's book on the victims ' mutilated bodies . With the help of his ravishing new French girlfriend Jeanne , Lomenzo discovers that the murdered people were all members of a wealthy clique that secretly gathered to play kinky sex games . During one of these decadent gatherings , a young prostitute named Rosa accidentally ( ? ) died and it looks as if someone is avenging her by eliminating all members one by one . I admit this brief description sounds like the repetitive premise of any regular textbook thriller , but I also assure you that the actual elaboration of the plot is much more twisted and engaging . Paolo Cavara maintains a constant level of high suspense and always adds new and misleading plot twists at the exact right times . The murders , although not specifically gory or shocking , are diverse and original ! And they're definitely unpredictable , as one victims is even shot live on TV during an interview . " Plot of Fear " is also one of the most beautifully made Gialli I've ever encountered . Words can hardly describe how stylish Franco Di Giacomo's cinematography is and Daniele Patucchi's moody soundtrack also contributes a great deal to the overall tense atmosphere of the film . Lieutenant Lomenzo surely is one of the most humorist characters to ever appear in a Giallo film . His remarks against beautiful women and his rather awkward interpretation of police work often results is very comical sequences that help you to digest the confusing subject matter a little easier . There's a fair portion of sleaze and female nudity to enjoy , but it always remains tasteless , with the extended and clearly passionate love-making session between Jeanne and Lomenzo as an absolute highlight . The cast features several prominent and awesomely talented names , which makes it all the more difficult to comprehend why this Italian gem is still so obscure ! " Plot of Fear " stars Euro-horror regulars John Steiner and Jacques Herlin and ? most of all ? features curious supportive roles of no less than Tom Skerritt ( looking like a true Italian , but poorly dubbed ) and Spaghetti Western legend Eli Wallach . ; I would have loved to reward it with an impeccable score , but the finale is slightly too grotesque to refer to " Plot of Fear " as entirely perfect .
Mario Bava : I worship thee !	Irresistible and genuine Gothic scares , combined with atmospheric camera-work and breath-taking scenery ? Welcome to yet another visual masterpiece directed by the greatest horror genius of all time : Mario Bava ! " The Whip and the Body " isn't the man's most mentioned achievement , it's not even in my personal Bava-top 3 and yet I still rated it a solid . That should give you somewhat an idea of how excellent his total repertoire in fact is . " The Whip and the Body " is a unique film in many ways , but particularly because of the controversial substance it dared to bring forward . Don't forget that the year of release was 1963 and Mario Bava unscrupulously introduces characters with taboo-fetishes like S & M . The story is terrifically set in the 19th century , where Kurt Menliff returns to his eminent family after being banished for several years . The family's hate towards Kurt's vile behavior is only surpassed by their fear and only the gorgeous Nevenka has a secret desire towards his wicked sexual preferences . In a particularly astonishing sequence , he whips her repeatedly ( and roughly . . . ) before continuing with making love . Terror overcomes the Menliff family when Kurt is found murdered in his room and when the tormented Nevenka begins to see his appearance in nearly every chamber of the castle . As it usually is the case in Bava's films , the plot contains quite a few holes and illogical moments , but they're totally forgivable if you acknowledge the intensity and power of the wholesome . Especially praiseworthy is Mario Bava's unequaled talent to turn totally natural things into terrifying atmosphere-elements ? Blowing wind , pouring rain , footprints covered in mud . . . all these ordinary things turn into suspicious omens in the hands of this masterful filmmaker . With his skilled cinematographic eye , Bava perfectly knows how to raise an unbearable tension that grabs you by the neck immediately and it doesn't let go until the very last scene fades away . All the other typical Bava-trademarks are clearly present as well , namely an authentically creepy score , a minimum of stylish gore ( burning , rotting corpses ! ! ) and ? last but not least ? a stunning use of color shades . Mario plays with colors like he invented them and this emphasizes the spook-effect even more . " The Whip and the Body " is a more than just a shocking horror film . It's an offbeat love-story , a Gothic poem AND an unsettling horror tale all in one ! If you love beautiful cinema , don't miss " The Whip and the Body " .
A very versatile tale of terror	We have all kind of barbarities featuring in this dark and moody tale . Only the wicked pen of Edgar Allen Poe could have come up with a tale that blends voodoo , body snatching , medical experiments , brotherly betrayal and a taste of what most likely is the worst imaginable nightmare : being buried alive ! Set in the second half of the 19th century , Vincent Price ( oh , how I love this man ) stars as a wealthy landlord who returned from Africa severely traumatized . His brother got cursed by the aboriginals there and now lives locked up in his room , heavily deformed . But he's still clever enough to plan an escape and pays some small crooks to have him appear dead . Due to several unfortunate events , the plan goes wrong and Sir Edward's supposedly dead body ends up in the laboratory of morbid scientist Christopher Lee ( another man I love ! ) The entire film carries some sort of unnameable eeriness . The depressing set pieces and colorless locations add a great deal to the sublime horrific atmosphere . All this , together with an intriguing and complex screenplay makes this movie yet another highlight in the careers of Vincent Price and Christopher Lee . Both icons of horror give away amazing performances and it's actually a damn shame they don't share many sequences together . This is a marvelous film from the time that horror still was the greatest genre in cinema . They simply can't deliver movies as good as this anymore . Maybe I'm giving it a little too much praise but you can't but agree with me that at least this kind of horror oldies demand a much wider attention span than the nowadays gore-junk . For that aspect alone , I feel obliged to give it a high rating .
Tarantino's Triumph : Volume Two	Rarely known a movie I've been looking forward to so much than Q . T's resumption of the Kill Bill saga . I , as well as millions of others film-freaks , awaited Uma Thurman's further adventures with wicked anticipation . And of course ? Tarantino didn't disappoint . Volume two is a completely different movie than volume one , but it's equally brilliant and the director's trademarks are shown more than obviously . Volume one merely was homage to the Eastern Martial Arts movies , with delightfully over-the-top splatter and gore while Vol . 2 fully focuses on ancient westerns and rural horror . There's more dialogue , more twists ? n turns and the anti-chronological structure results in more depth and involvement . Some unexplained elements from Vol . 1 become clear now and even the entire background of Thurman's character gets unveiled . For the very first time , ( as far as I can remember ) Tarantino really knows how to create an unbearable tension ! There's a sequence in which Uma is buried alive and trapped under the ground ? Through simple methods , like a completely black screen , Tarantino arises claustrophobia among the audience ! Truly terrific filmmaking . The actors in Kill Bill aren't Hollywood's best , but they each have their charisma and their typical Tarantino characters do the rest . The camera viewpoints are brilliant at times and ? as usual ? the tiny absurd elements are a joy to discover . Tarantino's entire Kill Bill achievement may easily be considered as one of the most creative and dared film-projects ever ! Do yourself a favor and watch them ! ? Over and over again .
House of authentic , ingenious horror !	( SPOILERS included ) This film surely is the best Amicus production I've seen so far ( even though I still have quite a few to check out ) . The House that Dripped Blood is a horror-omnibus ? an anthology that contains four uncanny stories involving the tenants of a vicious , hellish house in the British countryside . A common mistake in productions like this is wasting too much energy on the wraparound story that connects the separate tales ? Peter Duffel's film wisely doesn't pay too much attention to that . It simply handles about a Scotland Yard inspector who comes to the house to investigate the disappearance of the last tenant and like that , he learns about the bizarre events that took place there before . All four stories in this film are of high quality-level and together , they make a perfect wholesome . High expectations are allowed for this film , since it was entirely written by Robert Bloch ! Yes , the same Bloch who wrote the novel that resulted in the brilliant horror milestone ' Psycho ' ? We're also marking Peter Duffel's solid and very professional debut as a director . The four stories ? chapters if you will ? in the House that Dripped Blood contain a good diversity in topics , but they're ( almost ) equally chilling and eerie . Number one handles about a horror-author who comes to the house , along with his wife , in order to find inspiration for his new book . This starts out real well , but after a short while , his haunted and stalked by the villain of his own imagination . The idea in this tale isn't exactly original ? but it's very suspenseful and the climax is rather surprising . The second story stars ( Hammer ) horror-legend Peter Cushing as a retired stockbroker . Still haunted by the image of an unreachable and long-lost love , he bumps into a wax statue that looks exactly like her . Cushing is a joy to observe as always and ? even though the topic of Wax Museums isn't new ? this story looks overall fresh and innovating . This chapter also contains a couple of delightful shock-moments and there's a constant tense atmosphere . It's a terrific warm-up for what is arguably the BEST story : number 3 . Another legendary actor in this one , as Christopher Lee gives away a flawless portrayal of a terrified father . He's very severe and strict regarding his young daughter and he keeps her in isolation for the outside world . Not without reason , since the little girl shows a bizarre fascination for witchcraft and voodoo . Besides great acting by Lee and the remarkable performance of Chloe Franks as the spooky kid , this story also has a terrific gothic atmosphere ! The devilish undertones in this story , along with the creepy sound effects of thunder , make this story a must for fans of authentic horror . The fourth and final story , in which a vain horror actor gets controlled by the vampire-cloak he wears , is slightly weaker then the others when it comes to tension and credibility , but that the overload of subtle humor more or less compensates that . There's even a little room for parody in this story as the protagonist refers to co-star Christopher Lee in the Dracula series ! Most memorable element in this last chapter is the presence of the gorgeous Ingrid Pitt ! The cult-queen from ' The Vampire Lovers ' certainly is one of the many highlights in the film ? her cleavage in particular . No doubt about it ? The House that Dripped Blood will be greatly appreciated by classic horror fans . I truly believe that , with a bit of mood-settling preparations , this could actually be one of the few movies that'll terrify you and leave a big impression . Intelligent and compelling horror like it should be ! Highly recommended . One extra little remark , though : this film may not ? repeat MAY NOT under any circumstances be confused with ' The Dorm that Dripped Blood ' . This latter one is a very irritating and lousy underground 80's slasher that has got nothing in common with this film , except for the title it stole .
Naughty Girls go to Boarding School Hell !	Ever since I beheld a masterpiece called " Quién Puede Matar A Un Niño " ( " Who Can Kill a Child ? " ) , I've been on a constant lookout for THIS Spanish gem that also spawned from the clearly gifted mind of writer / director Narciso Ibáñez-Serrador . Thanks to the help of a good friend , I'm now the proud owner of this film on DVD and I can finally do my share of recommending this genuinely frightening film to other fans . " The House that Screamed " differs a lot from the aforementioned film , but it's a genre highlight all the same . " Who Can Kill A Child " , which got released during the mid-70's , depended a lot on brutal shocks and one truly disturbing theme whereas " The House that Screamed " ( dated 1969 ) teaches us a lesson in pure tension and atmosphere . There's very little on screen bloodshed here , but the film features ? without exaggerating ? a constantly high level of suspense . Literally every sequence bathes in an atmosphere of sheer eeriness and it feels like ominous events lurk behind every corner of every set piece used in the film . As far as I'm concerned , only brilliant directors such as Mario Bava , Dario Argento and Alfred Hitchcock can achieve such a depiction of subtle emotional terror , and now Ibáñez-Serrador is one of the elite . The story is set around the year 1900 , in a Southern French boarding school for girls only . These girls supposedly all have discipline problems and the utterly strict headmistress Mme . Fourneau keeps them on a short leash . She has her hands quite full , as her students continuously plan escapes and she also has to prevent her own teenage son from having contact with the wayward girls . When more and more girls disappear without leaving a single trace , the girls righteously begin to fear that the boarding school also homes a vicious killer . The plot is occasionally slow and predictable , yet you easily forgive all this just because our director puts so much effort & dedication into building up the tension and the drawing of his characters . The climax , albeit implausible , is pretty sensational horror stuff ! The acting performances are FAR above average , with Lilly Palmer in the most memorable role of her career , and the decors are very convincing . This isn't a movie for the nowadays horror audiences ( too little action , I presume ) , but its themes and plot-twists were very ahead of time back in 1969 . If you truly love horror and if you can find a decent copy , I strongly suggest purchasing " The House that Screamed " . Note : This comment is dedicated to fellow IMDb-user G . B , for helping me to obtain this fine movie !
Tough characters , rough action ? Brilliant Italian cinema !	The other reviewers are right . It may be an incredibly statement to make , especially since there are so many classic and legendary milestone titles in the genre , but " The Boss " may very well be one of the greatest mafia films ever made ! This movie is strictly 100 % hardcore-to-the-bone excitement , with ultra-sadistic characters , nasty double-crossings , merciless executions and explosive vendettas that require urgent and bloody settlements . There are no good or loyal characters in Fernando Di Leo's depiction of Palermo's mafia ? There are only vicious and emotionless gangsters that would butcher their own parents in order to climb one small step up the Sicilian ladder of power & influence . Even the main character , flawlessly portrayed by Italian cult icon Henry Silva , is a totally relentless bastard that violates women and betrays his closest relatives in exchange for more money and power . Watching this film in all its gritty and violent glory , it's almost depressing to realize that large parts of the script were based on factual events as they occurred in crime-infested Italy during the early 70's . The DVD's commentary track even states that some of the situations were so damn realistic that director Di Leo and other members of the crew had to live with fear for acts of retribution by the local mafia . " The Boss " easily surpasses the status of entertainment and it's even more than just a cult film ; this is essential revolutionary cinema ! The movie opens insanely brilliant , with Sicilian mafia pawn Nick Lanzetta ( Silva ) executing most members of a rivaling clan inside a pornography theater . But he doesn't use normal artillery , oh no ? He uses a genuine grenade-launcher which turns his targets into steaming little piles of humanoid waste ! The pace naturally slows down a bit after this terrific intro , but the dialogs and the story remain utterly compelling and the cast of vile characters that gets introduced is nearly endless , including a sleazy attorney , a nymphomaniac crime lord's daughter and ? my personal favorite - a sarcastically venting chief of police . Following the bloody massacre at the cinema , the last remaining leader of the other mafia family wants revenge and he kidnaps the only daughter of Don Giuseppe Daniello . Lanzetta is sent to free her , but treacherous deals are closed everywhere , even within the eminent Daniello family and with the local commissioner of police . The plot is ? as usually the case in Italian cult cinema ? very convoluted and occasionally difficult to follow , but the action sequences are delicious and several of the plot twists are unpredictable and downright shocking . Henry Silva is phenomenal in his role of relentless killer . His facial expressions never change ( he never even smiles ) and he's ultimately cruel and professional when it comes to doing his " job " . Gianni Garko , playing the commissioner , is splendid as well , particularly when he aggressively shouts at the relatives of dead gangsters because their crying and mourning upsets him ! How tactful ! The music adds an even grimmer atmosphere to the story and the roughly edited cinematography makes the wholesome appear even more realistic . " The Boss " is the final entry in Fernando Di Leo's trilogy revolving on Italy's circle of organized crime , and the other two " Milano Calibre . 9 " and " Man Hunt " are supposed to be even better than this one . Personally I haven't seen them yet , but if the rumors are true then Di Leo deserves a statue for his accomplishments in cult cinema .
Masters of Asian Horror !	I'm always very cautious when people refer to the genuine brilliance of Asian horror productions ( as I've been let down one too many times ) , but in the case of " Three ? Extremes " every single word of praise is more than justified ! This movie is bound to make an everlasting impression on you , and most likely that impression will either be fear , disturbance or just plain repulsion ? ( but the ' good ' kind of repulsion ) . The format of a horror anthology isn't very common in Asian cinema , at least not that I'm aware of , but these three directors approach the format with the exact right attitude . There's no silly and overlong wraparound , the stories just follow each other without necessarily featuring common themes or characters . This results in three versatile stories , covering completely different horror styles . The first story by Fruit Chan aims at pure controversial shocks , with its plot about an ageing actress who desperately wants to maintain her good looks and young skin and therefore consults the mysterious " Aunt Mei " . Her secret of eternal youth involves serving her customers dumpling-dishes made of ? hold on to your socks for this ? aborted human fetuses ! Mrs . Li is very pleased with the results at first , but then gets sick after finishing a ' meal ' made of the leftovers of an incest baby . Fruit Chan is the least famous director of the bunch , but his is definitely a name to remember and keep an eye on . The style of " Dumplings " is extremely brutal and nihilistic . People talk about the abortion of living creatures like it's the most normal thing in the world and the camera regularly zooms in on how aunt Mai professionally grinds the baby-flesh . Admittedly , you require a strong stomach to endure the make-up effects in this first episode , but even more disturbing is Chan's use of freaky sounds . The music is downright nightmarish and particularly the chewing-noises , made when Mrs . Lee eats the dumplings , sent cold shivers down my spine . Chan-Wook Park is responsible for the second tale and if you've seen any of the entries in his Vengeance-Trilogy ( " Sympathy for Mr . Vengeance " , " Oldboy " , " Lady Vengeance " ) , you already more or less know what to expect . Namely a cruel and relentless tale of violence that brings out the absolute darkest side of the human mind . Chan-Wook Park is a genius when it comes to the drawing of his characters and he once more demonstrates that here , with his story about the home jacking of a famous director and his vain wife by a severely frustrated walk-on actor . The wife is imaginatively tied between the walls and her piano and the perpetrator threatens to cut off her fingers , unless the director has the courage to strangle a little girl the stranger kidnapped as well . The seemly honest and friendly couple gradually turn into selfish and aggressive monsters the more their lives become endangered . " Cut " is probably my favorite segment of all three ! The tension is almost unbearable and you just know Chan-Wook Park isn't going to come up with a happy ending ! People are crazy , evil bastards that only look after themselves and that's the ONLY message to communicate here . His segment also contains the most violent and gory images , as the house's artsy floor is literally flooded with blood near the end of the story . " Cut " is a harrowing piece of cult cinema that only confirms that Chan-Wook Park is a brilliant director . Die-hard fans of Takashi Miike that are expecting a short movie similar to " Itchi the Killer " or " Fûdoh " will be quite amazed that his contribution to " Three ? Extremes " is the most atmospheric and suggestive one ! " Box " is a complex little mind-bender that is low on graphic violence and shocks , but nevertheless very intense and petrifying . The tale centers on a young woman experiencing nightmares about her childhood life as a circus artist . The competitive relationship with her twin-sister eventually led to unwanted murder and now the unfortunate girl comes back to haunt her . In all honesty I must admit I enjoyed " Box " the least , mainly because the complete change in tone and filming style came too unexpectedly . Miike puts a whole lot of haunting images in his film , but the plot is too abstract and raises too many questions for which there are no answers . Great ending , though . My guess is that Miike was merely using this omnibus job to experiment with horror styles and elements that are new for him . " Three ? Extremes " is a tremendously marvelous film that every horror fanatic has to see for him / herself ! ? And that recommendation comes from someone who totally disliked the so-called Asian horror masterpieces " Ringu " , " Ju-On The Grudge " and " The Eye " .
Quintessential 70's exploitation !	" The Candy Snatchers " perfectly embodies why so many fans of the horror & cult genre worship the 70's decade ! This is a hard-boiled and intense film , with a shocking and totally unpredictable storyline , utterly deranged characters and it literally doesn't take the slightest notice of political correctness and / or human emotions . Director Guerdon Trueblood and scriptwriter Bryan Gindoff take us on a wild & trashy 70's ride , covering controversial topics such as child abuse , mental handicaps , rape of minors , live burial , Vietnam traumas and brutal murders committed by unusual characters ! A trio of ruthless thugs develops a seemingly waterproof plan to get rich with diamonds very fast . By kidnapping the cute 16-year-old stepdaughter of a diamond trader and demanding a huge ransom , they rest assured of success . Unforeseen complications arise when it turns out that the father isn't in a hurry to rescue his stepdaughter at all . Even more so , Candy's ' unfortunate ' death would result in a huge financial triumph for him , so he sure ain't likely to come up with any type of ransom at all . The other ? if possible even more brilliant ? main storyline centers on a young and autistic boy who witnessed Candy's brutal live burial in a muddy grave with only a small tube for oxygen . He desperately attempts to warn his abusive parents about what he knows , but they're too caught up in their own crazy world of greed and self-pity . Purely talking in terms of grindhouse cinema-sickness , " The Candy Snatchers " leans damn close towards perfection ! The atmosphere is constantly gritty , the violence & sleaze is very explicit and literally every character that walks through the screen is demented ! Even the ones that only appear briefly , like the company manager who laughs hysterically at the poor boy's mental condition or the nasty gun store seller who deliberately ignores the reason why the gangster trio so urgently needs a shotgun . Sensitive viewers and / or people with a weak stomach beware , as poor young Candy goes through a hellish ordeal and the ending surely isn't cheerful . Even technically speaking , this production is far superior in comparison with the majority of 70's genre outings . Although obviously low-budgeted , the cinematography and editing are quite professional and the musical guidance is appropriately unsettling . The acting is top-notch , with an extra special word of praise for the director's young son Christopher in his first and only appearance on the big screen . " The Candy Snatchers " has recently been re-discovered and released in a fancy edition . The DVD is an absolute must have for every fan of the genre .
If you're into kinky exploitation , go on a date with Flavia !	Flavia the Heretic is an undeniable work of art and probably my number one recommendation to state that the euro-exploitation cinema is severely underrated and not to be ignored . This is an intelligent and complex film , beautifully realized and ? surprise ? pretty damn accurate ! This is more than just meaningless sleaze or gratuitous violence and it's about time those prudish film committees who categorize Flavia as forbidden trash reckon this as well . Flavia is a beautiful 14th century adolescent , forced to live the life of an obedient nun in a strict convent . She refuses to accept her being inferior just because she's female and she curses her fellow sister for being so tolerant about this . After a fruitless attempt to escape , she befriends another rebellious nun and she even guides a troop of bloodthirsty Muslims into the walls of the convent . Flavia is a downright mesmerizing film ! Almost impossible to believe that director Gianfranco Mingozzi managed to make it appear so realistic and so disturbing . I challenge you to come up with a title that centers on the topic of pioneer-feminism more intensely than Flavia does . Several sequences are quite shocking ( on the verge of nightmarish , actually ) as the camera zooms in on brutal rapes , torture and mutilation . Yet all this raw footage isn't just used to satisfy perverted gorehounds , mind you . I'm strongly convinced that they're part of the statement ' Flavia ' is trying to communicate : Humanity ( the Catholic Church in particular ) historically proved itself to be a hypocrite and discriminating race and there's no use in denying it any further . Films like " Flavia , the Heretic " have the courage to question and openly condemn our precious ancestors and I truly admire them for it . Flavia is an outstanding and fundamental exploitation film because of its substance , but it's even brought to an higher level by the wondrous cinematography , the glorious costumes & scenery and a breathtaking musical score by Nicola Piovani . Florinda Bolkin is very convincing as the ambitious and headstrong nun but it's María Casares who steals the show as Sister Agatha . She's a man-hating and loud-mouthed nun who likes to urinate in the open field ! Amen , sister !
Trash class !	I sincerely doubt that Mary Shelley would have appreciated this sensationally weird interpretation of her classic story but , unless you're the reincarnation of her spirit , you're guaranteed to enjoy this " Flesh for Frankenstein " a hell of a lot ! Released right before the also highly recommended " Bloof for Dracula " , but this sick puppy is even more deranged . . . more outrageous . . . and more amusing ! Paul Morrissey's cult movie is a nearly perfect amalgamation of artsy , typically European exploitation ( decorative sets , twisted characters . . . ) and nasty American drive-in cinema ( endless amounts of soft core sex and enough gory entrails to pave the roads between Casablanca and Cape Town . . . ) . Cult icon Udo Kier is simply superb as the unhinged Baron Frankenstein who wants to create both a male and female monster , so that they can copulate and bring forward a totally new breed of living creatures . Unfortunately ( for the Baron , at least ) he opts for the wrong male brain donor ? the town's real stud is sharing the bed with his wife , the Baroness ? and the monster doesn't show any interest for his ravishing ' bride ' . The pitch black humor really works and ? believe it or not ? the original Frankenstein tale is never ridiculed . I do wish Morrissey would at least had attempted to bring some tension , but what the hell . . . Just the gore will do in this case , I reckon . Some of the gore highlights include an incredibly nasty decapitation , the optimizing of the female monster and ? oh yeah ? the unequaled finale which colors the TV-screen blood red ! " Flesh for Frankenstein " surely isn't for all tastes ( it's actually one of those " love-it-or-hate-it " films ) but if you dig 70's trash / exploitation cinema , this is a must !
She'll eat your heart out !	When the screaming stops ? ! ? The screaming NEVER stops , baby ! This sadly obscure and obviously cheap-produced gem is an authentic Spanish exploitation highlight and it's about time it gets the appreciation of real horror fans it deserves ! Even though more than 30 years overdue , director Amando de Ossorio finally received the much-earned respect for his " Blind Dead " quadrology and I hope that " Lorelei's Grasp " follows soon , as it's as least as fascinating and memorable as the saga of the Templar-zombies . The basic premise of this film is inspired by a terrific ancient myth and centers on a beautiful girl living in a cave underneath the Rhine . When the night falls , Lorelei mutates into a hideous watery creature and sets out to maul defenseless people , as she needs to eat the hearts in order to prolong her own existence . Considering the brutality of the first killing , the concerned teacher of a nearby girls ' school insists on hiring a watchman to protect her students and he ? the hunky Tony Kendall ? quickly becomes obsessed with the mysterious Lorelei and , of course , romantically involved with the beautiful teacher . As said , " The Lorelei's Grasp " is a magnificent film ! Amando de Ossorio masterfully combines old-fashioned tension with stylish eroticism and really graphic gore . The build up to when the Lorelei-monster mangles another victim is atmospheric and creepy , yet the actual kill is nasty as hell ! The decors and filming locations are often breathtaking and every woman that walks through the screen is a genuine beauty , especially Silvia Tortosa in her role as the teacher . There's not a single boring moment in the entire film and even the slightly disappointing finale didn't bother me that much . The monster design and some of the bloody make-up effects will probably seem ridiculous to nowadays CGI-horror fanatics , but they won't be searching for this rare film , anyway . To any other fan of vintage 70's euro-horror , " The Lorelei's Grasp " comes with my highest possible recommendation !
More eccentric and ingenious morbidity ? YAY !	You definitely can't reproach this sequel of being an uninspired , repetitive copy of the original ! The entire family and their lovely extravagant behavior returns , but the situations in ? Values ' are of a much wider range . The family comes into contact with the outside world in this film , which results in an even more effective satire / black comedy . Gomez and Morticia welcome a new brat , uncle Fester falls in love with a dangerously disturbed serial killer ( magnificently played by Joan Cusack ) and the offspring is sent to Summer Camp ! The sequences where the joy-joy camp leaders try to bring some color into the lives of Wednesday and Pugsley are downright hilarious . The jokes and situational humor in this sequel is constantly on the same ( high ) level as the original , while cast and crew obviously had a lot of fun . Of course , it would never have been this great if the initial cast wouldn't have returned as a wholesome . The group of actors fit together perfectly and the chemistry between them is almost natural . Once again ? special mention for Christina Ricci , who's the loveliest little witch in the history of cinema . Both films are comedy efforts to watch over and over again ! Preferably in pair !
The Little Girl Who'll Creep the Hell out of you !	Since ages I wanted to see this film and it was worth every single nail that I've bitten off whilst waiting for the DVD to arrive at my place ! If you're looking for a genuinely macabre thriller , like they could only make them in the lewd 70's , " The Little Girl Who Lives Down the Lane " is my number one recommendation ! This movie is like a much darker ( and un-comical ) version of " Home Alone " , with an extremely clever and independent teenage girl hiding from the outside world that she lives alone and keeps even darker secrets locked up in her cellar . Young Rynn and her father , a famous poet , moved from England to a quiet seaside town in the States where they're leasing a remote house for a period of three years . Nobody in town ever meets Rynn's father as he's always working in his study or resting up in his room . Various people , including the obnoxious landlady ( Alexis Smith ) and her perverted son ( Martin Sheen ) attempt to interfere with Rynn's life , but the eloquent young girl keeps them at a safe distance ; with or without the help of a sickly local boy who she befriended . The script - adapted by Laird Koenig from his own novel - perhaps isn't always logical or plausible , but it's the grim atmosphere and brilliant dialogs that make this movie an absolutely compelling experience . And the outstanding acting performances too , of course . Everything you've read about Jodie Foster's performance is true . At age 14 , she portrays one of the most powerful and convincing child-roles ever . Her cold stare and monotonous voice are disturbing as hell , but her intelligence and independence are admirable . Particularly the scenes when she's alone with Frank Hallet , a known child-molester , the young character's courage is deeply impressive . Although not featuring entire buckets or blood or shockingly explicit sequences , " The Little Girl Who Lives Down the Lane " is one of the most frightening films I've ever seen , mainly because it effectively portrays ordinary people as real threats . The Hallets , both mother and son , initially seem harmless , but they quickly turn out to be nosy and obtrusive perpetrators with mean intentions . The film is stylishly photographed and features many beautiful images of a secluded Canadian seaside area . Nicolas Gessner's direction is respectably slow-paced . This film is a definite must-see for all kind of audiences .
The absolute opposite of Bad Taste !	Despite being a huge fan of Peter Jackson's splatter-classics " Bad Taste " and " Braindead " , this ultra-stylish and distinguished period drama felt like a welcome surprise and it more than clearly indicated how Jackson is an extremely versatile filmmaker , rather than just a sick puppy with an unhealthy interest in severed body parts . " Heavenly Creatures " is ( very truthfully ) based on a notorious real-life murder that took place in New Zealand during the 1950's . Two teenage schoolgirls , whose intimate friendship quickly got rejected by all the adults surrounding them , brutally killed the mother of one of them . Rather than purely building up towards this ultimately grisly and disturbing murder , Peter Jackson surprisingly dedicates a lot of time and effort into re-enacting the close friendship between Juliet ( a clever and eloquent English immigrant ) and Pauline ( an introvert and docile local working-class daughter ) . From their first encounters in the schoolyard , over their development of common tastes in movies & music , to the eventual fleeing into their own utopia-world known as the Fourth World . Kate Winslet ? in her debut ? is amazing as the headstrong Juliet , who drags Pauline along in her fascination for crooner Mario Lanza and eerie actor Orson Welles until both girls become dangerously inseparable . When the parents then begin to worry about their daughters ' wayward and peculiar behavior , the girls bring out their daydreaming to the real world , with very deadly results . " Heavenly Creatures " is a very powerful film ! In case you still have any doubts regarding the subject , it's not just the story of two lesbians versus the rest of the world , but a truly gripping & tasteful drama that masterfully captures the prudish life-styles of the 1950's and puts genuine acting talents into the spotlights . The end sequence is harrowing and very unsettling . Jackson's previous films " Bad Taste " and especially " Braindead " all together featured approximately 500 gory massacres , yet not one of them felt as painful & intense as the sole murder in " Heavenly Creatures " . Excellent movie with great acting , great atmospheric tension and dazzling music . Highly recommended to all the true fans of cinema .
" The Evictors " is as brilliant as it is obscure . . . = VERY !	I'm a big fan of Charles B . Pierce's movies and particularly admire the efforts he did in the field of horror . His movies are extremely low-budgeted , always incredibly hard to come across on VHS or DVD-R and they seemingly always appear to be inspired by true events , no matter how unlikely they may sound . " Legend of Boggy Creek " was a moody documentary-styled film revolving on the contemporary popular Sasquatch legend , the close-to-brilliant " The Town That Dreaded Sundown " was a predecessor to the modern teen-slashers as well as one of the rawest rural horror films ever made and then this " The Evictors " , perhaps the most obscure movie of the entire bunch , is an impressively tense and slow-brooding ' haunted-house ' type of chiller with a twist . Needless to say this film doesn't feature any outrageous gore , spectacular stunts or exploitative sleaze . Instead of all that , " The Evictors " purely thrives on a continuously ominous atmosphere , devoted performances and a few intelligently scripted surprise-twists when approaching the denouement . The largest part of the story takes place in a secluded little Louisianan town during the early 1940's . Pierce masterfully recreates the grim and almost depressing atmosphere of that era with exact period details ( like vehicles , costumes , religious matters and the noticeable impact of WWII going on in Europe ) and a rather uncanny yellow-tinted cinematography . The story opens in the year 1928 , with the rather harsh eviction of a family from their farmhouse by heavily armed police officers and a relentless real estate agent . Nearly 15 years the amiable young couple Ben & Ruth Watkins move in . During the long days when Ben is working at the factory , Ruth makes her acquaintance with the neighbors and learns that everyone who lived in the house during the 30's also died there under mysterious circumstances . The stories of the previous tenants are illustrated through extended flashbacks that easily form the suspenseful highlights of the movie ( along with the gripping climax , of course ) . Ruth becomes increasingly terrified of living in the house and then one night she encounters a tall , dark and sinister man atop the stairs ? " The Evictors " is incredibly slow-paced ( and probably not intended for younger , nowadays horror audiences ) but very , VERY rewarding if you like ambiance-driven 70's horror . The murders are tamely depicted but they're surely brutal in tone and , even though you sort of can predict the final twist , it still comes across as mildly shocking when it gets revealed . Vic Morrow receives top billing for his role as sly estate agent , but it's really Jessica Harper and Michael Parks that deserve the most praise . Horror freaks will always remember and worship the stunningly beautiful and cherubic Mrs . Harper for her role in Dario Argento's genre milestone " Suspiria " and Michael Parks is nowadays mostly known for his returning role of Texas Ranger Earl McGraw in the films of Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino . The two form a charming on screen couple and they get some excellent supportive feedback from Sue Ann Langdon ( as the wheelchair-bound neighbor ) , Dennis Fimple and Bill Thurman . This is a terrific film that could perhaps be described as a forerunner of films like " The Others " and " The Messengers " , only with the irreplaceable fiendish ambiance of 70's exploitation / drive-in cinema . Highly recommended !
A nearly perfect horror film	Roger Corman's " Pit and the Pendulum " is simply put one of the greatest genre efforts ever made ! This is horror in its purest form with a compelling screenplay , a constant high-tension level and sublime acting performances by a very devoted cast . Roger Corman and Richard Matheson brilliantly continue their ode to Edgar Allan Poe after the fantastic " House of Usher " with this spooky and uniquely Gothic masterpiece centering on the Medina family . The amazing Mr . Price stars as the tormented Nicolas Medina , a soul torn apart by the fear that his beautiful wife was entombed alive after a frightening acquaintance with the family's vile Inquisition background . The brother of the late beauty travels to the ominous Medina castle and witnesses how insanity and rage slowly comes over Nicolas Medina as he's the victim of betrayal , conspiracies and ghosts from the past . " Pit and the Pendulum " is a beautiful film that'll impressive you with it's genuine scares and unsettling atmosphere . The photography is astonishing ( with a great use of color shades throughout the film ) and the scenery made my flesh creep ( that pendulum ! ! ) . Vincent Price was unquestionably born to play the emotionally devastated Poe-protagonists . Exactly like he gave image to Roderick Usher in " the House of . . . " he portrays Nicolas as a weak romanticist , helplessly awaiting his merciless fade . Opposed to him stands the ravishing Barbara Steele who also embodies Poe's typical female character : Godly . . . but fiendish and without faith or loyalty . One of the slight minor points in this film was that I initially hoped to see more Steele screen time . Her role is modest , but remarkable and an excellent successor for her career-highlight " Black Sunday " . Every film in Roger Corman's Poe-cycle is terrific and probably receives more praise from me than any other horror film , but then still this entry is the most marvelous , alongside the 1964's " Masque of the Red Death " . This film is a feast for all senses and not one self-respecting horror fan can afford to miss it !
Stylish , but regretfully overlooked zombie fun !	Corpses who seem to have risen from their graves infest an isolated piece of countryside and walk among the living again ? Shortsighted and prejudiced critics might easily refer to this as another gem that tries to pick in on the success of George A . Romero's classic ' Night of the Living Dead ' . On top of that , ' Let Sleeping Corpses Lie ' is an early 70's Spanish / Italian co-production and those movies automatically get categorized as meaningless garbage . But , if you decide to ignore this movie due to these reasons , it's your loss . You'll miss out on one of the most imaginative and clever zombie films ever made ! Jorge Grau's modest horror masterpiece is stuffed with ingenious findings , strong plot-twists and adorable black humor . And surprisingly great acting too , as Ray Lovelock ( Autopsy ) and Christina Galbo ( What have you done to Solange ) form a lovely horror couple . They're stuck with each other after a silly accident and continue their trip together . Ending up in a quiet little village , they discover that experiments with ultrasonic agriculture methods have disastrous effects on the nerve systems of primitive life forms , causing babies to act homicidal and the dead to live again . The dumb cops , however , have no ears for the warnings and the Inspector considers the couple to be Bonnie and Clyde-like Satanists . ' Let Sleeping Corpses Lie ' is an excellent horror film with a lot of style and substance . The film contains a lot less nauseating butchering than you might expect but the few sequences in which zombies are devouring their victims are pretty damn gory . The photography is beautiful and you should be prepared for a few impressive shocks that'll hit you like a ten-ton hammer . Highly recommended to all horror fans !
Boris Karloff : Man with a Mission	( Small plot spoilers ) ' Pain and the knife are inseparable ' is an often-heard line in this film , referring to the fact that surgeons until late in the 19th century had to perform their operations without anesthetics . The always-amazing Boris Karloff plays Dr . Thomas Bolton , a humanitarian medic determined to find ways to perform an actual painless operation . But Dr . Bolton doesn't receive any support from his closest colleagues , nor from the prominent hospital he works for , so he begins to experiment upon himself . Pretty soon , the heavy effects of opium and other hallucinogenic products turn him into an addict and he loses his grip on reality . The hospital precautionary suspends him after a couple of almost-fatal operations , but Dr . Bolton continues his experiments . His search for an efficient anesthetic leads him to a filthy environment of crooks and body snatchers ? ( End spoilers ) ' Corridors of Blood ' is a modest , but well thought out chiller that can depend on a charismatic performance by Boris Karloff . It's hard to pick a favorite Karloff film with all the milestones he starred in , but this simply has got to be one of his most intriguing performances . The film also is another proof that a giant budget isn't the main requisite to shoot an effective terrifying tale . Director Robert Day succeeds in creating a perfect 1840 London Victorian atmosphere . Even though the basic plot is more of a drama and / or historical study , Corridors of Blood still features several outstanding and pure ' horror ' moments , like the fast-faced images of patients suffering on the operating table . One last aspect that is certainly worth mentioning is the brief appearance of Christopher Lee as ' Resurrection Joe ' . Lee , recovering from his very first Hammer successes , impresses as an ultra-creepy villain .
Impeccable giallo . Well , . . . almost !	Boy oh boy , the early 70's must have been such dangerous times for young & beautiful Italian girls ? At least judging by the amount of giallo-thrillers that were released during this period ! Behind every tree in every park , at every school gate and during every modeling show , there were always black-gloved killers waiting to barbarically kill them , and us , bloodthirsty horror fans , simply can't get enough of it . Duccio Tessari's " The Bloodstained Butterfly " is one of the most incredibly compelling efforts of this wonderful horror sub genre , but it still remains obscure and largely undiscovered by the fans . I have honestly no idea why , because it kept me on the edge of my seat from start to finish and it features literally every detail that makes the giallo genre amazing . The plot is one of the most convoluted ones ever , the red herrings are plausible and efficient , the suspense is omnipresent , the acting performances are more than adequate and ? especially ? the use of music is downright perplexing ! Typical giallo-tunes are blend with classic Tchaikovsky music , which is pretty unique in my opinion , but the effect on screen is amazing ! Several more aspects in " The Bloodstained Butterfly " qualify as unique , by the way . The events largely take place in a courtroom , where the famous TV-host Alessandro Marchi is on trial for brutally murdering a young French girl in the park . The poor thing's throat was slit and multiple witnesses claim to have seen Alessandro run away from the scene of the crime . His attorney tries hard to keep Alessandro out of jail ( or so it seems ? ) , but he's eventually found guilty . Shortly after his imprisonment , however , two similar murders occur in the park and the police are forced to start their investigation all over again . The courtroom sequences are very realistic and the plot twists regarding the killer's identity are most likely to have you fooled more than once . So . . . this is a completely impeccable giallo ? Yes , pretty much , apart from a couple of minor flaws . The murders could have been a bit nastier , maybe , and the opening sequences are overlong and quite redundant . Tessari patiently takes his time to introduce ALL the characters in this story , even the supportive ones , and raises false impressions regarding the complexity of the plot . Don't worry when you observe the seemly endless listing of characters near the start , as the plot is perfectly easy to follow .
They did the Mash ! They did the MONSTER Mash !	My first , and considering my preferences in cinema , most anticipated acquaintance with the fine gentlemen Bud Abbott and Lou Costello certainly didn't disappoint . Quite the contrary , " A & C Meet Frankenstein " is a terrific horror-comedy , and we all know how rarely one ever comes across of those ! Comedy ( the kind that is actually funny ) and horror ( the kind that genuinely scares ) are two completely opposite styles and incredibly hard to amalgamate , but Abbott & Costello ? and of course the rest of the cast and crew ? seemingly pull it off without the slightest form of effort . The gags & clichéd comical situations never once negatively affect the overall horrific themes and settings and , vice versa as well , the horror atmosphere is never an obstacle for the humor . In fact , if I hadn't watched a gazillion of horror movies already , this would be the ideal film to carefully introduce me to the genre . The script features all the main horror icons and ? stunningly enough ? they're not caricatures of themselves , the story is engaging and the tone is light-headed . This film is actually a whole lot better than Universal's other attempts to assemble the monsters in one film , like " House of Dracula " , " House of Frankenstein " and " Frankenstein meets the Wolf Man " . Clumsy & easily scared Wilber ( Costello ) and cynical Chick ( Abbott ) work as baggage couriers and become unwillingly involved in a mad monster party when they lose track of two relics meant for Mr . McDougal's Museum of the Macabre . Actually , they didn't just " lose " the relics of Dracula and Frankenstein's monster ? they got up and walked away ! Wilbur was the only one to witness this macabre sight and naturally Chick doesn't believe him . The only person who supports Wilbur is Larry Talbot , but he has some issues of his own since he transforms into a bloodthirsty werewolf each night the moon is full . Meanwhile , Dracula teams up with the ravishing female scientist Dr . Mornay in a search for a brand & docile set of brains to put into the Frankenstein's monster's skull . And which brains are more suitable for this operation than those of poor old Wilbur ? The on screen chemistry between Abbott and Costello is excellent , although that is merely just stating the obvious , but especially their interactions with acclaimed horror icons like Bela Lugosi and Lon Chaney Jr . are hugely admirable . Bela , Lon and also Glenn Strange as the monster obviously enjoyed being part of this comical film , still they never once mock their own characters and keep their faces straight even during the most absurd situations . Lugosi is at his most evil self again as Dracula ( a role he hadn't played since the original 1931 classic ) and Chaney once again masterfully depicts his alter ego of the tormented Larry Talbot . The smaller supportive roles are also terrific and for the true horror die-hards there's small but ultimately pleasing surprise at the very end of the film , in the form of a voice everyone will recognize instantly . Great , great , great , GREAT film !
Pleasantly deranged sexploitation !	The not exactly subtle director Pete Walker triumphs here with a very decent sexploitation gem about a well-hidden prison , serving to re-educate naughty young girls and ruled by an elderly couple . They ( he's a judge , she's an ex-warden who resigned due to her share in a suspicious suicide case ) found the British law-system to be ineffective and therefore order the handsome son Marc to bring pretty girls who committed small felonies back to the prison . Even though the blind and senile old judge doesn't realize it , the girls are humiliated , tortured and eventually executed . The script centers on a French nude model ( with an atrocious accent ) named Marie from the moment she gets seduced by Marc to when she faces true misery . Walker's idea is great and the film is overall very well-scripted , with an eye for black humor and imaginative perverted undertones . Our daring director clearly aims for controversy and goes for the shocks ( the opening sequence ironically states that this film is dedicated to all those who wish to see the return of capital punishment in Britain ) but yet he doesn't stuff his movie with gratuitous sleaze or explicit violence . No , he merely reaches this effect by suggestive disturbance ( the vicious hanging scene ! ) and ? especially ? the grim and ominous characters . Barbara Markham , otherwise a relatively unknown actress , is terrific as the sadistic and quite insane " head " of the prison and she receives excellent feedback from Sheila Keith as the charismatically cold warden Walker . Just as they would repeat it in the equally surprising successor " Frightmare " , scenarists Walker and David McGillivray portray the women as the depraved lunatics while the men are weak and unable to interfere . Details that prove that Walker unquestionably was the most gifted independent British filmmaker of the early seventies and his twisted world perspective make him a favorite among cult-horror fanatics . Slightly negative aspects include that many , many scenes are underexposed and far too unclear to follow . Walker also could have made more out of the potential Gothic theme and bleak prison-surrounding . But now I'm just splitting heirs ? " House of Whipcord " is an essential euroshock film , often regretfully mistaken for depthless sleaze . I highly recommend it to horror lovers that look for original and unusual stories .
Fascinating portrait of a beloved cinema HERO !	Being a big , . . . HUGE fan of the late Vincent Price , I caught myself staring at this biography with my eyes and mouth wide open most of the time ! This amazing cinema icon , theater legend and family man lived such a rich & well-filled life and remains , years after his death , worshiped by his relatives ( naturally ) , friends , co-workers and everybody who ever got into contact with him . Most of us simply know Price as the always petrifying horror villain who starred in many genre classics ( " Masque of the Red Death " , " The Abominable Dr . Phibes " , " House of Wax " , " Witchfinder General " , " House on Haunted Hill " . . . ) , but this portrait gives more and deeper insight on the friendly and warm-hearted man behind the scary voice and profound charisma . People such as the eminent biographer Lucy Chase Williams as well as Price's own daughter Victioria inform how he got obsessed with different types of art at a very young age and how he constantly pursued his dreams , for example by traveling to Europe all by himself . Particularly fascinating was to find out about stuff relevant to his career , like how and why he gradually opted to always play the " bad guy " in his movies or how he continuously managed to attract new fans by making clever and versatile career choices . It's really obvious that some of the interviewed people , like Dennis Hopper and Roddy McDowell ? not exactly small actors themselves , had enormous respect for Vincent Price and considered him one of the most important people they ever worked with . The biography covers all the milestones in Price's career and life and features beautiful photographs of him on film sets or on family affairs . It also shows brief parts of some of Price's most memorable movies , horror or non-horror , like " Laura " , " Dragonwyck " , " The Fly " and many more . What an amazing man ! I worship him ! !
Badham County Has a Farm . . . Ee-I-Ee-I-Ooo	Usually I try and avoid watching TV-movies because I keep thinking they hold back on shocking content and grisly images , but lately I've encountered several titles that actually proved my way of thinking is entirely incorrect and even quite shallow . " Nightmare in Badham County " is one of them examples , because the themes featuring in this movie are definitely not what you would call " soft " . Perhaps the depicted violence isn't as graphical and the sleaze isn't as explicit , but the suggestive material and insinuations here are far more shocking than the gratuitous footage in most other contemporary flicks . This undeservedly and sadly obscure made-for-TV 70's thriller successfully combines elements and ambiances from two of the most commonly used and popular horror sub genres of the mid 70's , namely the so-called " Women in Prison " films and " Hicksploitation " movies . The former is pretty self-explaining and handles about defenseless girls being locked away in corrupt and filthy jails where they are confronted with perverted guards and aggressive prisoner gangs . The latter is probably my personal favorite sub genre of horror and like no other one it truly reflects the essence of 70's horror film-making . " Hicksploitation " routinely revolves on civilized people getting stuck , for whatever reason , in isolated backwoods villages inhabited by primitive and exaggeratedly hostile people with horrible dental hygiene . Combinations of the two genres aren't manifold , but " Nightmare in Badham County " illustrates that it's perfectly possible and even almost logical to amalgamate the characteristics of both . But this is also more than just a shocking exploitation hybrid . " Nightmare in Badham County " is a genuinely moving drama with identifiable lead characters , a disturbing portrait about the abuse of authority and generally speaking also a professionally directed and astoundingly shot but modest film . Whilst on a road trip through the South , interracial college girlfriends Cathy and Diane are forced to make a stop in a small community in Badham County due to car trouble . The liberated and free-spirited girls they are , they quickly offend and publicly humiliate the chauvinistic pig Sheriff Danen . So badly even that he finds a cheap excuse to place them under arrest and then , at night , sneak into Diane's cell to rape her . A trial follows , but seeing that in this Southern part of the nation everyone is related to everyone , the girls are sentenced to 30 days in Badham County's women prison ? called " The Farm " ? and that's where the nightmare truly begins . The girls become separated because of their skin color and are prohibited to contact the outside world . They are subjected to hard labor and the harsh and often perverted commands of the guards , while the slightest sign of disobedience results in an increase of their punishment . Several courageous attempts to escape or reach out to the outside world fail because everybody in Badham County appears to be corrupt and / or petrified of the local " legal " system . " Nightmare in Badham County " is , without exaggerating , at least a dozen times more involving and approximately 99 % of the other ' Women-in-Prison " movies out there , principally because the two leading ladies are so innocent and defenseless whereas the townsfolk and prison guards are so infuriatingly nefarious ! This is one of the rare movies where you literally want to dive into the screen and reach out to help the protagonists because everything that happens to them is so damn unfair and saddening . When you accomplish this level of entanglements among your viewers , I think you can safely say you did a great job as a director . Speaking of which , I actually expected no less from John Llewellyn Moxey as he already demonstrated his craftsmanship numerous of times , for example with " Horror Hotel " , " The Night Stalker " and " Where have all the People gone ? " . Moxey marvelously creates a moodily grim and unsettling rural atmosphere , through fitting music and extended shots of lonely country tableaux , but he also owes a lot to his terrific ensemble cast . Deborah Raffin and Lynne Moody are exceptional as the ladies in distress , but the people portraying the local yokels are near perfect as well ? particularly the almost naturally sleazy looking Chuck Connors as the Sheriff . The ending will make you feel left behind as helpless and frustrated as Cathy and Diane themselves , but realism and hard truth are also two main trumps of this overall fantastic cult movie accomplishment . In case you're a truly devoted fan of good shock-cinema and you need a break from all the trashy but dumb ' Women-in-Prison ' movies , I wholeheartedly recommend tracking this baby down !
Dr . Boris and Mr . Karloff !	The fabulous BBC couldn't possibly start the new year 2006 better than by showing this little known but surprisingly gripping 50's chiller . " Grip of the Strangler " is excellent ( but scandalously underrated ) with one of Karloff's most impeccable performances and a gloomy Victorian atmosphere . The screenplay is a extra violent variation on the famous " Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde " story , with Boris as a respected novelist investigating a serial-killer case that took place 20 years earlier . According to his research , the person who got executed was actually innocent , and he intend to use the case to make a statement regarding the lousy defense poor people receive when they're on trial . He discovers a LOT more than he bargained for , however , and he as well as his family are about to meet the real Haymarket Strangler . . . This film contains a lot of tension , engaging plot-twists and some very grim moments . The opening sequence , for example , is extremely disturbing as it shows a public hanging where a crowd of socially low classed people are laughing hysterically ( ! ) . The make up effects on the mad-raving killer are genuinely scary and the filming locations really fit the obscure nature of the Victorian era . There are nasty cemeteries , dark police archives and ? above all ? the Judas Hole ; a sleazy nightclub where there's little left to the imagination . Great shocker , definitely one of the best story-driven horror films since Val Lewton's finest productions of the early 40's . A must for all fans of classic horror !
Paint your wagon . . . . RED WITH BLOOD !	Sergio Corbucci's " Django " , as well as his " The Great Silence " are two massively underrated spaghetti-westerns that co-founded the genre , along with Sergio Leone's Dollars-trilogy . Okay , this no " Once Upon a Time in the West " when it comes to atmosphere or plotting , but it is a magnificently mounted action ride with an utterly cool lead hero and an enormous body count . " Django " remained banned in several countries for a long time because of its explicit , comic-book like violence , and you'll see that this wasn't without reason , as the bad guys get slaughtered by the dozen in a good old-fashioned gunslinger way . The movie opens terrifically , with a sleazy title song and vicious images of a lonely cowboy wandering through the Southern wastelands with a coffin in tow . The man is Django and his coffin contains whatever he requires to fulfill his difficult goal : single-handedly finishing the war between the racist Major Jackson and Mexican bandidos by annihilating them all . Corbucci implements a straightforward , no-nonsense filming style with some great visuals and very creative camera angles . There are some ingenious aspects ( Django's act of vengeance with molested hands ) as well as some delicious clichés moments ( wrestling prostitutes , extended bar fight sequences . . . ) . This film may not be a very intellectual form of entertainment , but it sure is fun and produced with a certain degree of class . Followed by a numberless amount of sequels , rip-offs and wannabes that are hardly worth purchasing . Stick to the original and have a blast !
The Dwarfs of Wrath . . .	Another brilliant early David Cronenberg horror film , subtly stuffed with sexual obsessions and social criticism as it was also the case in " Shivers " and " Rabid " , only the idea of this film is even more original and the tension is more overwhelming . " The Brood " quite often is a genuinely terrifying horror-highlight with grueling special effects as well as truly disturbing social themes . Cronenberg's own and intelligently written script once again focuses on humans ' defining " inner-evil " ( it's his hobby-horse ) and blends real-life issues like child abuse and psychiatric patients with adorable low-budget horror topics such as mad scientists and eerie mutant killers . Nola Carveth is one of sinister Dr . Hal Raglan's " Psychoplasmics " patients that unleash their hatred through physical manifestations , like rashes or tumors . But Nola is an extreme case so her outbursts are also far more extreme than the other patients and she produces malicious dwarfs that kill everyone who comes near her husband and 5-year-old daughter Candy . The premise of " The Brood " sounds absurd and incredibly far-fetched but , believe me , it's alarmingly convincing and scary . Roger Ebert was wrong ( again ) when he claimed this is a boring waste of time . The guy simply doesn't know horror ! The last 15 minutes are effectively nauseating , perhaps a little too controversial for some people , and the evil children are petrifying . What is it with little people that makes them so uncanny ? " The Brood " is less gore than Cronenberg's previous two films ( the aforementioned " Shivers " and Rabid " ) but the killings are nevertheless nasty and that one sequence inside the kindergarten classroom is more than enough to skyrocket the shock-value of this film . Horror / exploitation veteran Oliver Reed is sublime as the overly ambitious Dr . Raglan . Excellent stuff , David Cronenberg was ( and still is ) a genius filmmaker !
How would you like your throat cut , sir ?	The films of Tim Burton are always a gift from the heavens ( the mediocre " Planet of the Apes " being the one notable exception ) , especially for horror fanatics , since they always strike a happy medium between mainstream production values and availability and yet always revolve on sinister topics . And if there ever was one story that literally begs to receive the typical Burton-treatment , it has got to be " Sweeney Todd " . The gloomy Victorian setting , the continuous moody atmosphere , the depressing decors , the mentally tormented main characters and the unhinged depiction of shocking murders ? all these aspects simply have Burton's name written all over them . Sure it's a musical , and this generally isn't considered to be die-hard horror fanatics ' favorite genre , but even the smallest detail featuring in " Sweeney Todd " makes it damn clear the movie is primarily a genuine horror effort , and even one that is more revolting and macabre than most . Benjamin Barker once lived a life of true happiness . He was married to a beautiful woman with whom he had a cherubic baby girl and he was the most promising young barber in the whole of London . But then the malicious eminent Judge Tulpin spotted his wife and promptly ruined his whole existence . Barker got exiled and Tulpin literally claimed ownership of both his wife and daughter . Now , 15 long years later , Barker returns as a thoroughly embittered person going by the name Sweeney Todd and with only vengeance on his mind , particularly when he learns that his beloved wife poisoned herself and his daughter still lives imprisoned in Tulpin's house . Sweeney forms a diabolical alliance with the eccentric Mrs . Lovett . He cuts the throats of unsuspecting clients and she processes the bodies into meat pies unique in the whole of London . Naturally his rising stardom fetches the attention of Judge Tulpin and soon Sweeney Todd will be able to extract his long-anticipated blood vengeance , but in the meantime a whole lot of new complications arise . " Sweeney Todd " is a truly masterful accomplishment and I don't mind admitting I stared at the screen with my eyes , ears and mouth wide open throughout the entire playtime . I'm usually not a big fan of constant singing myself , but it never once bothered me here because the lyrics of the songs are as grim & disturbing as the plot itself and , moreover , the film is just breath taking to look at . I just found out " Sweeney Todd " won the Oscar for best art direction . This has got one of the best well-deserved awards ever handed out during this ceremony , as Burton's movie is almost like a Gothic nightmare coming to life on the big screen . The London streets and alleys never looked so ominous , the people never looked so uncanny and the political corruptness rarely appeared so convincing . Admittedly it takes a while before the blood starts flooding from random throats , but until then there's always the nightmarish atmosphere to keep you thrilled and , besides , the gore-soaked second half widely compensates for everything . The way those bodies came crashing down hard in Mrs . Lovett's cellar after having their throats slit wide open from ear to ear . . . . that's a real horror film , singing or no singing ! The acting performances are flawless and perplexing , even though nobody really expected them to be . Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham Carter are regular Tim Burton choices , but not at all obvious musical stars , even in spite of their semi-musical roles in " Corpse Bride " . But still they both leave a big impression and also the ( even less obvious ) supportive players deliver stellar performances as well . A masterpiece .
Great , beautiful and artistic . . . TRASH !	This very free and rather deranged interpretation of Bram Stoker's legendary Dracula tale by Paul Morrissey is one of the best independent vampire stories I've seen so far . The sheer brilliance of this film completely lies in the characterization of the bloodsucking count . Dracula no longer is a vile and overruling monster here , but a sickly and almost pathetic weakling . He and his assistant ( Renfield with brains ! ) flee from the Romanian castle to settle in rural Italy where families are believed to be particularly religious . This is essential to the count because he can only feed on virgins ' blood . The count and his assistant are homed by a family with 4 four marriageable daughters , pretending to be wealthy . However , the girls aren't as ' pure ' as they're supposed to be ( these cuties like to screw around with the revolutionary servant boy ) and the impure blood of the girls only causes to the count to get weaker . Despite of its filthy reputation , this film isn't that gory or nauseating . The finale is pretty blood-soaked but the film is overall more absurd and eccentric than it is gore . Blood for Dracula is an outstanding trash-film ! The humor is black as the night itself and the substance is essential viewing for every cult cinema admirer . Udo Kier is terrific as the needy count while pretty boy and Morrissey regular Joe Dallesandro has the time of his life portraying the manly skirt-chaser . The budget of Blood for Dracula was low ( almost non-existing ) , yet the set pieces and atmosphere-creating elements are great ! The musical score in particular is beautiful and contains a few gripping piano compositions . In conclusion , Blood for Dracula is outrageous fun and a must-see for everyone whose tired of the same old unsatisfying horror films . It might not fit for all audiences but I'm sure the more developed genre lovers will love seeing Udo Kier licking a virgin's blood of the floor . Equally recommended is the Morrissey variant on that other classic tale , Frankenstein . That film is even more extravagant and a whole lot nastier . You can either take that as a recommendation or a warning .
Plot twist to the left , red herring to the right ? . Giallo Giallo Giallo ! ! !	Back in the early seventies , during the absolute most glorious years for the Giallo sub genre , I guess it must have been some sort of intense and obsessive competition between the eminent Italian directors to come up with the most exaggeratedly convoluted plots . These movies distinguish themselves from the other sub genres in horror by continuously misleading the audience when it comes to the revealing the identity of a sadistic and ( usually ) masked serial killer , who barbarically slaughters gorgeous and preferably naked ladies with sharp & shining weaponry . If the directors really did try to surpass each other with complex plot-structures and far-fetched denouements , then I bet Luciano Ercoli was one of the genuine winners of that game ! He only made three Gialli and , even though they're not as famous as the works of Dario Argento or Sergio Martino , his films easily rank among the most twisted and extraordinary genre efforts I've ever seen . Ercoli's movies can be recognized by their awkward and flamboyant titles already . Fans of Italian cult-cinema from the 70's are most likely to be intrigued by titles like " Forbidden Photos of a Lady Above Suspicion " , " Death Walks at Midnight " and ? of course ? " Death Walks in High Heels " . Such appealing titles already hint at eventful crime-stories , and by God does Luciano Ercole ever deliver ! " Death Walks in High Heels " is easily my personal favorite of his , as it's a tasteful and well-filled Giallo dish containing all the right ingredients such as graphic murders , beautiful music , suspense and copious amounts of female nudity , demented characters and crazy red herrings . The story opens with the brutal stabbing of a guy with an eye-patch who's fleeing from Paris on the night train . We quickly learn the victim was a notorious criminal who recently stole a valuable loot of diamonds from a bank safe in Paris . When his assailant can't find the diamonds in the luggage , he begins to stalk and threaten the jewel thief's beautiful daughter Nicole , who works as a popular striptease dancer in several Parisian nightclubs . Nicole suspects her drunkard boyfriend to be the culprit and she promptly flees to a little British seaside village with an eye-surgeon she hardly knows . The two enjoy a vivid and highly sexual relationship for a short while , but Nicole's aggressor followed her to England and the death toll rapidly increases . The already fascinating plot of " Death Walks on High Heels " even gets more compelling when a couple of important characters perish and the witty inspectors of Scotland Yard interfere with the investigation . What a thoroughly engaging and exhilarating crime / thriller ! The script doesn't always make sense and I counted at least three major holes / errors in the plot ( situations that are pretty much impossible given the explanation during the climax ) , but " Death Walks in High Heels " is a tremendously entertaining film that you won't mind watching several times without ever getting bored . Luciano Ercoli cleverly sustains a fast pacing as well as a high tension-level , mainly by constantly switching locations , introducing new yet fundamental supportive characters and even implementing insightful flashbacks . The film starts in Paris with only three main characters , yet during the climax in the little English village there suddenly is nearly a dozen people involved in the mystery and several others have already died . Granted , this isn't the most violent Giallo available on the market ( although one particular killing sequence is effectively nauseating ) , but the lack in bloodshed is widely compensated by the insane number of red herrings and ingenious little details to improve the mystery . Ernesto Gastaldi , whose pen literally was a nearly inexhaustible source for Italian cult classics , largely scripted " Death Walks in High Heels " and this also partly explains the film's success . The photography is stunning and extremely stylish , Stelvio Cipriani's score is more than enchanting and ? last but not least ? the acting performances are very pleasing . Susan Scott is an adequate actress and , moreover , a truly ravishing woman ! She's probably the only living female creature who can turn you on simply by eating raw pieces of fish . No kidding ! The others ( male ) actors do a fine job too , including Frank Wolff , Simon Andreu and the always suspicious-looking Luciano Rossi . The absolute best role is for Carlo Gentilli , as the cynic Scotland Yard inspector Baxter . Priority-viewing for the rapidly increasing number of Giallo-fans .
Rob Zombie takes his grisly show on the road !	The last thing you could possibly say about Rob Zombie is that his horror visions are limited and / or that he too easily exploits the remotely successful premise of his directorial debut . Hell no , the successor of the nasty " House of 1 . 000 Corpses " is an entirely different , but certainly no less shocking type of horror cinema that also obviously received a better welcome from acclaimed critics and a wider group of fans . And righteously so , because " The Devil's Rejects " is the first film in a long number of years that has the guts to genuinely shock , offend and provoke its viewers without bothering about the possible consequences of its controversy . Clearly influenced by the carefree and uncensored days of the glorious 70's , Rob Zombie serves his exploitation dish unscrupulously and with an almost unhealthy sense of morbid humor . Proceeding where " House ? " left off , " The Devil's Rejects " revolves mainly on the three most charismatic members of the Firefly family , namely Otis , Baby and Captain Spaulding . After a brusque raid on their house by the Texan police , led by the relentless Sheriff Wydell , they're the only ones that manage to escape and the rest of the movie follows their bloody road trip across the state . Wydell's interest in the Fireflies is personal , since his own brother was one of the family's victims , and thus his investigation methods are truly unorthodox . Disturbing highlights of the story include Otis and Baby brutally terrorizing a group of traveling country singers and Captain Spaulding petrifying a little boy with his vicious clown looks . There are many other and equally memorable moments , almost impossible to list them all , and particularly the climax is a masterful piece of grindhouse cinema . What I personally appreciated most in Zombie's film-making still is his almost natural aversion to political correctness and his seemly endless knowledge of & dedication for the horror genre . However , he already disposed of these talents when he made " House of 1 . 000 Corpses " in 2003 , but now his actual directing skills have also remarkably improved ! As a fan you have to be able to admit that , despite featuring many great ideas and gimmicks , Zombie's first film was often too chaotic and incoherent . He clearly wanted to bring a flawless homage to classic titles like " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , but the results were rather lackluster and overly hectic . In " The Devil's Rejects " , Zombie's approach and tribute to the classic days of horror are subtler and much better handled . The editing as well as the occasional flashes of slightly irrelevant footage are also much more stylish now and our director's choice not to use his own loud metal music was a wise decision . Instead , he opted for a brilliant soundtrack including songs by Lynyrd Skynyrd and The Allman Brothers Band . The actual storyline is exclusively undercut to show images or brief flashbacks of the victims before their fatal encounter with the Fireflies , which really increases the horrific atmosphere and the viewers ' involvement . The violence and disturbing images are omnipresent and a strong stomach is definitely required in order to sit through some of the sequences that are explicitly illustrated . The acting performances are also pretty amazing ! Sid Haig's nauseating clown appearance has yet to find an equal and he clearly has the time of his life portraying the fatherly figure of evil . Cult favorite Bill Moseley also looks genuinely menacing and he can cheerfully drivel great lines such as : " I am the Devil ? and I'm here to do the Devil's work ? " His casting of the supportive characters states further evidence that Rob Zombie definitely is a great horror fan himself . There are modest but nonetheless powerful roles for Ken Foree ( " Dawn of the Dead " ) , Michael Berryman ( " The Hills Have Eyes " ) , Danny Trejo ( " From Dusk Till Dawn " ) and P . J . Soles ( " Halloween " ) . Leslie Easterhook replaces the legendary Karen Black who originally played Mother Firefly but she does a terrific job . Surely worth mentioning as well is Matthew McGrory who sadly passed away after the release of this film .
Sweet Home Bundanyabba , where the skies are grim .	" Outback " is unlike any other film ever made and quite impossible to categorize . If the movie taught me anything at all , it's that the Aussies can drink seriously hard and loads of it . They even drink till they pass out and then immediately open another can when they come to their senses again . I thought only Belgians did that . You cannot possibly count the amount of beer cans and bottles that are consumed in this film and the most repeated line of text / monologue is without a doubt : " C'mon mate , let's have a drink then " . Based on the novel by Kenneth Cook , " Outback " tells the story of a young school teacher visiting the little outback community of Bundanyabba , where the local population is so hospitable and acts so familiar it becomes truly disturbing . They fill their days with drinking , gambling , getting involved in bar fights , drinking again , kangaroo hunting and drinking some more . John initially disapproves their savage habits and looks somewhat down upon the villagers , but slowly and gradually he becomes one of them as he wastes his entire year salary on booze and primitive roulette games . " Outback " is very slow-paced and moody . Sometimes you can literally taste the copious amounts of liquor and experience the heat of the Aussie summer . The noticeable heat , together with the feeling pure geographical isolation truly makes the film disturbing and uncomfortable as hell . " Outback " works effectively as psychological drama but even more as the non-fictional portrait about a society that is largely unknown and unspoken of . The footage of the kangaroo hunting trip is haunting and very , very depressing . I was really relieved when , during the end credits , a message appeared on the screen to state that no real kangaroos were harmed during the production . The film mostly benefices from astonishingly mesmerizing photography , superb music and Ted Kotcheff's solid direction . The versatile and brilliant actor Donald Pleasance is even convincing as an Aussie drunkard and the rest of the relatively unknown cast delivers great performances as well . This is one of them unique movies you only encounter a couple of times in a lifetime , but it's incredibly obscure so if you find a copy treasure it . So mate ? shall we have a beer then ?
Big Brother ; the post-nuclear apocalypse edition .	One of the most successful ( and equally irritating ) TV-formats of recent years is Big Brother , in which a bunch of people , complete strangers to each other , are put together in an isolated location and become forced to get along and accomplish ordeals together . Apparently this concept isn't so new or innovating at all , as the obscure ( although less obscure now , with its recent release on DVD ) and still criminally underrated 70's gem " Chosen Survivors " thrives on a similar premise . Only this movie is at least a gazillion times better than and Big Brother edition you ever saw , because it has genuine suspense , a formidable cast of characters , plot twists you actually don't see coming and ? not to forget ? thousands of bloodthirsty bats ! Now , THAT is what they should do in the TV-series of Big Brother : unleash an army of aggressive and rabid bats on the attention-horny participants , ha ! Ayway , " Chosen Survivors " opens with atmospheric images of the New Mexican desert and army helicopters approaching a secret underground lair . Eleven eminent persons , who achieved great things is different fields ( sports , science , literature , business ? ) awake to hear they are the chosen survivors . On the earth's surface , a nuclear war has wiped out all humanity and they are to remain underground until it is safe again to re-populate the planet . But of course , the survivors don't get along as they should , some them behave overly hostile and suspicious and the hi-tech government designed lair isn't exactly bat-proof . The film offers a splendid combination of terrific character drawing , for psychological tension , and actual nail-bitingly tense situation with the bat attacks and the quest for freedom . H . B . Cross ' script is excellent and Sutton Roley , usually a director of TV series episodes , does an amazing job providing the film with a genuine apocalyptic feeling . The acting performances are top-notch , with notably exceptional roles for Jackie Cooper as the arrogant Mr . Couzins and Bradford Dillman as the calm behavior analyst . Highly recommended Sci-Fi gem .
I now pronounce you maniacs and wife . You may KILL the bride .	Undoubtedly some of the most disturbing and effectively petrifying accomplishments in the genres of horror and thrillers are movies that are based on true events and / or real-life serial killers . But then still there's another important distinction to be made , namely between films that are loosely inspired on true events ( like " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " and " Silence of the Lambs " are mildly based on serial killer Ed Gein ) and films that remain very loyal to the facts . In my humble opinion as a horror fan , this latter category are the most disturbing films available on the market , including John McNaughton's " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer " , Alan Ormsby's " Deranged : Confessions of a Serial Necrophile " , Gerald Kargl's " Angst " and Ida Lupino's " The Hitch-Hiker " . " The Honeymoon Killers " , which sadly is the only film Leonard Kastle ever scripted and directed , definitely also belongs in this list , as it is the truthful depiction of the murderous crimes committed by Martha Beck and Raymond Fernandez ; also nicknamed The Lonely Heart Killers . During only a very short period of time ? the second half of the 1940's ? Beck and Fernandez are believed to have killed over twenty women ; all of them aged spinsters and single mothers who were unfortunate enough to place an add in the lonely hearts section of a newspaper . With his looks and natural charms Raymond could easily seduce the poor women and , with Martha posing his sister , they robbed and killed them . The ironic aspect about the case is that they themselves met and fell in love through an add in the paper . Leonard Kastle's film is mesmerizing and shocking just because it's such a sober , bleak and distant re-enactment of the facts and not just an ordinary love-story about two popularized serial killers on the move . Throughout the entire film Raymond is illustrated as a seemingly emotionless man with a lot of acting talents . Making the women fall in love almost appears to be a pure business matter for him and the film doesn't even make sure he truly loved Martha , even though official sources state that he did . Martha's character , on the other hand , does show off a lot of emotions albeit not charming ones . She's a sickly jealous , mean-spirited and aggressive woman struggling with obesity issues and a lack of self-confidence . " The Honeymoon Killers " , with its thoroughly cold black and white atmosphere and almost documentary-styled narrative , extendedly introduces several of the couple's victims and depicts their downfall as well . This is a continuously suspenseful effort , with some really shocking parts ( for example the killings of Janet Fay and Delphine Downing ) and impeccable performances of both lead players . The film's recreation of the late 40's / early 50's is sublime , with a moody Gustav Mahler musical score and period set pieces . The brutality of the film is perhaps best illustrated through Martha's response against her Jewish supervisor at the hospital she's employed , namely : " I don't think Hitler was wrong about the Jews " . Considering the events take place just a couple of years after WWII , this is a hugely disturbing opinion to speak . The Beck / Fernandez ' case recently also was the subject for another film ; the more mainstream-minded " Lonely Hearts " . I haven't seen it yet , but I doubt it'll be as convincing as " The Honeymoon Killers " , as natural beauty Salma Hayek plays the role of the supposedly overweight and malicious Martha . Personally I'm not a big supporter of the nowadays remake-trend , but if some big producer ever considers to remake this film , he / she should approach Kirstie Alley for the part . No offense intended , but she definitely looks a lot like Shirley Stoler .
Our Hearts Will Go On For This Version As Well ?	Roy Ward Baker's ( what a truly great but sadly underrated director this was ? ) version of the Titanic catastrophe is unquestionably one of the most astounding and technically superior adventure movies of the cinematic black and white era , but I reckon it will become very difficult to recommend it to nowadays audiences . Let's face it , why would anyone opt to see this " old " and " dated " version when the most expensive movie ever made revolves on exactly the same facts and ? moreover ? features an extra love story and stars a cast full of extremely popular faces ? Quite a lot of reviews I encountered for " A Night To Remember " state that this is the one and only version for " mature " and " demanding " audiences to see . Well , that's quite an exaggeration . I am aware that it's a popular nowadays sport to hate James Cameron's " Titanic " and , in all honesty I'm not the biggest fan of the dire fictional love-triangle plot myself , but the second half of the film ? the actual sinking ? is undeniably brilliant , staggering and unforgettable cinema . This movie , albeit half a century old by now , is staggering and unforgettable as well and admittedly it accomplishes these effects merely through factual narrative and the pure professionalism of everyone involved in the production . I presume it's rather useless to give a brief description of the plot . Everybody knows what overcame the supposedly unsinkable ship the Titanic during its maiden voyage across the Atlantic Ocean ? unless of course you just flew in from another planet ? and the screenplay of this wondrous movie ( based on a documentary book ) collected the memories and declarations of numerous survivors . Most aspects of the tragedy , like the disregarding of the weather reports , the actual collision with the iceberg and the painfully slow and clumsy evacuation of the passengers , are commonly known and also feature in pretty much every other film version , but " A Night to Remember " also fascinatingly elaborates further on the two ships that were nearest to the Titanic , namely the Carpathia and the Californian . Particularly the latter provides a jaw-dropping sub plot , as the crew never realized what dramas occurred at barely 10 miles away from them . Other small and already details about this historical event are illustrated just as saddening and emotionally moving here as they are in James Cameron's multi-budgeted blockbuster , like the faithful orchestra and the several brave and honorable crew members that sacrificed their lives for the safety of the passengers . Director Roy Ward Baker could rely on an extended but extremely dedicated cast ( including some prominent names like Honor Blackman and Michael Goodliffe ) and everything else ? like music , photography , choreography and costume designs ? are literally astonishing as well .
Terrific film shamefully ignored over the years !	" The town ? " is an early triumph in the serial-killer section of the horror genre , handling about a small American town terrorized by a masked murderer shortly after the end of World War II . Actually based on true events , the maniac picks out his victims on Lovers Lanes and shoots them without mercy . This important low-budget production , from the hands of the legendary producer Samuel Z . Arkoff , completely depends on unsettling atmosphere and the icky sound editing . The isolated location of a town of the edge of Texas and Arkansas has something raw , primitive and terrifying . This aspect is stressed extra by the grim voice-over that repeatedly informs us about the facts . Although you never get to know much about the killer's identity or personality , it's one of the most fascinating madmen in film history . His heavy breathing and primitive mask ( similar to the one Jason Vorhees wore in F13 part 2 ) make him look truly chilling and mysterious . What's also great about this movie is that it features so many tricks and familiar sub-plots , only they were used here of the first time ! Profiling of the killer , copycat behavior etc ? All this makes " The Town that Dreaded Sundown " a vastly underrated and film and more horror fans should reckon its brilliance . Too bad it's so hard to obtain a decent copy of it . I spent years looking for this film before finally seeing it in poor picture quality . The only few flaws to detect is the lousy and typical redneck humor that director Charles B . Pierce inserts in order to lighten the demanding tone of the film . The same mistake also almost ruined Wes Craven's " Last House on the Left " .
The Kevin Kline Show !	Brief and simple : this movie is terrific entertainment ! With its uniquely eccentric characters and delightfully absurd storyline , ' A Fish Called Wanda " unquestionably is one of the funniest films ever made . The exhilarating screenplay works on so many level ( a diamond heist gone wrong , Brits vs . Americans , romantic comedy . . . ) and the top-notch cast obviously had an excellent time doing this film-job . There's not a dull moment throughout the entire movie and every sequence contains at least two or three hilarious moments . The humor is very over-the-top at times but , what the hell , it remains a joy to behold . The cast is nearly perfect with John Cleese , Michael Palin and Jamie Lee Curtis at their absolute best . Still , there's one actor who deserves extra praise for his role here and that's Kevin Kline . His hyperactive , deranged and extravagant character Otto is one of the most brilliant roles in comedy cinema ever ! His moves , grimaces and monologues will make you fall off your seat laughing . Kline won an Oscar for his role and , everybody who has seen " A Fish Called Wanda " will agree on the fact that this was a well-deserved price .
Twisted . . . and Brilliant !	Clearly this production stepped on some sensitive toes around the time of its release , as it opens with two separate statements ? one spoken and one written ? assuring us there's absolutely no scientifically proved evidence that there might be a link between Mongolism and criminal behavior . It's of course a very provocative and courageous assumption to revolve a psycho-thriller on , especially during the late 60's and even more so with the close-minded and easily offended board of censorship in Britain around that time . No wonder " Twisted Nerve " rapidly grew out to become a controversial and harshly hated gem that only just recently got put back into the spotlights , partly thanks to the fancy DVD-edition and partly because no less than Quentin Tarantino used the catchy and bone-chilling theme whistle song for his own already classic 2004 epic " Kill Bill " . " Twisted Nerve " is definitely one of the most unique and original psycho-thrillers ever made ; on par with that other legendary British cult-shocker " Peeping Tom " and easily several classes above all the rest in its genre . Martin is a young schizophrenic ( or is he ? ) who obtains whatever he desires by posing ( or actually being ? ) as Georgie ; an intellectually underdeveloped but well-mannered and helpful boy . As the arrogant Martin , he's kicked out of the parental house by his dominant stepfather , but as the innocent Georgie he's taken in by the cherubic Susan and her mother who run a boarding house just outside of London . From inside this safe environment , Martin can plot a fiendish revenge against his stepfather and simultaneously become an essential part in the life of the unsuspecting Susan . The extremely intelligent script ? courtesy of Leo Marks and director Roy Boulting himself ? comes up with what is pretty much the perfect murder ( even more waterproof than Alfred Hitchcock could ever come up with ) and it's so courageously twisted and blunt that the film is guaranteed to appeal to fans of controversial cinema . Quite late in the film , there's a lecture about the connection between criminal tendencies and an " error " in the hereditary chromosomes ' structure that will make you wonder how come an angry crowd of offended Brits didn't burn all existing copies on a big pile . There's more controversial stuff going on as well , like the suggestive sexual tension between a mature woman ( Billie Whitelaw is a stupendous role ) and the allegedly mentally handicapped boy , a demented showcasing of motherly love and even the dubious sexual preference of Martin's character itself . Martin slash Georgie is a pretty petrifying character , constantly altering his behavior between a dangerous delinquent and a handsome young lad with the intellectual capacities of a 6-year-old . Hywell Bennett's performance ranks amongst the best ones ever and the indescribably ravishing Hayley Mills is equally astonishing as Susan . There's very little graphic violence shown on screen , but in the case of this film it's definitely the uncanny ambiance and the carefully drawn characterizations that will cause the hairs in the back of your neck to rise .
I . . . can't . . . get . . . . no . . . sleep !	Well , in his impressive and and literally exhausting film " The Mashinist " , Brad Anderson certainly showed us what we DON'T ever want to become : insomniacs ! Pitiful Trevor Reznik hasn't slept in a whole year , he's not much more than skin and bones and he has to write down memo notes on yellow post-its and stick them on the fridge , in order to remember them the next day . Trevor's condition goes from bad to even worse when he starts to spot imaginary colleagues and becomes a real danger for his fellow workers at the industrial factory . Gradually , Trevor's growing insanity leads to little clues and flashback-sequences that hint at a traumatizing event in the past and involving all the people in his surrounding . Wow , I can honestly say I was impressed by this movie ! Unlike most horror fans , I didn't really care about Anderson's previous film " Session 9 " , despite it being dark and quite clever , but " The Machinist " is so much more involving and bitter . First and foremost , there's the masterful performance by Christian Bale and the jaw-dropping metamorphosis he went through , prior to filming . The amount of weight he lost , the impact on his own personal health . . . What Bale achieved here is a lot more than just preparing for a role , but it worked , since you stare at him with amazement every time he looks at his own exhausted body in the mirror . The story is really good as well , albeit nothing original and rather predictable at some points . Anderson patiently and professionally builds up a tense atmosphere and he devoted much time to selecting the absolute darkest and most depressing set pieces . The factory where Trevor works , for example , is a truly uncanny place filled with unfriendly people and dangerous machinery . Bale might be drawing most of the attention to him , but there still are some supportive roles that are definitely worth mentioning , like Jennifer Jason Leigh as the warm-hearted prostitute who comforts Trevor and Michael Ironside as his co-worker . The cinematography and narrative style of " The Machinist " are very sober , which of course suits the tone of the film best , but inevitably this also resulted in a totally unglamorous cinema release and an almost unnoticed DVD edition . That really is a shame and very unjust . This film may not be everybody's taste , but it's powerful horror / thriller film-making that can't be overlooked . Highly recommended !
ALMOST as brilliant as its predecessor	Lewton's sequel to the almighty " Cat People " is a mesmerizing and elegant fantasy , but it is by no means a horror film . It's a touching drama and a perceptive social portrait that makes a great study on loneliness and creating an alternate dreamworld . In this case : a young girl that hasn't got much contact with her classmates because of her constant daydreaming and often alarms her parents due to her isolated position . Amy eventually finds true friendship in the supernatural form of Irena , the deceased first wife of her father . Although entirely different in purpose and message , " Curse of the Cat People " actually has a lot more in common with its predecessor than it looks . Three essential characters return and their personalities haven't changed . Irena ( played by the goddess Simone Simon ) is still a warm-hearted but frigid woman and Ollie is still a loving man incapable of handling the supernatural events around him . Basically , this sequel is quite a unique achievement in cinema as it forms a solid wholesome with the first , despite implementing an entirely different tone . There are some genuine moments of fear , but these are the result of a terrific sub-plot in which an elderly Mrs . Farren ( Amy's neighbor ) accuses her daughter Barbara of being an impostor and a replacement for her real daughter who died in an accident . The film is beautiful to look at , with a stunning photography and excellent sets . The end-sequence ( involving an imaginary metamorphosis ) is breath-taking and one of the most enchanting moments in cinema history . The acting performances are flawless and the crush I had on Simone Simon only got intenser ! Robert Wise does a terrific directing job ( his debut ) along with the unknown Gunther Von Fritsch . Wise continued working for Val Lewton one year later with the effectively creepy " The Body Snatcher " . I will probably always prefer the original " Cat People " ? simply because that is one of the most impressive and intelligent stories ever ? but this imaginative sequel is almost as brilliant . Highly recommended .
Troma is Back ! Gorier , trashier and more demented than ever !	The last genuine Troma class-sick got released almost a decade ago already ( " Terror Firmer " ) , but " Poultrygeist " was definitely worth waiting for all these years ! Lloyd Kaufman and C° truly surpassed themselves with this over-the-top gooey , absurd , chaotic and unbelievably entertaining splatter-flick that easily ranks amongst the eccentric production company's best efforts , next to " The Toxic Avenger " , " Mother's Day " and " The Incredible Torture Show " . This movie doesn't feature a single serious moment and the script is just a non-stop spitfire of immature toilet-humor , unsubtle political satire , goofy sleaze , retarded dialogs & song-lyrics and repulsively gross make-up effects . The crazy title doesn't only sound cool , there actually is a connection with Spielberg's ghost story " Poltergeist " , as the basic premise also revolves on the desecration of an ancient Indian burial ground , only the elaboration of the idea is slighty more grotesque . The fast-food chain American Chicken Bunker built a new restaurant in Tromaville where the cursed burial ground used to be and the furious spirits of the Native Americans invade the carcasses of the frozen chickens to attack the obese & disrespectful guests . Local dork Arbie applies for a job at ACB , only to annoy his ex-girlfriend Wendy who turned into a college-lesbian and protests against the exploitation of poor defenseless chickens . Eventually Arbie , Wendy and a handful of other survivors will have to save the world from a constantly increasing army of zombie-chickens . What a totally demented movie ! You can't really blame Lloyd Kaufman of discriminating certain races or social classes , because he offensively assaults everyone ! The satire is mainly aimed at the American fast-food industry and military propaganda , but Kaufman simultaneously makes fun of Hollywood , the battle of the sexes and every type of religious belief . The gore & splatter is nauseating and outrageous , but ? as usual with Troma ? the effect is more hilarious than shocking . You'll see people transform into humongous chickens , exaggeratedly wild fountains of spurting blood , decapitations & crushed heads , nasty green vomit and ? especially ? a whole lot of unconventional stuff either going in or coming out of people's rear end . Usually I don't even like musicals , but the song lyrics in " Poultrygeist " are equally deranged and scandalous as the rest of the screenplay . Maintaining good old Troma-traditions , this new effort also contains a lot of rancid nudity ( male & female ) , tasteless camera-work and a whole lot of delightful cameos of Kaufman's old friends , like Ron Jeremy and Trey Parker . I'm rating this for pure entertainment value and nostalgia . I really don't care if it's basically just utter crap and provocative nonsense , it's 100 % guaranteed fun
Peter Lorre shines in brilliant Scotland Yard mystery	The Verdict is an absolutely absorbing and ingenious locked-room murder mystery , complete with sheer performances and irresistible gothic atmosphere . Set in London , near the end of the 19th century this intelligent movie handles about a seemly insolvable murder . Superintendent Grodman hunts down the murderer of the man who lives across him ? unofficially , because Scotland Yard dismissed him after making a mistake in his previous case , which resulted in the execution of an innocent man . Grodman playfully amuses himself by fooling and not helping Supt . Buckley ? the ambitious vulture successor who gladly witnessed Grodman's resignation . The characters and their backgrounds in this film are so fascinating ? the speculative possibilities and ? maybe'-motivations are so left open that the Verdict really became the most unpredictable ? whodunit ' thriller I ever saw . And I'm utterly impressed by that . Director Don Siegel based his film on the novel by Israel Zangwill and I can clearly see why this author often gets referred to as ? the father detective thrillers ' . Both basic plot and screenplay are flawless and compelling , complete with fiendish dialogues . Plus ? the atmosphere and structure are genius film-noir and gothic-like which is completely Don Siegel's achievement . Siegel , who shot his first long-feature film with The Verdict delivers one of the most powerful debuts in film history ever . Almost as remarkable as John Huston's debut with The Maltese Falcon , I dare to say ? There are constant undertones of diabolicalness present , resulting in a high rate finale that leaves you completely speechless . Terrifically done ! At one point , we even receive a pretext of what ' 12 Angry Men ' will look like , 11 ( ! ) years before this one gets released ! ! Don Siegel's later masterpieces perhaps overshadow this little highlight but , to me , this still is his finest film . And that certainly must mean something , seeing his entire repertoire contains milestone-titles like ' Invasion of the Body Snatchers ' , ' The Shootist ' , ' Dirty Harry ' and ' Escape from Alcatraz ' . Of course , The Verdict wouldn't have been half as memorable as it is now if it weren't for the brilliant acting performances . Peter Lorre on top , and not exclusively since he's one of my top 5 favorite actors ever . Lorre is genius as ever as the amiable cartoon-artist obsessed by the sinister details such as corpse digging and strangling . Like in multiple of his other films , he also has a slight drinking problem which gives the film a tiny comical side-aspect . Sydney Greenstreet ( best know as Bogart's concurrent in Casablanca ) makes a great Supt . Grodman as he manages to remain distinguished and irritated at the same time . Without the slightest doubt , The Verdict receives a rating from me ? and naturally , it comes with the highest possible recommendation . I'll even buy you a beer if you can name the murderer's identity before the film is over .
Experience the Pain !	I often wonder how much further the horror genre can and will evolve in terms of sadism and the portrayal of ultra-explicit violence . Especially the youngest generation of French directors appear to be involved in some sort of sport competition where each one aspires to surpass the other when it comes to showing sheer brutality and stomach-churning sickness . " High Tension " , released in 2003 , was quite extreme already , but since then there came " Them " , " Frontier ( s ) " and " Inside " and each separate film raised the bar every time . Now , after experiencing the nearly indescribable intensity level of " Martyrs " , I sincerely hope that no other movie will ever go beyond the standards set in this film . " Martyrs " genuinely is an astonishing and jaw-dropping ordeal that is guaranteed to leave even the most hardened and trained horror buffs speechless . From what I gathered reading reviews and listening to opinions left and right , I already knew this wasn't going to be picnic , but the truth is that absolutely nothing can prepare you for what you are about to see in " Martyrs " . It may sound a little fantastic , but the infamous and supposedly nauseating torture porn titles such as " Saw " , " Hostel " and " Murder-Set-Pieces " look like sophomoric episodes of Sesame Street in comparison with the recent stream of French shock-features and in particular with " Martyrs " . Okay , I realize I've been going on and on about the shocking impact and extreme violence of " Martyrs " , but still I haven't even mentioned the most remarkable and praiseworthy aspect about the entire film . The gore , barbarity and mayhem aren't at all gratuitous or exploitative but actually serve a purpose ! There were other and far more mundane " extreme " horror movies simply showcase a long series of torture sequences , " Martyrs " practically causes you to experience the pain AND simultaneously raises a handful of socially engaging debates . For once , the title of a horror movie can be taken 100 % literally ? By watching " Martyrs " , you expose yourself to martyrdom . You voluntarily watch the film and you're free to look away or step out of the theater at any given moment , but most likely you won't because subconsciously you are in readiness to endure a whole lot of visual suffering in order to know how the movie will end . Yes , it all does sound very philosophical and pseudo-intellectual ( especially for a horror movie ) , but honestly not a single word is exaggerated . This movie honestly is the genre landmark of a new generation ? The synopsis on the back of the DVD appears to give away the content of the entire film , but in fact it only covers the first ten minutes . The short summary describes how a 12-year-old girl narrowly escapes from an abandoned factory site where she was held captive and subjected to extreme torture . She ends up in a psychiatric clinic and befriends another girl who slowly helps her processing the trauma . 15 years later , the girl appears on the doorstep of a seemingly happy family of four with a shotgun in her hands and raging fury in her eyes . Lucie is convinced she found her tormentors . Apart perhaps from the domestic household element , this sounds like the plot of nearly every " revengesploitation " movie ever made . But these are only the opening minutes ? What follows next is a literally perplexing and excruciating visual nightmare that is unpredictable and even unimaginable . At first you'll wonder where writer / director Pascal Laugier can possibly be heading for with his screenplay , and then you'll probably wish you never asked . It would be a shame to reveal too much about the plot , so let me just re-establish that you will be unprepared and stupefied . Do you dare ?
The Lost City of Cinema-Gold !	" The City of Lost Children " is unquestionably one of the most imaginative and exceptional films of the entire 90's decade and it pretty much represents an entire sub genre all by itself ! It's a dark and often disturbing fairy-tale , but nevertheless magical and child-friendly . Since this is a film by Marc Caro & Jean-Pierre Jeunet , you simply know to expect a unique and surreal story ( remember " Delicatessen " ? ) filled with extravagant characters and bizarre dreamscapes ! It's enchanting to observe and quite challenging to follow , as there's always some ingenious gimmick to distract your attention from the main plot . I got hooked on it right from the GENIUS opening sequence in which a child's dream about Santa Claus slowly turns into an eerie nightmare . The action then cuts to the " main " character ; the evil Krank who's unable to dream himself and hence kidnaps orphans in order to steal their dreams . Krank has an army of semi-human androids , one brother cloned six times , an uncanny midget-mother AND a malicious brain in a fish tank ! Ron Perlman is a good guy for once ! He portrays a simple-minded yet friendly strongman , assisted in the search for his abducted little brother by a witty young girl . " The City of Lost Children " is an amazingly energetic and vivid adventure and no self-respecting cinema fanatic can afford him / herself to miss it ! It's funny , frightening , emotional and intelligent all at once . The decors are mesmerizing , the music is dazzling and the special effects are staggering . I can keep on mentioning good aspects , but it all comes down to one thing : watch this film ! ! ! It's still regretfully underrated and we urgently need to change that !
A movie everyone should respect !	A few nights ago , a couple of friends and myself watched The Evil Dead again . It was like the 68th viewing for me ( I think . . . lost count somewhere around 50 ) but it still only means one thing to me : PARTY ! ! Many feeling can occur when watching this delicious masterpiece by Sam Raimi . You can either adore it , be frightened by it or be disgusted by it . But it always leaves a big impression on you and I can't imagine anyone would hate it . And there is ONE feeling that everyone should have towards this movie . . . RESPECT ! Mostly respect regarding the achievement of Sam Raimi . This guy was 21 years old when he made this film and that's impressive to say the least . I'm around that age at the moment and I sure as hell haven't pulled it off yet . . . I strongly doubt I ever will , actually . No , when you're able to come up with such an original and dared idea for a horror film , you belong to the greatest minds in the film industry . Sam Raimi did it and his further career only confirmed his status of being a genius with every single movie he directed afterwards . Tons of respect towards Bruce Campbell as well . Sure his performance in this movie is far from great , but at the time , he did it because of his friendship with Sam Raimi . And because The Evil Dead became a big hit , his career was launched too and he certainly grew as an actor . Bruce Campbell is now in the favorite actor-list of many B-movie fans . . . And I'm one of them . Then there's Tom Sullivan . . . responsible for the make-up . What a fine job he did . The Evil Dead gave a whole new meaning to the word " gore " and we have this man to thank for that . Most nowadays horror films still can't live up to the standard of Evil Dead . . . not even close . The plot of this film is as simple as can be . . . but it works . Five friends drive to a small cabin in the woods to spend a small vacation . They find a tape recorder with a message . . . Out of curiosity , they play it and pure evil is rised in the woods . One by one , they become possessed and turn into horrible demons who try to kill those who're still alive . . . That's it ! ! ! And that's all there is needed to create a fun and very original horror movie . The same story already came out in 1978 as a short film called " Within the Woods " . It was meant to fund money for this film and it's great B-movie fun as well . If you're a big fan of The Evil Dead trilogy , it's certainly worth searching for . Anno 2003 , Sam Raimi has grown out to one of Hollywood's favorite directors . He became immortal in the eyes of the big budget audience with his movie Spiderman . The sequel of that one is in production while I write this . I'm sure it will be as decent as the first Spiderman was , but I'd still prefer to see Evil Dead 4 coming from the brain of Sam Raimi . A fun trivia element to finish this review with : If you're watching the end credits of the Evil Dead , you'll see Joel Coen is credited as Assistent Editor . Coen now is a famous director as well and may be considered as the best director alive . Back in 1981 , he and Sam Raimi were close friends and even shared a studio when they were in collage . Joel Coen made his debut in 1984 with Blood Simple . One of the best cult movies ever made . . . Join us . . . .
How , how ? HOW can this film not be listed among the greatest classics ? ! ?	As much as I love cinema , it can be such a hypocrite business . Take Seconds for example ? it easily could have been one of the greatest sci-fi classics of all time , but instead it flopped and got terribly ignored over the years . Why ? You tell me ! ! Probably audiences weren't ready for it yet back in 1966 , which is only partly reasonable . Seconds is a brilliantly compelling and thought-provoking thriller with an interesting theme . SPOILERS Through his friend Charlie , Arthur Hamilton ( John Randolph ) is approached a secret organization that has an entire new identity to offer him . Bored with his job and fed up with his marriage , he grabs the opportunity . So , John Randolph becomes Rock Hudson and starts a new life down in sunny Malibu . Arthur's death has been faked and plastic surgery transformed into the young , handsome Tony Wilson . However , this new ' freedom ' doesn't turns out to be the treat he expected he and he demands a second operation . The organization foresaw this could happen . . . Right from psychedelic opening credits , you know this film by John Frankenheimer will be something special . Seconds ? with an eerie black and white photography ? is a complex and disturbing film that really puts things into perspective . The screenplay ( adapted from David Ely's novel ) is so ahead of its time that it almost becomes petrifying ! Seconds is realistic and involving nightmare , brought to life even more by terrific acting performances of Rock Hudson and John Randolph . The film suffers from a slight dip near the middle , with a tedious and stereotypical portrait of the careless , hippie-like beach community . No worries though , because after that Seconds comes into a dazzling acceleration , resulting in an unforgettable climax . The ending is one of the most stunning ones in American cinema history , for sure ! I highly recommend this film to anyone who's fed up with the mainstream , Hollywood feel-good films . The late John Frankenheimer should be remembered for this film and Six Days in May a lot more instead as for his last stinkers like Reindeer Games and the remake of Island of Dr . Moreau . These are the ones that really prove his talent as a filmmaker .
Hasta La Vista , Baby OH BABY !	Wow ! Phew ! This has never happened to me before ? I've never been in love as much as I'm in love with Lady Terminator . Ours is a marriage made in heaven and I swear I'll love her till the end of times . She's quite the lady , all right , but she's also so much more . She's the duchess of sleaze , the queen of exploitation , the empress of tastelessness and the goddess of rip-offs ! This is quite possibly the most outrageously amusing movie ever made and all those people complaining about how awful and unoriginal it is should either lay off drinking entire bottles of vinegar and / or make the effort to research what the ( foreign ) exploitation film industry is all about , anyway . How do you recognize the ideal cult movie classic ? Well , if you're witnessing gratuitous nudity , bloody killings , eels crawling out a woman's vagina and inexplicably changing into a daggers and delightfully cheesy quotes like " I shall now retire to the see but return in a hundred years to have my vengeance on your great-great-granddaughter ? " ) , during the first five minutes ? even before the opening credits appeared on screen ? THEN I'd say you found yourself the ideal cult movie classic . And it even gets better ? Much better , in fact ! One hundred years ago , the malignant Queen of the South Sea swore to kill the female descendant of the man she loved but whom betrayed her . To fulfill this promise , the Queen's evil spirit possesses the luscious body of an innocent young anthropologist student ( Barbara Anne Constable in her sole but unforgettable performance ) and turns her into an indestructible , unstoppable , sex-driven and relentless killing machine . Armed with heavy artillery and a literally endless amount of ammunition , Lady Terminator goes on her mission and she isn't too concerned about the trail of collateral damage she leaves . Our heroine quickly finds her target but she ? Erica ? receives protection from a clique of hilariously implausible cop characters , one with a ludicrous mullet . I honestly can't imagine anyone who watches " Lady Terminator " , with the correct attitude and / or in the right state of mind , won't tremendously enjoy it ! Everything about this movie is so WRONG ; I simply love it ! The sudden change in tone , from an Indonesian folklore myth about the Queen of the South Sea into a wannabe American Sci-Fi imitation of one of the genre's greatest classics , is stupendously amusing , the character drawings are wondrously inept , the dialogs as well as the acting performances and the English dubbing are completely bonkers to listen to and ? last but not least ? the use of violence is so unimaginably excessive and graphical ! If you love James Cameron's " The Terminator " ( and who doesn't , right ? ) , you actually should watch " Lady Terminator " and try and consider it as some sort of crazy homage . As soon as the possessed girl walks out of the sea butt-naked , the shamelessly copied ideas and sequences of " The Terminator " become impossible to list . Almost identical to how Arnold Schwarszenegger did it , Lady Terminator dodges shotgun bullets , drives a car into a police station in broad daylight , performs eyeball operations on herself and makes a whole lot of victims before she reaches Sarah Connor ? I mean , Erica . This movie literally has everything : gore , sex , stupidity , bizarre characters , a typically 80's pop-song sung from start to finish , an incredibly inappropriate " we're falling in love " sub plot and a stoned 80's dude with the ugliest mullet hairdo ever . Please marry me , Lady Terminator ?
Zombies , exploding heads . . . and a date to the prom .	If you like a decent horror film complete with old fashioned make-up effects , you will LOVE this this film . If you like to have a good laugh and some gore when you watch a horror film , you will LOVE this film . . . If you like a combination of both , you will have the time of your life ! This film by Fred Dekker easily joins the chosen few ; funny and at the same time good horror films of the 80's . It's right up this list together with Evil Dead 1 & 2 , Re-animator , the Blob and maybe a few others . The story begins in the 50's . An extra-terrestrial experiment escapes from the spaceship and falls to earth ( By the way . . . Night o / t Creeps has the funniest aliens you'll ever see ) During the same night an psychopath with an axe is loose , this experiment makes its first victim on earth . How ? Slugs enter your mouth , crawl up your brain and there they lay eggs . They breed while the victim walks around . . . dead . Zombies in other words . Very cool . The axe murderer get slaughtered by rookie cop Ray Cameron and the infected person gets frozen . Then the story moves to the 80's . As a prank the frozen man gets released and the terror can begin . Rookie cop Ray Cameron is now detective Cameron and he joins Chris , J . C and the lovely 80's babe Cynthia in their hunting game to kill as much slugs as possible . I realize this is just one man's opinion , but as far as I'm concerned all the elements to great horror are here . Good story with a few nice twists and decent make up effects . Ray Cameron is played by Tom Atkins , a great B-film actor who has amazing expressions in his eyes and a terrific body language . The script contains very funny lines all fired off by him . Example : " well girls , I got good news and bad news . . . the good news is your dates are here . " " What's the bad news ? " " . . . they're dead " . I assure you , this is great fun to watch . And did you think BRAINDEAD was the first film to use a lawnmower as a zombie-weapon ? ? Think again . Add to this a soundtrack with golden oldies from the 50's and you got yourself a piece of pure entertainment . What else could you possibly wish for ? ? Nudity , you say ? OK , the story mostly takes place in a sorority house , so we'll throw in a couple of boobs in as well . My advise , get your hands on it as soon as possible . And then finally this little extra for the horror buffs : Do the following names of the leading characters ring a bell ? ray CAMERON - Cynthia CRONENBERG - Chris ROMERO - J . C HOOPER - Detective LANDIS - Detective RAIMI . . . Indeed , all characters are named after the biggest horror directors . This is a lot of fun when you're watching the film for the 2nd or 3rd time . Heck , even the small roles are filled in . The janitor's name is Mr . Miner ( The first " House " film was directed by Steve Miner ) and even the cat is named GORDON ( Stuart Gordon directed Re-Animator ) . Rent this film . Unfortunately , it hasn't came out on DVD yet . . . damn shame that is . You'll love it and re-watch it over and over again .
Evil grows on to its path . . .	Hellbound is the fascinating and almost excellent sequel to the greatest horror story ever written : Hellraiser by Clive Barker . This movie is a must see if you enjoyed the first one ( and I can't imagine you haven't ) . Hellbound is a logical continuing of the saga and begins almost immediately where the first one left off . Like its predecessor , it's a tale of pure terror . Like no other movies , the Hellraiser films create this nightmare world you sure don't want to be a part of . . . I didn't think it would be possible but Hellbound creates and even more morbid and dark atmosphere than Hellraiser . Images of pure horror are showed here and it certainly ain't a pretty sight from time to time . Gruesome make-up effects and clearly showed violence make this motion picture the prototype of pure horror . Add a powerful plot and some terrifying characters to that you got yourself a pure horrorfest and even a damn good movie in general . Doug Bradley returns as the most charismatic horror icon ever created . Pinhead , the lead cenobite . Also the very beautiful Ashley Laurence is back to take up her role again as Kirsty . Too bad these movies were the only highlights in her career . I would have wanted to see a lot more of her . Hellbound takes place in hell for a large part , and it's shown as an endless labyrinth filled with deadly traps , unpleasant surprises and nightmarish visions . Actually , just like you fear it to be . . . SPOILERS . . . the story begins a few hours after the first film finished . Kirsty still is in shock and she's brought to a mental institution . Over there , Dr . Channard is in charge and he happens to be totally obsessed by the mysterious box . He manages to bring Julia ( who died in part one ) back to life but in return for that he asks Julia to show him what Hell is really like . In the meantime , Kirsty still is convinced that she can bring back her father and , along with a mute girl called Tiffany , she faces the Cenobites again . Pinhead and his fellow Cenobites don't want to show any mercy no more but Kirsty has a plan to survive . . . END SPOILERS ! ! ! In my point of view , Hellbound is the perfect horror . I admit there are some flaws to it ( and even a few mistakes ) but it's the ideal movie if you want to be scared , intrigued and fascinated by the more macabre aspects of cinema . I know Robert Ebert doesn't like it very much but what the HELL does he know about it ? ! ? Favorite " rewind " - scene : So many to choose from , but I'll certainly go for an early scene in the movie . Through a pan , the attic of Dr . Channard is shown . This attic contains all the victims Julia needed to become her old self again . Horrific , cruel and brute . . . but oh so beautiful
I love the smell of rotting corpses in the morning ?	Some people have seriously sick and twisted world perspectives ! ! The beautiful country of Belgium ( where yours truly lives ) is terribly small and " Lucker " is the ONLY sicko-cult gem that was ever made here . Yet , I had to move heaven and earth in order to finally obtain a copy ! Eventually , I had to contact writer / director John Vandewoestijne personally , so that he could send me a DVD of it ( he's a really nice guy although the content of his film leads you to suspect otherwise ! ) . Well , it was definitely worth going through all these efforts but only because I'm a die-hard fan of this type of extreme horror movies . This is one messed up piece of independent film-making , I assure you . We're introduced to quite possibly the sickest villain in horror cinema history , a thirty-something serial killer / necrophiliac named John Lucker . He awakes from a coma in a private clinic and immediately escapes the facility , killing and raping a couple of doctors and nurses on his way out . Once Lucker is back at large in his old city , he finds out that one the victims of his first killing spree , eight years ago , survived his deadly assault and he can't cope with that . He perpetrates into her apartment building and patiently plots to settle the old score . Meanwhile , he feasts his perverted lusts on the severely decomposing corpse of a prostitute he killed earlier . " Lucker " is a film experience unlike anything you ever had before in your life . It's mean , sadistic and the constantly disturbing atmosphere doesn't really allow you to breath . Other infamous video-nasties ( like " Maniac " or " The Prowler " ) simply pale in comparison with " Lucker " and it actually made them look like soft , ordinary midweek TV-thrillers . The only movies that slightly live up to this are the ones made by German weirdo Andreas Schnaas , only " Lucker " doesn't feature that typically pretentious " oh look at me , I'm so nasty " - attitude Schnaas ' movies suffer from . This is one of the most low-budgeted movies ever released but that's not what counts . You don't require money and fancy visuals in order to deliver a shocking picture and Johan Vandewoestijne terrifically proved that here . The extended necrophilia-sequence definitely is the grossest thing I ever saw . The finger-licking moment ( you'll know when you see it ) stands as the only sequence ever that managed to make my stomach turn upside down . You can either take that as a recommendation ? or a warning .
Zzzensational ! Zublime ! Franco's masterwork .	Dr . Z . senior , as he's marvelously depicted on the DVD-cover with an outrageous hair-style and funky goggles , has the chance to act mildly diabolical for exactly 15 minutes and then he banally dies from an ordinary heart-attack . Why picture HIS mug on all the posters and ? even more importantly - why refer to the lethal titular character Miss Death as HIS creation when he's nothing more than a supportive character ? I usually loath movies with misleading titles and inappropriate pictures on the cover , but I'll gladly make an exception for Jess Franco's finest cinematic achievement , as this movie is honestly too good to get upset about small details . Besides , the title more or less remains apt because Dr . Z's daughter reprises the diabolical family business . Irma Zimmer helplessly witnessed how her father's intelligent , albeit unethical research got condemned by an opinionated committee of eminent doctors , resulting in the poor man's fatal heart-attack . She swears to avenge her father's death as well as to continue his work , which involves the control and direction of man's hostile behavior through spinal injections . She develops a fiendish plan to fake her own death and subsequently kidnaps a sexy nightclub dancer who'll serve as her mindless killing instrument . The ravishing Nadja is sent to seduce the naughty doctors responsible for Dr . Z Senior's death and then murder them with her poisonous fingernails . Arguably a kind of sequel to " The Awful Dr . Orloff " , this is unquestionably Jess Franco's best accomplishment to date , with a coherent script ( for a change ) and a genuinely sinister atmosphere throughout . Without losing control over the pacing once , Franco brings forward a series of bright ideas and merges them all together in a plausible & effective fashion . There's the recruitment of an escaped maniacal killer from death row , the elaboration of Irma's insane disappearance plot , a love-story , the slow-moving police investigation and the versatile murders of three doctors . Franco's direction doesn't feel rushed at all , the filming locations and scenery are exquisite and the use of black & white cinematography makes the wholesome even more staggering . Unlike the majority of titles on Franco's repertoire , " The Diabolical Dr . Z " is a stylish and truly unsettling masterpiece ! Sure , certain ( sub ) plots and the ambiance may be derived from the French classic " Les Yeux Sans Visage " , but so many contemporary films were influenced by that one and at least Franco's style is straightforward and unpretentious . Bearing in mind the era and budget limitations , the film features surprisingly shocking visual & make-up effects . Especially the images of Irma's horribly burned face are eerie and nightmarish . The acting performances are far above average as well . Franco-regular and friend Howard Vernon stars in a small role as Dr . Vicar and our beloved director himself briefly appears in a glorious role as police detective . Bravo Jess , you're my hero .
Morbid , saddening , beautiful , haunting . . .	This is the film that'll of course always be related with the tragic death of a talented young actor on the verge of his cinematic breakthrough , but , sadly enough , we also have to acknowledge that it probably never would have been so successful in case this horrible accident wouldn't have occurred , and this regardless of how well made " The Crow " in fact is . What fascinates me more , however , is to what extent Brandon Lee's premature death indirectly influenced the undeniable " softening " of the finished product ? I'm familiar with the comic strips by James O'Barr and they're definitely bloodier and more violent than this film , which merely suggests a whole lot of bloody massacres but doesn't show much . Personally , I really wonder whether or not Lee's unfortunate passing away encouraged director Alex Proyas ' and his producers to make their film slightly more sentimental . This is NOT a point of criticism , mind you , as I really think " The Crow " is near brilliant with an overwhelming Gothic atmosphere , wonderfully dark set pieces and a genuinely moving love story ! Back in 1994 , Alex Proyas ' " The Crow " dethroned " Batman " as the best comic book adaptation thus far and it remained the best until Robert Rodriguez came along in 2005 , with his excellent interpretation of the pitch-black comic strip " Sin City " . The story is standard-horror material , with a restless soul rising from the grave to avenge the murder of his beloved girl as well as his own . But it's decorated more beautifully , with a mythical crow representing the life force of this " angel " and the ultra-grim reproduction of dangerous Detroit . It is here that rock star Eric Draven and his girlfriend Shelley were brutally murdered during " Devil's Night " ; a disturbing celebration on the night before Halloween when criminal gangs set fire to random buildings . During his killing spree , Draven comes to the conclusion that the gang members that killed him are only pawns of a much larger crime syndicate . The flashbacks in which Eric relives his maudlin final moments with the love of his life are truly saddening whereas the hunt for his victims is very exciting . Apart from Brandon Lee , whose acting is really sublime , " The Crow " also features many other brilliant actors who're all scandalously underrated , such as Michael Wincott , Ernie Hudson , John Polito and even Tony " Candyman " Todd . The later sequels almost bring shame to this masterpiece , though , so avoid them at all costs !
Giant Worms . . . great fun ! !	Perfection , Nevada is a very small desert town with a population of 14 people . The two handymen in town , Valentine McKee and Earl Basset , do annoying jobs for everybody and they are sick of it . They decide to move to the bigger town , Bixby . When they're finally set to leave , a lot of strange things seem to happen and every person between Perfection and Bixby were slaughtered in a brutal way . Together with a geography student , Rhonda , they discover what seems to be the problem . 4 giant worms ( with slugs coming out of their mouth as sort of tentacles ) are under the ground of Perfection . The whole population of Perfection Valley is in danger cause how to fight an enemy below you ? They hear every vibration and swallow a whole person without a problem . But Val en Earl are planning to fight back and together with Rhonda and Burt and Heather ( a couple with more guns and explosives than the American army ) they find some very original ways to kill what they called the " Graboids " themselves . This film has everything . The story reminds you of the good old-fashioned monster flicks from the 50's and 60's . with the modern special effects and make up the monsters are very lively and a pleasure to watch to . The script is full of humor ( Especially the conversations between Val en Earl are hilarious most of the time ) and the acting performances are more than good . Followed by a 2 sequels so far . A third sequel plus TV-series is coming up . Tremors 2 and 3 equally very enjoyable films .
Unhinged giallo masterpiece	Pupi Avati's " La Casa dalle Finestre che ridona " is a one-of-a-kind terror experience and even the most trained horror fanatic will fairly admit that he or she never saw anything like it before . Right from the stylishly cruel opening credits , in which a hoarse male voice talks undetermined yet eerie lines , you just know that you're about to watch a true rarity , even in terms of the already more imaginative Italian giallo films . This is one of the most atmospheric movies ever and the complex , impossible to summarize plotting belongs to the best ones ever . The story introduces Stefano , a young artist who comes to a remote Italian town for renovating an old painting that pictures the slaughter of St . Sebastian . The ghostly town's myth says that the painter , suitably nicknamed " the painter of Agony " inspired his work on real life misery , with dying girls sitting across him as models . When new murders are committed in town , Stefano quickly finds himself trapped in a nightmare of surreal events and unspeakable madness . He discovers that the town carries historical secrets that go far beyond simply one deranged painter . It's true that the story develops itself rather slowly , but just try and be patient because you also right away feel that director Avati is working his way up to something unique . The mystery smoothly unravels itself and the ingenious climax is so excessively original that words fail to describe it . Just see it and be amazed , that's all I can say . I don't understand how some scriptwriters are able to invent such a peerless premise and turn it into such a credible piece of cinema , but I'm graceful for it . The breath-taking atmosphere is reached by simple yet very efficient methods . Some unearthly form of evil is constantly lurking and Avati reaches this sublime effect merely presenting us the ominous little town with its sinister inhabitants . From the midget to the slightly retarded altar-boy ? every person other than our protagonist looks like a dangerous threat . " House with the Laughing Windows " also is guided by an excellently creepy soundtrack , provided by Amedeo Tommasi . His musical score is omnipresent yet not at all intrusive . Every eerie scene is guided by a creepy tune yet the music doesn't get the upper hand so that the events shown constantly repeat themselves in your sub consciousness . This is a brilliant effect and only the most perfect thrillers can promote this . " Casa Delle Finestre che Ridona " is a giallo masterpiece guaranteed to impress you . Watch it preferably Italian spoken with English subtitles so that aspects of minor importance like dubbing don't ruin the mood .
Brilliant and mesmerizing Gothic horror	I consider it my own personal mission to make the world aware that Mario Bava was the greatest horror director of all times and . . . with brilliant movies like this " Operazione Paura " . . . it can't be too difficult to fulfill that mission . This Gothic masterpiece easily ranks high among the most beautiful horror movies ever made , with an atmosphere that constantly causes you to gasp and a striking photography that influenced even the most successful directors in the post-Bava era . This haunting gem takes place in an early 20th century ghost town , complete with superstitious inhabitants , fog-enshrouded cemeteries and supernatural curses ! Paul Eswai is an young and ambitious coroner / doctor who's called to the town to perform an autopsy on the unfortunate Irena Hollander who died under mysterious circumstances . It doesn't take Paul long to find out that there are many more mysteries that need to be cleared out in this town . . . All the strange deaths in this town are related to the tragic accident that killed the young Melissa 20 years earlier . Has the restless soul of this girl returned to avenge her own death . . . or is it her witchy mother Baroness Graps who entrenches herself in her lonely old mansion ? The script contains a few holes ( rather big ones . . . ) but Bava cleverly camouflages them by a stunning use of color or by introducing creepy gimmicks . " Kill Baby . . . Kill " contains some truly horrific , yet masterful oddities that have been copied numerous times since , like the constant eerie use of mirrors , a ball bouncing through corridors in slow-motion or the mesmerizing spiral-staircase sequence . The absolute best sequence can't even be put into words , so great it is ! I won't spoil it , though . . . it involves a bizarre pursuit by the hero himself but you have to watch the film in order to believe what happens . The camera-work is outstanding , the color pattern is powerful and the filming location is really breathtaking ! The town is a nightmare place . . . and this is wonderfully illustrated with dying trees . . . ramshackle building and the very unappealing inn . This is subtle and atmospheric Gothic terror , so you shouldn't expect large amounts of bloodshed or sleaze . Don't be alarmed , though , because this film evokes shocks and nightmares without a single gruesome image . " Kill Baby . . . Kill " is at least ten times scarier than , for example , " the Shining " and yet no one ever mentions it . It's about time Mario Bava receives credit for his achievements .
A must see ! ! ! out of	Who else than Stanley Kubrick could take a serious subject like the cold war and tell the story like a comedy ? ? ? He proves his genius in this film more like in any other film of his . It's the story about one general ( with the very appropriate name Jack D . Ripper ) gone mad and he launches an attack on Russia all by himself . He's mad , but still smart enough to prevent that anyone can stop him . He's got this strange ( but very funny ) theories about body-fluids , but his men respect him and do everything he says . So 34 fully-armed plains are sent to as many targets . Meanwhile his Colonel , Mandrake , tries to talk sense to him and the president and another General are trying to warn the Russian prime minister . You can have nothing but great respect for Peter Sellers . He plays three roles in this film and every single one of them is flawless . The doctor Strangelove character is hilarious and creepy at the same time . His appearances as the doctor are , along with the telephone conversations between the president and the Russian Prime minister the funniest moments in the film . . . Also the classic bomb-ride of Major Kong off course . George C . Scott is clearly having fun in his role and the debut of James Earl Jones is also definitely worth mentioning . Like I said already . . . a must see film if you're a film lover in general .
" We make no apologies to the dead . . . . It is all true "	With this seemly arrogant but honest message showing on the screen , the film opens at a dark Edinburgh cemetery where two vicious figures lift a cadaver from its grave . . . " The Flesh and the Fiends " tells the true story of William Burke and William Hare , corpse-suppliers to the ambitious surgeon and university professor Dr . Robert Knox . From what I've read in factual biographies and works of reference ( yes , I find this stuff so intriguing that I study it on the side ) , the screenplay is rather accurate and faithful when it comes to the basic re-telling of the murder cases . Burke and Hare's modus operandi as well as their negotiations with Dr . Knox really were this clumsy and unscrupulous while Knox damn well knew about the suspicious methods of the two , but he couldn't care less as long the study-objects he received were fresh and supplied regularly . I reckon that writer / director John Gilling then added some fictional elements to his film , like the characterizations of the main roles , since Hare's persona is almost blackly comical and Dr . Knox ' attitude is stubborn and typically obnoxious like nearly every scientist in horror cinema . Still , the escalation of the tragedy is truthfully illustrated with Burke and Hare getting into the body-snatching business coincidentally at first , but quickly specializing in it because of the good cash money and eventually even converting to murder in order to deliver the most ' quality ' . " The Flesh and the Fiends " isn't just a great historical film , it also is a praiseworthy horror achievement with a uniquely grim atmosphere and very convincing acting performances . John Gilling terrifically revives a 19th century Edinburgh with its low-perspective inhabitants ( drunks , beggars and thieves . . . ) and ominous bars and alleys . The murders are very mean and cold-heartedly illustrated ( the death of a young unintelligent boy , strangled amid squealing pigs is particularly unsettling ) which probably makes this film the most disturbing of the entire 50's decade . Peter Cushing is excellent in the ? for him ? familiar role of brilliant doctor but it especially are Donald Pleasance ( hypocrite and self-centered ) and George Rose ( a simple-minded killer ) who impress as Hare and Burke . The supportive roles are somewhat stiff and they bring forward redundant sub plots , like the romantic interactions between Knox ' daughter Martha and her doctor-lover Geoffrey . The typically Scottish accents are a joy to listen to and the eerie black and white photography emphases the already very chilling tone . This movie is still incomprehensibly underrated and unknown . Maybe because it's not a Hammer production or maybe because the substance was considered controversial for a long period of time . Fact remains that this old shocker is far better than most contemporary horror gems and everybody who has an interest in the obscure should urgently check it out !
Brilliant horror !	Frankly , I don't really care whether the screenplay of " The Haunted Palace " is based on a H . P Lovecraft-story , simply carrying an Edgar Allan Poe title . . . or based on an Edgar Allan Poe poem , heavily influenced by H . P Lovecraft's short story . Both these legendary horror authors were genius and an amalgamation of the two oeuvres could only result in an even better movie , right ? And that's exactly what " The Haunted Palace " is ! A brilliant and genuinely scary film that neatly fits in with the rest of Roger Corman's Poe cycle when it comes to intelligent story lines and ominous atmospheres . Vincent Price gives away another staggering performance ( in a double role ! ) as a New England warlock who's burned alive for his evil practices by the inhabitants of Arkham . Over a century later , he reincarnates as his great-great-grandson Charles Baxter Ward and continues with his malicious sorcery . . . but not without wreaking vengeance on the descendants of his tormentors ! The script is extremely compelling , without dull moments whatsoever , and the set designs are magnificent : ground fogs , castles with creaking gates and secret doorways , loud thunderstorms . . . It's truly beautiful to see how the camera prowls through the dark , nightmarish scenery and reflects the brooding suspense right onto your screen . The score is excellent and , despite the obvious low-budget , there are several very decent make-up effect to admire , like on the terrifying mutant-villagers who sneak around in the village . Roger Corman's surefooted yet elegant directing is close to perfection , and he damn well knew that he could count on Price again to portray another memorable villain . " The Haunted Pace " is quintessential horror-art !
M = Milestone . . . Mesmerizing . . . Masterpiece !	Fritz Lang's second absolute landmark ( after the equally brilliant but completely different ' Metropolis ' ) and also his first opportunity to work with the wonders of sound . And boy , did he ever deliver a great piece of work ! Like the M ( for murderer ) is marked on Peter Lorre's coat , the film M ( for masterpiece ) is branded on cinema history annals for all eternity . Lang's film is a triumph in every possible viewpoint and it covers a lot more genres and elements than just simply the manhunt for a child-molester . SPOILERS The horrors ' M ' handles about is timeless and of all cultures , but yet it'll always remain a taboo subject and for that reason alone Fritz Lang deserves extra praising . In an utterly astonishing way , Peter Lorre portrays Hans Beckert , a child murderer who single-handedly terrorizes four and half million people simply by his uncontrollable urge to kidnap and molest young schoolgirls . The grim and haunting atmosphere is terrifically built up by images of previous Beckert-victims and the disappearance a new unfortunate girl . Her toy rolling of a remote hills . . . a balloon drifting away on the wind . Really simple but extremely efficient methods to reflect the ominous actions that just took place . Other than to focus on the further actions of the killer , Lang turns to the effect this terror has on the city and how the manhunt for Beckert develops . Our director is obviously fascinated by how a police procedure is organized and he serves the viewer a detailed overview of all the steps taken by the investigators . Meanwhile , he grabs the opportunity to forcefully criticize the media's influence and the German law system with both hands . I'd really like to stress that Lang's subtle mockery was a really risky thing to do with the upcoming Nazi-reign , so you can't admire him enough . Due to the constant ( and fruitless ) raids the police are holding in the hope to capture the killer , the criminal underworld begins to lose its profits as well and they start their own manhunt for the killer , assisted by whores , beggars and petty thieves . With the carefully observing eyes all over town , it becomes practically impossible for Becker to satisfy his monstrous needs . The almighty Peter Lorre arrives late in the film every moment he's on screen is a moment worth treasuring . His sad appearance and cruel testimony are sequences that leave no human being unmoved . Lorre is a brilliant actor and this is inarguably one of the most impressive performances of all time . ' M ' features constant tension , outstanding dialogue and stunning camera-work . As said before , Fritz Lang had the opportunity to work with sound for this film and he immediately makes the most out of this . This was the first ' big ' German production that featured sound and it STILL ranks as the title that made best use of it . . . and that sure means something after more than 70 years . There's the chilling and legendary tune Lorre constantly whistles but also the absence of sound Lang uses to portray the besieged city . As you can tell from the above review , ' M ' is absolute must-see and easily one of the most essential productions ever shot . It's light-years ahead of its time and still disturbing after all these years . This film is a mesmerizing portrait about the darkest , most alarming aspects of humanity and yet still it doesn't live up to real-life facts . As you probably know , the plot of ' M ' is based on the whereabouts of the serial killer Peter Kürten who brutally murdered many victims in the city of Düsseldorf . I read a biography on Kürten recently and the true details of his crimes and animal-lusts go beyond every filmmaker's wildest imagination .
Mario Bava , reinventing the giallo !	Man , I love Mario Bava's work ! Every film I've seen of his is a pure masterpiece in my eyes and a complete cinematic ? orgasm ' ! Hatchet for the Honeymoon is somewhat different compared to most of his other movies and perhaps even his most accessible film . Hatchet handles about a more common horror theme ( namely a serial killer and his motivations ) but in the very first place it is another Bava-omnibus of stylish direction , wonderful music , beautiful scenery and a unique , tense atmosphere . Bava never ceases to surprise me ? I find it truly remarkable how this director is able to portray such ugly things ( murder , insanity , aggression ? ) in an artistic way ! Also , the film is far ahead of its time with the portrayal of a horrible murderer as a classy and intelligent businessman . Stephen Forsyth is brilliantly cast as John . He owns a fashion gallery in Paris , specialized in wedding dresses and there are a lot of models working for them . He urgently wants to divorce his wife because he despises her , but she won't let him . Like it's the most normal thing in the world , John confesses to the audience that he's a multiple murderer ? ' A woman should only live till her wedding day ' , he says , ' love once and then die ' ! Forsyth was a genius choice to play John ; he's handsome and extremely charismatic but also very frightening and morbid-looking at the same time . John is aware that he's sick , yet he can't control the urge to kill again . The second half of the film is even more brilliant , with a perfect image of a man stuck in a downwards spiral of insanity . Actually , what Bava does here , is single-handedly changing the rules of the giallo ! The identity of the killer is exposed right from the beginning , yet there are numerous other aspects to discover about his personality ? like what was the origin of his hunger for violence and misery ? Hatchet for the Honeymoon isn't the director best film ( that honor goes to Black Sunday , without a doubt ) but it still is a perfect score of in my book . I can only bring forward one negative aspect and that is ? like usual ? the annoying dubbing . Definitely also worth a mention : the beautiful female leads ( and side-characters ) in Hatchet . Dagmar Lassander is the stunning beauty that also appeared in Fulci's House by the Cemetary . Femi Bunissi plays another one of John's victims . I didn't know her , but she certainly is a gifted and gorgeous lady . Enter the world of Mario Bava as soon as possible ! You won't regret it ! !
More magical than Merlin , Grimmer than the Grimmest Grimm fairy-tale ?	Don't you just love it when you re-watch a childhood favorite and it turns out the film still has the exact same mesmerizing and enchanting effect on you that it had all those years ago ? More than usually , it's the other way around . The movies you loved as a child too often become disappointing when seen through adult eyes , but luckily enough there are certain exceptions . Neil Jordan's " The Company of Wolves " , for example , is a timeless masterpiece and truly expedient for all type of audiences , regardless of their age category . When I first watched this movie ( admittedly when I was a little TOO young ) , I was disturbed , fascinated , overwhelmed and deeply impressed for life . Remembering the unique plot concept , the macabre and haunting set pieces , the continuously ominous atmosphere , the petrifying werewolf-transformations and ? last but not least ? the cherubic appearance of lead girl Sarah Patterson ( she might even been my first crush ) , " The Company of Wolves " was the greatest cinematic experience I ever had and even now , approximately 15 years later , I like it possibly even better . " The Company of Wolves " is much more than just a horror movie about werewolves . It's a totally unique and nearly unclassifiable fantasy event that requires your full attention and the fully operational activity of all your sensory perceptions in order to absorb and process all the little details like creators Neil Jordan and Angela Carter intended them . This is quite possibly the most uniquely structured film of the 80's , with stories within stories and flashbacks within dream sequences ; characters leaping through different time eras or even universes and the content effortlessly blends contemplative metaphors with old-fashioned and simplistic fright elements . The storyline involves a re-enactment of the famous " Little Red Riding Hood " tale , but the script regularly strays off from this main theme ( ironically , since granny frequently advises never to stray off from the main paths ) and narrates other , smaller stories . They're all connected , however , since they all revolve on wolves . Rosaleen's granny teaches her to be wary of men whose eyebrows meet and who are hairy on the inside , yet somehow she always encounters them ; whether during her walks through the woods or in tell-tales . The primal plot is outstanding , but the secondary stories are actually even better . Apart from a profound and allegoric effort , " The Company of Wolves " is definitely also a rudimentary unsettling and disturbing movie . The moody landscapes ( dark forests , fog-enshrouded swamps ? ) and nightmarish scenery ( dolls and toys coming to life ) all contribute in making this British folklore movie creepier than 99 % of all horror movies . The make-up effects , and then of course the man-into-werewolf transformations in particular , are stupendous and easily among the greatest ever conveyed in British cinema . I know the transformation in " An American Werewolf in London " is legendary ? and deservedly so ? but the make up art here comes darn close . Neil Jordan's style is pretty much flawless and surefooted at all times , regardless of how complex the narrative structure sometimes becomes . He also had a great cast at his disposal , including Angela Lansburry ( a marvelous role ) , David Warner and Stephen Rea . Lead girl Sarah Patterson is breathtaking in every way , and it's truly incomprehensible she didn't ( want to ? ) become one the most successful actresses of her generation . There are probably a few shortcomings to be found in " The Company of Wolves " , but personally I didn't notice any of them . According to me , this is ? simply put - a bona fide masterwork .
Unique . Beautiful . Moving .	" When The Wind Blows " is an animated movie , adapted from the marvelous repertoire of Raymond Briggs , about an unexceptional retired couple who are about to live through a hugely exceptional event . Undoubtedly you've seen many terrific animated movies before . Most likely you've also watched many great dramas dealing with the horrible effects of ( nuclear ) warfare before . But surely you haven't seen anything like " When The Wind Blows " , as it's the most totally unique and original take on the tragic & horrific effects of war ever accomplished . You don't expect the story and the atmosphere to be disturbing , but they are ! You don't expect the animated characters to move and affect you , but they do ! And you honestly don't expect a movie like this to haunt your thoughts for so long after finishing it , but IT DOES ! Everything about this ' cartoon ' is downright astonishing ; from the peculiar & dared narrative structure ( Jim and Hilda are the only two characters ) , the constant atmosphere of overpowering menace ( the feeling of war is literally present ) , the moody soundtrack ( including David Bowie and Roger Waters ) and ? last but not least ? the detailed character drawings of the adorable protagonists . Jim and Hilda are unique in their naivety . When increasingly alarming news bulletins warn people about the outbreak of war , they obediently follow government-distributed pamphlets and ' build ' a bomb shelter out of wooden doors and bedroom pillows . The couple lives completely isolated , so they have no real idea about the horrific seriousness of the situation , but they're not really worried as long they got their security brochures , each other's company and their ( fond ) memories of the last time this happened during WWII . Even after the bomb has fallen , when Jim and Hilda appear to be the last remaining souls in England ( but physically suffering as well ) , the extremely amiable couple simply carries on preparing grocery lists and drinking tea . It's nearly impossible to accept , but these drawn and animated figures are far more moving and identifiable than real actors and actresses . Probably everyone who watches this film will recognize his / her own grandparents whilst observing Jim and Hilda . They're a bit unworldly ? aren't all elderly folks ? overly caring , friendly , calm and often downright frustratingly ignorant ! The second half of the film , when acid raid and dusty clouds tumble down , is almost unbearably saddening and emotionally devastating . The drama elements are sincere and effective and , even more importantly , they never once feel exploitative . And , in case it isn't obvious just yet , " When The Wind Blows " definitely isn't a film for young children or even overly sensitive people to watch . It's a criminally underrated and unforgettable masterpiece that courageously illustrates the unstable ambiance of the cold-war era and I can only insist admirers of true cinema to track it down .
A feast for eyes and ears ! Leone's film is a timeless masterpiece !	THIS is perhaps the greatest film ever made . A passionately penned down portrait revolving on the downfall of the West-era . Brilliantly filmed , with careful attention for the smallest detail and performed by gifted actors and actresses in not so obvious roles . Straight from the slow and clammy opening credits sequence , you notice that this is an epic that will require your full attention and one that'll automatically provoke great feelings of respect and admiration . A cowboy's struggle with a fly is portrayed like it is a devastating battle , guided by unnatural noises on the background that put an extra emphasis on the unbearably tropic climate . This is the merciless West and you need your eyes and ears focused at all times to avoid trouble with someone more powerful than you . I have seen this masterpiece of film-making numberless times now and I still get mesmerized instantly when I behold the atmospheric set-pieces and the ominous characters . A truly magnificent opening to what will become a powerful movie experience and yet nothing of the actual storyline has been revealed yet ! " Once upon a time in the West " is a collaboration between titans . . . For the flawless screenplay , Leone ( already a master-writer himself ) received assistance from no less than Bernardo Bertolucci and Dario Argento ( this latter is a personal God of mine ) . These icons , who already deserve statues for the work they did separately , combine their talents and deliver a genuine western story that involves organized crime , blackmail , revenge and even human emotions . Separate story lines that only come together neatly in the end , after a series of fascinating sequences filled with suspense and dazzling action . Leone grabs every chance to innovate with both hands and this results in unexpected shock moments ( the slaughter of the Irish family ) and even completely unimaginable anti-castings ( Henry Fonda as a relentless gangster ? ) . The main story lines are very diverse but Leone takes his time to slowly clarify them all . Tough guys are hired secure the construction of a railroad while a notorious gangster escapes from jail , only to find out that someone abused his trademarks to get their dirty work done . A beautiful woman has been widowed without knowing it and she stands alone in an abandoned , dangerous land . And then there's a lonely cowboy patiently waiting to fight a personal battle of which no one knows the details . If you've chosen to watch " Once upon a time in the West " , get ready to be overwhelmed by fascination and involvement . . . expect yourself to sit on the edge of your seat , exploring all the corners of the TV-screen as you want to make sure you're not missing a thing ! Leone could count on the perfect cast , with the already mentioned Henry Fonda in an unusual but fitting role and Claudia Cardinale who embodies every male creature's dream . Charles Bronson and Jason Robards complete the great cast , both in the finest roles of their overall brilliant careers . The previously summed up elements already indicate that this is an unmissable cinema event and then I haven't even spoken of the music yet ! For many fans the ultimate reason to point out " Once upon a time in the West " as the greatest film ever made and they're right ! Ennio Morricone's score is so marvelous , so perfect that it began to lead its own life outside the film . The constantly repeated tunes " Man with the Harmonica " and " Goodbye to Cheyenne " cause a chemical reaction inside your body every time and they provide the story with extra depth and atmosphere . The images on the screen and the music you hear form a wholesome that can never be topped in cinema . This is the best , period ! We should only use superlatives when talking about this film : the BEST and the most UNIQUE In case I haven't made myself clear thus far : " Once upon a time in the West " is a motion picture that belongs in every DVD-collection . With my most sincere apologies to Sam Peckinpah , John Ford and Howard Hawks but this is simply put the best western ever !
Beautiful . . . One of the greatest stories ever told .	It doesn't happen very often , but I was touched by this film . It's not the first adaptation of the story that I've seen , but it sure is one of the best . In fact , only the silent version starring Lon Chaney beat this version . That version is of course an absolute masterpiece , but I easily dare to say this is one too . It doesn't strictly follow the original storyline as you know it but that alright . You're just staring at it with your mouth wide open ( at least , I was . . . ) Claude Rains is just perfect in his role as the phantom . Because of his flawless performance , you feel what he feels and you have get the idea you would take the same actions as he does in this movie . Rains plays Eric Claudin . A rather anonymous violin player in the famous opera of Paris . In all the years he worked there , he grew a strong passion and love for the young and talented singer Christine Dubois . He even wrote a concert for her . But , he's getting older and he gets fired . His only hope now to keep seeing Christine , is to sell his concert and let her sing the main voice . When he gets the idea a production company stole his music , he snaps and attacks a man . During the struggle , Claude gets mutilated horrible by burning acid . From then on he lives in the opera building does everything to make Christine a star . . . even if that means other people have to die in a brutal way . I can't praise this film enough . It's just perfect in my opinion . The acting , the story , the shock-effects and above all . . . the wonderful music . I must admit , if you're not a big fan of opera music , this film will certainly be annoying to you . But hey , you can expect classical music in a version of Phantom of the Opera right ? If you can appreciate a bit of opera singing , this film will have another great extra value to you . I say SEE IT . My humble opinion on Phantom of the opera = . A must see ! ! !
Deeply disturbing Spanish masterpiece	The only word that spontaneously comes to mind when briefly describing Agustí Villaronga's " In a Glass Cage " is ? WOW ! This is definitely one of the most intense and harrowing European films ever made . You're most likely to find it in the horror-sections of specialized cult stores / catalogs , but it's SO much more than just horror ! It's a traumatizing post-WWII portrait , a deep psychological drama and a devastating tale about pedophilia & child murder . " In a Glass Cage " is the disturbingly cold and emotionless depiction of a former Nazi figure that escaped to Spain in time , but continues his sick rituals of kidnapping and murdering young boys there . Until one day , feelings of shame and remorse take over and Klaus ( Günter Meisner ) attempts to commit suicide by jumping of a high building . He survives but becomes bound to an iron lung machine and a huge burden to his unknowing wife and daughter . Then , a handsome but strange adolescent man volunteers to be Klaus ' nurse . Angelo seems to know a lot about Klaus ' past and unorthodox desires , yet he doesn't betray him and even offers him the chance to pick up where he left off . An odd escalation of happenings causes Angelo to turn into the most powerful person in the house AND an even bigger monster than Klaus ever was . This often shocking and uncompromising film shows , in a truly alarming style , what possibly could happen to the young and vulnerable minds of pedophilia victims . It might not sound very realistic at first , but when you think it over more carefully , it becomes frighteningly real . Angelo's heartless attitude and charisma come across exactly like those of someone whose childhood innocence was taken from him . Apart from being a truly thought-provoking piece of cinema , " In a Glass Cage " is also an impeccably made and mesmerizing stylish film . The atmosphere is creepy and sinister throughout , with depressing set pieces , sober music and monotonous camera-work . Unquestionably the most staggering piece of scenery is the large iron lung ( the titular glass cage , also ) that breathes for Klaus . This impressive and advanced medical device constantly produces uncanny noises and it looks like the absolute last type of machinery you want your life to depend on . It's a very original and genuinely horrifying object to feature in a tense film like this . Furthermore , there are a couple of shocking scenes that you aren't likely to see in many other films . It already requires a lot of courage to tell a story about pedophilia and child murder , so you can imagine the brutal impact of actually showing these topics graphically ! Villaronga's directing is straightforward and acting performances of the entire cast are flawless and deeply moving . " In a Glass Cage " is a brilliant film , perhaps not accessible for everyone , but enormously recommended to hardcore cult fans .
A masterpiece about failure	It's truly ironic that Tim Burton was able to make such a great masterpiece out of the life story of Edward D . Wood Jr . The least you can say is that his life wasn't . What makes this film so great is that Burton never makes fun of Ed Wood . His way of film-making , his lifestyle and his vision of things are always shown with respect . It's obvious that Burton didn't intend to make a comedy about Hollywood , but a drama about a man with a dream to make films . And he won't give up that dream , no matter what . I'm a great fan of Tim Burton . Especially when he casts Johnny Depp in the leading role . Edward Sciccorhands , Sleepy Hollow and this Ed Wood can easily make the top 50 films of ALL TIME . There's chemistry on the screen , when those 2 work together . And Johnny is not alone this time . The Oscar that Martin Landau received for his role of Bela Lugosi is perhaps one of the most deserved ones in the history of the Academy Awards . He's very creepy as the washed up actor , but very pathetic at the same time . It really is an outstanding performance . Patricia Arquette is just adorable as Kathy , the woman who stays with Edward in good and bad days . She's always giving him support , believes in him , accepts him as he is ( his confession to her in the spook house is really heartbreaking ) Lisa Marie is really sexy as Vampire . People can think she receives all her roles because she sleeps with the director , but she really can act . Very well as the matter a fact . One little disappointment maybe , I was hoping the role of Orson Welles ( played by Vincent D'Onofrio - one genius plays another one ) would have been a little bigger . " Ed Wood " is one of the best films of the 90's . . . what am I saying ? One of the best films EVER ! ! !
Masterpiece !	No less than Quentin Tarantino referred to " Milano Calibro . 9 " as the absolute greatest Italian film-noir ever made , and who the hell are we to question that statement ? This truly is one of the most grippingly fascinating and shockingly straightforward crime portraits ever filmed and I wouldn't hesitate for one second to call it a genuine masterpiece of cult cinema . " Milano Calibro . 9 " is the first installment of Ferando Di Leo's trilogy , followed by the equally mesmerizing " Manhunt " and " The Boss " . The stories and characters of these films are unrelated , but together they represent the gifted director's personal and highly criticizing visions of organized crime in Italy during the early 70's . Perhaps even more remarkable than the excessive display of nihilistic violence in these movies , is Di Leo's devotion to point out the incompetence of Italy's government and law-system during that era . The country itself is to blame for all the powerful crime networks and the relentless mafia organizations it spawned , and the director will make damn sure this message is communicated clearly . But naturally , even without all the political involvement , " Milano Calibro . 9 " is a phenomenal film , with non-stop suspense , rough action , realistic character drawings and head-spinning dialogs . The intro alone is fantastic , as more action and brutal violence occurs in ten minutes than most Hollywood movies have to offer throughout the entire playtime . I hate to give away too much about the convoluted plot , but I can assure it contains all the necessary ingredients : treason , vengeance among criminals , strip bars , executions , corrupt coppers and the ongoing search for a stolen loot of $ 300 . 000 ! The atmosphere in this film is continuously gritty and ominous , because literally no one can be trusted and any character risks to get shot in the back at any given moment . Di Leo brilliantly uses Milan as the location for all the mayhem , and the city inexplicably plays one of the most important roles in the story , because it forms the home of the economic crisis , high level of delinquency and police forces reluctant to alter their methods of crime-fighting . The cast is awesome , with Gaston Moschin in an unconventional but masterful lead role . Mario Adorf impresses as the sardonic and relentless second-in-command and Barbara Bouchet takes every man's breath away with her sexy appearance and ravishing beauty . The sensual dance sequence she performs is only one of thousand reasons to watch " Milano Calibro . 9 " , but it's undeniably the most convincing one .
Review of Kümel's brilliant re-edited , post-Cannes version .	Harry Kümel's ambitious & courageous film version of Jean Ray's complex novel was offered one big chance to prove itself internationally and to instantly become a genre classic at the annual Cannes Film Festival in 1972 . Sadly enough , the shown version ? which later got rejected by the director ? didn't impress any audiences then and by the time Kümel came trotting along with his very own ( and much better ) re-edited version of the film , containing over twenty minutes of extra footage , nobody really cared to see it anymore . Now that's a real pity , because in this restored version " Malpertuis " is a truly brilliant work of Gothic art and unquestionably one of the greatest movies ever made in Belgium . A lot more than in the international-orientated versions , the emphasis now lies on obscure mystery and claustrophobic set designs . Both versions are so incredibly different that the common plot summaries of the international Cannes version , which can be found in newspaper articles and movie websites , actually reveal the mysterious denouement of Kümel's ultimate re-edited version ! Those reviews immediately explain what odd types of characters are living in the Malpertuis mansion whereas , in the ' correct ' version , it is kept secret to the young protagonist Jan as well as to the viewer . I'm desperately trying not to include any spoilers in this user-comment while the same essential plot twists can be read everywhere over the internet ? Evidently this film didn't appeal to anyone in Cannes ! You can clearly see where it's going right away and thus the sophisticated and enormously stylish hints that are given to unravel the mystery yourself become completely pointless . The legendary Orson Welles stars in one of his last glorious roles , as the mighty and fearsome , albeit bed-ridden patriarch of the immense Malpertuis mansion who gathered an eccentric collection of people to announce his last will to . Among them is young sailor Jan , who swore that he would never set foot in Malpertuis ever again and he constantly tries to convince his sister Nancy to do the same . Quentin Cassavius ' testament claims that there's a gigantic family fortune to divide , only none of the persons present is allowed to leave the mansion and the last remaining man and woman have to get married . Jan is determined to stay around as soon as he falls in love with the mysteriously beautiful Euryale , but other members of the pact that try to escape the domain are found dead soon after , causing hostility and unrest among the remaining members . Harry Kümel builds up the tension and unfolds the mystery like a genuine master , and all this without showing the slightest bit of graphic violence . Instead , he portrays the ominous mansion like an inescapable surreal dimension with endless dark corridors and spiral staircases . Secondary scenery , like paintings on the wall and statues in the grim attic , magnificently add to the wondrous Gothic atmosphere . Meanwhile , the constant elaboration of patterns and intrigues between the many supportive characters lead the story to one of the most grotesque and devastating climaxes in cinema ever . Of course , you'll only be truly enchanted by this climax if you haven't seen the English / French versions or read any plot descriptions before you watch it . Orson Welles and Mathieu Carrière are great but the true star is Susan Hampshire , playing no less than three different and very complex characters . Harry Kümel's " Malpertuis " is a small masterpiece , combining visual artwork with extraordinary plotting . An absolute must !
Shock horror and inhuman thrills . . . ' The Green Inferno ' is the place to be !	You've got horror . . . and then you've HORROR with a capital H ! And cannibal holocaust surely belongs in this last category . It's a misunderstood masterpiece that yet has to find an equal . Unlike the savage and schlock title leads you to believe , there's much more to discover in this film than just gore , bad dubbing and shocking rites . In the very first place , it's a portrait of extremes . The so-called ' civilized ' world versus the savage tribes in the Columbian Rainforest . In a subtle way , Ruggero Deodato asks the question who the real cannibals are in this film . . . those who're just following their traditional and ancients life-styles or those who're full of disrespect and willing to sacrifice everything in order to shoot a controversial story . The basic plot handles about a young film-crew who mysteriously vanished while shooting an anthropology documentary . Their footage is retrieved by a university professor ( Robert Kerman ) and he's given the chance to broadcast the documentary after all . But . . . the horrible and inhuman truth as shown by the recovered footage explains the crew's disappearance more clearly and it questions severely whether they deserve a tribute or not . A funny detail to this movie is that it more or less spoofs exploitative film-making , while it's practically an exploitation film itself ! Nonetheless , the film is surprisingly professionally made with a terrific cinematoghrapy and good editing . The most barbaric sequences become unforgettable thanks to the magnificent and intense musical score by Riz Ortolani . Cannibal Holocaust enjoys an immense cult-status in cinema and it's one of the ONLY films who deserves this for a 100 % ! I'm not going to debate whether the vicious animal-killing scenes are real or not because , frankly , I don't care and they contribute a lot in the breath-taking realism and effectiveness of this film . Cannibal Holocaust should be avoided by the faint-hearted , whining moralists and easily offended pansies . . . All the rest of you : Watch Deodato's greatest achievement and acknowledge its power ! ! !
Armed to the Teeth and Hardcore to the Bone !	" Rome Armed to the Teeth " actually just confirmed something I already knew , but it was a more than welcome reminder . Umberto Lenzi was a genius ( or better , IS a genius as he's still alive only no longer active for obvious reasons ) and with this film he delivered another high-speed , adrenalin-rushing , mega-violent , hyper-brutal and ultra-demented Poliziottesco masterpiece ! I admit I'm biased regarding the director and the genre , but this is unquestionably the most fun any movie can possibly offer . The plot is standard and the characters are stereotypical , but the action moves forward like a derailed train and something new & exciting happens approximately every one and a half minutes . And would you just look at that cast ! The top of the contemporary Italian cult-industry is gathered here , including the impressively mustached Maurizio Merli , the naturally uncanny looking Ivan Rassimov and ? my personal favorite ? the multi versatile Tomas Milian in another formidably villainous role . Merli embodies everything the cinematic 70's copper stands for ; reckless , stubborn , vengeful , disobedient towards his supervisors and , most of all , sick & tired of apprehending criminals only to see them terrorize the street again a couple of hours later . The first fifteen minutes or so perfectly illustrate how Commissioner Leo Tanzi struggles : his superiors are only concerned about the police's image in the media , his psychologist girlfriend disapproves his harsh methods and claims criminals should be helped instead of arrested and spoiled , self-confident thugs openly laugh in his face . And so Tanzi creates his very own one-man special brigade , with a little help and sympathy from his friends at the force . His main occupation is to exterminate an organized gang of armed bank robbers , led by the hunchback super criminal Il Gobbo , but in his spare time ( which is often just when he drives from one crime scene to another ) he makes a clean sweep of underage purse-snatchers , youthful serial rapists and drug-dealing pimps . " Rome Armed to the Teeth " guarantees 100 % excitement , with plenty of wild car chases , shoot - first - ask - questions - later spectacle , and testosterone-packed dialogs . Franco Micalizzi's score is terrific , Frederico Zanni's camera-work is often dazzlingly fast and ? the gifted filmmaker he was ? Umberto Lenzi stuffs his film with ingenious little gimmicks and details , like the opening credits from a criminal's point of view , spotting potential heist targets . The actors are great . It is said that Maurizio Merli and Tomas Milian couldn't possibly get along in real life . This might have resulted in unpleasant days on the filming sets , but on the screen their ' vendetta ' definitely assures an even more convincing good vs . bad chemistry . Magnificent film , highly recommended in case you can stomach a lot of brutal violence .
You can say that again ! . . . DeR @ nG ? d ! !	Oh yeah ! This is what us genre fans like to call a REAL horror film ! " Deranged " is shocking , insensitive , cold-hearted and features a ' you - don't - like - it - go - to - hell' - honesty you can't possibly walk away from ! This is the pretty damn factual , and therefore hugely disturbing , reconstruction of the case of Wisconsin serial killer Ed Gein . This guy was crazier and far more dangerous than any fictional horror character could ever be and therefore he was a nearly endless source of inspiration for independent filmmakers who wanted to bring a horrific tale . " Deranged " appears to be very cheap and amateurish , but it's one of the rare films in which the low budget production values actually contribute in making the story more grim and realistic ! Ed Gein really was a poor and simple-minded farmer who went absolutely berserk after the death of his beloved mother and he refused to accept her passing away by replacing her with cadavers that he kept in his house . The characters ' names have been altered , as well as the timing of the story , but Ezra Cobb's actual crimes are frighteningly truthful and portrayed with a chilling eye for detail . The film's biggest trump is unquestionably the casting of the rather unknown actor Roberts Blossom whose impressive and straight-faced performance will make you more than once wonder whether he isn't a real madman ! Other aspects that definitely increase the creepiness are the constant funeral music that guides the film and the colorless , depressing set pieces . " Deranged " is not a total gorefest ( mainly due to the lack in budget ) but the murders are nonetheless explicitly illustrated and quite bloody . Strangely enough , the film's devastating tone is regularly undercut with brilliant flashes of morbid black humor , like Ezra's encounter with an overweight widow who talks to her deceased husband . In short , " Deranged " is a typically 70's cult treasure that should be watched by every horror fan on this planet .
If You Want to Run Cool , You Got to Run ? on Heavy , Heavy Fuel .	Let's be fairly blunt but nevertheless reasonable here : anyone with a minimum level of testosterone and / or adrenalin pumping through his / her body ( male or female , I'm not discriminating anyone here ) simply must concur with the statement that " Mad Max 2 : The Road Warrior " is one of the coolest and most spectacular cult movies ever made . This film perfectly epitomizes the image of a prototypic and ideal action and adventure movie and contains all the necessary ingredients to indulge all target audiences between the age categories of 7 and 77 years old . When I was younger , I mostly loved MM2 because of the copious amount of outrageous car chase sequences and the flamboyant vehicle designs . Now that I'm a little older , I particularly came to appreciate the uniquely eccentric character drawings and suppressed humor ? And of course the copious amount of outrageous car chase sequences and the flamboyant vehicle designs still as well . The original " Mad Max " ? released in 1979 ? already was a groundbreaking classic and I rated it a perfect , but if it were possible , I would reward the sequel with a rating of just to point out it's even more superior . " The Road Warrior " is presumably set a couple of months ( or years ) after the original and starts with a gloomy voice-over informing us about both what overcame the character of Max Rockatansky , and also what happened to the world in order for it to look like such a post-apocalyptic wasteland . The original events clearly took place in after a devastating event already , but the screenplay never gave any specific info regarding what it was . The entire world now looks like the Australian outback , where motorized gangs of thugs continuously scour around looking for fuel ; which has become more than ever the rarest and most valuable liquid on the planet . Max joins , albeit reluctantly , a fortress community owning a large tank of gasoline in their battle against the vicious Lord Humongous and his deranged dogs of war . As hinted at before , the characters drawings in this film are truly outstanding , especially the villainous ones . Lord Humongous looks like a masked S / M freak with a body full of scars , but he's not even half as insane as his warlord . This guy ? referred to as " Dog of War " ? literally has to be kept on a leash and behaves like the embodiment of aggression . He's always accompanied by a silent ( and homosexual ? ) toy boy and gets completely out of control when a boomerang kills him . The atmosphere of the film feels just as disturbing as in the original , but the special effects and used scenery have vastly improved due to the increase of budget . The stunt work thankfully still is old school , meaning that courageous stunt players actually risked their lives in order to deliver realistic looking action scenes . George Miller's direction skills have clearly become more surefooted and even Mel Gibson feels more secure in his part . I could carry on listing praiseworthy elements , but it all comes down to the fact that " Mad Max : The Road Warrior " is a bona fide classic and a true must-see .
Absolutely brilliant . . . Beyond comparison ! ! !	First and foremost , I'd wish to share in all haughty that I had the honor of seeing this film ? in its original form ? on the big screen ! They showed it during a festival of overlooked and highly influential cult / horror films . A sub-genre in which this film surely belongs . It's one of the greatest films I ever saw , even though few people appreciate that . To my hatred , quite a lot people left the theater before it was finished ? oh well , it's their loss they can't see the low-budget genius of this film . Small plot-spoilers coming up Being the sole survivor of a car accident , Mary tries to rebuild her life by accepting a job as a church organist in Utah . From the moment she's on the road , she's being haunted by ghostly apparitions and extremely bizarre events . Mary keeps on having visions of a scary , white-faced man and on top of that , she sometimes becomes completely invisible and inaudible to the people around her ! ! Descending further into isolation and insanity , Mary is attracted by the remainders of an old carnival ? She goes there , hoping to find an explanation for the strange things that overcome her lately . End spoilers Carnival of Souls is unique and it almost feels like pure Expressionism ! This modest 60's film contains striking camera viewpoints and the chilly black and white eeriness heighten the atmosphere even more . Words almost can't describe how real this entire nightmare feels ! The slow and sober style Herk Harvey implements in his movie grab you by the throat constantly ( by the way , the director can't be recognized in the film as the ghoul who appears everywhere ) . Although the budget and expedients for making this film might have been limited , the Carnival scenery ? and especially the dance-hall ? is effectively creepy and hypnotizing . I suppose the reason why I worship this title is because it's a imaginative triumph ? Carnival of Souls is an immensely story-driven escapade of illusions , anti-socialism and it approaches the topic of ' near death experiences ' really well . Like no other director ever achieved before , Harvey creates a nightmarish world even David Lynch would be jealous of . No wonder this film formed a huge inspiration for his later work ? as well as George A . Romero's ? Truly , this is a film you'll never forget . Many sequences will be burnt on your retina for ever . Is there a rating higher than ? ? ?
Half awful , half brilliant . . . but a total B-classic !	( Minor basic plot spoilers included in the review ) Day of the Triffids is a unique movie-experience and it became one of my personal favorites right from the first viewing . This film actually is a cinematic mystery to itself since you can't figure out how to rate it : trash or terrific ? Watching the Day of the Triffids is like seeing two movies rolling into one . It's a compelling and unsettling apocalyptic disaster-movie but as soon as the killer vegetables kick in , it more looks like an amateur Edward Wood science fiction mess . Or in other words : for as long as no special effects budget is required , the film offers story-driven eeriness . I'm particularly amazed by the amount of ingeniousness this film features ! The plot is based on a novel by John Wyndham and tells the story of a disastrous meteor shower spectacle , of which the intensity blinds the entire world population . The few people who missed this event ( like protagonist Howard Keel who was in the hospital for an eye-operation ) are the only ones who still have hope to survive , since giant man-eating plants ( called Triffids ) grow from the meteor craters and feed on the helpless blind humans . The boisterous lightshow indicating us a meteor shower is happening is cheerfully cheap and becomes unintentionally hilarious . But ? and that's what so impressive ? the sequences that follow this unearthly event are some of the best scenes of mass-hysteria ever shot on film ! People at London station who suddenly turn blind and cause incidents and mayhem . There even is downright fantastic sequence showing the hysteria in an about-to-crash airplane because the pilot suddenly lost his eyesight . These sequences are what makes ' Day of the Triffids ' so unique ! As the story continues , a small group of surviving heroes tries to flee to Spain chased by the ugly Triffids trying to eat them . Yet another courageous couple is stuck in a lighthouse , annihilating Triffids and saving their watered marriage at the same time ! You can't get passed the weirdness of this film , every time it tends to get exaggeratedly cheesy ; a new ingenious twist is added . Result : a fascinating film from start to finish ! I pity my few fellow reviewers here who can't seem to look beyond the poor production values and therefore totally miss the uniqueness of the entire finished product . True , the giant plants are awful and the noises they make resemble to those of a broken vacuum cleaner . And yes , the acting is a bit embarrassing at times and the dialogue isn't exactly top-notch . But always keep in mind you won't ever see such an incredible amount of creativity and amusement in nowadays cinema . Highly recommended !
Quite possibly the most unique film ever made !	Over a period of less than two days , I saw the Wicker Man three times . The original theatrical version once and the director's cut twice ! Believe all the praising on this one . It really is one of the most stunning films that were ever unleashed upon the world . Unique is the most appropriate word that comes to mind in order to describe it . The Wicker Man is unlike any film you ever saw and an entire chapter of British cinema history to itself . Usually , it takes many parties to create a masterpiece but I dare to say The Wicker Man is largely Anthony Shaffer's accomplishment . His screenplay almost is too brilliant to put into words . The tiniest details and the slightest side-aspects are worked out perfectly . As a viewer , you'll literally feel like you're there ? on Summerisle ! No matter how illogical the plot may sound , the Wicker Man feels disturbingly real and alarming . Simply categorizing it as horror would do injustice to this versatile work of art . The fear and uncomfortable emotions it causes definitely are horror , but in the very first place this is a compelling mystery and a rough religious portrait . Actually , I don't want to give away too many plot aspects . The matter is far too fascinating to spoil and the solid story is so intelligent that a short summary wouldn't bring it any honor . Yes , I have that much respect for this film ! ! Just look at all the devout professionalism and be astonished as well ! Another amazing aspect about The Wicker Man is the tempting soundtrack ? with a slight bit of imagination ; you could actually call it a musical . The music and the film make one terrific wholesome here , and that's a pretty rare achievement . Only in the ancient European exploitation , you can find a similar music-picture relationship . A good cast finishes it all . Edward Woodward shines in the leading role and Christopher Lee portrays the most memorable character in his entire remarkable career as Lord Summerisle . And then there's Britt Ekland as Willow ! Unquestionably the most gorgeous lady in the British horror industry . Frankly , you haven't lived until you see ( and hear ) her sing her Siren's Song ? This film deserves a spot in the IMDb top 250 more than any other motion picture ever did before . Rent , buy or ? if necessary ? steal this movie as soon as possible in case you haven't seen it yet . You can't afford yourself not having seen it .
BRIL-LI-ANT ! ! !	Say hello to what is perhaps Lynch's greatest achievement so far . And , with a career like his , that sure does mean something . Every film he made is a remarkable and valuable asset to cinema - masterpieces in their own kind - and Blue Velvet is the absolute highlight for sure . Blue Velvet is the representation of the ' small town'-nightmare , complete with raw drama aspects and shocking realism . Without even trying that hard , Lynch successfully mixes a bunch of taboo subjects here like voyeurism , masochism , corruption , aggression and sodomy . The basic plot might look surprisingly simple , but Lynch tells it to the viewer in a very slow and fascinating way . constantly adding one new element at the time . This simple but effective style instrument really builds up an unbearable tension and a unique morbid atmosphere . Lynch already showed a lot of interest towards the dark side of humanity in his black and white cult film Eraserhead , and he expands this bizarre preference in Blue Velvet . Like no other director , he creates a nightmarish and anti-social universe of which you certainly don't want to be a part of . The most extravagant icon is without a doubt the character of Frank Booth . easily the biggest bastard who ever appeared on the big screen . Amazingly brought to life by Dennis Hopper , this mad mobster is the portrayal of everything that is inhuman and despicable . Every word that comes out of Frank's mouth is either aggressive . or perverted . He's a violent and abusive addict who doesn't seem to have the slightest bit of human emotions or behavior . Dennis Hopper owns this movie and leaves behind the biggest impression you'll ever experience . Blue Velvet contains so many memorable sequences and unforgettable aspects that it's almost impossible to write a summary . Also , it would be a darn shame to spoil anything . The less you know about it before watching , the better . Let ' Blue Velvet ' overwhelm you . rate it on this site . and join the fan-base ! One scene I'm willing to describe a little ( if it were only to encourage you to watch this film ) is Dean Stockwell's terrific little escapade on Roy Orbison's ' In Dreams ' It's impossible to watch this scene without getting cold shivers all over , I assure you . Perhaps the most stunning and atmospheric sequence in all 80's cinema . What are you waiting for ? ! ? Go out and buy Blue Velvet on DVD !
Brilliant comedy like they could only make it in the old days	Arsenic and Old Lace is the most important contender for the funniest movie ever made ! ! Every single aspect and element in this movie is just perfect . And I'm NOT exaggerating . . . If I have to rate all the different elements of cinema separately , I would rate them all . Acting , directing , plot , location , dialogues , sense of humor . . . all brilliant and in the right proportions . Frank Capra was responsible for several milestones and masterpieces in the history of cinema but - in my opinion - Arsenic and Old Lace beats them all . Yes , I DO think it's even better than ' It's a Wonderful Life ' and ' Mr . Smith Goes to Washington ' ! ! ! Arsenic and Old Lace is just everything you could possibly wish for in a motion picture . A must see that comes with the highest possible recommendation . Explaining the plot a bit would almost be impossible to do . The story goes about so many things . Don't be alarmed , it's not at all hard to follow or something . As a viewer , you're just being overwhelmed by a series of hilarious plot twists and intelligent side-characters and their backgrounds . So much that it is almost impossible to mention it all . And besides , it's better that you start watching it without knowing too much about the story anyway . Just sit back and enjoy being pleasantly surprised . I can't imagine that there are people out there who didn't fully enjoy this movie ! ! It comes really close to perfection , and the intelligence and originality of it will never again find an equal . Nowadays comedies are all low-brainers ( or even no-brainers ) that handle about dumb teenagers or dick and fart jokes . Arsenic and Old Lace is a comedy that is mainly story-driven and brought to an even higher level thanks the flawless acting performances . Yes . . . let's talk about the cast a bit ! ! Cary Grant plays the role of his life in my opinion . Sure , he played many other brilliant roles but his character Mortimer Brewster is just the most memorable of them all . Grant's comedy talent was never stressed better than in this film . His facial expressions are hilarious and his the amazingly funny lines sound brilliant coming out of his mouth . The girl who played his wife Elaine ( forgot her name ) is very beautiful and a great match for him . And I was very enthusiast to see Peter Lorre in this film . He's in my top 5 list of greatest actors who ever lived and anyone who saw this movie will agree with me on that . He's just perfect as Dr . Einstein . I can keep on rambling about the cast but I think you get the whole picture . . . FLAWLESS ! ! ! Black comedy is one of the hardest subgenres of cinema to make a good movie out . Not many directors and scriptwriters have enough talent to take a subject like murder , death or insanity and make a masterpiece out of it . Stanley Kubrick did it with ' Dr . Strangelove ' and Frank Capra did it with this one . . . I think these men are the exception . Only these guys can make you laugh hysterically with subjects like this . Finally one more note : This is also a perfect movie to watch if you're a fan of classic horror movies and thrillers . First of all because of the tribute role by Peter Lorre of course but also because of the constant morbid atmosphere hanging around the movie . . . And , naturally , because of the character of Jonathan Brewster which clearly is a direct tribute to Boris Karloff . . . They even say so most of the times . What the hell are you waiting for ? ? Go watch it right now !
Deeply disturbing horror masterpiece !	It literally took me YEARS purchasing this movie and , now that I finally own it , it's still difficult to follow as it is an exclusively Spanish version . Still , every effort I ever took for finding it was worthy , as this is a magnificent piece of horror cinema and easily one of the most disturbing films I ever beheld . The premise of " Quién Puede Matar . . . " is highly original and compelling . Even though it's likely that the script is mildly inspired by both " Lord of the Flies " and " Rosemary's Baby " , it definitely feels unique and like something you've never seen before . The story introduces us to a young couple who take a side-trip to a remote Spanish island where the abandoned streets and ominous silence soon indicates that this is a cursed place . The island's children are seemly under the influence of a ( never explained ) supernatural evil that forces them to slaughter adults ! Before Tom and Evelyn properly begin to understand and accept what's going on , they're in great danger and chased by a merciless army of young maniacs . Even though " Quién puede matar a un niño " is European and made in the 70's , it isn't a gross film . The emphasis lies on the atmosphere and the violence is more suggestive than explicit . There are , nonetheless , a handful of unsettling sequences that involve quite some bloodshed and shocking material . The absolute highlight unquestionably is a scene showing a group of kids playing a seemly harmless game . But then the camera moves up and we see how they're actually molesting the cadaver of an elderly man . . . which is quite a jaw-dropping sight . Director Ibañez-Serrador makes excellent use of the tropical climate and the isolated island-location while the chilling music even increases the already unbearably high suspense-level . The most powerful aspect about this film is probably that we're constantly guessing for the kids ' diabolical urge to kill . The mesmerizing opening credits , showing flashes of news bulletins revolving on abused or starving children , hints us that maybe it's an act of revenge although this is never confirmed . With this praising review , I hope to stimulate many people in tracking this masterpiece down ! This is true horror and great viewing for the real fans . Here's to hoping that this gem soon receives a proper and world-wide DVD release .
Too Brilliant for Belgian TV !	I can only concur with my fellow reviewers ( and compatriots ! ) and re-establish that " Buiten de Zone " is an absolutely brilliant comedy series and actually way too good according to our country's usual standards ! Anyone who ever saw this show , even if it's only one single episode , knows what nearly dying with laughter truly feels like ! The premise is so incredibly simple and yet every single episode feels totally refreshing and original , even after a million repeated viewing . We have the naturally gifted writers to thank for that , but also the super-enthusiast regular cast as well as loads of guest appearances and cameos . Every actor or actress who means something in Flanders popped up in this show sooner or later and they clearly all loved their little parts . We follow the five volunteers of a helpline center where teenagers can anonymously call to whenever they face typical social problems or questions regarding adulthood . There isn't that much work and thus the main characters constantly flee into a world of fantasies , dreams and absurd hypothetical situations . Every episode features a main theme ( sex , drugs , death , ) on which all the fantasies revolve but there are also running gags that return in every episode , like the negative comments of a family that supposedly watches the show on TV . The brilliance about the humor in " Buiten de Zone " is that the jokes are always genuinely hilarious without getting crude , vulgar or offensive . Even with vulnerable topics , like religion or suicide , the humor is always effective . This is comedy for all generations , even my parents never missed one episode , and it's the most creative formula that ever hit Belgian TV-screens .
