Well , if singing cockroaches and an endless stream of toilet humor is your thing , you might enjoy the film . . .	. . . of course , that might also mean you need extensive therapy . At least if you're over the age of seven . This film is an odd one . It's about a guy who moves into an apartment dominated by thousands upon thousands of cockroaches . I checked the director's entire filmography , and it seems like everything he does involves cockroaches . . . no , revolves around them . I'm guessing he's either fascinated by them or infatuated with them . I'm not sure which I find more disturbing . I wager he's got some counseling in his future . . . or maybe he's just a very large child , passing for an adult . That is the only group of people this . . . ' film ' could possibly appeal to . The plot is stupid and completely predictable , not to mention formulaic in every sense of the word . Absolutely no originality whatsoever . The pacing is surprisingly poor , for such a short film . The acting is sub-par . The writing is horrid . The songs sung by the cockroaches . . . don't get me started . The rest of the soundtrack just seems out of place . I know this was produced by MTV , but even for them , this is a new low . But apart from every negative I've written in this review , I must admit that I followed this film from the very beginning pretty much to the very end . . . something I rarely do anymore , except for when I'm at the cinema . Despite how much I hated it , I never took my eyes off it . Of course , this was probably just because this was aired during a violent lightning storm , and I was afraid if I turned on my computer before it was over , it might attract a bolt of lightning . Of course , if you need to believe otherwise . . . then go right ahead . I recommend this to children and people who enjoy childish humor . To give a quick example of said " humor " ; one scene has the main character running around town , collecting feces from various animals . Yes , seriously . The film is incredibly poorly done , and very amateurish in just about every aspect , but I suppose the kids won't mind . Personally , I'd choose a cartoon over this any day . . . but different strokes for different blokes .
You have been found guilty on the charge of being a dreadful movie , and are hereby condemned to obscurity and widespread , justified hatred	If this is not heavily featured on every list of " what not to watch " , it should only be because those keeping that particular list are not aware of its existence , which , as long as that remains so , is the acceptable alternative . I'm not kidding you , this is a bad " movie " . Joseph Meeker returns from the dead , with various vague , undefined supernatural powers , the most employed of which would seem to be appearing in new , increasingly comical-looking and ridiculous ( and never scary or creepy . . . in general , when this goes for the latter of those , it winds up just being bizarre , and attempts at the former just don't work , period ) outfits and stereotypes / archetypes , and he is portrayed by David Keith ( whom I respect in . . . well , at least Daredevil ) , doing a more often than not terribly inconsistent ( which could also have to do with script ) and often over the top performance . A character or two have personalities so unbelievably irritating that they're painful to watch . The editing thinks it's considerably more clever than it really is ( and what on Earth was with the red tint for the flashbacks ? ) . Cinematography . . . oh , dear . Framing , coverage , effective use of angle ( that one could be attributed some to editing , too , perhaps ) , please , guys , stop me when I say something you've ever heard about the existence of . As far as the technical side goes , this is a pretty lousy excuse for something more worthwhile to put in the projector than unexposed film . But why stop there ? The plot is just poor . The basic idea's been done , and it's been done so much better than this ( The Crow would be one ) . The way it's told is gimmicky , and while there is some explanation behind the flashbacks , it still doesn't satisfy . Pacing is about non-existent . The lead is distinctly unlikeable , and there's more personality in a barn door , not to mention that those are also considerably less wooden . Kelly Perine and Thomas Ian Nicholas ? What in the name of all that is good and just ( pun intended ) are you doing in this ? Perine , you were already funny before this , on The Drew Carey Show , Nicholas , well , I haven't seen you in anything preceding American Pie , but if nothing else , you were funny later on , and in those productions , the amusement was intentional . Dialog is . . . the less said , the better . Language is unrestrained , and tends to be stupid . The violence is shoddily done , and they don't even seem to care to try to hide it ( hinting at it might have been the smarter strategy ) . Characters , don't get me started . Why spend so much energy on portraying unexciting , at times utterly illogical , events ? The more you think about this , the worse it gets . It's not even passable as a " bad horror flick " , or a B movie ( it may very well pass through the rest of the alphabet , and go further still ) , it couldn't scare you on the scariest day of your life if it had an electrified scaring machine . I recommend this only to people who want to disprove how bad this is , and don't say I didn't warn ya .
Even though you might think the first set a fittingly low standard for the franchise , nothing can prepare you for just how bad this film is . . .	You learn everything new everyday . Had I never watched this film , I wouldn't have known the following ; apparently , cavemen had perfectly sharpened and rounded metal knives and wore make-up ; apparently , newborn pterodactyl ( whatever the plural form of that word is ) have feathers ; apparently , if you called an electrician in the late 80's , you'd get a pushy and respect-less jackass who prints out a business card that says " electrician and adventurer " . Seriously . The first was decent at best , this is just plain bad . No reason to sugar-coat it , no way around it , it's just bad . It shouldn't even be classified as ' horror ' , seeing as there are virtually no horror elements whatsoever in the film . The comedy elements are there , but they are just ridiculous and pitiful . The attempts at comic relief are so in-your-face and obvious that it's hard to sit through . The better part of the jokes and gags are cringe-worthy . The plot is nonsensical fantasy-babble . The acting is atrocious . The characters are paper-thin and poorly written . The dialog sounds like it was written by a child ( and a mentally retarded one at that ) . The score is so unbelievably , unforgivably 80's that it's hard to listen to without screaming at the top of your lungs . The special effects are so ludicrously obvious and easy to figure out that one has to wonder if that's what they're supposed to be . The whole film doesn't really make even the slightest bit of sense on any conceivable level . . . I know this was just made for a laugh , but , for crying out loud , even the dumbest movies have some purpose ( if absolutely nothing else , then at least to entertain ) . This doesn't seem to have any purpose at all ( other than to successfully squeeze money out of what I suppose must have been somewhat of a box-office hit of a first movie of the franchise ) . I recommend this to . . . well , no one , I guess , except for possibly 80's movie freaks who may get a kick out of just how bad it is . Everyone else should avoid .
I'm not sure what I was expecting . . .	. . . but it must have been more than what I got . I know this is a children's film , but that doesn't mean it has to be bad ( certainly not this bad ) . I don't recall when I last watched such a poorly produced film . . . if I ever have . The plot is nonsensical babble . The pacing is non-existent . The characters are empty , paper-thin clichés . The acting is incredibly poor and overdone , though I guess the actors had such bad material to work with , they couldn't have done much better . The effects are hideous , with little to no attempt made to hide how they are achieved . The costumes and make-up are just pathetic . . . no effort is made to hide where the masks end , and most of it is just so see-through that even children , I'm talking small ones , will be able to tell . The writing is quite poor ; I could never figure out if Halloweentown is supposed to be the direct opposite of our world ( what with the always closed cinema ) , or everyone who lived there were monsters . The world , fascinating as it may seem to very small children was , as another reviewer also points out much more competently presented in The Nightmare Before Christmas . The humor is painfully unfunny , and jokes are repeated ad nauseum . The tone is childish at best , and half of the actors even look like they're ashamed to be doing the film . The script , oh dear , the script . . . what the heck is the ' highschool sweetheart ' cliché doing in a children's film ? How many 7-year-olds even know what that is ? I'd guess it was an attempt at drawing in the older crowd as well ( give the parents something to enjoy ) , but when the film is this poor , how many people above the age of 10 will watch ? How many below , for that matter ? I'm sorry , but this is just so far below average that it astounds me that it spawned two sequels . Avoid at all costs . I recommend this only to kids who are incredibly easy to please . And even they should be allowed to watch something of higher quality .
Humiliating and mocking one of the single greatest comedy series since the invention of movies ( especially as far as those of Danish origin go )	I suppose there are ways in which this could have worked . The final film could have an irony towards the trademarks of the old ones . The somewhat invariable plot structure of the original series could be gently poked fun at . Most likely , of course , no movie should have been made in this series after the two-part ending of 1981 . . . but it was . And boy did they mess up royally . Yvonne is very sorely missed . The fact that the film does not featuring her is about as subtle as a pack of angry bulls running amok in a ceramics store that is being ravaged by a tornado . The character of Ruth , as portrayed by Grethe Sønck , is a pretty poor substitute . . . no offense to the actress , who is quite talented , but no one could have filled the shoes of Kirsten Walther . That fact alone should have discouraged them from creating this . Everything that the old films built up over the first four films and then maintained steadily through no less than nine entries is picked up , raised high in the air , ungentlemanly dropped and repeatedly jumped on , until there is nothing of the magic left , and everything that was once great about this franchise is destroyed beyond recognition . The humorous antics of these excellent actors put together by two great writers in a marvelous comedy series is reduced to a bunch of old men yelling . The humor that in the old ones was so sophisticated , light and clever is now indiscreet , noisy and lame . The movie isn't funny , to put it simply . The gags are overplayed and rarely contain actual humor . One scene is painfully drawn-out and cartoony in its feeble attempts at being entertaining . The senility is pushed to the extreme , in spite of this series earlier attempts at joking with that topic having been right on the mark and quite successful . I don't believe I smiled once throughout watching this . . . and this was definitely my very last viewing . The film is by no means an Olsen-Banden film . . . it starts , progresses and ends too different from the others . I understand and can almost appreciate the attempted nostalgia , but when it so viciously devastates everything that made these movies good . . . they should have let this franchise be . After this came the Christmas calendar of which the very logic and basic concept is deeply flawed and contradicts the series ( disrespecting its very roots , though not in the least as much as this does ) , and the movie following the idea of aforementioned calendar , which I continually refuse to watch . So far , that's the last of the " revival " of ( more like cash-in on ) the famous , loved and astounding old series . . . let's hope it stays that way . Cinematography is nice . Plot is contrived , writing poor . The costumes and production design fits the style of the old films , although here , much of it looks out of place . The film fails to create one single memorable scene . Near the end , all the characters - new and old alike - are collected together in one scene , around a dozen , with less than half of them having anything to do . In many ways , this is a sophomoric effort . In more ways , it's humiliating and embarrassing . The very ending , the last of the film does possess a single clever comment . . . but by then , it's much , much too late . There is nothing left to even try to save . Had they only stopped in ' 81 . There's a saying . . . " leave them wanting more " . This film left me wishing I hadn't had quite so much . I don't really recommend this to anyone . Have someone describe the ending to you , and make sure they don't tell you anything else about the film .
Awful , in every possible sense of the word	Mariah Carey . The woman . The singer . The pop-tart ( like the pun ? You know , Pop as in pop music , and tart , as in . . . eh , forget it ) . Her face is attractive , her body is desirable , her smile is blinding and her voice is annoying , loud and reminds me of sonar , or dog whistles . She's made a name for herself , in music , making plenty of money and gaining popularity . That's fine . As long as she doesn't force the music down our throats ( or rather , into our ears ) , I'm fine with that . Then she had to go and make a movie . . . now , I'm one who believes very much in tolerating everyone . We all have to be here , and we can't all do or like the same things . But when you make such a bad movie . . . I'm speechless . Seriously . Whoever thought up the idea for this Mariah Carey-vehicle should be issued a restraining order ; stay at least five hundred yards away from movie-making at all times . The director ( who's apparently only done forgettable projects in the past , as well ) should be fined for putting such a thing on film . The editor , or whoever else was behind the fast " stylish " cuts . . . should be forced to take a film class ( which , I suspect , would be the person's first ever ) . The plot is ridiculous and uninteresting ( but , then again , this is based on Mariah Carey's life , so what should one expect ? ) . The pacing is bad . The acting is really , really bad . Carey acts worse than she sings , and anyone who's heard her voice knows exactly what that means . The characters are poorly written and one-dimensional . The dialog is so bad that it's almost painful to listen to . . . it's almost as bad as Carey's singing . The film is just so poorly done in every thinkable , conceivable way . Only die-hard Mariah Carey fans should spend time and / or money on this mess . Oh , and in case you hadn't noticed or were wondering ; yes , I hate Mariah Carey . So I may or may not be biased against this movie . . . but I hate Ja Rule and Leslie Nielsen as well , and they had semi-big parts in Scary Movie 3 , and that I enjoyed immensely . This one just had nothing to offer at all . I recommend it exclusively to big fans of Mariah Carey . Everyone else should avoid this like the plague .
At best , good for a laugh	Hollywood produces extreme amounts of films ; many of these films aren't great . Some of them are exceptionally bad . Every once in a great while , a film comes around that is so awful , so horribly , poorly , badly done , that everyone who knows of its mere existence loathes it . This is one of those films . The premise itself is laughable ; I'm almost entirely sure that whoever thought up the plot for this movie had just seen a special about killer ants from Africa on Animal Planet or Discovery , and thought : " Hey ! Wouldn't it be way cool to put those in a movie ? " Then he figured he would have to find out how to take the ants from Africa to America . From there on end , it went downwards ( ! ) . I thank god that this is only a TV-movie , since that limits how many people will see it . The plot is ridiculous , the pacing is bad , the film never manages to inspire any fear at all . . . actually , I laughed more during it than I laughed at the last comedy I saw . The acting is laughable . . . I know Eric Lutes has about no experience in acting at all , but I think I remember him being a much better actor in the series Caroline In The City . The characters are poorly written and even more poorly developed . The special effects are horrible , and reek of low-budget , like the rest of this tame movie . All in all , just a really , really bad film , which should only be viewed if you feel like laughing at a poor attempt at making a horror movie . I recommend it only to people who enjoy watching bad movies to make fun of them , and only if it's on TV , so you can watch it for free . Otherwise , avoid .
Hmmm . . . contains some spoilers	I had heard good things about Phenomena , and I thought that was what I had found when I borrowed this from a friend ; however , what I saw was , apparently , the heavily cut , shoddy American version , Creepers . While I can't compare this to the original , I doubt that it can be very good , if it contains the same footage that was in Creepers . I don't care how much film was cut from that , it couldn't possibly have been good . I'll start by bitching about the music ; how can someone , ANYONE , possibly think that rock music like that belongs in a horror movie , any horror movie ? It belongs , if anywhere , in an action movie . Next complaint is the camera angles ; never have I seen anything so confusing on film , as was seen in the last half hour of film . Not even in Vidocq , and that says a lot . That's the second worst camera movement ever ; the entirety of Vidocq . Hmmm , what else . . . oh yes ! The special effects . Never have I seen such extreme use of special effects . And the worst part of it is , they're ONLY there to terrify ; none of them are ever explained properly . SPOILER For example , the boy with the monstrous face . . . oh , he's got ' A disease ' , OK , now it all makes sense ; so that's why his face is totally disfigured . And the pool of dead people , we are never told why that crazy bitch is conserving corpses . The movie , as a whole ( if you can even call this mess a whole ) barely makes sense , at any level . I guess if you like insects , or you like to watch special effects that serve no real purpose in the film , you might like it .
Just really , really , really bad	I honestly don't know how I've managed to sit through this P . O . S . movie even once ; it sucks so bad that it's impossible to know , or even speculate , how on earth it got through the entire production process , and all the way to the movies . The fact that this film isn't on the bottom 100 list here on the site is both astounding and scary . The movie is carried by usual 80's action / adventure clichés , bad acting , awful special effects , a wandering plot that barely makes sense no matter how you look at it , or how much you suspend disbelief . Believe me , the ridiculous dialog ( with lines like " No ! He'll hit you ! Duck ! " " And proud of it ! " ) is just the nail in the coffin . Seriously , what was wrong with the people who made this movie ? They get almost painfully attractive Lea Thompson ( probably best known as Caroline of Caroline In The City ) , place her in a scene in her underwear , and then they stop there . What's wrong with these people ? A talking duck ? Come on . . . I know that this was based on a comic book , but judging from the movie ( and its success , or , rather , lack thereof ) it should have stayed as a comic book . The film even makes Tim Robbins , a very good actor , look like a complete and utter moron , not to mention a poor actor ( which he definitely is not ) . The film is just so horribly dated and poorly done that it's ridiculous . Granted , it's somewhat original , but originality does not equal greatness . The film is basically a tour of the 80's , and a great example of how ( poor ) movies were made in the 80's . At least it did terrible at the box office , so we weren't forced to tolerate a sequel to this crap . Some might enjoy this , but I certainly didn't . I recommend this only to huge fans of typical 80's movies . Everyone else ; stay away . Far away .
The one positive about this " film " is that it was the last of its kind	If in making this , Schumacher attempted to create a film that looks and feels like a comic book , the man has either never actually opened one such , or all he saw was the bright lights , flamboyance and the worst of the text . This has all that made Batman Forever painful , only much , much more of it . The vast majority of dialog is puns ( Arnold has some particularly cringe-inducing one-liners ) , in particular the lines of the costumed characters , and they're obvious , ridiculous and in no way funny . Gotham City , once seen so dark and bleak , is now bathed in neon lights ( in fact , little in the film isn't ) . The tone no longer holds any darkness , it's just comical . All of the acting is overdone . John Glover later redeemed himself on Smallville , proving that he can work with material based on comic books without performing like he did herein . We did not need more parodying of the characters ; if anyone desired to view such , they'd go watch the 60's series . In trying to outdo those that came before it , the film introduces far too many heroes and villains , and clearly doesn't know what to do with all of them . Batgirl hardly has anything to do , and may very well have been added for the sake of political correctness , and perhaps because Joel wanted another teenager who shows up the adults . Pat Hingle and Michael Gough are still there , each playing the same character as they have since the ' 89 film , in what can only be extreme loyalty , contractual obligation , or both . As with the film before it , one villain's background is neatly summed up whilst we see a brief clip of the transformation . . . in contrast to how well Burton handled two transformations , in Batman Returns . There is no characterization present . Everyone is flat and one-note . The plot , that of it that isn't just recycled from Forever , is cookie-cutter , plain , silly , and at times makes absolutely no sense ( case in point : the master plan of the villains . . . excuse me ? ) . The cinematography is uninspired , which is odd , because Forever , whilst rather insulting , wasn't bad in that area . The same goes for the editing ; here , there's actually a shot that is reversed half-way through , which is really so obvious you have to see it to believe it ( perhaps the editor realized how badly it sucked , or maybe he wanted to be fired ) , footage seems reused , and lines ( unnecessary and embarrassing ones , at that ) are pasted where they clearly aren't actually spoken . There are cartoon sound effects used for some of the action . No , seriously . And to top it all off , this can't even be seen as innocent , pure entertainment , for if the many innuendos ( some really not appropriate for children ) were not enough , Silverstone actually has a line in which she asks her elderly uncle to dress her . No , it doesn't actually mean what one might think , but still . And does anyone actually like the butt shots in the montages of the characters suiting up ? Characters are yet again messed with , for no good reason . I've been told that one of the villains is essentially the complete opposite in this of his character in the comics . Batman , as well as Robin , always have the exact gadgets that they need , and the former's detective skills are helped along by the utter carelessness of his enemies . Dialog and characters that hold no other purpose than exposition are strewn about with a complete lack of subtlety . The special effects are usually pretty bad ? in Forever , there was little to no animation , or it was used so subtly , you couldn't tell . Here , it's plain to see , and it does not look real . Really , this has no merit . It is impressive , and in some cases ( read : that of the director ) sad that anyone working on this film had a career after it . And for this , Schwarzenegger went back on not playing villains anymore ? I recommend this to those who must know how bad it is , because there is simply no way to convey it other than a showing .
Deserves its low rating	I haven't seen any Steven Seagal movies apart from this one , and I probably won't , considering how awful this one is . If the rest of his films are even remotely as bad as this one , I can't understand how he could manage to have such a long career . Everything about this film is bad : the plot is lame , slow , and has more holes in it than the victim of a heavy burst of machine gun fire . The acting is horrendous , by each and every single actor ; I don't really blame Caine , McGinley or Thornton , I've seen them do much better . I blame the lousy script and the badly written characters . The characters are as cliché as they get . The dialog , ugh , the dialog . . . how can I possibly make it clear just how impossibly bad and unimaginative it is . . . do you know the saying : " this is so bad that it's good " ? Well , the dialog in this movie , to quote Ghost World , " is so bad it's gone past good and back to bad again " . The whole movie reeks cliché from every orifice . The fight scenes are OK , but they don't make up for the rest of the movie . Also , all of the fighting is seen before , and done better plenty of times . By the way , what the heck was up with the extreme overuse of slow-motion , especially during the fight scenes ? It was even used at all the wrong places , most of the time . The film has a message , yes , and a good one , definitely , but the way it's told is so unbelievably obvious and preachy . . . has Seagal ever heard of " subtlety " ? Apparently not . I only recommend this to huge fans action / martial arts , and possibly also huge Seagal fans . For everyone else , you should skip this one . You can find a better way to kill slightly less than two hours .
For huge fans of Lance Henriksen only	This is one of those movies that some networks / TV channels buy the rights to for slim to nothing , and then put on when they've got nothing better . Unfortunately , I was not aware of that , when I caught this on TV a few years ago . Actually , I just realized it today , when I watched it for the second time , and was met by the same disappointment . The film has just about everything that a movie is supposed to have . . . the elements are all there , they just . . . suck , I believe the appropriate word is . It's got a plot . . . but it's paper-thin . It's got acting . . . but it's atrocious . It's got several characters . . . all of which are clichés and stereotypes . It's got dialog . . . but it's cringe-worthy for the most part . It's got action . . . but it's poorly choreographed and even more amateurishly executed . It's got twists . . . but they are obvious from a mile away . It's even got a good point . . . but it's told in an overly preachy fashion . All in all , the film just really doesn't have anything to offer . . . apart from seeing Lance Henriksen in a really bad role , and seeing Nancy Allen in a post-RoboCop trilogy role . Nothing else . The film is laughable in its attempts to entertain , and winds up only being tolerable due to the ( obviously unintentional ) comic relief , provided by the astounding amount of stereotypes and clichés . I recommend this only to huge fans of Lance Henriksen . . . and possibly ( provided that they do exist ) fans of Nancy Allen .
And here you thought the original was bad . . .	This is pretty much the first Jason Scott Lee film I've seen . I say pretty much , because I have also seen Soldier , in which he plays the villain . . . but from what I've heard , it's not considered a Jason Scott Lee film . This , however , is . And if this is any indication of the quality of such films , I won't be seeing any of the others . Lee is basically passable as a martial arts artist . . . as the lead , he's awful . He gets in a fight with random no-name characters every few minutes of the film , probably because the script writer couldn't figure out how else to stretch out the film to the minimum required running time for a feature film . The villain is the only character with even a hint of personality , and aside from the fact that he's certifiably insane , he barely seems like a villain at all . The majority of the film is basically Lee chasing the villain through time . . . or maybe it's the other way around . I can't say for sure . . . and I definitely wouldn't watch it again to make sure . The effects are not completely horrible . . . but it's close . The title comes from the popular idea of using a time-machine to go and kill Hitler . Somehow , the film screws up that interesting idea as well . The plot is too complicated for its own good . The pacing is poor . I can't think of one positive thing to say about this film . . . I really can't . It's simply too formulaic and pointless . If only I had a time-machine , so I could go back and prevent this film from ever being made . . . no , never mind . I just hope as few fragile minds are exposed to this as possible . Listen to the negative reviewers . Avoid this turkey . I recommend this to fans of Lee , and no one else . If you're looking for a quality film . . . well , this isn't it . That's for sure .
Wish I could give it a 0 ( the worst movie ever )	I did not expect anything from this movie . Not at all . I expected it to be about two hours of chick movie . I was heavily disappointed . It was even worse . Not only did it have an annoying chick feel throughout the movie , it was so predictable . I sat through it , constantly being able to figure out what happens next . And the ending was probably the worst I've ever seen . Don't watch it if you're a guy , even if you're being pressured by girls and / or Britney fans . The only reason I can think of to see this movie , is that there are two scenes in which Britney is in her underwear .
Possibly the worst spy-movie ever made . . . and that says a lot	Oh dear . . . where to begin ? Everything in this movie was so excruciatingly bad and awful that I could only manage to glance at it briefly every fifteen-twenty minutes . I have a theory that this movie was originally supposed to be a pilot episode of a new series ; that doesn't really change how implausibly bad it is . It just makes me happy to see that , even though even the worst ideas for new TV-shows slip through and become pilot episodes , only the least horrible actually gets picked up by studios . The plot is poorly written , thought up and put together . It's so simple that I could easily follow it , even though I barely paid attention to the film at all . The pacing is just plain bad . I couldn't muster up the effort to look at the screen for more than about a half minute or less before turning my attention to something else , something more stimulating , which , when it comes to this movie , can be drawing circles on a piece of paper or counting cracks in the ceiling . The acting is atrocious . It appears that most of the actors are Aussies . . . Australians , I feel your pain . I would embarrassed too . The characters are , as another reviewer points out , cardboard cutouts . Paperthin and empty , with no personality . Everyone's either 100 % good or evil . The dialog is painful and embarrassing to listen to . Lines like " They looked like evil Spice Girls " and " Help ! Lesbian rapists ! " just make me cringe , and I'm sure I'm not the only one . The script is as lackluster and uninspired as they come . Every trick in the book is here , for action / sci-fi / spy movies : the bad guy kidnaps one of the good guys , and tries to bring her over to his side , the hero has got every single gadget imaginable at his disposal , the bad guy wants to destroy the entire world for no particular reason . . . I could go on , but I see no point in it . The hero spouts one-liners that would make Arnold Schwarzenegger cringe . Need I continue ? This is just a truly pointless and entirely skip-worthy film that has no redeeming features and nothing memorable or even slightly original . I recommend this to easily impressed teenagers , and urge anyone else to find something better to do with their time .
Just when you thought the series couldn't get any worse . . .	Well , here it is . . . the last Porky's film . The lowest of the low . Does it actually get any worse than this ? I hope not . The first two movies had some ( albeit not an awful lot ) value and were just above being garbage committed to celluloid . . . this one is different , worse . The direction is lazy and uninspired . Scene after scene is misdirected and lacks effect . The writing , since the first two films , has taken a turn for the worse , something I didn't think possible before watching this tripe . Characters are messed up completely , going in a completely different direction from what was seen in the first two films . Jokes and gags are incredibly forced and unforgivably poor . The humor is taken down a further notch from the first two films ; again , a surprise for those of us who weren't aware that it was possible to go any lower . Acting is overplayed and uninspired . Unlike the first two films , this one doesn't have one single redeeming quality . . . it's just bad . Really , really bad . I couldn't give you one good reason to watch this film . . . not a single one . I recommend this only to people who loved the first two so much that they simply can't stand the notion of there being a film in the series that they haven't seen . . . no matter how bad it is . Everyone else should avoid this . . . at all and any costs .
Horrible	Having seen only one other Bix Skahill film ( well , actually , looking on his filmography , this is only his second film , meaning I've seen everything he's done , feature-film-wise ) , I must say , this is really bad compared to the other one . Chain Of Fools ( which wasn't directed by Bix , only written by him . . . maybe that's the problem with this one ? ) was good for a laugh ; it wasn't great , but it was original , fun and a good use of a great cast . This is a muddled mess of the genres romance and comedy , neither of which really work in this film . The jokes fall flat , the romance doesn't hold up and the characters are unlikable , one-dimensional and their actions are often illogical and out of character . The film has a number of subplots , several of which are reused from Chain Of Fools ( jeez , show some imagination , will you ? ) . Several actors from Chain Of Fools also have parts in this one , but their talents are pretty much wasted here . The film has nothing new to offer ; if you've seen Chain Of Fools , you've seen what Bix can accomplish . . . this is , unfortunately , a mess of a movie , and a bad example of his work . The dialog is poorly written , most of the parts are overplayed , the film has no redeeming qualities and no funny moments . Please , Bix , spend more time writing the next script , OK ? Or if you're going to direct again , please learn how to do so before releasing something as bad as this film . I don't really recommend this to anyone , as it's just really , really bad . Go watch Chain Of Fools ( or , even better , something even funnier than that ) instead .
Starts low , goes to the bottom , and finally goes through the bottom , lower than the lowest of the low . . . and that's low	When I heard about this film ( some three years ago , I think ) I immediately shunned the very thought of sparing it as much as a glance , due to my strong dislike of Matthew Perry . Then the TV channels started sending it . Over . And over . And over . And today , after who knows how many times I've skipped it ( which I thank myself for , even more so now ) , I decided to give it a shot . . . you know why ? I found out Neve Campbell was in it . Of course , that's not the only reason . . . Campbell's hot , and a good actress , but she's not good enough to outweigh Perry's aggravatingly stupid presence . No , what really did it was that I found out that John C . McGinley had a role in it . Believe me , as long as he's in it , I'll watch almost anything . I discovered and immediately loved McGinley when I saw an episode of the series " Scrubs " , and saw , nay , experienced his character of Dr . Perry Cox dish out one hell of a verbal punishment . I'm not exaggerating , I'd watch " Scrubs " if it was just half a minute of McGinley giving one of his speeches directly at the camera , once a week . I love his character . Since I know he often plays that same type of character ( The Animal , On Deadly Ground and The Rock ) , I hoped that he would have a big role in this , and that he'd make the movie tolerable . Unfortunately , it was not to be . His entire screen-time amounts to about five minutes in total , and the film is even more horrible that I could have imagined . The plot is one of the most ridiculous and unoriginal that I've ever heard . The pacing is so bad that it seems like the director expects the audience through anything . The acting is not worth mentioning . The characters are all clichés and stereotypes . . . especially the characters that were supposed to be homosexuals . Believe me , I try to be tolerable . My personal philosophy of , well , anything at all , pretty much , is as follows : as long as it doesn't hurt anyone , I'm fine with it . Homosexuality , metro sexuality , sports . . . anything . As long as no one is hurt , neither physically nor psychologically . I try to tolerate and respect any and all movies out there . . . but I can't bring myself to respect this putrid piece of trash . I know the majority of people are ( at least , so it would appear , from all the ' entertainment ' based on this assumption ) ignorant when it comes to homosexuality . . . but this is too much . This is too far . Every single human being is supposed to have that one impulse-controlling part of the brain , the one that keeps you from jumping on every woman that walks by you , and so on . . . but apparently the director and everyone else who really had anything to say on the production on this . . . ' film ' didn't have that . Just when you think it has reached the bottom , it goes lower . Why must Hollywood portray homosexuals as constantly horny , will-take-what-they-can-get types ? Are we supposed to think they are some kind of animal ? A genetic mutation ? Why ? Just because they aren't interested in women on a sexual level ? I think if I ever had one wish granted , it would be to have a . . . shall we say ' talk ' with the director of this putrid piece of cinema . Tell him exactly how ignorant he is . . . if possible , keep him from spewing of more movies like this . It's people like him and the director of other horrible propaganda-like movies like Saving Silverman , which displayed atrocious amounts of misogynistic tendencies in its tone that are the downfall of morality . . . not violence in popular media . I don't recommend this movie to anyone . . . stay away . . . far away . You might catch ' stupid ' from watching it . I know my head feels lighter . . . about 20-30 IQ points .
A good candidate for the most pointless waste of 90 minutes ever	Why is it , that when Hollywood wants to make a children's movie , they immediately jump to the conclusion that it has to be childish ? You can make perfectly good children's movies that people over the age of six can watch , too , you know . Just look at The Neverending Story , or several of Disney's productions . This movie just does everything wrong . Instead of doing good humor , they settle for some cheap slapstick comedy , coupled with gross-out comedy , and to add that final flavor of crap , some childish comedy . The main character is in no way likable , not even the least bit ; he's annoying , a jerk , a retard , he has the social skills of an infant and worst of all , he keeps destroying things beyond repair , only to blame it on someone else ( on a similar note ; am I the only one who thinks that " it wasn't me " is ripped from Steve Urkel's " did I do that ? " or Bart Simpson's " I didn't do it " ? Lastly , both of those catchphrases are far superior and much more entertaining than the one from this lame movie ) . The ' love ' story is unlikely and obviously just thrown in to take up screen-time and to not disappoint that little group of emotionally disturbed people who can't watch a movie that doesn't end with the unlikely hero winning the girl , no matter how ludicrous a case it is . The plot is about as nonsensical as they come , and is merely put together to allow for plenty of painfully unfunny " comedy " scenes . The characters are clichés . The acting is so far below average that it's ridiculous . Everything about this movie is lame and unfunny . Pity , too , because Dumb and Dumber proved that Harland Williams can be funny , if only mildly . In this he's just juvenile and annoying . I wouldn't even recommend this to kids , as it's simply so bad . The special effects look hideous , too , and are really directly embarrassing to professional movie-making . This could have been made in the 60's , and it would have looked better . The humor is childish and lame , there wasn't one single moment throughout the runtime where I as much as smiled at a joke or gag . The jokes and gags are forced and try way too hard to be funny , and just end up looking embarrassing to the cast and the filmmakers , who , surely , can do better than this pitiful waste of time and energy . The runtime is barely 90 minutes , yet it's incredibly hard to sit through . I urge you , please , avoid this like the plague . It's more bad than you can possibly believe . I recommend this to no one , not even kids ; well , actually , if you're a parent and you need your kid to leave you alone for about 90 minutes , put this on , and just avoid even catching a glimpse of it . That's the only possible use I can come up with for this unbelievably bad " movie " . If you do have it , if you rented it on VHS or DVD , I only have one suggestion ( apart from the above mentioned one and of course returning it as soon as humanly possible ) ; fast-forward about 45 minutes into the film , where there is played a good , old-fashioned rock song , something 60's or 70's , I'd guess . That's the one redeeming quality of this film , and it's not even enough to bring the rating up from the lowest score of one .
What a pathetic attempt	It amazes me that there are so many people who like this movie ; or wait , maybe " amazes " is a wrong word to use here . . . " concerns " , or maybe " terrifies " is more like it . The movie is solely based on the one joke of a guy being dead , and no one noticing it . This might have worked if it was considerably shorter ( like , an hour and a half shorter , if not more ) but it just isn't funny when it's put into a two hour movie . Normally I love black humor , but this was just way too far out . The whole joke depends on everyone in the vicinity , who sees the body being total retards , and that just seems like a stretch . The plot is far-fetched and hardly funny ( at all ) . The characters are walking , talking cliches . The actors all lack any charisma or on-screen chemistry ( with each other ) . The humor relies solely on a lot of mix-ups , one more ridiculous and unrealistic than the other ; yes , arguably , a lot of comedies use unrealistic scenes or plot items , however , the movie lacks any sort of realism at all , it might as well have taken place in outer space , that wouldn't have made it any more far-fetched . The whole " dead guy who everyone thinks is alive " is just not that funny , especially because when he was alive , he seemed to be walking and talking constantly , yet no one suspects anything when he suddenly stops reacting . The movie has so many ridiculous and unfunny scenes that it's hard to keep count of them . Some of the humor is also slap-stick , and while I've never liked slap-stick , I can honestly say that it has been done so much better , so many times . I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone , unless I seriously loathe them , and want them to experience the horror of this pile of crap . Avoid at all costs , and I DO mean ALL COSTS .
When exactly did Michael Moore become a " master of science fiction " ?	Wow , that was awful ! My fiancée ( who has aided me in several other recent reviews of mine ) and I watched this last night , and the quality was so low , we decided to write a review of it together . . . to warn off anyone lucky enough to not have watched it yet . No , the " documentary " - maker may not have had a direct hand in creating ( nay , spawning ) this episode , but it sure reeks of him . The story was preachy and condescending , not to mention poorly structured ( essentially entirely built up around the political agenda that it forces upon us for a good deal of it ) . Another trait that fits with him having made it is the blatant anti-Americanism . No matter your stance in politics , no matter how you feel about the agenda pushed here , the presentation is undeniably extremely poor . . . which is really the very core of the problem with this . The message was heavy-handed , preachy ( at you , not even to you ) and insulting . This made After School Specials look subtle and Jerry Springers ' Final Thought look intelligent . It's not so much Masters of Science Fiction as Masters , if even that , of Left Wing Propaganda . The acting was unimpressive , save for perhaps O'Quinn ( whose presence in the episode , coupled with our attraction to the genre of science fiction were largely the reasons we watched the episode ) , but Rohm , for example , is just . . . bad . Why she keeps being cast is a mystery . Editing was OK , cinematography had moments that made me wish the director would pursue music videos , instead . The special effects seemed as if they wanted to save any money they could . . . save for one effect , which was good , and another , which seemed to have no purpose at all . The writing is quite lousy . . . clichés are plentiful , it was drenched in naivety , predictability abounds , the story never really captivates ( in spite of its title , I could easily see people falling asleep during it ) , even though it manages to rip off far more established sci-fi titles ( including Independence Day and The Day The Earth Stood Still . . . the latter being from when obvious messages in this genre were at least more accepted and usual , and actually a well-produced piece of celluloid ; this was simplistic , offensive . . . modern propaganda ) . The writer / director seems to have also taken a note from X-Files ( in addition to promoting The Cigarette Smoking Man to President ) , in leaving the ending open ( to appease and appeal to both religious people and UFO enthusiasts . . . and here's hoping they'll all see right through it ) . The score was . . . strange . I'm not sure who thought those drums were a good idea . The production values aren't dreadful . The President and Americans , particularly military officials , all come off as war-mongers ( the throwaway line about the fallout , oh please ) . The good guys are all the other countries , in this piece of pap . How was this even sci-fi ? Heck , it could easily be argued that there is nothing that would bring about that classification to be found at all . Ignore the promos . Please . For your own good . And these are the " masters " ? These episodes , the cream of the crop ( since they were the ones ABC chose to air , there were two they didn't ? what must they have been like ) ? Somehow , early parts aren't devoid of promise . . . the first scene with O'Quinn actually has some dialog and points that were interesting , and the first episode , " A Clean Escape , " did at least show some quality to it . The only value this has is to be laughed at . We want our hour back . It should be noted that we only got to see these first two episodes , as our local ABC affiliate chose to air pre-season football instead of the two episodes following it . . . and ABC buried it in a spot in the summer , when they would be watched by hardly anyone . I recommend this only to those who agree with the message being shoved down the throats of viewers . . . so the preaching can go no further than the ears of the choir . . . and those who are fans of science fiction and / or Terry O'Quinn should especially stay away . Far , far away . And to the people behind this sorry excuse for entertainment and / or commentary : Guys . . . get on a soap-box and stay away from this fine medium ( or , as my fiancée suggested , stick to message boards , so you can be put on Ignore ) . We don't need more sci-fi this badly . In case you were wondering if my fiancée and I hated this . . . yes . Yes , we did . We wish we could give this a zero , but . . .
Brings new meaning to the term ' insulting to the viewers intelligence '	Values change over time . A hundred years ago , you were happy if you could live past the age of thirty and had someone you liked to spend your time with . Until recently , you expected an action film to be more than a muscled guy spouting poor one-liners and blowing stuff up . Well , I guess that would be recently meaning up to the early 80's . . . but this is really setting a new standard , breaking all limits and going through the bottom and setting a whole new low . When did movies get this damn loud ? I had to turn down the volume before the opening title appeared on the screen . Before I proceed with this review , I must give you an example of just how bad it is , try to give you an idea of it . About three minutes into the film , a guy ( who is clearly a secret agent , and clearly meant to die right away ) runs through a crowded dance floor , knowing he's been spotted . Instead of trying to disappear in the crowd ( come on , nobody does that anymore . . . right ? I mean , it wouldn't do anything . . . not even throw off the orientation of whoever is chasing him and give the sniper aiming at him a run for his money ) , he jumps up on the stage . . . making himself the most obvious freaking target ever . So what happens ? He gets shot . Big surprise . Yeah , but what happens next ? He falls backwards into the crowds ' hands , who treat him like he was stage-diving . . . ( backwards . . . unmoving . . . with a big , red spot on the front of his suit . . . honestly , how much does the film-makers expect us to swallow ? ) No , seriously . At that point ( well , actually even before that ) I knew that the movie I was about to see wouldn't have any value or serve as anything even remotely interesting . It's not even a decent time-killer . . . I've stared at spots that were far more exciting than the fake , clearly orchestrated action . I've seen drunks and stoners that were more coordinated than the gun hit placements in this film . The plot makes no conceivable sense . The pacing is so far off that I'm surprised I didn't fall asleep a few minutes ( not to say it wasn't a struggle ) . The acting is horrendous , with one or two possible exceptions . One thing I want to make perfectly clear ; Vin Diesel is NOT one of those exceptions . Vin Diesel . . . what kind of a damn name is that ? You don't have to be a genius to figure out it's a fake name ( oh , sorry , an ' artistic ' name . . . please ) . You want to know his real name ? Check his biography . No , wait , I'll make it even easier ; I'll tell you . It's Mark Vincent . Now doesn't that just sound cool ? No ? Well , apparently Mark didn't think so either . What's that ? He was convinced that he wouldn't be popular with that name ? Well , Schwarzenegger didn't change his name . Neither did Van Damme . They seem popular enough . . . right ? The truth is , Mark is just a poser . . . he's just another muscled guy who can't act but who is attractive to the girls ( god only knows what they find so damn amazing by that brainless jock ) . He spends half of the movie talking about how it's bull that video-games and violent movies corrupt the American youth , and you can't help but think about what he says . . . and realize it's true . He's the one corrupting them , he and anyone else responsible for this movie and any other of its kind . All this talk of anarchy and the general ' screw you ' attitude towards any form of authority . . . seriously , it's like they're trying hard to turn kids against parents , teachers and cops . Isn't America sufficiently plagued with young criminals ? And what the hell is up with the thoroughly misogynistic way of presenting female characters ? Just about all of them are whores and generally just there to please the men . No protests , no ' I'm better than this stuff ' attitude anywhere . . . they just accept that women are made to serve men , and nothing else . The one female character who isn't " giving it away for free " as my favorite character ever , Dr . Cox of the TV show Scrubs would put it , is still a hooker . I think her exact words are ' I could be your girl instead of his ( the bad guy's ) . . . if you would pay me as much as he does ' . OK , so maybe she isn't really a prostitute . . . but she falls head over heels over Mark , after knowing him for very little time . Finally , I'd just like to say that the effects are generally horrid , the action is dull , derivative and lacking in any imagination or creativity and the weapon / gadgets usually work as a huge tease . Being the big lover of weapons that I am , I was a tad excited when Mark was handed what has to be one of the biggest damn hand-cannons seen on film . Imagine my disappointment when the sap barely uses it at all . The same goes for gadgets ( less important , but still ) . Also , near the end , Mark gets to drive a bad-ass car with a trunk-load ( literally ) of destructive hardware . . . and it's only used for having the typical ' there must be something here we can use / oh what does this button do then ' scene . The characters are all stereotypes and clichés , with Mark being the guy who saves the world because he has muscles , a low vocabulary , a ridiculous accent and some poor one-liners , Asia being the girl who falls in love with Mark for no apparent reason , the geek who gives Mark his gadgets ( I won't bother to change his name ) . Eve even shows up , seemingly just to tell off a video game producer . . . because Mark won't ' sell out ' . Whatever the hell that means . Wouldn't someone fighting for video-games be honored or consider it a victory to have his own game ? I recommend this only to fans of Mark as well as mindless teenagers with no conception of how the real world works . If you're still not sure , yes , I do hate Mark Vincent / Vin Diesel . I really do .
You know what's funny ? Not this movie . . .	Yep , that's it . Cold and hard . You can call this film ' sweet ' . You can try to justify its existence through every possible way known to man . You can even claim that it's romantic , rather than dated , derivative and ' been there , done that ' . Nothing will change the fact that this film simply is not funny . The humor is just not there . The chemistry between the cast is non-existent . The film reeks of ' could have been ' . There's nothing funny about it . While I watched , I tried come up with things less amusing than this film ; I couldn't think of a thing . Within the first thirty minutes or so , there's an ethnic wedding . Somehow , I felt that it was supposed to be funny , that I should laugh , but nothing about it was even remotely humorous . Early on , there's a scene where Aniston's character's boss tells her she needs to spend more money than she has if she wants a promotion . I couldn't help but be disgusted at this ; in a country where a few people have almost all of the money and so many people have nothing at all , someone actually looks down who doesn't spend more than they need to . Worse even , this is passed off as humor . I felt like turning off the TV at that point , but due to my strong curiosity , in other words , my desire to find out if this garbage got any worse forced me to keep watching . Fortunately , it didn't , but I still couldn't muster up the effort to watch attentively after that first half hour . The plot is so stupid and far-fetched that it's almost a waste of space to put it in writing here , but I feel that I must warn others , deter them from watching this utter mess . Aniston , as just mentioned , can't get a promotion if she doesn't start spending more money . Her friend knows this , so she does what any sensible person would do for their best friend . . . she uses a big , fat lie to get her the promotion . She tells the boss that Aniston is engaged to be wed . Apparently , this also makes her attractive to a guy she's in love with . . . like I said , I didn't pay much attention to it . Not much else to say . . . the acting is fair . Jay Mohr ( who I am a fairly big fan of , and because of whom I watched the film at all ) does very good , as usual . The film isn't really worth watching , for any reason at all . I recommend this only to huge fans of one of the leads and girls who sob over even the most ridiculous love story . No one else should bother .
Remember when this series was good ? . . . me neither . . . . well . . . remember when it was tolerable ?	The first film was perhaps watchable , the second not even that , and now the series reaches utter . . . what is the film , even ? I'm not sure I'd call it horror . It seems almost like they had an idea or two for something to put in a House flick , and wrote an overall plot ( well . . . ) around it , and hoped everyone would go along with it . William Katt ( whom you may recognize from Carrie , and . . . uh . . . ) returns , possibly in some attempt to give the movie some merit . . . it doesn't work . Some completely gratuitous nudity is included . Some utterly disgusting stuff is , as well , for nothing even resembling a good reason . The film sacrifices sense for . . . not sure I could tell you , but off goes sense to the slaughterhouse , nevertheless , several times , and is seldom all that present or noticeable for the rest of the feature . The plot is pretty bad . It doesn't seem like anything was terribly developed , more thrown together in a hurry ( were they afraid of losing the rights ? There are worse things , you know . . . ) , and the movie can't seem to make up its mind , what exactly it wants to be or say . Some of the writing is painfully obvious and predictable . I'm not sure any of it could be construed as " scary " , if there are some attempts at it . The movie ends about as soon as enough time has passed to classify it as feature-length . The special effects vary . Editing , filming and cinematography seem amateurish . I recommend this to . . . people who just cannot stand the notion that there's a " haunted house " and / or House movie that they haven't watched .
And here I've been watching comedies under the impression that they needed plot and , well , comedy	The first movie Jim Carrey ever made , and the biggest surprise found herein is that the man actually got ( or had ) a career after it . The story revolves around two friends in the mountains , one of them there for a woman . They also go skiing . Yup , it's essentially Dumb & Dumber ( yes , I realize that that came out more than a decade later , release dates are not the point ) , only , you know , not funny . . . at all . The cinematography is dull . The editing is lazy . To paraphrase Mystery Science Theater 3000 : " This movie establishes the heck out of its location ! " Had all of the shots of the area been taken out of the film , the running time might drop a noticeable percentage , although the same could be said for the music performances , but at least the music was reasonably good ( really the only thing I can think of to say anything positive about ) . Technically speaking , this is just ugly . Film quality is poor and sound is no better . The humor is just not funny . Carrey spends much of the time doing impressions , but he's more embarrassing than entertaining to watch . The film keeps throwing celebrities at you , I guess to make up for , well , having nothing else to offer . The pacing is nonexistent . The running time is one hour , and this still manages to be a trial to sit through . What tiny iota of actual , bona-fide plot there is manages to be powerfully derivative , unoriginal and bland . Dialog is carelessly used for exposition , and there is done less than nothing to hide this fact . In the end , the whole thing just comes off as a long commercial for Club Med . The good news about this movie ? It ends . I recommend this to , heck , I don't know , people who hate Carrey and want to see him at what could be argued to be his worst .
In a word : simple	You know those games where , when you play them , you can barely understand why they were even made , nay , thought up , in the first place ? Well , this is even worse than that . Not only is the reason for the existence of the game seemingly nonexistent , it's so bad in just about every single conceivable way that you can't help but want that it never even passed for a thought in the brains of the creators . The plot is . . . well , not there . I'm not kidding , there seems to be no plot whatsoever . The game takes you through Mickey's most popular cartoon adventures . Yep , that's it . No grand scheme , no explanation , no reason . . . just a bunch of levels with references to ( mostly ) old animated short films . Has the character of Mickey Mouse not been exploited enough ? Has this cartoon mouse not been milked of it's worth , all the profit been had ? Apparently not , at least not in the eyes and minds of the people behind this game . The game-play is about as simple as it gets . Imagine the old Super Mario Land game for the GameBoy . Remember it ? OK , now take it down a notch . . . or three . . . and you're just about there . The game has you controlling Mickey , jumping , running and throwing marbles ( yes , marbles . . . he has a bag of them ; seemingly to make up for the creators ' complete lack thereof ) . That's it . Well , in a level or two you have to activate switches and push stuff around , but it's all so incredibly simple that an infant could do it with left hand behind his back while sleeping . The game is unforgivably short ; I've yet to completely beat it , but this last time , where I got very far , to what I believe was the last level , it took me less than one full hour . Yes , you read that right . Now , I did know what to do ( for the most part ) , but still . . . that's simply too short for a full-price game . Furthermore , it has no replay value whatsoever , since there are no high scores , no hidden stuff , and nothing to be gained from beating it at all , apart from the pride of it . The real problem with this game , why it is really this bad , is that it ignores something basic and very important ; any game must have some clear-cut rules . When you play Super Mario Land , you know that if you jump on top of an enemy ( and it doesn't have spikes on top ) , you're likely to kill it . When you play a Commander Keen game , you know that any enemy can either be killed or avoided . Any game must have rules . . . and this game has none . It seems random , how riddles are solved ; there is no logic . The enemies seem to be randomly put in ; half of them don't even react to you , merely follow a programmed pattern . Some of them can be killed , some can't , some can be jumped to pieces , some need to be shot with the marbles , some can hurt you when they die , some can't . . . and all of this seems completely random . As if the game wasn't properly finished , or the programmers didn't agree on how to do it . On the cover , Mickey looks mighty brave and powerful . . . quite a contrast to the game , in which he spends most of the time looking disoriented and sounding scared out of his mind . Ironic . Level design is lazy . The levels are based on one idea which is then repeated until there are no more variations of it . Levels don't seem to end properly , either . The idea is apparently that you continue the level until you ' rescue ' Mickey from the dangers of the short film he ( or , rather , the old ' him ' ) is in ( though half of the time , the danger isn't at all apparent to the player ) . When you die or beat a level , the screen fades to black , with no sign of which you did . You have to await either the loading screen , signifying that you made it through the level , or an animation of Mickey falling down with a flower in one of his hands , straight up , accompanied by a crude trumpet tune . About the animations , could they possibly be any more dull and simple ? I highly doubt it . The music and sound are similarly uncreative and lacking in imagination . The game has no extra stuff , apart from a sound test that allows you to listen to most of the individual sound effects and the music one by one , but that's about it . In case anyone is wondering , I bought this game because I thought it was a different one . . . one I liked . Well , it wasn't , and here we are . However , please do not mistake the negativity herein to be caused by that disappointment . Had the game been any good . . . I think my biggest problem with this game is that you just shouldn't be charged for acquiring it . Seriously , I've played better free games . Lots of them . The game is entirely geared at kids , sacrificing any chance of anyone over the age of 7 enjoying it . Now , I know that kids that age like to have things simple and straight-forward , but this is ridiculous . I could easily imagine kids of that age laying the controller down after having tried it going , " Oh , come on ! " . The worst thing about this game is really the wasted potential ; it's not a bad idea , having Mickey run through his well-known adventures . . . any nostalgic fans could have gotten a real kick out of a good game based on that . The graphics aren't half bad . There's even a nice mix of 2D and 3D visuals in some levels . It's a shame that it isn't put to better use . It really is . I recommend this to no one but kids who are such big fans of Mickey Mouse that they can't stand the very thought of there being a game featuring him that they don't own . Everyone else . . . stay away . For your own sake . You'll never forgive yourself if you don't .
A T & A movie . . . with a plot ? ! ? Who came up with that ?	Like Paul Verhoeven's Showgirls , this is a T & A movie . The thing is , while Verhoeven knew what T & A was about ( T & A standing for Tits and Ass , it's obviously nudity ) , Andrew Bergman ( who I suppose is the person to blame for this movie ) doesn't ; I guess he thought it should be more than just nudity , and tries to inject a drama plot . Newsflash : naked girls and family troubles don't mix . Any teenager can tell you that . Apparently , Bergman didn't know , or maybe he was trying to " break new ground " . . . who knows . The result is a mess . One minute you're seeing half-naked ladies with fake breasts , the other you're expected to care about the main character's child and her difficulties with getting custody . It just doesn't work . The plot is decent at best ; it probably could have worked , with a hell of a lot of work done to it and in a very different movie . But as it is , it doesn't work , on any level . The acting is mostly ridiculous ; I guess the actors didn't take it too seriously and just went through it as campy as they could . Apart from Demi , who apparently believed that the film was serious . The characters are poorly written clichés . Robert Patrick's character is too cartoonish , and , frankly , belongs in a slapstick comedy . It was interesting to see a role so different from the hard-ass characters he normally portrays , but still . He added very little comic relief , and mainly came off as a pathetic attempt at it . Burt Reynolds ' character was also so over the top that you didn't know whether to laugh , cry , or feel sorry for him . The dialog is amateurish and the script is poorly written . The humor is childish and the film tries far too hard at making you laugh , which pretty much only results in the audience cringing over it . Basically , the film could have been something , had it just determined to be a drama or a T & A flick ; ' cause it sure as hell doesn't work well as both . The climax of the film brings one or two smirks , but no real laughs , and in the end , you feel like you've just wasted almost two hours that could have been spent doing something far more creative . If you want to look at naked women , find a better T & A film , or search the Internet . If you want to see a naked Demi Moore , look for one of the other films where she gets undressed , or , failing that , look for screen-caps of this film . Whatever you do , avoid this one . It's really bad . Really . Bad . I recommend this to no one , apart from possibly people who are willing to do anything and watch anything just to see Demi's breasts . Or people who'll watch anything , for one reason or another .
The last remnants of sense disappear in a film of two messages . . . one more heavy-handed and preachy than the other	As much as I hate to go with popular consensus , I must admit that it is quite accurate in the case of this film . . . it blows . It blows with the power of its title character's super-breath . Oh golly me , how it blows . Nuclear Man looks and sounds ( apart from the fact that his lines being spoken in Gene Hackman's voice , for no apparent reason ) like something out of one of the Conan movies . Superman defies logic and science ( yes , I know . . . but he does it more in this one than in the two preceding it put together ) , as does the film . And worst is the moralizing . The plot is quite poor . This is most definitely a sequel . . . and one that shows signs of a series that should have had the plug pulled several films back ( right after the first , some would say ) . The writing displays a general lack of creativity . Luthor is brought back . . . slightly louder and less charismatic this time . We are introduced to Lenny , portrayed by Jon Cryer . I , for one , did not need to see this man playing a teenager . He's much funnier in Hot Shots and on Two and a Half Men . And what was with the complete and utter waste of Jim Broadbent ? The man hardly utters a word in this film , and his screen-time is so small , he could have been an extra . I haven't seen much of him , but even from that ( BlackAdder and Moulin Rouge ) , I would gladly sign ( or perhaps even start ) a petition to legally change his name to Funny Man . The humor takes the leap out of the campiness of the previous effort , but the plunge in writing and directing keeps the audience consistently underwhelmed . The film is hardly dramatic . . . the action sequences dire and unengaging . The writing scrapes bottom so hard that it goes right through , with no stop in sight . How many different similarly-abled beings is Supes gonna fight before actually facing a villain we know ( from the comics ) , other than Luthor ? I realize that Lex is his arch-nemesis , but it's as if these writers have gone to extreme measures just to avoid doing what is arguably easy ( simply hand-picking a villain already known ) , but also what the real fans want . How many decades of history does this character have ? It shouldn't be difficult to find someone suitable . The writers of the old series of Batman films managed . . . four times , no less . Granted , they also managed to screw up basically every film but the first , but they did have the assistance of Joel Schumacher , a director without any sense of making a comic book come to life as a film . Back to this failure , sorry , film . . . the effects are worse than ever before . The budget is quite clearly to blame . The attempts at drama or comedy are usually cringe-worthy . . . as is the nature and heavy-handed delivery of the two messages . It just winds up sounding incredibly preachy . Yes , we get it . . . nuclear power is dangerous , newspapers should be about news , not making money . Now stop trying to be morally superior . . . that , incidentally , is not what movies are about . The acting is fine . All in all , this just really doesn't have anything to offer . If you want food for thought on either message , read up on it or watch a documentary about it . If you want to see a good ( or even passable ) superhero film , look elsewhere . Consult the fan-base for more info on which of the previous films in this series is better , or go with another hero ( or check out Singer's vision , and hope that he gets to keep making them as long as he does as good as he has with the first ) . I recommend this to fans of admittedly bad movies , as that is the only way this has any value at all , and as a lesson in what not to do when making a good film , for directors-to-be .
Just bad , pretty much any way you look at it	From the fact that Reeves himself turned down the opportunity to star in this sequel to the pitifully awful pun in the subtitle of the film , this is just so obviously a bad idea , and one with pretty poor execution , at that . The plot is silly , and a weak attempt at recapturing the essence of the first ( which , in turn , was a somewhat half-hearted attempt at recreating that of Die Hard , a film that is far superior to either ) . Taking the idea ( which basically originated in Die Hard . . . Speed just gave it a shot of , well , speed ) out to sea was never a particularly interesting one ( what does a colossal cruiser far out on the water have to offer that a bus that needs to keep a high speed on the freeway doesn't ? ) , and what little potential it may have had is hardly utilized . The pacing is , much like that of the first , too intense . We aren't given time to stop and breathe , to take in all the ( as a result , downright overwhelming ) action . The acting , save for one or two parts , is unimpressive . Odd , seeing as such talented names are on the cast . Morrison and Dafoe have given quite good performances both before and after this film . . . heck , even Bullock has a fair acting job or two behind her . The dialog is dreadful . The characters are half-heartedly written . Why is Annie now such a crummy driver ? In the first one , she was said to be fine behind the wheel . And who thought of adding that annoying Scotsman ? Anyone who's seen the film will know what I mean . And no , it wasn't his nationality . . . it was all his character . The clichés return . . . the new villain also cackles , there's a new hero cop , and the damsel is , yet again , in distress . All in all , this probably shouldn't have been made at all , and it certainly shouldn't have been a sequel to Speed ( which , while by no means great , was certainly a whole lot better than this ) . I recommend this to the fans of the first and of the Die Hard type films who must see it , no matter how bad they hear it is ( you know who you are ! ) . Everyone else should probably just avoid .
Oh dear lord . . .	Let's just be brutally honest here ; this is a Spice Girls vehicle . No doubt about it . From the biggest hater of the film to the biggest fan of the girls , everyone might as well admit from the very beginning : this film was primarily ( and , in the opinion of many , purely ) made to promote the Spice Girls as well as their then-new album . The moment you realize / accept that fact is the moment that this film gets easier to sit through . However , it still is very , very hard to sit through , and the majority of the people I know wouldn't be able to sit through the entirety of this mess of a film , not even to satisfy the most basic human instincts of curiosity by finding out what happens in the end . The film pretty much plays like a 90-minute promotional video , or a compilation of music videos with pointless plot in-between each performance to keep the music from getting to be too much . Newsflash : the people who would willingly watch this would most likely be just as happy with a 90-minute compilation of music videos or live performances ; they don't care about the film itself . I'm not saying that every single Spice Girls fan hated , or even disliked the film itself ( I'm not even claiming that one single fan didn't enjoy seeing the girls being " themselves " ) ; what I am saying is that they wouldn't have cared if this feature was a 90-minute long music video , instead of the barely coherent mess that the movie is . But , back to the point I was trying to make ; the film is a Spice Girls movie . Not a comedy , or a music movie , but a Spice Girls movie . Made entirely for the fans . This , of course , means that the movie is exclusively enjoyable for the fans . . . and now that the girl-band is no longer a hot subject , and it's no longer " in " to like them , their fan-base has been reduced to a minimum . Therefore , now , only seven years after the film was made ( or a few years ago , for that matter ; ever since they stopped being popular ) the film will only appeal to those who are still fans . As you have probably figured out by everything I've written up to this point , I am not , nor have I ever been a fan of the girls . They are charming , sure , their songs are catchy ( admit it , even you've hummed along one or two of their singles when it came on the radio ) , and they are , undeniably , quite attractive , but that's all there is to it . . . and that's certainly not enough to carry a feature film , once they're no longer famous . Of course , the director probably didn't think about that , and merely made the film to capitalize on their popularity . Oh well . The film now belongs in the same category as one of those films made about some famous guy / girl / group of people that people no longer care about . . . probably all inspired by The Beatles ( unless someone came before them . . . I'm not sure if they were the first bands to do feature films ) . The thing is , The Beatles not only were popular back when they made their films , some 30-40 years ago ; they still are popular . The Spice Girls aren't . They were merely the newest of the popular teen-bands . . . and they didn't last much longer than most others . Now , that's enough for the analyzing , on to the review . The plot is barely coherent and poorly paced , constantly throwing new characters into the story , that appear for a few minutes only to disappear again , as well as introducing subplots that are never used to full advantage . The acting is atrocious . The characters are tired stereotypes . The cinematography is forgettable and unimaginative . The humor is British humor at its worst ( I think , at least ; I haven't seen enough British comedies to determine if there is a lower level than this ) . All in all , the film have little to offer ( apart from one or two clever references and some good self-parodying in one or two places ) to anyone but Spice Girls fans . I recommend this exclusively to Spice Girls fans . It's to painful to sit through for virtually anyone else , even if it's just to laugh at the pure stupidity of it . Everyone but Spice Girls fans : Avoid at all costs .
Oh the humanity	As this aired on TV , having heard nothing but awful things about it , I decided to see for myself if they were true . Oh how they are . From the very first frame . The Italian ( who aren't the only in this mess , trust me ) stereotypes are irritating right from the beginning . I am not certain if absolutely nothing positive came from the couple ? I don't really make it a point to look into the personal lives of celebrities ? but if anything did , this was not it . Say it with me ? just because two people work off screen does not mean they will on as well . Both of them having a poorly done accent each doesn't really help . The plot is never engaging and consistently utterly uninteresting . The pacing is drab . For the entirety of this picture , nothing whatsoever happens . This overstays its welcome something fierce . The language really felt thrown in , without any actual point to it . There are aspects of this that are just offensive . Walken and Pacino must be kicking themselves . Not a single scene is captivating or entertaining . The dialog is largely unimpressive , and holds no memorable or quotable lines . It also tries far too hard to sound eloquent . Filming and editing are average at best . Neither Lopez nor Affleck are particularly convincing . At least the latter doesn't hold any delusions of ability as a musician , and has proved himself an actual actor elsewhere . I recommend this solely to the biggest fans of Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck . Everyone else ? you have been warned .
One of the worst of the newer slashers	The slasher genre started with great movies like Halloween , Friday the thirteenth and Nightmare on Elm Street ; now it has degenerated into this amateurish mess of a movie . Most of the slashers , new and old , try to impress with interesting , and a lot of the time , extremely gory , death scenes . But whereas most other slashers offer some new , innovative ways to knock off their characters in no particular order , this just seems to re-use many of the old ideas . The movie is based off some of the same ideas as the Children of the Corn films , and while I haven't seen all of them , I can safely say that they are far better than this . Children of the Corn actually features some interesting and fairly scary / disturbing ideas , whereas this film just exploits the theme to explain why there is a maniac going around killing people . The plot is fairly boring , and seems to mainly be there for these characters to smoke pot , have sex or drink beer in every other scene . This is probably due to the original idea of having the slasher killer kill off teens who don't follow the ethical rules ( no drugs , no beer if you're underage , and no pre-marital sex ) . However , it doesn't work well . It just makes you care less about these characters , maybe even to the point of wanting to have them killed off , and just waiting impatiently for that to happen . At times , I found myself cheering at the killer rather than hoping for this faceless , shallow , one-dimensional character to live . The acting is atrocious . There weren't one single character that was well-acted in the film ; this could be attributed to the fact that they're all no-names , but that's no excuse . Robert Rodriguez used ordinary people , with zero acting experience in El Mariachi , and that contains far better acting . The characters are all one-dimensional , if they're not breaking one of the aforementioned ethical rules , they're mocking each other , acting unbelievably stupid or just basically being extremely egotistical . I never cared for any of them , and was actually happy to see them die . I was actually more annoyed at the fact that so many of them lived , rather than the opposite . The ending is so ridiculous and predictable , that no one could actually be surprised by it . The twist was also painfully obvious from the very beginning ; I had figured it out not long after the opening scene . Something I also found extremely annoying was the seemingly lazy attitude of the filmmakers ; many of the scenes , especially the death scenes contain ridiculous and obvious continuity errors , due to the scene being shot in as few takes as possible . The effects of the movie were also far below average . The scenes involving the killer inspire no fear in the viewer , as we either see him too much or too little ; both a lot and a little exposure to the killer in a slasher can work , but both require him to be presented as powerful . Slash fails to do so , the killer seems too human and weak , even though they were obviously going for him to be strong , judging from his impressive figure and his choice of weapons . The film just fails in nearly all aspects , never scaring you , but rather inspiring you to laugh at the pathetic attempt at film-making it is . I don't recommend this movie to anyone , not even slasher flick fans , except maybe people who know the genre and who can laugh at such a weak , boring , amateurish excuse for a slasher / horror film .
Very nearly completely unwatchable	First off , I applaud the idea behind this . The goal of creating a piece that wins over audiences in spite of a low budget is a commendable one , and had this had much merit , or even any , beyond said concept , I would be giving them props . Not so . It's surely all been said . The production value on this is zero . . . where did the money go ? Credit for that , along with the summary , goes to my fiancée . Having read the Trivia , I still don't understand how this got to be this bad . The pacing is nonexistent . The plot . . . what there is of one . . . is rehashed and poorly told . The twist and the acting ( save for obviously the voices , among other things , they don't mix them up enough ) aren't ( all ) necessarily the worst ever , though the way it's captured destroys the very hope of what might have been ( the fact that the main guy behind this was a stage person with no directorial training whatsoever explains a lot ) . The attempts to master the cinematic language are marred by dyslexia and a nearly incomprehensible dialect . As basic a matter as the focus wasn't always achieved . The editing is just . . . while they did only do two takes of everything , and it was all in 32 second segments , that doesn't actually mean he had to do such a lousy job of putting it all together . There is a single good cut in the entire thing . That's it . The effects and believability , save for the aforementioned exception , are simply painful . The lighting varies from uninteresting to " not there " . The dialog , which there is a decided lack of , is uninspired . An almost unforgivable amount of this consists of people . . . standing around . It's not shot well , either . Where is the horror ? The atmosphere ? The mystery ? The scares ? What is the soundtrack ? Who thought to have jazz in this ? This builds no suspense and contains no thrills . The framing is downright ugly . Between the never-ending sequences and scenes , the house of maybe ( but certainly no more than ) three rooms total , the four characters that could be excised with nothing lost other than running time , this is really barely worth a viewing , and if you must , I suggest the MST3K episode ( albeit you can tell they were struggling for material . . . it's limited how many jokes you can do on this without repeating yourself ) . I can't say that I would have survived it if it had been the straight version . This is a textbook example of how not to do a movie , if it does tend to make the same mistakes constantly rather than numerous different ones . The title has an inherent ironic ring to it , as this was clearly made by a crew with broken hands , and of course , arms . I recommend this to anyone into B-flicks , and / or whatever else is this awful . The common theater-goer may want to avert their eyes , as this is likely to induce bleeding from them ( meanwhile , that would be cooler than anything you'll see in this ) .
Horrible from start to finish	Not one single good gag . Not one single funny line throughout the film . The entire cast gives lousy performances . I know that when the film was made , Raul Julia ( may he rest in peace ) had died , and that Christina Ricci was getting a little too old to play Wednesday ; but did they really have to recast everyone else , too ? The only original cast members left are Carel Struycken ( Lurch ) and Christopher Hart ( Thing ) . All of the new cast is severely miscast ; Tim Curry has pulled off some good performances in the past , but come on , he's just not Gomez . Not in a million years . He lacks the ' Latin-American ' spirit that Raul possessed . Daryl Hannah obviously tries hard to portray a Morticia faithful to Anjelica Huston , but she fails ; she's too lively , and far too naturally beautiful ; they tried to cover it up ( well , mostly . . . for some reason , she shows cleavage in the last scene . . . who thought of that ? Ridiculously out of character . ) but they couldn't . Another problem is that she's too luscious , whereas Morticia is supposed to have a dangerously , unhealthy thin figure . Patrick Thomas , who plays Fester , is a joke . A bad one . He overdoes Fester so horribly , that I actually cringed every single second he was on screen . I doubt that he could have done much worse . The new child actors are also bad ; Nicole Fugere as Wednesday lacks the eeriness and creepiness of Christina Ricci . She never conveys any sort of emotion , not even the disgust that Ricci did so well in the previous two films , whenever something happy or lively was around . Nicole lacks that talent ; she just looks the part , that's all . It's pretty much the same with Jerry Messing , the new Pugsley . He looks pretty much like Pugsley is supposed to look , but lacks the acting ability of Jimmy Workman , the actor from the two previous films . The humor of the film is as bad as it gets ; whereas the first two had great black humor , this one is reduced to childish humor , which just every once in a while has a bit of ' blackness ' to it . But it's all childish , which means tons of humiliation of , and ridiculous amounts of pain inflicted to , different characters for no apparent reason ( other than to make children and people with equally bad humor laugh ) . The effects are also excruciatingly bad ; you would have thought that they'd have developed better techniques through the five-six years that passed between making the previous film in the series and this . I mean , honestly , the effects look worse than they did back in the first film . All in all , this is one of the worst films I've ever seen , and I think it's too bad that they had to end the series with such a horribly unfunny film . I don't recommend this horrid piece of garbage to anyone , even children shouldn't be mistreated and go through the pure torture it is to watch this wretched film . You think I'm exaggerating ? See it for yourself . . . no , better yet ; take my word for it . . . it's horrible . One of the most pathetic attempts at comedy I've ever had the enduring pain of watching . If you do decide to give this film a chance , be prepared for the absolute worst . You were warned . . .
Yet another boring romantic comedy , in the form of a bad fairy tale	I have to admit , I had pretty low expectations when I sat down to watch this . Surprisingly enough , I was still disappointed . I honestly have a hard time believing how bad it was . Every single character was a cliche . The plot was ridiculous , lame and held no surprises whatsoever . I had figured out the end within a few minutes of the movie . The CGI is barely passable , for a made-for-TV movie . The ' comedy ' is unbelievably bad , I didn't even smile once , for the entire duration of the film . The worst thing about it is the fact that it's a fairy tale as well as a romantic comedy . I got nausea from the pure sweetness of it . Disgusting . I can honestly say that the only thing in the whole movie that wasn't directly offending with how bad it was , was Cristina Applegate's acting . That was actually OK , but nowhere near good enough to save this putrid waste of film . I urge anyone , apart from senseless females who can't bare the thought of missing a romantic comedy , do not waste any time at all on this movie . It may very well be the worst film I've ever seen . Definitely the worst romantic comedy .
Maybe one should consider this a parody on the first . . .	. . . or maybe it just IS this bad . The plot is a cheap rehash of the first , which is weird , since it's supposed to be a prequel , not a sequel . Pretty much the entire movie seems like a cheap remake of the first , with scenes mimicking the things that happened in the first , only a lot more ridiculous and unlikely . Where the first had a great cast , this one consist of B-list actors and rejects . The acting is mostly horrendously bad . Half of the good lines in the movie are taken directly from the first , as is nearly every major character , including the ones who weren't in the first movie . I realize this was made up by a TV series pilot episode , but that's no excuse . They didn't have to turn the ( bad ) footage into a movie . Only one thing is marginally good , and that's the erotic sequences . However , as these are nowhere near as good as the ones in the first , even this isn't raising it above a rating of 1 . If you have a chance to see it for free , and you're a straight guy , it could be worth checking out , if you want something erotic that isn't porn . If not , avoid at all costs .
Finally , solid proof that Adam Sandler is the spawn of the devil . . .	I've seen this movie a few times . Why , I can't say for sure . Maybe because I enjoyed the music . Maybe because I was trying to figure out why the hell ( pun intended ) people said it was funny . Maybe I was looking for what it is people rave about with all Adam Sandler films ; I guess I just couldn't really come to terms with the simple fact that this is not good entertainment . It's not even bad entertainment . Heck , I don't think it can be classified as ' entertainment ' , period . The film has so many flaws that even the most anal-retentive viewers finally tire off counting them . Early in the film , two of Satan's sons decide to go up on earth , upon learning that neither of them will be the devil in the next 10 . 000 years . What I'm wondering is , did this never happen before ? Didn't they even consider the possibility of it ? Satan is the epitome of all things evil , wouldn't he be smart enough to know that his own sons might pull a fast one like that ? The plot has more holes than Swiss cheese . The acting is about as flat as a pancake that has been run over by several trucks . The characters are cardboard cutouts who spout cliché lines . The humor is juvenile , consisting of lame slapstick and childish gross-out comedy . The script seems like it could have been written by a child , which is no surprise , seeing as how Sandler penned some of it himself . You want a good laugh ? See a good comedy . You want to spend the 90 minutes of your life you might waste on this movie wisely ? Go watch a good movie . Or even one that is slightly better than this . Won't be hard to find . Simply put : You want entertainment ? Look elsewhere . I recommend this only to hardcore Adam Sandler fans , as no one else could possibly enjoy it .
Boll . . . put down the camera before you hurt . . . well , more of us	There are bad movies . There are guilty pleasures . There are movies that are so bad , they're good ( and a select few that go beyond that , back to bad . . . thank you , Ghost World ) . But Uwe Boll's movies . . . this may be the first one I've watched , though I wouldn't exactly brag about having watched more than one , except maybe on account of having that high tolerance . Uwe Boll's movies . . . just saying it , sort of , you know , bad aftertaste . He seems to largely make movies based on video-games ( at what point does " someone's gotta do it " become " . . . if he's our only option , I can do without it " ? ) , and , while I can agree that that might not be the easiest kind to make ( has there been a truly good one yet ? They tend to range between " watchable " and . . . " not " ) , it would seem that Boll's are extraordinarily poor . The plot is . . . worse than it had to be . The acting is atrocious . The dialog is awful . The editing and cinematography both seem dead-set on turning the " film " into a music video , and the action . . . well , you might as well watch someone play the game ( at times , it would be more entertaining to do so ) , better yet , play it yourself . The use of footage from the game , all . . . ? ( ! ) of them . . . uh , yeah , Uwe ? Don't . The music . . . eh . Language is loose , there is some nudity , and plenty of violence / gore . Attempts are made to recreate some of the recognizable images from the game , with reasonable success , I suppose . I recommend this to . . . fans of . . . Uwe . . . ? No , that's not it . . . people looking for horror . . . ? Hm . . . well , if you've got nothing to do for an hour and a half , if it's on or you've borrowed it ( so there's no personal cost to you , money-wise ) , I guess there are worse things to be doing , if that does make for a terribly short list .
The animated material is more real than the emotion	Before you read this review , know that I am not bothered by the utter lack of historical accuracy ( not much , at the very least ) . I went to a Roland Emmerich film expecting effects and not . . . really anything else of value . You only really go to something he's done anticipating story or characters worth remembering or thinking about beyond leaving the theater ( failing that , wherever you did sit down , stand up or otherwise exist with your eyes at least occasionally fixed in the general direction of the screen it was appearing on ) , once , right , that one time being the first , last and only time . . . after that , only the fewest give him another chance and expect the two to be more than just there to create situations in which the visual extravaganza could come to be . Nevertheless , this is probably the one where the two were at their weakest , at least of the ones I've seen . The plot is poor , and , save for the precious few interesting elements , instantly forgettable . The characters are thin as well as story , and neither are developed all that much . The former reveals a lot of sloppiness , as there is no real growth , and at least one part could be written out with absolutely no impact on the film ( while others merely stay hidden once they've fulfilled their purpose ) . The acting , well , the biggest ( only ? ) " name " in that regard is the narrator ( poor Sharif , having to say such silly things ) , and while that doesn't always mean that it's bad , it is , here . The effects are really about the only particularly remarkable aspect , and given that , they actually could have been better , at least at some points ( and the actors ' interactions with them are almost without exception awkward ) . There's little action , and what there is comes off as dull , in choreography and execution . Apart from some amusement which I doubt the creators of this intended for ( when this tried to be funny , it seldom was ) , this didn't make me feel anything . Dialog tends to be stupid , at times reaching the point of being downright ridiculous . Direction is lazy . Between the character almost named the same as the well-known breath mint , the language barrier being inconsequential and the sometimes giggle-inviting costumes , there's just enormously little of value to be found herein . I recommend this only to those who must watch VFX pieces , and least of all those wanting anything remotely based on real life . . . but for anyone worrying that this will make kids believe wrong " facts " about the age supposedly depicted in this movie , try not to worry . . . it's rather dubious that much of anything in this will remain in any viewer's mind for noticeably long .
The slow , agonizing death of the series	More British people will be villains . . . less subtlety will be in symbolism . . . and no clichés will be left untouched . Our hero faces the greatest threat this time around : A family film . Since when was RoboCop anything resembling child-safe ? The humor almost invariably ( the " rocket scientist " bit is arguably a notch above the rest ) takes such a dive , it goes right through the bottom in a mess of few jokes and gags , and an even smaller amount that anyone could actually find remotely funny . The dark comedy in this comes off as extremely misplaced . They continue the tradition , started by the prior entry , of making fun of what we earlier took seriously . Honestly , there should be severe penalties for the " puppy " line . The attempts at recreating or mimicking elements of the first get increasingly desperate , and the " satire " is worse than nonexistent , it's plain ugly . Some of what Frank Miller wrote for the sequel before this one that wasn't used in that , made its way into this , utterly devoid of the fun and imagination of how he thought it up , of course ( do read that comic book instead of viewing either of these , if you're a fan of his ) . Evidently , between the previous picture and this , Johnson turned into . . . well , his name . In fact , all the old characters seem messed up , several are parodies of their old selves , and the new ones aren't that interesting . Credibility is an issue , too . It can be debated how adequate a choice Burke was . . . he certainly doesn't bring a lot of emotion to the part . . . but CCH Pounder , Rip Torn and Mako do impressive work . How do you manage to render their efforts forgettable ? I suppose this script was what it took . And Stephen Root . . . for crying out loud , they wasted Milton ! The " flight gear " and Otomo . . . let's just say , I'm with Rod Hilton in regards to those . A cute , spunky kid hacker ( and of course , computers can do whatever is convenient for them to do ) is one of the leads . Who thought this would be worthwhile ? Who in their right , or even wrong or twisted mind , would take a look at the description of those ingredients , and sincerely feel that it would come to be anything other than Pure Crap Stew ? The pacing is lackluster . The acting is underdone or overplayed . This has not got a single memorable scene to it , and you'd be hard pressed to find any redeeming qualities . The action is dull and uninspired ( I would like to point out that more than one of the sequences consist of one fighter nudging their enemy every so often ) . Whatever thematic material or message there is in this is a poorly stated , micro-wave re-heated puddle of whatever was left of one of the points the original movie made expertly , that the second also tried for . In the end , this one isn't even good for a laugh , or to see how low they sank . There is quite frankly nothing here . I recommend this to no one but those who have an abundance of time and an unquenchable thirst for watching train wrecks . Everyone else . . . you're probably better off pretending this doesn't exist .
Horrible , just horrible	Horrible film that should never have gotten further than a rough first draft of the script . It's very superficially based on a Stephen King story , with some ridiculous twists and plot items . The film is so riddled with clichés that you would almost think it was on purpose . The idea of a bunch of machines suddenly coming to life and killing a bunch of random people . . . and the reason for it ( which I won't reveal here , since I don't want to spoil it for anyone who , against my advice , decides to see the film after reading this review ) is ludicrous . The ending had me laughing out loud . The plot is ridiculous . The pacing is bad . The acting is laughable . The characters are poorly written and one-dimensional . The special effects are awful and several of them look ten-twenty years older than they are . The dialog is awful . The script is incredibly poor . The films attempts at scaring you are weak , though it shoves plenty of violence and gore right in your face . The whole film is just so unbearably bad that I actually almost fell asleep while watching it . I can't help but wonder , do the actors realize how bad this is ? Do good actors like Robert Englund and Ted Levine look back and say , " That was a bad decision " ? Maybe not . . . Levine went on to do the voice of Rusty Nail in Joy Ride , and Englund hasn't really done anything memorable since this ( apart from his always great portrayal of Freddy Krueger in Freddy Vs . Jason , of course ) . Tobe Hooper , you should be ashamed of yourself . I mean , Englund and Levine probably can't help it ( Englund has done several other really bad films , as far as I can tell from his filmography , and Levine was also in Wild Wild West ) , but you can at least try to do something better than this . I recommend this only to the biggest fans of Hooper , Levine and Englund . Everyone else ; stay away . Far away .
Void of everything that made the first watchable	I like to think that I'm fairly objective when it comes to judging films . I try to see the good in every film , the special touch or that admirable quality that few other films have . In this particular case , however . . . I found myself looking hard to no avail . I like the first film . I do . I like the way it utilizes the stereotype of a dumb blonde and the way it carries itself . By the end , there is a sense of real achievement . . . you get the feeling that you really can accomplish what you put your mind to . And the court scenes in it were funny and entertaining . This time around , the writing is more focused on the comedy ( an aspect I never thought the previous film had going for it in the first place ) . There is a joke every few seconds , and very few of them actually work . They often come off as overplayed . Basically all of the characters return , for no particular reason . Maybe the producers really wanted to prove that they could assemble the cast again . Few of the old characters have much to do , and the new ones , to a degree , echo the players from the first that haven't returned . Elle's opposition is basically the same . Where the first really had me cheering for her , wanting her to succeed , I found myself utterly disinterested in her fight this time . . . in spite of it being for something I believe in . The direction just doesn't hold your interest , or even place a hand or two gently upon it . Scenes of Elle using her smarts and her fashion / beauty knowledge to her aid in this come off as pale imitations of similar scenes in the first . The actors of this must be ashamed of what they not only did , but did full well knowing that many people would see it ( though I would imagine that number dropped drastically once the first audiences had seen it , as word of mouth on the quality traveled ) . Elle's " blonde-ness " is pushed to the extreme here . . . she wears more pink , possesses less of a wit , has less smarts and her actions almost break the boundaries for how blonde , naive and sorority-girl-y it is possible to be . In the first it was kind of sweet , especially with everything working out at the end , this time , it seems almost like a parody . Like the director wanted to mock the first film , and possibly the fans of it , as well . Then again , maybe he was just phoning it in , as it was already a sequel . . . which is where many stop trying . Few laughs in an unimpressive shadow of the first film . I recommend this to people who watched the first and want more , even if they have to accept a brutal dive in quality .
Bad . . . just bad	When I borrowed this from a friend , he said that it was " just a stupid little movie that you could watch , if you didn't take it seriously . . . at all " . Well , I must say , he was absolutely right . This film has no redeeming qualities whatsoever . . . it's just bad . The very idea is so stupid that it's no wonder that this was an independent film . . . I can't imagine a studio that would be so overbearing that it would fund a film like this . I have seen some bad horror films in my time , but this is just . . . it's hard to put into words just how bad it is . The plot is stupid and lame . The pacing is horrible . How can 90 minutes go by so slowly ? The acting is awful with no exceptions . And I do mean awful . Not one single character is convincingly acted . Even Rip Torn , the one name on the cast list that is actually a recognizable actor , does a bad job in this . I'm going to have to assume that it's the quality of the direction that is to blame for this , as Rip does a fine job in everything else I've seen him in . The characters are poorly written and not even the least bit credible . They are paper-thin , stereotypical and clichéd as well . The dialog is poorly written , and can be divided into two sections , both equally bad . The first is all the standard dialog that you hear in all of these half-cooked horror films . . . the clichéd stuff . " Something is in there ! " " It will kill again ! " Stuff like that . The second is dialog made up to sound smart . . . most of this is said by the character of the son . This is something the writer put in to appeal to teenagers that see the film . . . which is a problem , because the son character is supposed to be an inquisitive , book-smart , intelligent kid . So it doesn't fit very well to have him say " dude " and " cool " in-between his smart lines . The doll was about as scary as a visit at grand-ma's . . . and that's being generous . The film has very few , if any , genuine scares or shocks . The premise is unoriginal . The only real reason to see this is to laugh at the pure ridiculous nature of it . The number of clichés , the amount of stupidity in the production , the ludicrous script , the lack of creativity . . . it can't be properly described . If you have a chance to do so for free , see it for yourself and you'll see what I mean . An unremarkable film that is only worth spending time on if you , like me , want to compare horror films ( particularly bad ones ) . No one should have to spend money on seeing it , though , unless they are crazy about " killer doll " horror films . I recommend it only to people belonging in one of the two aforementioned groups . No one else .
Just when you thought it was safe to tune in to the Sci Fi Channel	It is always a bad omen when you find out something was produced by them . Have you ever wondered what Army of Darkness would have looked like without humor or fun , and if put together by no-talent hacks ? I know , right , me neither , not for a second . Well , evidently , this is what would come out of such . I speak in hypothetical terms , since part of my coping with having watched this is telling myself that it doesn't really exist , that it was nothing more than a fever-induced nightmare ( the movie itself as much as the idea of something like it actually having been made ) , as it is truly unbelievable . Baldwin , in a performance that simply must be the very low-point of his career ( ! ) , travels back in time without trying to , and finds medieval warriors willing to use their swords , that all hold the ability to harm without being seen penetrating flesh , provided Ash helps defeat the monsters that kill , mainly by virtue of hideous sounds and music ( I'm afraid I cannot bring myself to think for a second that they meant it to be that awful ) as well as being brought to life by effects so immensely poor that the beings don't need to tear out the eyes of the audience , as they will feel inclined to do so just from attempting to watch this . The acting is bad . The random accents . . . eugh . The dialog tries extremely hard at being clever , and fails utterly miserably . Any laughs this gets are unintentional ones . This underwent a massive surgery , to replace all possible original material with painful clichés , and the operation was a complete success . What's with the transitions ? Did someone peer at a cut , and think that that was what was wrong ? The editing in general ranges between average and below . At least one character is there purely to deliver exposition , and they didn't even try to cover it up . I don't know the extent of Stan Lee's involvement in this , however , as a big fan of several of his creations , I would say , even if you love his work , you can afford to stay far away from this one . I presume the sole reason Sam Raimi didn't sue the production is that he'd have to not only have seen it , but also admit to sitting through any of it . I recommend this only as fodder for MST3King , to anyone who enjoys doing so .
The problem is that we've heard the joke before . . . and it was never funny	I've never understood this type of spoof movies . You get some serious / semi-serious movie that everyone knows about and takes the seriousness out of it through immature fart-jokes and such . We've seen it many , many times , and it's never really been funny . It's just an easy way to laugh at something you don't understand , in my opinion . This seems to be one of the more obscure and less liked of the genre , though I honestly don't see anything in this that is much worse than that of Spy Hard or Hot Shots . This movie , as is clearly understood simply from the title , concentrates on making childish fun of Pulp Fiction . That's the main reason I decided to watch it , as I found that film to be overly indulgent of Tarantino's sick mind and powerfully overrated . I had hoped for one or two good jokes , making fun of the overly violent and pointless type of movie that Pulp Fiction was in every aspect , in my ( anything but ) humble opinion . I was sorely disappointed . The plot is pretty much a rip-off of Tarantino's film , with a few scenes spoofing other , often better , films , in the same childish and humorless fashion . The pacing is poor , and often you'll sit there , being able to guess the outcome of every scene , predicting every joke , often thinking of a better one at the spot , bored out of your mind . The acting is bad . The characters are clichés and stereotypes , and are intentionally paper-thin in order to make fun of the characters they're based on . . . problem is , it doesn't work . It just makes the movie that much harder to sit through . The humor is juvenile and lame . The only positive thing I can say about this film is that they managed to find some actors that looked like the people they were supposed to look like . The film is an awful waste of the actual real actors involved . Possibly slightly entertaining to fans of the typical spoof movies of the same kind . I recommend this only to people who truly loathed Pulp Fiction , or fans of the Zucker parody films . Everyone else : avoid .
Easily the worst comedy I've ever seen	When I sat down to watch this , I had reasonable expectations for it ; I was sorely disappointed . I don't think my expectations mattered much though ; no matter what I had expected , no matter how low my expectations were , I couldn't have been prepared for how horribly bad this was . It was complete and utter garbage , from the very beginning to the very end . I didn't laugh one single time . I don't know if this was a failed attempt at making a spoof of something or other , or just someones horrible idea at making a comedy . The acting is horrible , the characters are so cartoony that even a kid would feel embarrassed by how bad it is . The plot is so ludicrous that you can't possibly take it seriously ; it's so stupid that no one could possibly like it , and is at the same time so complicated that it's hard to follow . I can't name one single aspect of this movie that is the least bit enjoyable , or could be , to anyone . No one should waste their time on this worthless piece of junk , this mocking of modern cinema . I wouldn't recommend it to anybody . Even most kids will think it's too stupid to like .
Horrible , just horrible ; even worse than the first	How would you define ' film ' ? If you define it as something that's filmed and put together , I suppose that you could claim that this falls under that definition , but if you define it as something that has structure , continuity and meaning , then this isn't a film . It's just a bunch of gags and scenes ( badly ) cut together . Every single character that you hated in the first , and was glad to see die , has returned , including a few new cliché characters to hate . The film is entirely carried by stereotypes , and tries continually to make you laugh at stuff that anyone with just a tiny amount of moral wouldn't laugh at if his or her life depended on it . Stuff like homosexuality , the physically and / or mentally disabled , junkies , etc . The list goes on , but I really don't feel like typing it all here . The gags and jokes are powerfully unfunny . I think I smirked once during the film , and that's it . The humor obviously tries to offend , and it certainly succeeds ; they just forgot to make it funny , in the process of thinking up stuff that will make plenty of people find the film disgusting ( what's wrong with the Wayans ' , anyway ? ) . The humor consists entirely of tired clichés , worn-out stereotypes , gross-out comedy , and bad spoof sequences . Throughout the entire run-time ( which is less than 90 minutes , what's wrong Wayans ' , did you run out of material ? ) , there was only one single gag that was mildly amusing ; a spoof of the Nike commercial that was on TV back in ' 01 , which of course doesn't seem funny now , when they're not sending that commercial . Pretty much all of the movie spoofs in the film don't work , they mostly seem forced , and very weak . I guess you could basically sum up my opinion of this " film " by quoting the very words my father said when he saw the first few minutes of the first Scary Movie ; " All that sex and violence . . . what's the point ? Really , it's not even funny , it's just offensive and disgusting . " I don't really recommend this to anybody , except , of course , if there actually exists anyone who are that big fans of the Wayans brothers , that they actually could sit through this badly edited and terribly unfunny mess .
Could have been decent entertainment , if it didn't take itself so damn seriously	I usually find Dan Aykroyd to be good in comedies , and I'm rarely disappointed by Gene Hackman , whatever the movie . So , when I hear about them in a movie together , I naturally want to check it out . Even if it's rated low here on IMDb . Well , this is one of the times where I wish I hadn't been so curious . . . or at least that I took the advice of one of the many reviewers on this site , and didn't watch it . Fortunately , I had been prepared that it wasn't going to be particularly good , so I didn't pay that much attention to it . Whenever I did look at the screen or even listen to the audio , I felt sorry . Sorry for Aykroyd , sorry for Hackman , sorry for anyone else who has even a tiny bit of talent and yet worked on this movie ( one person I'm not feeling sorry for is director Bob Clark , who doesn't seem to have crapped out one single half-decent semi-quality film in his entire career , despite how lengthy it is ) . The plot is ridiculous . The pacing is poor . The acting isn't even slightly impressive . The characters are clichés and stereotypes . The humor is all crude innuendos and people swearing . How is that funny ? Oh , and of course there's Aykroyd's characters multiple personality disorder . Ah yes . Lets laugh at a terrible mental disorder . And what's with how serious the film tries to be , at times ? It might have been slightly entertaining , if it didn't take itself so seriously . All in all , just a terrible failure on every conceivable level . I recommend this only to hardcore fans of Hackman and Aykroyd . Everyone else should do themselves a huge favor and skip this . There are plenty of other films with the two actors , and most of them are far better .
Could have been a great campy / corny action-flick , but falls short	Just look at the cast for this film ; Andrew Dice Clay as main villain , Robert Davi as mystical bodyguard , Roddy Piper as a henchmen . . . do I need to go on ? Yes , the stage is definitely set for a cheesy , campy and thoroughly corny action-film . . . but it falls short . The dialog is cheesy , but not cheesy enough . . . there are too few one-liners , and some of them are a little lame as well ( which they shouldn't be ; they should be bad-ass and deadpan , instead they are tame and poorly delivered ) . The plot is pretty good , but it's too obvious a rip-off of Die Hard ( arguably the best of this action sub-genre ; the important - people - trapped - in - building - with - hero sub-genre ) and the pacing is not very good . The film just doesn't have enough campy qualities to keep it entertaining , and you're left with mediocre action and poor one-liners . The acting isn't great , but that's , of course , not the point ; this is clear for anyone who knows the names I dropped in the first line of this review . However , it's not good in it's own way , either . The characters are ( purposefully , of course ) clichés and stereotypes ; however , they don't work as well as you'd expect , in a purposefully campy film . . . they just seem flat and empty . All in all , the only real reason for watching this film is if you're interested in seeing the failed experiment at making a campy action-flick that it is . It's fun to see the various B-list actors , recognizing them from either cameos from big productions ( like Dice Clay in One Night At McCool's ) or big roles in other small productions ( like Piper in They Live ) or even small roles from other small productions ( like Davi in various flicks ) , but that's it . I recommend it only to big fans of campy movies , and / or of the actors . Otherwise , just skip this one .
Horrible	This is definitely one of the least funny movies I've ever seen . I didn't expect much from a Farley movie , but I had never imagined it would be so bad . Even Chris Rock can't save this turd with his comedic genius . In fact , he didn't even make me laugh once . The plot is ridiculous . It relies on the totally unbelievable setting of a white fat guy trying to be a ninja , even though he is unrealistically clumsy , very ignorant and fairly retarded . It also makes everyone else in the film look like a grade A moron , everyone from the Sensei who would have thrown him out immediately , to the black bellboy who is convinced that he is a true ninja , even though he is as clumsy and incompetent as he is . The acting lies on a level somewhere between horrible and untalented . The characters are all stereotypes , and all seem to be equally stupid . The script is awful , and it puts the characters in a totally unbelievable amount of unrealistic , ridiculous scenes that would never happen in real life , and to top it off , are horribly unfunny . The only thing that raises this movie above the lowest rating of 1 , is the scene near the end that has Chris Farley fight with martial arts against some enemies that are actually skilled at it , to the tune of " Kung Fu fighting " . That , unlike everything else in the movie , actually made me , not only smile and snicker , but laugh out loud at the sheer ludicrousness of the scene . Apart from that funny but too short scene , nothing in this movie is worth watching . Apart from , maybe , the female lead character , who is quite attractive . I recommend this to no one but the least criticizing people , and maybe children , as they may find it funny . Most other people should avoid this like the plague .
Pay attention to the editing and cinematography	Let's face it ; this movie is bad . Not decent , not with one or two things going for it . . . just bad . I see no reason to beat around the bush ( a rather silly thing to do anyway . . . what is there to beat around a bush ? What reason , for what purpose ? Anyway . . . ) , so let's just agree that this movie doesn't actually have anything going for it . The plot is thin and hardly developed at all . The acting is hammy . The characters are paper-thin . The dialog and writing in general is rather sophomoric . The mood is lazily set , and the atmosphere is too limited and is too weakly built . The suspense is practically non-existent . The monster is pitiful . The action is unimpressive . However , I would like to bring something to the attention of anyone who has seen this film ( and maybe more importantly , those who haven't ) ; this film has some pretty interesting cinematography and editing . It's experimental , it takes chances and it creates a unique feel . It pulls you in in a completely different way than a typical mainstream film . This , and this alone , brings this film up to a 2 rating . It makes it just exactly worth watching for film lovers such as myself . But only just barely . I recommend this only to huge fans of movies , and only as a means of study to explore the editing and cinematography . For all other purposes , it's useless . It's been done and it's been done better , many times .
I'm amazed that I managed to sit through this mess	This is one of the least funny films I've ever seen ; it wasn't even unintentionally funny . Every single joke and gag falls flat and seems lame , not to mention how unbelievably predictable the film and jokes / gags are . There wasn't one moment in the film where I was surprised . The plot is ridiculous ; I suppose it could be argued that it's supposed to be , but come on . . . there aren't a lot of films that make less sense ( though they do exist , believe it or not ) . The acting is horrible . Jason Biggs gave an incredibly tame performance , and both Zahn and Black overact their parts terribly . The rest of the cast is embarrassing too . The characters are terribly written clichés , and several of them are inconsistent . For a few scenes , Judith is just a well-educated , intelligent woman who wants more out of life than sports and beer . For most of the film , though , she's a prissy bitch who doesn't seem to care about anyone other than herself . I hated the way several scenes portrayed her behavior as an intelligent and smart woman who had principles and morals , and then made that out to be just as bad as her being the bitch she is for rest of the film . That merely shows just how ignorant and misogynistic the director is , which leads me to believe that he has quite an astounding hatred towards females . The main character , Biggs , is supposed to be a hopeless romantic , but he comes off as a naive moron instead . Also , the friends , who we are supposed to be rooting for , are stupid , ignorant , typical teen-guy stereotypes , who the audience winds up hating almost as much as the one-dimensional character of Judith . The " humor " consists of gross-out comedy , consists often of humiliation and pain , and is almost always centered on sex in one way or another . The " romance " part of the movie seems like it was merely tacked on to build a plot around . The chemistry between the actors is almost completely non-existent . Also , the humor is very crude and graphic ; I can't believe they managed to trick the MPAA into giving the film a PG-13 . It's almost as graphic as several R-rated titles . The only reason ( and believe me , I do mean only ) for me rating this higher than the lowest scoring of a 1 is the fact that it does maintain some form of consistency , and possibly makes sense on some childish level ( which is more than what could be said than , say , Blair Witch Project , and Scary Movie 2 , just to name two ) . Also , I did enjoy the few scenes of Amanda Peet being virtually naked . I don't recommend anyone to watch it just for that , though , unless you can watch it entirely free of charge , and you aren't forced to sit through the entirety of this mess of childish humor and a barely plausible plot . I recommend this solely to children and people with childish humor ( fans of Adam Sandler , for example ) as anyone who doesn't like that humor , or anyone who enjoys some form of thought put into the film they're watching , will hate this film as much as I did , and possibly more . Approach with caution .
It's about bunnies . . . killing , carnivorous and big	The Year of the Angry Rabbit . . . evidently trimmed down ( that long-lasting a terror must simply have been too great to tolerate for impressionable theater-goers ) to a night or two , and changing the last words of it , presumably to avoid at least a smidgen of the silliness that permeates the entirety of this . It's bad . Oh , how it is . Not an intolerable kind , mind you , and this actually makes for rather successful and fun MST3King . The unintentionally ( ? ) funny stuff in this is plentiful . The audio , whilst the quality of the recording is fine , is more often than not a good source . The work of the sound effects crew goes from what is just questionable as far as what you'd hear from the pets ( which a multitude of the ones used clearly are ) right up to the absurd . Watch as the creatures move in slow-motion , and / or in groups where not all are even moving in anything resembling a scary or energetic fashion , in close-ups , repeated shots , see the obviously men-in-suits and other immediately recognizable not - really - the - actual - thing - they're - depicting efforts , and find no genuine scares or convincing footage . The editing isn't all awful , and there certainly are attempts made at building mood , if they do not necessarily do the job . The acting is not exactly spell-binding , but it's hardly the worst ever . Two of the characters look quite similar , and humans apparently bleed red paint . I recommend this to fans of the people involved ( see Bones in something else ! ) and especially those into B-flicks , in particular those featuring otherwise innocuous animals going on rampages .
I take offense	It takes a lot to offend me . I'd like to think I've been fairly hardened through the nineteen years I've lived . I can laugh at politically incorrect stuff . I find South Park quite humorous and satirical , rather than offensive and disgusting . It takes a lot to offend me . But this movie did . Dennis Dugan , continuing on the stroll he began with Saving Silverman which contained the biggest , most concentrated amount of misogyny in a single area , brings us one of the most racist films of newer time . Only , it's not what you'd immediately think ; it's not racist against black people . Nope , it's against white people instead . As if that makes it any better . Hate and fascism is bad , regardless of where it's directed , which group or person is targeted by and for it . As pointed out on the message boards for this film , every bad guy in this film is white , and Lawrence's character plays the race card every other second in this movie . Now , let me make it absolutely clear ; I don't hate anyone . I don't believe in hate . I have equal respect for everyone . I would have been just as offended had this movie targeted black people instead of white ( the film would also have been shot down far quicker and more broadly ) , or if Saving Silverman had been hateful towards men , for that matter . The plot is pitiful . There was a scene in a courthouse that downright sickened me . The crowd was cheering as a victim of false allegations was attacked verbally and sentenced to jail-time . . . as if they were watching a sports event . The acting is OK . The humor was offending ; most of it is Lawrence victimizing himself and berating white people . Both Zahn and Lawrence have been funny . . . what happened ? There's not much else . I barely watched this film , because whenever I looked at the screen and paid attention to what was said , I was hit with an offending remark or action and felt a strong inclination to turn away , to concentrate my attention elsewhere . One to avoid . I don't really recommend this film to anyone . . . except for perhaps black extremists . Even most black people will most likely find this movie embarrassing and painfully stupid . And Dugan : so much hate . . . so much anger . . . have you considered seeking professional help ? It can't be healthy .
What happened , Mike ?	Not long after watching the fairly interesting documentary " Who Do You Think You're Fooling ? " by Mike White , which makes good comparisons between Reservoir Dogs and City on Fire , I watched this ' sequel ' . . . where Mike - as opposed to seeming like a bright man with good , argumentative points - just comes off like a whiny little kid . With the exception of one or two of the five ( count ' em , five ) minor similarities between Pulp Fiction and other , earlier films , none of them have any real merit , and / or are too obvious to waste time mentioning . This starts off with a reply from Tarantino to White's first documentary , which is fitting . . . but from there on out , it just falls flat . The comparisons range from vague to downright embarrassing . It's like Mikey got real drunk one night , got the idea for this and didn't sober up until it was too late . . . until the film was out and had been seen by too many people to be forgotten , its existence denied . Why he felt it necessary to make a sequel to the first , I have no idea . This is just embarrassing . Should only be watched by those seeking to take perverse pleasure in watching White mess up . I recommend this only to the Tarantino-lovers who were offended by the ( arguably quite meritorious ) criticisms of the first documentary and who's looking for a cheap laugh .
In a word : Pointless	Do you know when you look at your collection of old , videotaped movies , and realize that there are some that you've only seen once or twice , and you can't remember if they're worth the time it takes to see them ? The Alibi is / was one of those films ; I found it , not long ago , and decided I might as well give it a chance . I'm not entirely sure if I'm happy with my decision . . . on one hand , the film is really , really bad , on the other , now I have another free tape . . . yeah , you get it . The plot is predictable and not in any way original . The pacing is bad . The acting is bad , but that's not really surprising , seeing as the two leads are former soap-opera stars . . . they're used to overact . The characters are poorly written clichés . The film even manages to screw up the easiest damn way to impress me ( through film ) : court scenes . Even those don't elicit one single emotion for or against any of the cardboard-thin characters . The film just has no real redeeming qualities whatsoever . . . even the dialog is bad . The thing is , it's so full of clichés that it's laughable . And that's the one thing that lifts this above a rating of : the ( albeit unintentionally so ) comic relief of the many clichés and stereotypes . I didn't pay very much attention to the film , but just about every time I looked at the screen , there was something to laugh at . One final note : I considered using the line " Tori Spelling can't act " as a one line summary , but I guess everyone knows that , so I opted for the current one , seeing as it's more informative . All in all , a thoroughly bad film , but not the worst if you've got nothing else to do and if it's on TV . Good for a few laughs , if you can sit through it .
Decent at best , not particularly funny spoof of gangster films	When this movie started , I thought I was going to see a good , intelligent spoof of mafia films . When the main theme played , and I immediately recognized it as a spoof of the main theme to the great gangster film , Once Upon A Time in America . Then it continued , and got increasingly stupid . Every single shot was packed with gags that only a child would find funny . There are occasionally gags and jokes that are actually funny , but the majority of them are just childish . The plot is ridiculous , and rips off ( I would say spoofed , but that would mean it would have to have been funny ) most major mafia / crime / gangster films . The pacing is horrible . I only found about ten jokes funny , and there were probably several hundred in total . The acting was pretty bad , but Jay Mohr was cool and Applegate was acceptable . The characters are all clichés and stereotypes ( which they are supposed to be , of course ) but they aren't funny . The only quality this had that made it tolerable was Jay Mohr . He manages to make even the most childish gag funny , and boosts the fun factor in every scene he's in . I suppose I shouldn't have expected a higher quality film from the people behind similar stupidity like Hot Shots ! , but this was such a good opportunity . . . there are so many scenes in big mafia films that could easily be made fun of , in good taste , instead of this crap . All in all , a pretty dull film with a very childish sense of humor . I recommend this only to fans of the Zucker style of humor . Everyone else should probably avoid this .
The series hits rock bottom , but hey , it wasn't that far a drop	Well , at least this was the last they made ( no , Hollywood , that was not a dare ) . In that they had run out of different genders of children to give celebrity voices to , they turned to the pets . This time , they give the family two dogs , one of each gender , give them each a voice and lets the kids rest their inner voices . Why is it that infants , right from the womb ( which we , again , see , because there apparently can not be an entry in this franchise without that ) , have the voice of people who are about middle-aged , give or take a handful of years or so ? Apparently , even dogs . Oh well , at least these two actors , DeVito and Keaton , aren't too bad ( not that I had a problem with Willis , at least as an actor ) , and the former's voice fits rather well for a canine . Take that any way you want . At least Roseanne is gone . . . but they make efforts to make Julie as annoying without her , having her tell knock-knock jokes so lame that even the parents would ask her to stop . . . she also apparently fantasizes about beating Charles Barkley , who must have liked the part , as he did the same thing again three years later , in Space Jam . Dukakis shows up again , in what can only be loyalty ( in a film with dogs as main characters , how fitting ) . Heckerling neither wrote nor directed this . . . when the very creator of a franchise steps down , you ought to know there's something wrong . There is no trace left of any charm the series ever had ( which was all found in the first ) . I would say that the franchise by this point just has overstayed its welcome , but it could be argued that it achieved that before the end credits of the original film . More nightmare sequences , this time being ridiculous ( a first for the series ; usually , they were just misplaced and more unsettling than anything a young child should watch ) . The main conflict is essentially rehashed from the first two , only dumbed down . Lysette Anthony shows up , her acting performance being at the same level that it was in Trilogy of Terror II ( that would be poor ) . This film will insult the intelligence of anyone beyond the age of seven , but some of the humor remains above what they will ( or should ) understand , or ought to watch . The very ending was almost too much . I recommend this to people who like dogs , and men attracted to Lysette .
Well . . . at least the music is OK	I've watched and enjoyed two other ' black ' comedies ( not to be confused with " black comedies " ) , The Wash and Booty Call . However , in the very first scene of this film , I found myself having a bad feeling about it ( yes , that was a Star Wars reference ) . . . I started to think this was going to be a dreadfully bad film . Sadly , my instinct turned out to be right . The plot is fair , but it's not very well-developed . The situations are instantly forgettable . The credits have just barely finished as I'm typing this , and I'm straining to remember any of it . The acting is not terribly short of perfectly atrocious . The characters are pretty thin , very nearly stereotypes ( I know I say that a lot , but believe me , this time , I really mean that ) . The only way you can really distinguish between them ( a task I found nearly impossible to accomplish throughout watching ) is to note their extreme personas ( which seem to be about all of them ) and attach said attributes to their respective character names . Sorry , that was somewhat confusing , wasn't it ? Not quite as confusing as trying to tell these caricatures , pardon , characters apart ( rather alarming , really , considering how few there are ) . The film has a moral , or at least thinks it does . I did find some poetic justice in the film , but the majority of it just seemed forced , underdeveloped . Now , the main reason I borrowed this from a friend was that I read the plot . . . and personally , I cannot stand the thought of ' players ' or ' playing ' . I can think of few things that bother me more than disrespecting women . The idea of seeing such a ' player ' be put in a situation where his ' game ' stands to be exposed , in front of the poor girls that have fallen victim to him , no less . . . why , I found that to be potentially every bit as entertaining as watching Charlie Sheen ( or his character on the show , it's quite difficult to tell them apart ) get a taste of his own medicine in that episode of Two and a Half Men . Yes , schadenfreude . It's not nice , but neither is ' playing ' . Whether or not the film contained just that , I shan't say . I wouldn't want to ruin whatever there is left of it for anyone who has yet to see it ( and still intends to ) . Why is it , by the way , that a man being promiscuous is ' playing ' , whilst a woman doing the same is a slut ? Personally , I find that to be a double-standard . Yes , women make an emotional connection to whomever they sleep with . . . but men have emotions too , despite many of us attempting to deny that fact . A few final thoughts . . . I very much enjoyed and appreciated the fate of one particular character , whom I found myself feeling sorry for throughout most of the film . Why did Bernie Mac attach his fairly big ( star-status-wise , not ' number of letters'-wise ) name to this film ? And finally , the music in this was better than the film . I recommend this to fans of ' black ' comedy , and it helps if you're big on gratuitous nudity and stereotypes ( and for anyone wondering ; yours truly is most definitely not . I belong solely in the first-mentioned category of that sentence ) . Could have been worse , but there's far most definitely room for improvement .
My reaction to this game can be summed up in one word . . . and that word is " meh "	What is it with these The Simpsons games ? Are they all this bad ? I've only tried this game and The Simpsons : Hit & Run , but they're both awful ( in spite of having seemingly tons of money tossed at them , given the quality of graphics , the fact that every single role is reprised , etc . ) , and I've yet to hear anything from a reliable source to suggest that any of the others are anything but cheap , poorly produced attempts at making more money off the popular series , adding nothing good to the franchise ( like this and the other recent title I mentioned ) . The characters chosen for the game don't make much sense ( not all of them have big roles in the show . . . what's Bumblebee Man doing there , for example ? Heck , he's usually the one taking a beating , and since when are , well , half of the selected characters , really , the fighting kind , at all ? Yes , I could see them ( including the children ) driving , as in Hit & Run , long , long before wrestling ) , and they are very poorly balanced ( some are ridiculously strong , others are incredibly weak ) . As with Hit & Run , it's odd to see the famous ( and famously ) 2D characters in three dimensional form ( outside of that particular Treehouse of Horror special , I mean ) , and I'm not sure how well it works . Attempts are made at remaining cartoon-y , with varying degrees of success . Before you start playing , you can try a few Pratice Rounds . . . where you choose a character and fight a randomly chosen weak opponent . Good for learning the ropes ( not to mention the moves ) , as well as try to train yourself up to get good at the game . Then there's the regular championship ; first , you beat the opponents ( about ten , I think ) then you have to win a more difficult championship , and finally defend your title . After which , you'll have beaten the game . After about thirty-odd fights of increasing difficulty . That makes for a few hours of playing , and if you want to beat it with all characters , there should be quite a lot of time-killing for you in this game . Of course , that's only if you can get over the frustration of failing again and again , against overly strong opponents . If you beat the game with at least one character ( I think ; it's been a long time since I did ) , you get a bonus round , which lets you play as a few characters you can't normally choose , as well as select which level you play in . You can even play as Itchy or Scratchy ( with appropriately cartoon-y attacks and a unique detail or two ) , in an arena ( and , if I recall correctly , only there , and only those two , if you choose at least one of them to play as or against ) made specifically for them ( one that makes good sense , and , like most of the settings in the game , contains various jokes and references to the show ) . Fairly entertaining . Of course , to get to that , you have to play through ludicrous amounts of overly difficult opponents . The game-play is very poor . The fighters are , as already mentioned , poorly balanced , and this means that practically no fight is even slightly fair . Some have special attacks that'll end the fight in no time if spammed , others have nothing to offer but regular brawling which won't do much good against computer-controlled enemies with aforementioned powers , and yes , they will use these any chance they get . The moves are divided into three groups . . . stuff you do while standing still or walking , stuff you do mid-air from a jump , and stuff you do after being propelled back into the arena from running into the strings in the sides of it ( I don't know the correct terms . . . I'm no wrestling fan , quite a bit from it , as a matter of fact ) . Now , the second group is limited to three moves . . . a light attack , a slightly stronger one , and the ( feel free to jump in with the right word here , wrestling fans ) jump the wrestlers do where they land on top of the other wrestler . The first and third group of moves have unique moves for each character ( possibly with some exceptions , I haven't checked all of them ) . And that's really where the lack of balance shows ; there are again three moves per character ; regular attack , which can be chained , throw and special attack . Regular attack is self-explanatory . . . just a bunch of punches , kicks and what have you . Throw is usually throwing something ( just to clear up any possible misunderstandings ; it's not the kind where you grab the enemy , though I believe that move is there , too ) , often having to do with the character . Like a Squishee for Apu , a glass of beer for Barney , and a Flaming Moe for ( yep , you guessed it ) Moe . The third is different for each character . The sound is also pretty bad . . . during the fights , random , unseen characters spout lines that are in-character , but mostly out of place and not even slightly funny . They really just come off as forced . Before each match , the characters insult each other , and usually these insults are actually directed entirely at the specific character they're fighting ( instead of something vague , like in most fighting games ) , which is a nifty and fairly unique feature ( as far as I know , but I don't play beat-'em-up titles all that much . . . surprising , since I am a rather big fan of martial arts ) . Of course , it's the only positive thing to the entire game . The concept of the game doesn't make an awful lot of sense . The story . . . well , I guess it's at about the same level of quality that the actual episodes had , by the point in time this was produced , give or take a year or a few . All in all , really just a game to avoid . I would say that you have to look a long time for a game less entertaining or well-rounded than this . I recommend it to . . . heck , I don't know . . . wrestling fans , I guess , possibly . Fans of The Simpsons should most definitely avoid ( I would know , I am one of them ) .
Somewhat original , fair music . . . but that's about it	The first Home Alone was a decent enough film . . . the sequel was pretty much the same , at a new setting . This one tries to be original , and succeeds to some degree . . . of course , the formula is basically the same , so it's like watching the same movie for a third time with slightly altered plot . The new score is quite bad ( though the new " setting traps " piece was , if nothing else , interesting and different ) , especially compared to the grand score of the first , and the almost-but-not-quite-as-good score of the second . It ( almost ) makes up for it by using some pretty good non-original music , but it's just not the same . The plot is fair , and somewhat original to the franchise , but it's still basically the same movie as the first two , with worse acting and a less impressive example of the ' scary character turning out to be good ' . The acting is mostly unimpressive . The characters are mostly caricatures . The new thieves are less entertaining than the old ones ( and they make fun of spy-stuff , which is almost criminal , given the limited amount of good spy flicks there are , and how precious few of them are cool ) . The fact that there are more of them ( and thereby more traps ) is just a weak attempt at trying to go one higher than the first two films . . . and it doesn't work . The idea behind the thieves and their mission is a tad too . . . adult and serious for a children's film ( and there was a sexual joke or two , though that isn't the first time in the series ) . It's also unnecessarily complex , as is the plot in general . I could follow it , but I doubt a kid could . Some of the exposition are delivered so obviously that even children may find it stupid . The animal stuff is generally not amusing . There are fewer siblings , which should mean that those there are get developed more , but they have less personality than the least featured of those of the first two films . All in all , just not particularly good , or worth watching , unless you really love watching criminals getting hurt in cartoon-y violence . I recommend this to huge fans of the series only .
Not all bad , if somewhat close	A Nordic slasher . Who would have thought such a film would ever see the light of day ? Though this goes by some of the rules of slasher flicks , something's missing for it to be a genuine slasher . It's hardly gore , false scares or daft teenagers . . . heck , there's some of all of that within the first five minutes , and gratuitous nudity to boot ( something that is a rarity in the newer slashers , but somewhat dominant of the older ones , or so I've been told ) . The plot is something of a mess ( and seemingly stitched together through various other slasher plots ) , with subplots and back-story all over the place , little , if any , of it providing much other than a way to pass the time to get this past the minimum length requirement of a feature film . I would be lying if I claimed that I understood even half of the characters actions . There are definite problems with character development , as well . . . in fact , it hardly seems to exist , except for possibly one character . I found myself having trouble telling them apart ( strange , due to how few there are ) , though that did get easier as the movie goes along ( for obvious reasons . . . a monumentally strong hint would be which genre film it is ) . The dialog , acting and editing are amateurish , but they ( well , the last two , at least ) do show signs of legitimate attempts made for more than that , which can't always be said . The effects are clearly cheap and mostly , the camera simply covers this up , which works OK ( better than bad effects paraded in plain sight ) . The cinematography is fair ; somewhat experimental but often there are too few or too bad angles , and I far too often found myself wondering what was going on or who was doing what . This was shot on DV ( as opposed to film or HD ) , and while the film does show , I think they did fine with this format , one I myself have had the pleasure and good fortune of working with . The sound is somewhat uninspired , with rock music ( a rather unlucky habit that seems to have formed recently , with low-budget slashers ) in the chase scenes . Sound effects are terribly exaggerated , making for close to comic death and suspense scenes . All in all , I enjoyed the slasher elements of this , but that's about it . I recommend this only to big fans of slashers who can lower their expectations and enjoy a discount version of what you're used to .
The longest Head and Shoulders commercial ever . . .	This movie is pretty much just a remake / update of Ghostbusters , with aliens instead of ghosts . This pretty much proves that director Ivan Reitman can't really do anything but this type of films . The plot is stupid and poorly paced . The acting is pretty decent , but that's also the only good thing about this film . The characters are all clichés and stereotypes . Most of the actors portray pretty much the exact same type of character that they usually do , so I don't know how much it really took for the actors to get into character or act their parts . The humor is childish , cheesy and juvenile throughout . The special effects look hideous . The science fiction elements are poor . The whole thing is just so throughly unfunny and dull that it's hard to put into words . It's boring and cheesy , never particularly funny and never engaging , exciting or interesting . I doubt anyone but the biggest of fans of Reitman or the actors involved would find this even marginally interesting . The whole thing about the shampoo in the end was so stupid I could actually feel my IQ dropping drastically . So , in conclusion , if you are a fan of the newer , apparently popular , one-note childish , juvenile crude humor as seen on shows like Family Guy and ( sadly ) recent episodes of The Simpsons , look no further . . . or , maybe , look further , as even that type of humor is better in other films . . . but , anyway , if you aren't , stay away . Far away . I recommend this to big fans of Reitman or the various actors , and of the aforementioned type of humor .
Hard to just flat-out hate , but only slightly easier to enjoy	The first Species is kind of a cheap , low-profile , gore-fest kind of horror-flick , that benefited from a fairly impressive cast . This is the direct sequel , where three cast members return , two of which in the exact same roles ( Madsen and Helgenberger ) and the last playing a new character based on her character from the first ( Henstridge ) . Well , actually , that last thing isn't entirely true . . . Henstridge's character is basically a cheap and easy way of bringing back the character , as it was hard to bring it back after what happened to the first ( which you'll know if you've seen it ) . The script is basically the writer coming up with a simple , easily explainable way of making a sequel to the first , and taking it to a slightly higher level , sacrificing common sense in the process . The plot is pretty stupid , and a good bit of it doesn't make sense . Worse even , some of it leaves you confused , which is almost offensive to even the most common viewer , as the premise of this film is about as simple as they come . The pacing is decent ; the first time you see it , provided that you're prepared for how bad it is ( and I'm saying that from the most objective viewpoint possible ) , it will / may keep your interest for most of the film . The acting ranges , but most of it is B-movie level and below . I'm not kidding , some of the dummies and animated creatures in this film act better than some of the actual actors . The characters aren't particularly interesting or credible . A few of them are clichés and stereotypes , like the character of Dennis Gamble , who's basically the typical black stereotype . . . speaking ' ghetto ' , hunting ' booty and generally just not really adding anything at all to the film . The science fiction aspects of the film don't really add anything to the original , the thriller aspects are kind of predictable and the horror isn't really horrific . . . just gory . The special effects are somewhat impressive , at least for the time . They hold up pretty good over time , too . That , coupled with an early feeling of optimism that the film will eventually improve ( which it doesn't , trust me ) makes the film bearable to watch , but it doesn't really have anything worthwhile to offer . As a sequel , it's OK . As a stand-alone film , it doesn't really hold up at all . If you saw the first , and thought it had too little action and / or gore , you might like this . I recommend this film only to people who enjoyed the gore and creature effects of the first more than anything else ( which , I guess , is just about anyone who really enjoyed it at all ) . If you can watch it for free or at a very , very cheap cost and you enjoyed the first immensely , you might want to think about considering checking this out . Or not .
I never thought I'd say this . . . but we could have done without the martial arts	This was purchased for and given to me by someone who knew of my affection of The Matrix , and depictions of unarmed combat in general . Unfortunately , this individual was either without a smidgen of taste in film , or had not actually seen it . The fights , whilst showing potential , and having been choreographed by one quite skilled within the world of them . . . really don't work . They're wildly out of place and the way they are shot makes it confusing to the point where I , ironically , found myself particularly bothered by this whenever it had them . For crying out loud , the majority of the time you can't even tell which of the people involved in them is which , much less what's going on . Somewhat like Episode III of Star Wars , the cinematography ( done by Hyams , himself , aiding the man in proving that he has absolutely no skills within the field of movie-making ) makes it tough to tell how much progress is made in the battles . . . but at least the action in that was entertaining and pleasant to look at . I realize that I have so far devoted every word of this comment to this one subject , but I really can't claim that I had high hopes for anything else in the production being worth even a fleeting glance . Misdirected by Peter Hyams , I mean , has the man done a single piece that was cause of , well , any rejoicing ? Sudden Death , which was a hackneyed attempt at cashing in on the success of the far superior Die Hard , Timecop , which was a shameful waste of an interesting concept ( made only worse , somehow , by its sequel ) , and End of Days was passable at best . My gosh , the man even managed to mess up the sequel to 2001 : A Space Oddyssey , which , granted , was an enormously difficult film to try to follow , but why was it even tried in the first place ( and Hyams gets double credit for screwing that one up , because he penned it , as well ) ? The acting is mostly just bad . From the random , scattered and half-hearted attempts that are made at French accents , to the title role player who manages to be out-done by the kid who portrays him as a young boy . What's with the opening credits looking like the intro to a 70's show ? The dialog has its moments , but then there are the times where it is so obvious , with a complete lack of respect for subtlety and proper story-telling . . . honestly , a character or two seemed put in the film for no other reason than to spout expositionary lines . In attempts to draw in young men and young women , respectively , Suvari and Chambers ( the film's excuse for a male lead ) both get a scene , one more useless than the next , in which one of them is naked ( without nudity , to preserve the PG-13 rating ) , and Chambers also briefly flirts with a woman seemingly put in this for no other reason than to put her cleavage on the screen . The two leads also have a poorly crafted and inexplicable romance , added for no other reason than to make the final bit personal ( because obviously that wasn't the very first thing done in this ) . The plot is not all bad , and has ideas that could deserve attention . Rea is a fine enough Richelieu , and I can assure you that Roth makes an imposing and utterly monstrous villain , who also manages to be quotable ( as the only one in the entire flick ) . An effective reveal on him , after a certain event in the film , would have been nice , but you can't have everything ( and in this case , you can't get much at all ) . Really , all in all , this has very little going for it . And that's too bad , because almost everything in the film needed just a little push in the right direction for a viewing of this to be time well spent , but a large group of lackluster and average things , coupled with a few downright bad ones . . . well , I'm sure you can deduce what this results in . I recommend this only to those who wish to watch every visual representation of Dumas ' famous novel ( " As you've never seen it before " , indeed , but this is proof that such is not necessarily a positive ) that has come into existence and the teenagers who find the sound ( or , rather , the potential visual ) of either star in their birthday suit too good to pass up . Anyone else . . . life's too short .
Below average for a slasher	This is the first of the sequels I've seen , and it might not be the worst of them , but it definitely is bad . The first was a masterpiece of slasher cinema , this one is so bad , it could be mistaken as a parody of a slasher . Apparently , the plot has something to do with Michael Myers returning to kill his niece , or something to that extent . I guess they couldn't get Jamie Lee Curtis , so they thought : " Hey , I know , what about instead of having him chase his sister , we make up a niece for him to chase ? " It wasn't long into this movie that I realized that apparently , Jamie Lee Curtis ' character in the first is now supposed to be Michaels sister ( they apparently changed it when they made the second movie ) . Personally , I preferred it back when Michael was just a psycho , killing whoever he wanted , and not a psycho who goes around , killing his family . Oh well . Only watch this movie if you can't take the bare thought of the fact that there exists a slasher movie that you haven't seen , or you are a huge fan of Halloween . If you liked the first , you may or may not like this . I loved the first , and was heavily disappointed with this . If you do decide to watch it , keep your expectations very low . Then , maybe , you won't totally hate it .
Definitely worse than the first two , but not all bad	Lets get one thing straight ; this film is bad . The plot is poorly written and full of gaping holes . The pacing is awful ; the film drags by so slowly that it'll take all of your tolerance and patience to sit through the entire film . The acting is hammy , with no exception ( well , possibly Brad Dourif as the voice of Chucky . . . but that almost doesn't count , since he's always good anyway ) . The characters are daftly written clichés and stereotypes . The dialog is unforgivably bad . The death scenes are slower , less detailed and generally less interesting and cool than the first two . Yes , this film is bad , very bad . But surprisingly , it's not completely intolerable . I found myself actually enjoying several parts of it . I think the main thing making this bad is that it's basically the story of the first ; a kid gets a talking doll , it tells him that it's in reality a psychopathic killer , and he stays close to it , despite people around him dying . There are a few alterations to the formula , but they really don't change the fact that this is almost a remake of the first . The changes are that this time , the kid isn't Andy , the kid is slower at figuring out that Chucky is bad and it takes place at a military school . What really bothered me is that there's almost no tie-in with the first two films whatsoever . In the first scene , we get a quick summary of what happened in the first film , told by someone who has no idea what really happened , and then at one point , we see a picture of Andy as a child and his mother . No mention of Kyle , no real justification for him being at the military school . Also , why does Play Pal keep reconstructing Chucky ? More importantly , how the heck does Chucky manage to mail himself complete in a Good Guy box to the military school ? The film has so many shortcomings , yet I couldn't help but enjoy it to an extent . Some parts of it were actually slightly good . I liked the twist of Chucky chasing someone other than Andy for once . I will say that the Full Metal Jacket spoof was painful , though . If Kubrick wasn't alive when this was made , he would have turned in his grave . The end of this one isn't as overdone as the first two , which I found good ( but some may be disappointed ) . All in all , this is probably the worst Chucky film , but it's not as bad as some say . Note that my rating is below average , but only slightly . I recommend this to fans of the Child's Play series and horror fans . . . be warned that this is the lesser film of the series , though .
Just bad . . . very , very bad	I had expected this movie to impress me with good action scenes , and probably some good humor too ; I was heavily disappointed . I knew it was about cars , but come on , nothing else ? The movie consists of scene after scene involving cars racing . It might as well have taken place at a race track . The humor mainly consists of the main character constantly being kept from having sex with his girlfriend . The action scenes consist of a lot of people shooting , without it ever being very clear what the hell they're shooting at . Now , I'm not a big racing movie fan , in fact , I mostly hate movies that involve a lot of car racing , but some good movies involving cars have impressed me ( The Matrix Reloaded , for example ) , but I must admit , the car scenes in this movie were simply nothing special . The plot is instantly forgettable . The characters are annoying . The stunts are nothing that isn't seen hundreds of times before . The movie is in no way entertaining , impressive , or just mildly worth your time . Skip this one , no matter how big a racing movie fan you are . I don't recommend this movie to anyone , unless they are so into cars that they can't stand the thought of not having seen every single movie involving them .
Even worse	A poor sequel to a movie the very existence of which was just barely warranted , if at all , much less deserving a follow-up ( and it didn't even end here ) . Granted , the end of the first did pretty much mean that they had to do at least one more , and the addition to the gimmick as well as the new pun of equally questionable ability to amuse , but couldn't they at least have used the same female actress ? She ( name withheld so as to not spoil the surprise ) would have been fine , heck , just about anyone would have . But Roseanne ? They had half of the Earth's population to choose from , and out of all those options , out of every woman on the planet , they picked . . . her ? This is one of three pieces of . . . entertainment ? no , that's not it , this doesn't qualify as that . . . that I've seen her in , and were her parts permanently taken out from all three , it would not exactly reduce me to crying in the fetal position . The reaction it would produce from me would rather be in the other end of the spectrum . Various cast-members return , not all having anything to do . More nightmare sequences , one misusing a master in comedy . Gilbert Gottfried is brought in to perform his shtick , but interjects no laughs . So is Damon Wayans ( Wayans ' , I'm sure , need to do no acting to play kids , or their voices , anyway ) . This time around , the couple fight . Their differences are yet again set up against each other in a manner that I would presume is meant to entertain . So is most of the movie , one would guess , but it tends to inspire boredom and restlessness , instead . More scenes that seem to have no other purpose for existing than to bring the running time close to 90 minutes ( though this didn't even make it to that . . . thank goodness ) . Pro-gun people take a pounding . At least the kids stop talking after this one . I recommend this to . . . I don't know , people who can stand Roseanne and / or needless sequels .
" Hello ? Anybody ? This is the humor in the film . . . can somebody help me ? I'm trapped under a huge pile of sub-plots . . . "	This is the second Porky film . . . and it just exactly manages to be slightly worse than the first . Surprising ( and unfortunate ) , since this actually does manage to produce a laugh or two . The humor is basically the same , but this somehow gets you laughing , at least a time or two . There is a rather funny exchange that ends with principal Carter telling a reverend where he can put his beloved flock . However , most of the humor is drowned out in subplots drenched in political correctness ( rather contrasting to the ' point ' of the films , which seems to be to be as offensive as possible ) . This does make for a few entertaining scenes , though , but the overall product is just not worth it . The plot is a mess . The acting is unimpressive and uninspired ( apart from possibly Bill Wiley as Reverend Flavel ) , and at times terribly overplayed ( Edward Winter's last scene being a prime example ) . The characters are underdeveloped and poorly written ; they are all paper-thin clichés . The good guys are all heroic and intelligent ( not terribly so , but still ) and the bad guys are hypocritical SOB's . It's too easy to hate those you are supposed to , and almost as easy to like the ones you are supposed to . The writing is of the same low quality as that of the first film . Dialog is poor , both as far as writing and delivery goes . All in all , funnier than the first , but not as good ( astoundingly enough ) . I recommend it to people who liked the first , but don't go out of your way to see it .
Eh . . . boring , humorless and lacks intensity ; so action-less that I don't think it can be classified an action film	Some heavy spoilers , but confined to one single paragraph , and clearly markedThis is , by far , the worst in the Die Hard Trilogy . We meet John McClane once again , but now he's no longer funny , he's just a pathetic jerk , who you wouldn't pity if he was dying slowly from a horrible disease . He's given a new " unlikely partner " , much like the two previous films . . . only this time , it's an obnoxious , annoying , whiny , cowardly , loudmouthed black racist , played by Samuel L . Jackson , who delivers an unbelievably unappealing performance . I know this character was supposed to provide comic relief , but most of the time I just felt like knocking him out , if not for anything else , then at least to shut him and his incessant complaining up . The previous two films had action , shoot-outs , chasing , intensity . . . this has some lame car-chases and a very , very , very , far too long goose-chase that lasts throughout most of the film . The two characters run around , from one bomb to another , but the audience never really feels any actual intensity , or feels that they are in actual danger , since it's the same thing , constantly , over and over . WARNING ! SPOILERS THROUGHOUT THE NEXT PARAGRAPH ! DON'T READ THIS UNLESS YOU'VE SEEN THE FILM ! What are we supposed to care about , exactly ? The kids , who defy logic and play card games when they've been instructed to follow the cop ? Besides , what is there to fear in the movie ? Half of the bombs are duds , anyway . And the premise is exactly the same as it was in the first film ; Germans who pretend to be terrorist , but who are really just thieves ; they kill the guards and put English-talking German thieves in place of them . SPOILERS OVER . The film has two or three actual shootouts , and each of them are horribly filmed , as well as the rest of the film . It looks like it was filmed by a kid with a home-video camera . The action was also dull and uninspired . Almost all of it consists of car-chases , and these are some of the most boring of them . Normally I'm not into car-chases at all , but at least Blues Brothers and The Matrix Reloaded put some effort into it . The humor is pretty much the same as in Die Hard 2 ; nearly everybody has some lame one-liner , if they're not spouting old clichés . The film bases almost all of the action on the long goose-chase , which relies entirely on twists , which means that , at best , you can enjoy watching it once , because the next time you'll know what happens , and you'll just be sitting and staring at the awful camera work . I've seen cheap independent films that are better filmed ; honestly . The end is probably the worst cop-out I've ever seen , and definitely the most anti-climactic end ever in an action movie . It's like lighting some very expensive fireworks , only to find out that it's a dud . If you are going to watch this " action " film , against my best advice , be sure to watch it for free ; this is in no way worth spending money on at all . All in all , just a lame excuse to make money off of the Die Hard franchise , without actually paying any kind of respect to the characters or previous films ( unless ripping off the formula from the first is considered respectful ) . I don't recommend this to anyone , since I have no idea how anyone could possible find just a little enjoyment or entertainment value in this cinematic garbage . I don't know . . . maybe if you have really low standards , zero expectations , and you enjoy looking at big explosions that happen for no particular reason other than to show off pyrotechnics . . . you could give it a try . But don't say I didn't warn you .
Thoroughly unimpressive	Despite a fairly good cast , this film has nothing to offer . Nothing we haven't seen before . Nothing we haven't seen done better . Nothing worth spending time watching in order to gain . The plot is decent at best , and barely holds up at all . The conflict is just not there ; who are we supposed to hope dies ? Who are we expected to root against ? Baldwin's character is the villain that has the most screen-time whilst remaining unlikable , but he doesn't seem like he's the actual villain . The pacing is pitifully bad . The acting is poor , apart from the leads . The characters are all stereotypes and paper-thin ones at that . The film manages to cram in every single cliché in the genre in . The ending is as predictable as they come . The film never manages to build any real suspense or tension , making the film seem endlessly long and pointless ( when , really , it's just two hours long and pointless ) . There's just nothing new here , and nothing that makes the film even remotely worth experiencing . You like the plot outlines ? Check out the book . I'll wager it's better . I can't imagine that it's worse . You like the idea of the film ? See if you can't find a better one . It shouldn't be too hard . It must be easier than finding a worse one . I recommend this only to very big fans of Demi Moore , James Gandolfini , Alec Baldwin and / or Anne Heche , and possibly huge fans of the genre . Everyone else should just skip this one .
A film as devoid of life as a victim of the title creature	A rapper and a singer who think they can act and / or have any business acting join forces with several actors and a comedian and face a large snake . The film was put together for the sole purpose of putting said snake , the type of which is in the very title , on the screen , the justification for such is not . . . present , and the main reason for choosing to do such a film seems to be the fact that the effects could be achieved in 1997 ( and , looking back , heck , maybe even looking at it back then , the might have benefited from waiting some ) . Not all the effects are bad , though . The acting is largely poor . Voight sounds like Jean-Claude Van Damme , and at one point , he even pulls off a move that would have fit more if done by said " actor " . More or less everyone else is negligible . The writing is set up to make sure the snake can appear . The technical aspects aren't horrible , they're just not particularly impressive . Editing , camera-work and all is flat and uninspired . I suppose some males may be attracted to Lopez and Wuhrer . I'm not sure there particularly is anything for women in this , but hey , if you're a female and you dig the film , that's fine . This is essentially creature-horror for fans of B-movie cinema . I'm not sure anyone else will find anything particularly spell-binding herein . I recommend this to those who fall into the former group . Those wanting a proper portrayal of the reptile , as well as anyone expecting a solid performance from even the most dependable of the actors may want to consider if they wouldn't be better off skipping this one .
You want something that's entirely non-politically correct , look no further . If , however , you want something that's actually entertaining , look elsewhere	Eh . . . an alternate heading for this review might be " sucks on so many levels " , but I thought that this summary puts it better and hopefully it catches the eyes of potential buyers ( so that I may warn them ) . If you are indeed reading this , it worked . If not . . . I was wrong . First things first ; I was interested in this game when I heard that it was going to be more detailed and massive than the first ( which was just a fun little 2D shooter with little to no plot ) . Fortunately , those promises were indeed met . Unfortunately , that's about the only positive thing I can say for this dull , short , and barely entertaining game . The game-play is boring and frustratingly hard a lot of the time . The game tries too hard to be funny , and ends up being like one of the new Simpsons episodes . . . meaning they throw in plot devices at the most obvious parts , they push the punchline so far into your face you'll be struggling to breathe and , possibly worst of all , they realize that the humor is horrible , and instead of doing something about this , they make fun of that , too . As for the graphics engine . . . you know those really , really cool games , where you can blow off limbs , every single body-hit has a reaction and you can affect the movements of your enemies by attacking ( knocking them to the ground , hitting them with your weapon , etc . ) ? Yeah , me too . Apparently the Running With Scissors team doesn't . . . or if they do , they don't appreciate the dimension it adds to the game . Whereas in overall mediocre games like Soldier of Fortune and Red Faction you can blow your enemies or your environment to pieces , here you can merely blow off the enemies head ( if you're damn lucky ) with a shot directly to the head , with a shotgun . . . at about one foot distance away from him or her . Also , if you have infinite amounts of patience , then you could attempt to knock off their head with the shovel . . . but again , it takes far too much time to be effective or entertaining , and it gets real old , real quick . Among the aforementioned attempts at making everything political incorrect in the game are the features of smoking pot to gain more health and various " offensive " advertisements , including an ad for a life insurance , directed at kids telling them that " your parents are going to die . . . make sure they're insured " . Not funny , right ? Exactly . Just politically incorrect . It seems like it's a rising tendency to make games offensive rather than entertaining . . . kind of a ' screw you ' to the censors , I guess . That's all fine and good , of course , but make sure that the games are fun to play as well as offensive . That's all . The game-play is repetitive and frankly just boring . It's not particularly challenging , either ( then again , I did play it on the easiest difficulty , so it might be far harder on harder difficulty levels , but a good game manages to give the player something that requires effort to pass , even on the easiest setting ) . What does offer challenge to the player is the awful physics engine , which doesn't work properly , and is poorly crafted ; you can kick , but you can't kick anyone to the ground ; you can hit people with large objects , but you can't knock them back , so you'll often find yourself surrounded by enemies , with no good way of fighting them off . The weapon selection is unimaginative ( especially for a game that tries hard to be offensive ) ; there are no nail guns , chainsaws or even a knife or something . . . what we get is the same old stuff . . . shotgun ( SPAS 12 , I think , for anyone that cares ) , pistol ( Desert Eagle ) and assault rifle ( M4 , if my memory serves me correctly ) . Of course , there are some more entertaining weapons . . . but they could have done so much more . I must compliment them on the can of gas , though . . . that is a weapon that any guy with just a few ( even mild ) aggressions can enjoy . Apart from that , though , there are hardly any reasons for playing this . If you do play it , there's no reason for playing through it , as it's the same thing all the way through ( all five levels . . . ) . If you do make it to the last level , there is sort of a twist ( I suppose . . . if one can even claim that the game has an actual plot ) . Next paragraph will contain a total of two spoilers , put there simply for the sake of preventing the need for anyone who doesn't want to complete the game , to complete it , if they want to know how it ends . SPOILERS At the end of the last level , after the last mission , there will be a " twist " : the apocalypse will start , for no reason in particular . Everyone will start shooting at each other , and some will shoot at you . I guess this is supposed to make up for the lack of entertaining game-play . Also , in the final cinematic , when you've beaten the entire game , the Postal Dude does kill that preposterously obnoxious woman he's with . . . issues , anyone ? I vote " yes " . END SPOILERSWhat else is there to say . . . the AI is nearly non-existent , the level design is lacking in detail , the graphics are overly demanding and not particularly good , the game is thoroughly dull and the " plot " is lame ( and at times , utterly nonsensical ) . The level is built as a small town which you can move around in about as much as you want , with more areas being added as you progress through the game . Unfortunately , the downside to this is that there are " load zones " at every major " checkpoint " in the level , and you have to wait a ridiculous amount of time to get to continue . All in all , the game is just too dull , short and dumb and tries too hard to be politically incorrect . . . kind of like a game version of Adam Sandler . People with issues may enjoy this . I recommend this to fans of offensive games , not entertaining ones .
Informs	This is a special feature that you can view on the second of the 2 discs of the DVD of Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines . Well , technically , that should be " several " , not " a " . And if you want to be get really pedantic , a little of this bunch allows for a little interactivity , also . I'll get last-mentioned out of the way immediately : It's called " make your own effect " , and it's essentially two sequences where you can switch certain animated elements on or off . That's it . The rest are featurettes on the various scenes that had FX work done on them . I count it to come to about 47 minutes , not counting any time spent on the " game " . They go into moderate detail , and through interviews and footage of the actual producing , they tell the audience how they did the specific things , be it stunts , CGI or miniatures . If you're interested in knowing , this does a fine enough job . I can't claim that it ever drew me in . . . and its rigid and unvaried setup , with having the display of " choosing the method " can get tiresome to look at , in particular in the couple of areas where we can easily figure out what they used . All in all , this is a reasonable enough collection , and I can't quite claim I understand the amount of votes of no more than 1 ( ! ) . I recommend this to those who watched the film ( so as to avoid spoilers ) and would like to know how they did the convincing . . . or even the few that aren't . . . bits of movie magic .
If this is anything but Sellers at his worst , I won't watch any more of his films	Having not seen any of the previous ( or later , for that matter ) films in the Pink Panther series , I can't comment on this compared to the others . I can , however , comment on how terribly unfunny and devoid of actual comedy it is . All of the humor is either bad slapstick ( have we actually seen any really good slapstick since the black and white silent movies ? ) , misunderstandings , completely unlikely situations , or poor stereotypes . Sellers plays a French detective who speaks poor English and has a ridiculous accent . With him are various other stereotypes , including an Asian stereotype , a number of British ones , and one or two female ones . The humor is lame and very forced . It's also horribly predictable ; you see a cake in the scene , you know it's going in someones face , and if you see a large , nice-looking table , you know someones going through it . The same goes for walls and windows . The plot . . . eh , I don't know , have no idea , I didn't pay attention to it . The film lost me when Clouseau stood with a bomb in his hand , asking if someone was expecting it . Sellers trips through the film as a bumbling idiot , constantly making mistakes even a child wouldn't make , only being saved out of the impossible situations by the help of others or by sheer coincidence . Sellers fans might enjoy it , but I doubt that anyone else will . One final thought . . . no , make that two ; Am I the only one who wonders why the every film in the series is called something with the Pink Panther , when there's no actual pink panther in it ? The series revolve around Clouseau , the bi-character from the television series , does it not ? Not saying that I would have preferred staring at a man-size pink panther ( which would have to be a man in a pink panther-suit , given the technology at the time ) , just wondering . Anyway , as for the other final thought ; isn't it just typically Hollywood that even a character who's supposed to be French can't pronounce " Deja vu " correctly ? All in all , no real reason to see this film , unless you're a fan of the comedy style or of Sellers . Otherwise , avoid . I recommend this to fans of Sellers , and possibly of the series .
Not sure whether this is a chick flick or just a generic bad movie . . .	I saw this a few years ago , and didn't quite see why everyone was praising it so much . I attempted to watch it again a year or two later , still desperately trying to figure out what everyone was praising the movie for . Then I borrowed it from the local library a few days ago , and today I saw it again . . . I'm still as baffled by its reputation as a good film as I was when I first saw it . It seems to be a chick flick , since just about all of the elements are there . . . but maybe it is just a generic bad movie that has gotten popular because of the star power or whatever . I mean , everything in the movie . . . the obnoxious little kid , the weak attempts at comedy mostly consisting of old stereotypes , the unbelievably poorly implemented and uneven love-story . . . no . Just no . I can only guess that the popularity of this film lies in a strong audience of people who are either easily impressed or girls who are into chick flicks . Possibly both . The plot is OK , but the pacing is awful . It moves unforgivable slowly and seems twice as long as it is . . . at least . The acting is flat or overplayed . . . everyone seems either terribly uninterested in the material or to not be sure how to perform , and therefore overdo it . I can't believe that this was actually done by Cameron Crowe . . . come on , he made Almost Famous and Vanilla Sky , two movies that are great at best and impressive at the least . How could he screw this up ? I recommend this film only to the biggest fans of the people involved in the making of it , and possibly fans of chick flicks . Everyone else ; don't listen to the hype . It's not the least bit interesting or involving .
Jean-Pierre ? Well , see , a number of us have been wondering . . . what the heck were you thinking ?	I understand that French directors make weird films . In fact , maybe this one's even one of the most extreme in that respect . But this is just . . . a minor complaint would be events and actions in general that are bizarre , but there also bigger issues . For one thing , so many situations are solved in an unexpected way . Now , kudos for not just taking the easy way out , but it almost comes off as overcompensating , going so far in the other direction that the viewer feels completely disconnected from it . . . the illusion cracks , and we find ourselves wondering why we're giving this piece of fiction , which at these bits , not so much makes no attempt at convincing us , but more goes out of its way to taunt and push us away . The humor is seldom all that funny , and more often than not common sense is its expense . It should not be thought that Jeunet is not skillful ; tension is mustered up ( if , as others have said , there is hardly any character development ) , the creatures , as well as various parts of the movie , are effective . The plot is more or less empty and by-the-numbers once the initial stuff is out of the way ( save for one or two ideas and scenes , which admittedly are pretty darn good and interesting ) , and its overall progression is mostly devoid of surprises ( which is not to say that everything herein is figured out ahead of time ) . Something that , at best , at least nags is how this seems to try to fit in what was in each entry to go before it ( which , sooner or later , has got to get to be ridiculous ) . The effects are great . There are some rather grotesque sights and sounds in this , anyone considering watching should take that into account . The action isn't that involving or entertaining . This did have the worst start-off point , and they did actually manage to work around that , if in a way that is far-fetched . The behavior of the Aliens is somewhat messed up . Furthermore , I wasn't scared of them at . . . anytime , really . The acting isn't particularly impressive , same goes for some of the character writing ( Ripley , what happened to you ? Is it the black nail-polish ( I know , I know , someone told you it would look wicked ) ? ) . Perlman is reasonably cool ( but the man probably delivered a one-liner as his first words ) . The Special Edition , briefly introduced ( in less than a minute ) by he who helmed this , holds an alternate opening and ending , among other things , and is worth it for those who want more of what this is . The commentary track is also fine to listen to . I recommend this to . . . maybe more fans of Jean-Pierre Jeunet ( as well as Joss Whedon ? I . . . wouldn't know , this appears to be the only thing of his I've seen firsthand ) than those who dig the franchise .
If this comes on some day when you've got absolutely nothing else to do and you don't expect anything from the film , give it a try . . . otherwise , avoid it	My friend and I found this one night at Blockbuster . It looked nice . . . fairly appealing cast , plot sounds like it might be good and it certainly looks like it could contain some very good science fiction ( which I live and breathe for , basically ) . So , we rented it . That was a few years ago . . . years where I haven't really given the film much thought . We pretty much enjoyed the film , didn't think much about it since then . Then , I saw it was being transmitted on TV a few days ago , taped it , and now , I've just seen it again . What can I say , other than pointing out that my friend and I must have had incredibly low expectations , been desperate for a film we hadn't seen or just in extreme denial because none of us would admit how bad a decision it certainly must have been to rent it . I couldn't remember any of it . . . and now I know why . For instantly obvious reasons , my sub-conscious must have erased the memory of the film to maintain my respect for the people involved and to keep me from thinking back on the rental with regret . This seriously is about as bad as they get . The plot is poor , derivative and has more holes than a Swiss cheese that has been mauled by a Gatling gun . The pacing is so off that you're almost falling asleep . The acting is unbelievably amateurish , even for the likes of Jamie Lee Curtis ( who has herself said this film sucked in an interview ) , Donald Sutherland ( who doesn't seem to be able to pick an accent to stick with , or even decide for sure if he's going to use one or not ) and the Baldwin brother ( whichever of them it was , I can barely tell them apart , particularly when the film is so dull , pointless and boring ) . Character development and motivation is non-existent . The writers clearly didn't have a lot of ideas , so they just kept doing the same thing over and over . In the end , there's a robot that comes back again more times than The Terminator itself . The film doesn't display even the least bit of originality , creativity or imagination . You're probably better off not seeing it , unless you really want to see just how bad it is . I recommend this mess of a film only to huge fans of the people involved . However , it is a better film than Deep Rising . . . that much I will say . One to skip , and , if necessary , avoid .
I'd be lying if I claimed I didn't like and enjoy , if not necessarily all , then definitely parts , of this	This has got stuff going for it . It ignores the two sequels , and uses the Verhoeven movie as the basis ( it , in fact , appears to be in love with it , and uses it wherever possible , most noticeably in the spoken lines ) , that proves they had the right idea . The satire is also quite present ( albeit it tries too hard , worst in the last credits , where it could not possibly be more obvious that they're talking directly to the audience , not to mention how it often underestimates their smarts , and spells it out , same as in the second flick ) . Moreover , there are plenty of gunfights , as well as some martial arts and car-chases ( not all of these are fantastic , if they tend to stay above the level of passable ) . Each episode seems to start with a bang ( there are those that would call them grabs for attention ) . On paper , this sounds an awful lot better than it is , which is not at all to say that it is all poor . It has several scattered things wrong with it , that unfortunately add together and make the whole less than excellent . For example , the plot is good , and remains so through the mini , but there are perhaps a subplot or a couple over the amount there should be , and not everything pays off ( a shame , considering the concepts they at least begin to cover ) . The pacing can be uneven . While there among the characters are truly interesting ones , others are caricatures , and they get considerable screen time . I will say that this keeps getting even better and bigger , without losing anything , throughout , I didn't think they'd be able to top themselves , however , they went and did just that . The very ending , though parts formulaic and tough to swallow , had something great and well-thought out , in my opinion . The performances are so-so ( I personally got a kick out of getting to see Geraint Wyn Davies again ) , and this is not devoid of screamy acting . This does hold a number of really awesome moments . There is unintentionally silly material herein . This is exciting sometimes , and certainly had me thrilled , although not constantly . Why do people continue to use small arms fire against RoboCop , and when will they realize it is utterly and completely ineffective ? They cover up the limitations and constraints reasonably . There are repetitive actions ( get used to seeing a certain individual storm out with determination ) . The effects are well-done , meanwhile , no one is going to be fooled and not be able to figure out what's CGI and what isn't . The music is . . . well , let me put it this way , either they saw the title role as a bit of a cowboy , or the composer is big on Ennio Morricone ( hey , who could blame them ? ) . Obviously I hope it's the former , but it didn't always seem staged or filmed to fit that . There are marvelous developments and situations found in this . The writing is a mixed bag , both dialog and story . There is violence , and it could be called excessive , in tone and volume . This I would say is genuinely disturbing a handful times , whether or not that is positive is up to the viewer . I recommend this series to any fan of the first of the cinema-releases , and / or of the iron-clad law-man . . . be aware that there are areas of this that are going to underwhelm ; if you can stand those , you're in for multiple cool , fun sequences and not half bad science fiction .
Very average	I haven't seen a lot of " dog " movies , but I'm pretty sure most of the others are better than this . The plot is just the typical 90's action cop vs . drug-lord movie , and is absolutely nothing special and is not offering anything new . I found the dog very annoying , with nearly no redeeming qualities , at all . I don't know if it's supposed to play on most peoples unconditional love for a dog , but it didn't work on me . I watched this movie mainly to see a movie with James Belushi , and he does his typical stuff in this movie too , and he is pretty funny , if you like this type of humor . I don't think anyone who isn't either a fan of James Belushi , or a lover of dogs , would like this movie . In fact , they might even hate it . If it wasn't for Belushi , I'd have hated the movie . Belushi , and a little role by Ed O'Neill saved this for me . I truly , deeply , hated the dog , for every single moment he was in the movie , apart from one or two scenes , or a few things it did . I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who isn't in one of the two aforementioned groups .
Hardly devoid of charm	As much as this is an indulgence , it is at least not the man himself , but his offspring and their dreams ( as stated in the very opening credits , removing any possible doubt as to that being the case or not ) . Whether or not such a thing can be made into something amazing , that is not the case here . Few will contest that . But looking further , this does have some merit . By no means the greatest writer , Rodriguez does have both creativity and a well-developed imagination . He lets them roam free in large parts of this , and actually comes up with a clever thing or two , amongst that which ? isn't . Some of the humor is childish , and certain gags are repeated somewhat ad naseum . Downright cringe-inducing does it become when a character actually follows up his quip , painful enough already , with an explanation of the double meaning . And that even happens more than once . The puns most definitely could have been , well , done without entirely , in an awful lot of cases . Characters are terribly flat and one-note ? fleshing out never has been Robert's strong suit . Designs aren't half bad . The CGI could be better , if worse has been seen . The action is invariably quite entertaining , the fighting in particular . The acting varies , with a larger portion only reaching " passable " . Like the first Spy Kids ( I haven't watched the others ) , this has a moral to it , if a relatively naive one , and the content is perfectly acceptable to show even to the youngest family members . Everything is fairly simplified herein . I recommend this to fans of Robert Rodriguez , and / or those fond of comic books , a style captured rather skilfully here .
Possesses some charm , but is ultimately just a very poor entry	I'm not much for the 80's . I was too young to remember them ( was 4 when they ended ) , and listening to the music , looking at the hairstyles and watching the movies . . . it's just not the same . This particular brand of 80's comedy hits a particularly bad note with me ; the fish-out-of-the-water , combined with ridiculous sci-fi and with many of the jokes heavily , pitifully overdone . As such , this movie is hard for me to objectively review . . . so you will have to forgive me if this turns a tad too cruel . Having seen this at least once before , a few years ago , I mainly watched this to see the popular teen actors at a younger age . . . Lewis , Hannigan and Green . It was quite amusing to see them so young , and I don't regret investing a hundred minutes of half-attentive time on it . . . again . The film itself is OK . . . the plot is about as far out as they go , but I guess it's somewhat original and surely an interesting idea . The pacing seems mostly off , and you're often pondering when a scene will move on . This may be that I'm used to newer , more fast-paced movies . . . but I have few ( if any ) problems with Hitchcock's films , even his oldest . . . so I suspect that it's the direction rather than my attention span . The humor is mostly poor , or at least overdone . The gags are maybe funny at first , but when you get down to it , it's basically one joke told over and over , and it's just not that funny or original . The acting seems somewhat shoddy , as well . The characters are mostly one-note jokes , walking clichés , stereotypes , whichever expression you prefer . All in all , this is a fair comedy , considering the time it was made , but it's not really worth watching unless you're a big fan of some of the actors . I recommend this only to very big fans of several of the people involved in making it .
Surely not as bad as it's made out to be . . . but not particularly good either	After seeing this film for the second time , I have to wonder what I found so funny about it the first time ( since I did actually make it a mental note to watch it again ) . Maybe it's because I watched it with a friend . Maybe we were in such good moods that we were willing to take anything . Maybe we just both really hated Scary Movie and all the positive ( which was , in our shared opinion , powerfully undeserved ) talk about it . I don't know what it was , but somehow , I laughed all the way through the film when I first saw it . This time , I barely chuckled . Maybe I remembered all the jokes or maybe I just wasn't in the mood . . . but most likely , the film just isn't particularly good . It seems disjointed , thrown together from randomly filmed scenes . The plot is not original , but it's not really trying to be . It's put together from a bunch of typical horror-slasher / teen drama / crude comedy clichés , and it's actually somewhat nicely put together ( less all over the place than Scary Movie , at least ) . The pacing is mostly good , even on this , my second viewing , knowing everything that was going to happen , I wasn't particularly bored at any point . Some gags seem to drag out too much , though . The acting is amateurish , not much else to say about that . I guess the characters weren't fleshed out enough , or even developed enough in the script . The writing varies , but mostly it's somewhat uninspired and dull . As other reviews point out , the film just tries too hard , most of the time . The dialog has some fine moments , and more than a few lines are truly hilarious . One or more of the sight gags are even clever . However , that's also where the humor stops being good . The rest is silly , dumb humor ; the kind you'd usually see in kids ' shows and such . The jokes are plentiful but most of them just don't work . The film benefits slightly from having an attractive ( physically as well as comically ) cast , with Simon Rex ( who is also in Scary Movie 3 , the only good film of the franchise ) as eye-candy for the girls and Majandra Delfino for the guys . Not much else to say . . . if you want a good spoof of slasher films . . . go see Scream , if you haven't already . If you want a decent enough spoof film with jokes and gags all over the place ( as opposed to the poor sex gags of Scary Movie ) , check this film out . Just make sure you don't spend too much , and you might want to rent a backup film as well . I recommend this to big fans of the actors and parody flicks .
Crash and burn	You know those movies that really don't need sequels ? Can you tell the Hollywood producers about that ? Abrahams and the two Zuckers , or ZAZ , agreed not to do this . Thus , they abandoned this , and evidently took almost all of the hilarity with them , whether or not they intended to do so . That left this with some pieces of comedy , but mostly what there is just hacks , coughs , sputters and dies slowly and painfully before the viewers ' eyes . It's not a pretty sight . This is a soulless , less " honest " spoof . There is arguably more objectionable content in the first five minutes of this than the entirety of its predecessor . The bits that are , at times directly , lifted from it tend to do little other than highlight how little this one has on the one that came before it . Several cast-members return , including the two leads , however , the script they were given leaves them powerless to save this . Even Shat doesn't quite save it ( and he certainly does try , and does well with what he had to work with ) . It would be too harsh and critical , if not by particularly much , to claim that none of this is funny at all ( heck , when at its best , which is extremely seldom , it isn't without outright hilarity ) . It's pretty half-hearted , and comes off as being made for the bucks , not the laughs . The fact remains that it offers next to nothing , and certainly not a thing that comes even remotely close to being worth possibly risking messing up the memory of Airplane ! , if one fears an inclination towards that . There's a lot more sexuality ( and usually the gags and jokes go on for so long , it ceases to even hold potential for humor . . . and reach the level of being gratuitous ) , other offensive material ( except for drug references ) and language in this . The end credits featuring the as-of-yet-unfulfilled promise of a third entry is really a perfect testament to the failure of this . Perhaps it can at least help deter follow-ups that are useless and uncalled for from being released . It certainly isn't alone . Lastly , let me point out that this is not merely a case of a sequel being a letdown . . . it's simply not a good film . I recommend this to those who must have both in the series .
" Ding dong , you're dead . " " What ? No , I just dose off . Do me a favor and wake me up when the film is over . "	My friend and I sat down to watch this horror-comedy , hoping for something decent but expecting some awful . We were surprised , but I'm not sure if it was pleasantly so . What we got was something in-between the two aforementioned groups of expectation . It is horrible , sorry , I mean , it does contain horror , but most of it doesn't work . It does contain comedy , but it's usually funny for all the wrong reasons . The horror is usually built up too much or not enough , and the scares mostly inspire laughter rather than fear or the occasional jump in your seat . The score is marred by some truly dreadful 80's pop and a few overdone shock pieces . The plot is kind of dumb , but I guess it's supposed to be . The pacing is bad . Just bad . No other way to put it . Often it looks like the camera-crew or whoever edited this mess together was asleep at the wheel . The acting is mostly uninspired and dull . The characters are paper-thin and underdeveloped . The humor is lame . The gags and jokes , or rather , the few of them that are intentional , mostly just aren't funny . We tried laughing , we really did , but we found ourselves laughing at all the stuff that was supposed to be scary and simply cringe whenever the film threw a misplaced , mistimed and poorly done joke or gag in our face . By now , the special effects are ridiculous , especially the stop-motion stuff . Now , for the positive stuff ; the film is reasonably creative , and when it does get going , about thirty minutes in , it is somewhat entertaining , even if it is for all the wrong reasons . As far as 80's flicks go , it's not the worst out there . There's reasonably little unnecessary stuff in the film , most of what you see is there either to scare you or make you laugh . The fact that it usually fails to do either need not be mentioned again . Overall , a decent enough 80's horror-comedy . I recommend this to fans of 80's flicks and movie fanatics ( who'll surely get a kick out of it ) .
Entertaining enough , I suppose	After having seen all other films in the Halloween series , apart from Halloween 6 , I decided to check this film out , despite all the bad things I'd heard about it . I was surprised by the film , but it's hard to say if it was pleasantly , or , well , unpleasantly . The basic idea of the film is decent enough , but , like many others have noted , it seems a lot like a rip-off of Invasion of the Body Snatchers . The film plays like a crossover between Halloween and " Invasion " . The plot is decent , but not very original , and definitely has its share of holes . The pace is a little slow , too . I sat through it fine , but I don't know if I'd be able to do so again . The acting is mostly awful , with maybe one or two exceptions . The character development is almost non-existent , and the characters are not always credible , and rarely well-written . Several of the major characters are annoying stereotypes . The special effects are well done , at least for an early eighties low-budget slasher science fiction flick . The humor is decent , but the film has far more unintended laughs than intended . The score is very good , but , as far as I know , it's John Carpenter who did it ( well , some of it , anyway ) so that's no surprise . The film has the distinct quality of being the only one in the Halloween series that has nothing to do ( directly , at least ) with Michael Myers . For some reason , that bothered a lot of people . I don't know ; when I decided to watch this film , I knew that Michael wasn't in it . . . I guess they didn't . In all honesty , as much as I enjoyed some of the other Halloween films because of Michael ( and those would be 1 , 2 and 7 ) , I didn't mind that he wasn't in this one . What I did mind , however , was how unlikely and , well , laughable the plot was . Not to mention the plot twist ( s ? ) . . . ridiculous . The thing about the film is , it's actually pretty entertaining ; as I watched it , I noticed that , more often than not , I was snickering at the badly written and badly delivered dialog , and some of the less well-done scenes ( which are plentiful , believe me ) . At the end , I was laughing out loud at many , many scenes and details in the film . And then , as the credits rolled , I realized , that that's what it was : entertainment . It may be campy , it may be lame , it may even be almost aggravatingly stupid ( to some ) , but it's entertaining . It's fun . If you're a fan of slashers , particularly eighties slashers , you should enjoy this film , for sheer camp value . The science fiction elements , their integration , and their execution is definitely camp . . . very camp . You'll know what I mean if and when you see this . I recommend it to fans of slashers , science fiction , and low budget eighties flicks . I'd even recommend it to people who just enjoy watching violent , gory movies . A note to any / all Halloween fans who see this ; watch it with an open mind . . . I did . And I enjoyed it . I give the film a , for pure entertainment and camp value .
Juvenile , crude and just plain bad	Parody movies , or ' spoof movies ' , can be quite educational from time to time ; we learned from the 80's spoof movies , those starring Leslie Nielsen , that toilet humor and fart jokes were popular back then . We learned from the Scary Movie films that the Wayans ' truly are talentless ( well , technically , we already knew that . . . but those films proved it , once and for all ) . And the makers of this film learned ( I hope ) that it's a bad idea to parody comedies . Even if it is teen comedies that you are making fun of . . . which are ( clearly ) not among the most intelligent comedies ( or films in general , for that matter ) . So , what is it exactly that we do have here ? A plot that combines plenty of comedies that actually did have some ( if not much ) comedic relief in them originally . . . stapled together by some writers who were apparently not working together ( judging from the disjointed feel of the scenes ) and filled to the brink with toilet humor and overly crude gags and jokes . . . why is it that spoof movies must always put some out-of-place humor into it , instead of just making fun of the original movies ? It would be so much more entertaining . OK . Back to the point . What else do we have ? A cast of totally unknowns with a few actual actors in cameos . And a director who's done nothing but spoofs ( mostly for MTV , which we all know rarely fail to deliver crummy teen-pop entertainment ) , most of which are short films . . . meaning that he was given feature film director duties for the first time ( and those that have seen this putrid piece of . . . " entertainment " . . . know that he blew it ) . But that's not all ; the film also offers a wide variety of bad puns , poor jokes , racial / gender-related / sexual / age-related / etc . stereotypes , age-old clichés and sight gags that are so bad that they have a serious chance of ruining your eyes and robbing you of your eyesight . . . which , if it prevents you from experiencing another second of this crap , might actually be worth it . This movie is just . . . bad . The humor is juvenile and crude , and all of it is painfully exaggerated . I recommend this only to teenagers who will watch anything . . . a group of people that I wish was very , very small , but know from experience , isn't . Sigh . If you can see this movie for free and / or you are forced to by one or more members of aforementioned group of teenagers , you might as well enjoy the sight of the lovely females . . . Jaime Pressly and Mia Kirshner are among them , and any guy who has seen them know how attractive they are . Apart from the sight of those two ( and a few other young , attractive teen girls ) , this movie has nothing to offer .
Not particularly funny , not particularly entertaining , not particularly anything	When I sat down to see this film , I expected a mix of Drop Dead Gorgeous and The Drew Carey Show ( because of it being a mockumentary and it starring Craig Ferguson whom I know mainly from that show ) . I don't know exactly to describe what I got instead . The humor seems fairly thin , and based on clichés and stereotypes I never even knew existed . The gags and jokes don't seem as silly-funny or stupid-funny as . . . not funny at all . I understand Ferguson wrote the script , at least in part . I don't know if he's to blame for the shoddy writing and poor humor , but I would guess so . The film has a few celebrity cameos , but they're really there to bring even more bad jokes and make fun of themselves . The plot is fairly good , and somewhat original , but quickly descends into yet another fish-out-of-water run-of-the-mill happy-ending fairy tale about some guy triumphing over adversity . The pacing is awful . . . the film barely seems to move at all during the less than 90 minute running time . The acting is fair . The characters are all paper-thin , with everyone whose side we're supposed to be on being goody-goody and their enemies being caricatures of bad people . Weirdest thing about this film is . . . for the first half or so , it seemed pretty funny . Larry Miller was great fun to watch , as was Donal Logue . From there on end , it just went downhill . I don't know , other people might enjoy it . Maybe I'm just not into Ferguson's humor . I recommend this to fans of Craig Ferguson and possibly one or more of the other comedians / comic actors in it . If you happen to catch it and you enjoy Miller's typical act in films , you should at least watch until the end of his scenes . He is one of the few redeeming features of the film .
Been there , seen that	What is this new fad with making Hollywood movies out of old TV shows ? Mission Impossible , Wild Wild West and now this . They just don't work out well ; updates rarely work , unless the subject matter is timeless . The biggest problem with the remakes is that instead of referencing the original series , they try to make them hip and cool , using pop icons and throwing in as much action and as many explosions as they can jam in . MI actually screwed the fans of the series over ; WWW managed to make a fairly cool premise really lame ; and this also does a somewhat poor job of remaking the series . The film comes off as more of a parody of spy flicks rather than a buddy-comedy with spy-stuff . Personally , I'm fine with that , as I hate the regular James Bond-like spy films with ludicrous gadgets and such , but I can imagine many people expecting the latter kind of film were disappointed . The plot is decent . . . it's not original in the least , but maybe it isn't supposed to be . The pacing is fair . The acting is fine . The characters are somewhat well-developed and interesting . The humor is pretty good , with only a few gags and jokes falling flat . The casting is quite good . . . Malcolm McDowell is perfect as the villain , and Gary Cole is inspired as the Latino super-agent . Too bad neither of them have enough to do in the film . Famke Janssen is mesmerizing , but that's no surprise . Obviously , it's carried by Murphy and Wilson , and they do a good job , I suppose . Murphy is refreshingly funny and energetic here . . . haven't seen him in this good shape for a long , long time . Wilson is amusingly pathetic and loser-like as usual , and it works well . All in all , a pretty average buddy-comedy / spy-spoof , but fair if you're a fan of one or more of the actors in the film . I recommend it only to the biggest fans of one or more actors involved .
Terrorists in a small town ? Young , faceless teens to the rescue !	First of all , this really has too little action to be classified as an action film . . . it should have been labeled ' thriller ' instead . Second , I haven't read the book nor have I seen the other version of this film . Now that we've gotten that out of the way , this is pretty much the typical Hollywood-like action B-movie , as well as what the common viewer ( well , this common viewer , at least ) have come to expect of Danish movies . The bad guys speak English with very see-through accent ( some of the dialog even reveals them as Danish . . . talk about poorly done ) despite the fact that they are supposed to be from another country ( can't write which here , it would be a spoiler ) , non-English speaking ( well , it wouldn't be their first language , like it is in the movie , anyway ) . The characters are about as simple and stereotypical as they can be . The main bad guy apparently didn't look mean enough on his own , so they bleached his hair and gave him an awful haircut . The teenagers are about as heroic as they can possibly be . The adult characters in the movie are as helpless as you can imagine for a kids film . . . wait , what ? No , this is an R-rated action-thriller . . . something must be wrong . . . ah , of course . . . it's a Danish film . Seriously , what's wrong with Danish cinema ? I have no idea . The plot is tame and unrealistic . The terrorists ' motivations are non-existent and nonsensical . The dialog is uncreative . The action is poorly done and lacks any intensity . The direction is all over the place . The acting is so pitifully bad that I felt like threatening the actors at gunpoint with the words " don't you ever , ever set foot on a movie production set again " . All in all , the film just isn't really worth watching unless you're in a very good mood , you know a lot about Danish actors and you have high tolerance for crap in celluloid form . Otherwise , avoid this like the plague it is . I give it a medium rating because it's not all poorly shot and it's not as bad as some other films I have seen .
Not really impressive or notable for any other reason than its accomplishments	Following some opening credits with several surnames for serious spelling bee competitors , I was hoping to be entertained . Or amused . Heck , a basic interest in this would have been acceptable . But the story moves so unevenly ( and the jumps back and forth render it much more complicated than this kind should be ) . The pacing is near non-existent . The plot comes off as random at times , almost made up on the spot , or worse still , whenever the camera was on . Dialog is average at best . Humor . . . I don't know , it really didn't work for me . It started out just being lame and trying to garner laughs through stereotypes , then went to being offensive , but it certainly never reached " funny " . There's at least one very glaring error in the script . I couldn't get into any of the characters ( and there seemed to be little , if any , consistency ) . Really , the only reason this deserves attention is all it achieves . . . locations , and the like . Beyond that , skip this one . Adam and co . have more entertaining and well-done works available . I recommend this only to those who watch anything indie .
Tries far too hard to be clever	I watched this film thinking that it was the half-cooked horror flick of the same name about a serial killing snowman ( yeah , I know , but it's one of those films where you just have to see it , just to find out if it's really as bad as it sounds ) . While it rather quickly became apparent to me that it wasn't , I decided to keep watching , thinking that it might be better . . . worth watching . I don't know if it's better , but I wouldn't say that it was worth watching . While there may be a scene or two early on that are somewhat interesting and / or entertaining , but once Jack turns frosty . . . well , the film really starts to go downhill . Scene after scene of forced sentimentality and ' moving ' moments . I'm not against touching films ; as I'm writing this , What Makes a Family is on TV , a film I consider to be excellent . I'm just against these phony attempts at providing touching moments . Nothing seems genuine or heart-felt in this film . It's set up to be and played as it , but it just doesn't work . The humor tries way too hard to be clever , and falls flat on its face . Gags and jokes are terribly overplayed . Plot is dull , however original it may be ( I honestly haven't bothered to look into that ) . The pacing is poor , the film barely held my interest for more than a few minutes in a row . The acting is uninspired . The dialog and writing in general is insipid . The whole film is just not very memorable . I recommend it only to huge fans of Michael Keaton , and even those should consider if it's really worth it .
Oh Quentin , Quentin . . .	This is probably the hardest movie for me to rate and review ; how do you review a film where about half of it is great , and the rest ( which pretty much means the other half ) is awful ? I decided to rate it a 5 , since that seems to be the sensible thing to do in this situation . Like a few others have said , Tarantino's style is hip and makes you , the audience , feel hip . The dialog , the editing , the violence . . . the problem is , it's empty . The dialog is entirely superficial , which is OK if there's not too much of it or what there is there to be superficial . But here it carries half of the scenes . The dialog scenes ( as pretty much everything else in the film ) is very dull , visually . The camera doesn't move and rarely changes angle , and it's something that'll make you fall asleep , if the pointless , shallow dialogs don't do so first . The editing is daft as well . The violence is so over the top that you almost have to be mentally disturbed not to be affected ( read : repulsed ) by it . . . is that why it's there ? Does Tarantino want to gross out his audience ? Is that what it's about ? The length and pace is horrible . I don't believe I've ever managed to sit through the entire thing attentively . The problem is not the length itself as much as what appears to be Tarantino yelling at his audience " You want to see my movie ? Well , you better prepare to sit there for what feels like 10 hours straight ! " Just to ensure that there are no misunderstandings ; that was a metaphor . Tarantino doesn't actually yell at the audience . It just feels like it . The whole film feels like it's trying to get somewhere , to say something , but then the film is over , and it forgot to tell us what it was . The film is anticlimactic throughout ( quite an achievement . . . usually only the end of a film is anticlimactic ) , and when it's done , you'll be saying to yourself " That's it ? What the heck was all that hype about ? " The truth is , in my opinion , a small group of Tarantino fans got together , and started ' converting ' anyone they could find to love the film , and suddenly , this had taken over the general opinion on the film . Everybody thinks it's great , but no one can really explain why . I have yet to meet someone who've explained why Tarantino's films supposedly are great . Now don't get me wrong ; I don't have anything against the guy . I like several of his films ; Jackie Brown , From Dusk ' Till Dawn and Kill Bill 1 & 2 . The problem here is that the film lacks any real substance . None of the characters are likable , not even slightly . They are killers , drug-dealers , psychos and morons . The film has the typical non-linear time-line which Tarantino utilizes in virtually all of his films . However , here it seems redundant , like it was just tagged on for no actual reason . Both volumes of Kill Bill were great because of good use of this ; Pulp Fiction is not , because of the use of aforementioned effect is seemingly pointless here . The actors all play exactly the same type of character that they always play , with one or two possible exceptions . Samuel Jackson plays the ' violent , loud-mouthed individual with an unusual belief or philosophy ' what do you know , that came right off his trademark section of his biography on this very site . John Travolta is the usual cool guy . Ving Rhames is the typical tough black guy , same as always . Do I need to go on ? If you've read everything up to this point , you might think I hate this movie . . . I don't . I just dislike half of it . And that's just the thing . . . I can't entirely hate this . The scenes with Travolta and Jackson are pretty good , a few of the lines in the film are quotable , and most of the characters are well-cast . There you have it ; half bad , half good . Better than Reservoir Dogs , but not as good as Jackie Brown and not even in the same league as the two Kill Bill films . I recommend this only to Tarantino junkies . Everyone should stay away , unless they are crazy about one or more actors in the film . If you do see it , only see it once and try to pay attention ( even though it's really hard ) .
Basically just far too buggy and dull to be worth playing through	This is a rather unusual title . I was attracted to it due to the name and story-line , when I found this available to borrow from the local library . The plot is decent , but it seems a bit far-fetched . . . Jack The Ripper showing up in New York thirteen years after the London killings , and starting a new massacre ? Come on . It seems like the makers of the game just needed something more commercial than London , so they went for a big city in the U . S . instead ( admittedly , they do a pretty reasonable job of recreating it , with locations , clothes and so forth , as well as building a mood ) . The game has you as a reporter looking to find out what you can about the killings and the perpetrator , and returning to the office daily to write about what you've found . The game-play is kind of repetitive , as hard as it tries to be different from the other point-and-click adventure games . . . yes , you read that right . . . point-and-click . Even though we all thought this genre died in the mid-nineties , games like this are still made . Or maybe this is just one company that didn't realize the death of the genre . The game has a 360 degree interface , which means that not only can you look in front of you and at your immediate surroundings , you can look downwards and upwards as well . It won't help you , most of the time , but you do have the ability to do it . This helps make it feel natural to move around in this world , but it also induces slight nausea and dizziness , which means you have to either play very little at a time or get used to it and try not to eat too much before playing . Once you do get used to it , you won't have too much trouble with it , though . The voice-acting ranges , but most of it is mediocre . Even the most simple lines are either overacted or underacted . The dialog is poorly written and too obvious . The writers apparently don't know the meaning of the word subtlety ( this is true of many older games , too , but after the year 2000 , games really started to have good plots and writing of high quality , so this game has no excuse ) . Something that caught my attention , more in the way of a ' what ' look than actual annoyance , was the subtitles . Being a Danish person , I'm quite used to subtitles whenever Danish is not the spoken language , both in films and games . So I played the game with the subtitles on . . . and it seemed to me like the subtitle people weren't very good friends with the dialog writers , since almost every single line has several mistakes . Some of these are just word placement ( putting " on Tuesday " on either side of " she'll meet you there " ) some are minor words ( " man " becomes " boy " ) but some are major , and disturbed my concentration . Of course , few people will have issues with this , as the English is sufficiently loud and clearly pronounced ( well , most of the time , at least ) , and most people won't use the subtitles . The only place the game really accomplishes something worthwhile is with the audio . The music , background noises and area-based sounds are quite well-done . This is , unfortunately , also one of the only positive things I can say about this game . It has too many bugs and is kind of dull , mostly due to the lack of freedom ( you can only do things in a certain order , most of the time , to get further in the game ) and the repetitive nature of the genre . Of course , had the game had more puzzles , or had these puzzles been more challenging , that wouldn't have been that big of an issue . But it doesn't , and they aren't , so it is . The game goes for several interesting and admittedly potentially good things , such as crafting a game around this interesting person who actually lived , revitalizing and reinventing the point-and-click adventure genre , building a credible and realistic New York circa 1901 . . . it is quite a shame that they are all wasted due to the execution , which needed considerable work before this should have gone into production . Oh well , the graphics are fairly good , and the animation is mostly smooth . Some of the characters are well-written , and some of the things you do are cool enough . If you've got a bit of a detective in you ( though you can probably find better games for that than this ) , and you've always wanted to investigate old Jack , I suppose you could do worse ( if not by all that much ) . Finally , the way the whole thing ends . . . is that the worst darn cop-out ending to a game ever ? After everything you've gone through to get to the end , and then . . . I won't say here what the end is , but I will say that it's not worth playing the game through to see . I suppose I do understand why the creators of the game ended it like that , but it just leaves you feeling kind of . . . " So , what was the point , anyway ? " not to mention wondering why they even made the game in the first place ( if that was all they could think of for the end ) . Games that aren't more entertaining than this should take care not to have such unsatisfying , anti-climactic endings . Had the ending been somewhat good , or even decent , I might have rated this game a , but as it is , the game is just , like my one line summary says , far too buggy and dull to be worth playing through . I only recommend this game to fans of point-and-click adventure games ( I guess it isn't bad for nostalgia ) and huge fans of adventure . I suppose it might interest fans of the story of Jack The Ripper ( though those seeking facts should steer clear , so as to not be offended by the considerable liberties taken with this actual , historical character ) as well , but I think there are quite a few pieces of literature that would prove more informational as well as more interesting .
Decent slasher , some good scares	The slasher genre were the new craze in the late 70's and throughout the 80's . In the early 90's , it pretty much died down . Then Scream came , in 1996 , and rejuvenated the genre with a film that was half-slasher , half a parody of slashers . Over the last few years , there have been quite a few slashers , most of them mediocre . When I found out that this was done by Jamie Blanks , the director of one of my favorite of the new slashers , Urban Legend , I immediately wanted to see it . It wasn't that disappointing , but it wasn't really great either . The plot is decent , but the pacing isn't very good . On repeated viewings , many of the early scenes ( and plenty of the later ones as well ) are kind of dull and boring . The acting is decent , but several of the big names are kind of disappointing , compared to earlier roles . The characters are pretty much just the typical clichés and stereotypes of the genre . The script is somewhat poor , and doesn't manage to keep your interest on more than one viewing ( if even that ) . The film does have some good scares , some decent suspense and a little tension . The twist is far too obvious , though . On my first viewing , I saw it with a friend , and about half-way into the film , he had figured out who the killer was . The film has some pretty good death scenes , some of the best of the newer slashers , in my opinion ( much like Blanks ' other film , Urban Legend ) , but they are also the only really great thing about the film , and they are not really worth paying to see the film for . All in all , a decent slasher , but not one that is particularly worth watching . I recommend it only to big fans of the genre , Jamie Blanks or the actors . Anyone else should probably skip it , unless you really enjoy watching slasher flicks for the sole purpose of seeing well-done death scenes ( which is fine , of course . . . I watched it for that very reason ) . If that's what you want from this film , you won't be disappointed . If , however , you're looking for a horror film with substance , look elsewhere .
Hey , it could have been worse	I haven't read the book nor watched the original Carlito's Way . . . all I know about the latter is who stars and who directs that one , and I know even less than that about the novels . Perhaps that's why this didn't come off as being as awful as people seem to feel it was . . . no basis for comparison . The story isn't poor , and it's decently enough told . The plot develops throughout , with some surprises . The acting varies . The lead could be better . Combs , eh , I don't know . Young isn't bad , but hey , is he ever ? The pacing is fine . The music is fair . Editing could be better , but it's not terrible . Effects and such do reveal a budget , one that wasn't the biggest , but it's not as obvious as it could be . There is hardly any action , and it's certainly not worth watching this for . There could be more tension , where such is attempted built . Language is . . . loose , and there's violence , sexuality and drug use as well . . . this is hardly a film for children . The voice-overs leave a lot to be desired . All in all , you could find movies that deliver considerably less . Be aware that this is more of a gangster feature than an action flick . I recommend this to people who enjoy cinema ( or , in this case , direct-to-video releases ) regarding the environment .
For all the attempts at evoking such , there could have been more laughs	This is one of several NP2K films that was made by multiple of the site's frequenters . . . rather than , as usual , the frequenter and their own group ; a collaboration . This has ( from what I could tell from the credits , the editing of Eric Branco , but the listing here doesn't seem to agree ) the direction of Bryan Harley and the writing of Adam Bertocci . Of them , it is the last ( sorry , guys ) that I could recognize the most . The mix is interesting enough to watch , and I personally disagree with the votes of 1 . . . I realize that every time there's a title here on the site with a low ranking and / or a bad rep , there's at least one review with the sentiment ( many times , even as a summary ) " it wasn't that bad . . . " , so I'm not going to add to that . Instead , I'll say that this could have been a lot worse , even if it could also have been better . As has been said , a lot of the comedy is forced . This never is quite as funny as it tries to be , but it does bring some good stuff , and the writing has at least two references that people who know Adam will get ( and if you've got no clue who the guy is , you may still , they're not really in-jokes ) . The plot isn't bad , the idea behind it is perhaps the most memorable aspect of this . Acting varies . Keep your eyes open for a Harley regular or several . Editing and cinematography do the job , but they could have been more engaging . I recommend this to fans of off-beat , quirky comedy , particularly that of Adam's . . . just know that the people who made this have done finer work elsewhere .
Clearly not a good movie , but not entirely void of entertainment value	I've never really been a fan of Stephen King . He always seems to write basically the same story , the same characters . . . and use the same scares . The movies based on his films are not always bad . . . but for the most part , they are even worse than his books . Mick Garris is the man who typically directs films of the books King writes . Usually these films are made-for-TV . . . and after / if you see this exception , you'll know exactly why that is . You'll also realize that it's for the best . The film is about vampire creatures who are deathly afraid of cats , apparently because of the animals importance and symbolism in ancient Egypt ( ! ) . The creatures look quite a lot like cats themselves . . . when not in human form , of course . They have the ability to cloak themselves and the things around them . . . except , of course , from the sharp senses of their natural enemy , the cats . The ridiculousness of this film doesn't stop there . . . but I wouldn't want to spoil anything . The film is quite entertaining , if only for the fact that it's so incredibly poorly made and corny . The one-liners , the effects , the situations . . . oh the humanity ! It needs to be experienced to be believed . The plot is decent , however unbelievable . The pacing is fairly bad ; for being so short , the film is boring a lot of the time . The acting is barely passable . The characters are mostly stereotypes . The dialog has its moments , but they're few and far between . I'm not certain if the film was supposed to be corny and cheesy , or if King just gave up half-way through the script and started making a stronger emphasis on the humor . There an idea in the film that the audience should feel sorry for the sleepwalkers , but it's so vague and underdeveloped that it doesn't work . Then there's the incestuous mother-son relationship between the sleepwalkers , which I'm sure has turned many viewers ( potential as well as actual ) off ( pardon the pun ) , as well as disgust them to the point of turning it off or deciding against watching it altogether . Something that will probably be a kick to the horror-fans out there ( it was for me , anyway ) is that five known names in horror have cameos in the film ; Tobe Hooper , Joe Dante , John Landis , Clive Barker and Stephen King himself . In conclusion , this film is really only worthwhile for die-hard fans of cheesy horror flicks . I recommend it to fans of the genre and / or of corny horror films , as well as anyone who's willing to sit through it to spot one or more of the five aforementioned horror persona's .
Barely watchable	This is a pretty worthless movie ; it pretty much only succeeds in turning the story of King Arthur and Camelot into a sappy romance . I can only say one positive thing about the movie at all ; the sword fights were sometimes well-choreographed . Apart from that , everything in the movie is incredibly average ; the acting is wooden , the cinematography is daft , the plot is uneventful . . . I could go on . As said , the only good thing about the movie is the sword fighting scenes , and they're not great . I guess the story is pretty accurate to the original source material , but if you just want the story , you might as well just read a book about it ; or watch one of the other movie versions , as I think most of them are a lot better . As for the actors chosen in this one . . . Sean Connery is not a bad actor , but he's too old to play the role , especially with most of the knights being half his age . Richard Gere . . . eh , I've never been a fan of him , as he mostly does by-the-book romantic comedies . In this one he plays exactly the same role as he usually does in the romantic comedies , only with a slight " lonely cowboy " touch to his character , for no apparent reason . I don't know any of the other actors , so I can't compare them to any of their earlier work , but I can't say that any of them did particularly good jobs portraying their respective characters . I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone , except for people who like the story , love at least one or more of the main actors or seriously dig sword fighting . . . normally , I would fall into the last category , but it wasn't enough to save it for me .
Not all bad . . .	Let me start by making one thing absolutely clear ; I watched this movie because of my growing interest in male teen actor Gregory Smith and my seemingly endless crush on Natasha Lyonne . I have seen one other film with Richard Dreyfuss in the lead ( What About Bob ) , so my expectations were sufficiently low . When I say sufficiently , I mean just that . Believe it or not , I somehow actually enjoyed this film to some extent . It's certainly not because it's a good film . . . most definitely not . It's a terrible mess of toilet humor , crude gags and jokes and a plot that just barely makes sense at all . Most of the humor is based on the idea that gross-out comedy is actually funny . The rest of it is the ever-popular practice of making fun of less civilized people ( much like Ace Ventura : Nature Calls ) . The pace is pretty good , you're rarely bored , but the plot is completely preposterous and seems to have far too many subplots for such a short film , compared to what is necessary . The acting is mostly good , the main characters are all credible . The characters are somewhat well-written and interesting . The dialog is at times good , and there is maybe one or two quotable lines in there , somewhere . The gags and jokes work more often than not , and I did kind of like at least parts of the idea behind the plot . The whole film is worth watching if you can do so for free and you have nothing else to do . I recommend it to fans of this type of comedy or fans of any members of the cast .
Decent special effects for a bland , immature Disney sci-fi movie	When I sat down to watch this , I was expecting somewhat of a kid's movie . I just had no idea it was this bad . All of the humor , except maybe three lines , is incredibly immature , even more childish than the typical Disney humor . The plot is too complicated to understand for most kids , and too ridiculous to take seriously for adults . It also seemed too keen on preaching the more or less proved fact that sooner or later , Earth will not be inhabitable anymore . Most grown-up people know that , we don't need a bad sci-fi movie preaching it to us . The effects probably looked good back in 1998 , but now they look horribly dated , which is a big problem since half of the film is the effects . The acting is horrible , the only person who conveyed a good performance was Gary Oldman , everyone else were wooden and unbelievable ; the worst were the children , but the adult actors weren't a hell of a lot better . I wouldn't recommend this movie to anybody , as it's too hard to understand for kids , and too boring and predictable to adults .
Somewhat original , with good atmosphere , but ultimately pointless and unsatisfying	First off , let's get one thing straight ; I hate Peter Jackson . It seems like everyone thinks he's god because he made the popular LOTR ( which I haven't seen , and don't plan to see ) films , and everyone forgets how many horrible films he made earlier in his career . I saw fifteen minutes or so of the zombie film he made , Dead Alive , or what it was called , and couldn't bring myself to watch more of that garbage . ( Un ? ) fortunately , I managed to sit through this creation of his , and I can't say I enjoyed it very much . The plot is somewhat interesting , and the idea is fairly original , but it just never really manages to thrill or scare you , as much as it seems absurd and illogical . The films logic is holey and doesn't hold up , even by it's own twisted " logic " . One scene contradicts the other , and the director does nothing at all to hide this . The acting is somewhat decent , but nothing special at all . The characters are all annoying , tired clichés , especially the ghost characters . Furthermore , half of them seem psychotic , and the other half isn't too likable either . Even the main character comes off as a moron , and a jerk . The special effects are great , no doubt about that , but they are the only positive thing about this mess . Jackson clearly knows effects , and atmosphere , but , apparently , nothing else . The story is reasonably original , but it seems fairly superficial . The killer lacks a real motive , and the film doesn't have particularly many good scares . It's also marred by the lack of interest and care toward the characters . Most of them , you're just happy to see them go . The dialog and humor consists mainly of bad puns and tired ghost / other-world jokes . The writing seems dull , and too much of the humor is just there to gross you out , probably in order to wake the audience up . Some of the humor is plain disgusting . All in all , a decent attempt , but just fails on too many levels , and is , at best ( barely ) worth watching once . I recommend it to , I guess , Peter Jackson fans , and big fans of horror films .
Better than the first , I guess . . . if by little more than an iota	I've never been a big fan of monster films , and after having seen the first , I merely watched this to see if it was as bad . Since the first concerned a truck-driving , winged monster who was " the devil , a demon or just some evil thing " with an affinity for oldies and eating people's body parts in an insect-like cycle , I felt an inexplicable urge to see if this one followed the same idea , or if it had been developed a little . I didn't see anything really different from the first , apart from the fact that there were far more victims , and far more characters ( one wonders if there is some connection between the two ) . The plot takes place mostly in and around a broken down school bus , which allows for some good shocks , some unintentionally funny moments and some OK suspense . The plot is pretty good , though it seemed to not only slow down , but actually stand still for too long at a time . The acting is OK , but nothing special , but since none of the actors are well-known , it's not surprising . The characters are somewhat believable , and their actions are reasonably credible , but rarely particularly likable . The script is very poorly written , which pulls the rest of the movie down ; the dialog is very repetitive and unimaginative , and far too many of the situations were predictable . The special effects are better than the first , but there were a little too many fake-looking effects that make it less scary . All in all , an OK sequel to the first one . I recommend this to anyone who enjoyed the first .
Could have been so much better	I don't know , it starts out pretty good , with good chemistry between Cruise and Newton , but it slopes downwards quickly after about twenty minutes , and keeps heading down all the way through the movie . I don't know how all those action scenes near the end could possibly be so boring , but I guess it was just too slow to get going . There are a few decent typical cool John Woo shootouts throughout the movie , and a chase scene near the end which is decent . Only watch this if you're a die hard fan of either John Woo or Mission Impossible . .
Seriously , what is the rush ?	This is found on the original , single-disc release of X-Men . It's essentially some behind-the-scenes footage , interviews and clips from the film itself , bookended by poorly staged scenes of senators addressed by Kelly in regards to mutants . Davison performs . Unfortunately . . . oh , where to begin ? While the actual movie is paced well , this is in such a hurry to get on to the next thing ( so much so that it barely even stops pummeling you with information as the credits roll ) . It's all set to intense ( and at times , ridiculously bass-heavy , which wouldn't be as bad if this really was the Summer blockbuster pop-corn flick that several of these promotional things make it out to be ) music and flashes by unappealingly fast , occasionally even over-stylized to try to overemphasize the action in that which it advertises , blowing it all out of proportion ( it's really not that kind of movie ) , and in general just being straining to the viewer . . . everything but the material exclusively shot for this . The latter is quite simply painful to watch , due to below par acting , writing and production . Honestly , I come up short trying to think of sufficient reason to spend time on this . All of any worth herein was re-edited and more fully explored in specials so far superior to this that it's not even funny , on the later 1 . 5 version , which would be a much better addition to any fan's collection ( I'm not saying " go out and buy it " , I'm saying , if you're getting one or the other , I'd go for the recent of the two ) . The 2000 DVD does , in addition to this , hold deleted / extended scenes , and the ability to watch the film with them , an interview with Singer , Hugh Jackman's screen test , a couple of animatics , three trailers , a few TV spots and galleries . I recommend this only to completists , anyone else , if you didn't think that even 22 minutes could be wasted , this is likely to change your mind .
Simply not funny	I remember the advertisements for this film . It never looked like a movie that I'd want to spend any energy or money getting to watch , so I never did . As it aired on TV tonight ( not even for the first time , either ) , I decided to give it a chance . The plot holds little originality , and it's not terribly interesting or engaging . The acting is fine , but overdone much of the time ( seemingly more the result of the writing and direction than the work of the actors ) . The characters are neither likable nor realistic . They seem stereotyped and one-note , in spite of attempts at fleshing them out . Kutcher and Murphy have both given in good performances and been in good films , but here . . . well , at least they have fairly good on-screen chemistry . The humor mostly consists of mishaps , usually involving pain , with the occasional awkward and / or embarrassing situation . No observations , no wit , no clever references . Just unpleasant scenes . The pacing is OK . As clichéd as it was , I must admit that I liked the ending ( formulaic and predictable as it may be ) . However , by then , it was much too late . A film that's just annoying and not at all funny , this is one you should not spend time on unless you're into the Adam Sandler type humor of pain and embarrassment being funny . I recommend this to fans of Sandler and his type of comedy . Everyone else should most likely just steer clear .
Horror film ? A horrible film , yes , but not a horror film	I didn't find this movie to be any good , and it definitely held no scares or shocks ( as you can probably guess from my one line summary ) . In fact , I pretty much hated it . I didn't even watch a fourth of it attentively , and found every second that I did pay attention to , to be very , very bad and almost entirely unfunny . The exception , the one thing that was a little funny , every once in a great while , was Levi Stubbs , the voice of the extra-terrestrial evil plant ( yes , you read that right ) . He did a pretty good job , and was occasionally funny . The special effects were somewhat good , for a late 80's film . I don't know if my strong dislike for this film came from the fact that I mostly loathe musicals , that I found the humor to mostly consist of the same in-your-face not-in-the-least-bit-subtle humor that you see in most crappy TV shows and comedies today , or simply from the fact that I had expected it to be the Roger Corman horror-comedy of the same name , which I have wanted to see for some time ( same as just about all of the other Corman-directed films , after seeing , and really liking , The Terror and Frankenstein Unbound ) since the ads that promoted the showing of this movie all talked about the Corman version , or some fourth reason . . . but I did . I disliked it . A lot . The plot is dull and poorly paced . The musical numbers are awful . The characters are clichés and stereotypes , and poorly written ones at that . The acting is laughable . The cast features many impressive names within comedy , but none of them actually do anything remotely funny . Can you imagine how good this could have been if these great comedians had gotten to do what they do best ? Steve Martin , Rick Moranis , Bill Murray . . . even James Belushi , though he's always lived in his brother shadow . The film is just a mess of an 80's musical with bad music . I recommend it only to huge fans of the actors and of 80's movies . Everyone else should really just stay away . It has nothing memorable and even less of interest .
Silly . . . but I guess it's fine for what it is	This presentation is featured on the DVD that comes with Command & Conquer : The First Decade , featuring the twelve games released up to that point in the franchise . There isn't an awful lot on the DVD , nor does it last particularly long ( in total , I would estimate that the entire contents of the DVD put together would take about one hour to watch ) , but I think that this was , by far , the least interesting thing on it . I guess maybe if they had gotten the fan videos ( I suppose the reason that they did not was due to rights issues , but some smidgen of information about where you could watch them or something would have been fine , too ) , instead of just having clips shown whilst the voice of " a Russian general " , in a goofy , overdone accent , describes them in just about nothing but words and terms that relate to the C & C universes in some way or another . I guess part of it is also that I am not as big a fan of the franchise as these people clearly were , and to anyone coming in from outside , fan films will look silly or strange . It runs at about four minutes in total , and it is nothing but a Top 6 presentation of fan films based on the C & C franchise and universes , and for that , I guess it's fine . If you're a big enough fan of the franchise to want the The First Decade set , which I , myself , am ( and this is not a decision I have come to regret by any stretch of the imagination ) , then this'll be right there , on the DVD . . . and you can decide for yourself if you want to watch it . I recommend this to anyone who knew of the fan films beforehand , and obviously those who made one of the six winners presented herein .
Not particularly good , but decent , for a TV-movie	I haven't seen the original film , that this one is a remake of , but I guess it's better than this . This film is based on a true story , but I don't know how true to the facts it is . The plot is pretty good , but terribly predictable , partly due to the fact that the whole film is being told as a flashback . It's also slow , especially for a 90-minute movie . The acting is mostly decent at best , with a few exceptions . Samantha Mathis was pretty good , and Peter Strauss was quite convincing . However , pretty much everyone else was overacted and hardly believable . R . Lee Ermey was somewhat good , but since this is the same role that he always plays , it was to be expected . The characters are somewhat well-written . The dialog is bad and pretty cliched . The film is fairly boring , and hard to sit through , mainly due to the predictability of the plot and the bad acting . It does have some good sequences , though , and is decent overall . Due to the various bad factors of the film , it has little to no re-watch value , and is not worth owning , even if you can get it for virtually nothing . I recommend it only to fans of thrillers , and only if it's on TV , and there's absolutely nothing worth watching for those 90 minutes .
Just when you thought it was safe to go back into the water . . . on the street	Hard Rain . . . a film about a heist during the worst rain you can imagine all the while a dam is bursting . What does that make ? A heck of a lot of water , mainly . I don't believe there has been as much water in any other recent blockbuster , except for probably The Day After Tomorrow . As such , the water seems to take over for everything else in the film . No threat in the film is treated with as much respect as the water . The plot isn't given much thought . It does makes sense , though . . . just barely , at least . The pacing seems off , or maybe it's just that the film is terribly boring . It never seems to do anything ; nothing ever happens . And what does happen is not that exciting . I saw most of it coming a mile away . The film is terribly predictable in general . The acting isn't impressive , save for maybe Freeman . Slater is awful , as usual . Realism seems to have been thrown out the window before the first line of the script was written , or even conceived . The film has a few chase scenes and a shootout or two , but most of it is so unimaginatively done or poorly filmed that it doesn't really elicit any emotion from the viewer . There's not really any memorable scenes or quotable lines of dialog in the film . . . it will hardly be remembered more than half a minute past the end credits , not even by the most fanatic fans of anyone involved in the film . What can I say . . . it's just not particularly impressive of a film . I recommend this only to people who will go for any movie , even if it's completely pointless .
Good interviews , but could have been better produced	Having just finished watching this for the second ( and most likely last ) time , I can sadly clearly see why I gave up on it around the half-way point the first time ; as the credits rolled , I realized that I did not feel entertained or even informed . . . I merely felt relieved . Add to that the version I watched was only just over an hour in length , not the 90 minutes that this page lists it as , and you can tell that I , personally , was quite underwhelmed by this feature . The presentation felt flat ; it really wasn't very engaging or fascinating , in spite of the movie it revolves around being both of those and more . The editing wasn't very tight , nor does it try anything interesting , but rather goes through the motions . However , I think what really slayed this was the idolization of Romero ; he is compared to Hitchcock , his style is mercilessly praised and his films , shots and cuts are analyzed to mean far more and be far more planned and thought out than they actually are . Imagine the dichotomy when Romero himself , in his interviews , comes off as a down-to-Earth , nice , pleasant guy who just happens to rock at making horror movies and manages to inject satire and social commentary without it coming across as forced . These clips , as well as Tom Savini's presence ( in which he confirms the viewer's first impression of Romero ) are what make this watchable . Pacing is non-existent . The voice-over narration sounds as if the speaker is bored out of her mind , but I don't know what they had access to as far as that goes , so I'll cut them some slack on that . In any case , the pseudo-intellectual analysis and shameless praise is far more distracting . I respect Romero . . . I think he has created one heck of a horror trilogy . He's clearly talented and smart , but the way he's spoken of in this simply comes off as some excited , easily impressionable kids expressing their fandom without having the sense to openly admit that that's what it is . I recommend this to fans of Romero and Dawn of the Dead . . . just be aware of and prepared for the unintended hyperbole and the lackluster production .
Very average	I have never watched the Action Man TV-series ; I only know the character from the line of toy figures . The first thing that strikes you about this game is how frighteningly average it is ; no effort whatsoever is made to pull the quality of the product above mediocrity . As a result , that's what it is . . . mediocre and average . It would seem that the developers didn't care too much if people ( well , kids , they are clearly the target audience here ) actually enjoyed it , they just wanted to make money off the franchise , regardless of the game's quality . The plot is painfully simplistic , and actually utilizes the same twist not once , not twice , but three times ( ! ) . The game-play is very limited and dull . It consists of Mr . Man ( or is it just Action ? ) running , swimming and jumping around , activating switches , collecting items and wasting enemies . Sound fun ? Well , it isn't . The running is made needlessly hard by constantly moving the camera around , and with it , the controls . Picture this ; you're running towards a gap you have to jump over , and just before you jump , the camera rotates , making your run change direction , ruining your momentum and sending you head-first into a wall right before the gap . The swimming is much the same , just with limited and slower movement ( as if this was a game that needed to go slower ) . The jumping is hurt by the same camera movement , and it's limited to only being useful for jumping over gaps and getting from point A to point B ( assuming these two points are basically in front of each other ) slightly quicker than simply running the same distance . You can't use it for , say , getting away from enemies if they've got you cornered . . . which would the sensible way to do it . You can basically be killed by three weak enemies , if they all get close enough , and keep you from moving away from them , due to the fact that you can't , for whatever reason , fire a weapon when the enemy is close enough to hit with your bare hands ( occasionally he will even punch in their general direction , even though they're too far away to hit ) . There are six levels , half of which are vehicular , half of which are of you running around . In the vehicle levels , you move around a fixed area , battling enemies , collecting stuff and finally facing off against a boss enemy . This is every bit as tedious and repetitive as it sounds . Worse even , to ' aid ' you in the mission , there's a U-turn system , which turns you 180 degrees if you're moving in the opposite direction of your objective . Sound helpful ? Well , it's not . This system can't tell if you're going in the right direction navigation-wise , only direction-wise , meaning that it won't care if there's a big hole between you and your objective that you're trying to circle around . . . it turns you around regardless . And it can't be turned off . Doesn't that sound like fun ? My gosh , with help like this , who needs opposition ? The running-around levels consist of plenty of tiny missions and areas , each of which has an auto-save function . This means that if you die , you'll simply have to do the last few things again . That's good , but that's also the only positive quality the game has . . . and that's just not enough . Plus , this still means that you may be forced to do the same thing over and over again , if you die for one reason or another . Granted , the difficulty is so low that you almost can't die unless you try to ( they actually spawn health power-ups near you when you're close to croaking , even in boss fights ) . But it happens , and when it does , it will be even more frustrating ( because you shouldn't die , in a game this simple ) . The weapons are pretty much a joke . None of them are really effective , and for the better part of the game , you can get the job done better with the standard handgun than any of the two or three ( oh , I know . . . the sheer amount is copious to the point of being overwhelming ) you pick up . Then there's the hideous control of the vehicles ; the first of the vehicular level is with cars and the motorcycle , so it's fine . The second , however , is with a helicopter and other flying stuff ( I won't bother to type it here ) , and the control is so bad it's almost funny . The third is the worst , though , taking place partly on snow and ice ( making for darned slippery ground traveled with already hard-to-control vehicles ) and partly in the ocean ( further limiting movement speed and control ) . The graphics are fair . The voice acting is pitiful . . . it actually sounds like the actors are parodying their characters . The game has little to no replay value , being that the only thing you can collect that isn't required to move on in the levels ( or ammo ) is the Power Points . When you've beaten a level , the game keeps track of how many of them you collected , and you can see in the levels how many there are to collect . There doesn't seem to be any bonus to them , though , you can just brag that you've collected them all , I suppose ( if that is possible . . . I've collected them all on several occasions , but due to a counting error , the game refuses to show it ) . Between missions you can see skins of the various enemies , get useless info about the weapons , test the sound and play one or two classic games ( Pong and Frogger , for anyone interested ) . . . and the scary thing is , they're almost more fun to play than the game itself . Fact of the matter is , this game just doesn't have an awful lot to offer . You can spend the same amount of money on some of the toys and , with some imagination , have far more fun with them . I recommend this only to huge fans of Action Man . Everyone else . . . approach with caution and extreme prejudice . If you really want , try the game . . . but don't say I didn't warn you .
Barely managed to sit through this mess of special effects and general lack of anything else	After just barely sitting through this film , I can say with almost 100 % certainty that I will never even glimpse at one minute of this film , if I can avoid it . The film has a fair amount of explosions and what I imagine is expensive special effects , but generally lacks anything else . The film has little to no character development , which pretty much puts the main characters in two major groups : those who will survive , and those who won't ( mind you , none of these will we care about , no matter if they die or not ) . The little character development there actually is , consists of cliches and various badly recycled formulas for character development scenes . What's worse ( well , almost , anyway ) is that the characters themselves are cardboard cutouts , cliches , and stereotypes of the worst possible kind ; believe me , you'll cringe , you'll feel bad for the actors , hell , you might even laugh , but probably not at the right times . Which brings me to my next point ; the humor all feels so forced , and most of the actors share zero on-screen chemistry , which just makes it look awkward and unfunny . The film also has far too much of what is supposed to be humor , which just feels extremely misplaced in what was supposed to be an action / disaster flick ( I guess , but it's so messed up that it's very hard to tell ) . One of the things that really baffles me , is the way the characters are introduced ; from the very moment Bruce Willis appeared on screen , I hated his character ( you'll find out why when you see it yourself ) . The same goes for Ben Affleck , and pretty much the rest of the cast . Even Steve Buscemi was someone I had hostile feelings against , even though he did do a fairly good job , and did have some funny lines , scattered about in this film . Liv Tyler offered a few extenuating qualities , mostly by being darn attractive ( if you don't mind me saying so ) and fairly talented in her performance . The plot is close to being completely incoherent , and lacks any real structure or pace . The acting is good enough , I guess , but is ruined beyond repair by the cliche characters . The humor is mostly unbearably stupid and juvenile , but Buscemi had a few moments and good lines . The special effects are decent enough , but mainly consist of stuff blowing up , which seems fairly unimaginative . The first hour or so of this film is almost bearable , but then the film tries to be serious ( it pretty much only starts trying to be serious at this point ) and then the quality of the film drastically declines until the point where the film almost becomes completely unbearable to watch , mostly due to the characters cliche-like qualities , which the film suddenly ignores , obviously in an attempt to flesh out these characters , which it fails horribly in , since they are , in fact , cliches , and absolutely nothing more . The film is overly long and pointless . I can ( obviously ) not really say anything positive about it , since I really didn't find anything about it to meet even my very lowest expectations . If you ever find yourself watching this , do yourself a favor , and either turn it off , or fast-forward to the next interesting scene ( which could take quite a while ) . Nothing unmissable in this feature , sorry . I recommend this only to huge fans of one or more of the following : disaster flicks , Bruce Willis , Steve Buscemi , Ben Affleck or Liv Tyler . Otherwise I wouldn't recommend this film to anyone , as it is really that bad . I reluctantly gave this film a , mainly for actually having one or two scenes that are decent , and for having decent enough effects . Also , Liv Tyler is a bit easy on the eyes , which I guess played a more or less small part in my rating , too .
Boring , predictable , lacks any real suspense , intensity or comedy ; probably won't scare anyone who doesn't suffer from the title phobia	This is a very shoddily made horror / comedy film about toxic spiders . The film is so predictable and boring , that I doubt that anyone would be surprised or shocked by anything that takes place in the film . The attempts at horror fall flat ; I found myself often laughing at what I guess was supposed to be scary . The ending was so ridiculous that it was anticlimactic . The films theme immediately reminded me of Eight Legged Freaks , but I can definitely say that this has nothing at all to offer compared to that film . Every single attempt at comedy failed , but that was overshadowed by the fact that the production values actually made it look like this had the budget of a TV-movie . In fact , had it not been for the few big names on the cast list , I could have sworn that it was a made-for-TV movie . Maybe it should have been ; at least that would have given it an excuse for being so lame . I doubt that anyone who doesn't have arachnophobia themselves will find any part of this film scary . The acting is decent . The humor is pathetic . The film sustains a slow , boring pace throughout the film , but somehow , I never really felt like turning it off , which is the only reason that I rate it a 5 . A decent way to kill two hours , if you're either in the mood for laughing at a poorly made excuse for a horror movie , or you want to be scared , and you have arachnophobia ( in which case , the film probably will scare you , at least to some extent ) . I wonder if one can get Arachnophobia-phobia ? I recommend it to people who belong in one of the two aforementioned groups .
Not bad	This is , essentially , an interview with James Cameron and Arnold Schwarzenegger , inter-cut with some stills and a little footage from the film . The two talk about the experience of creating The Terminator together , and Cameron describes where , when and why he thought up the concept , as well as how different the title role became once Arnold was cast . They talk about equally much , and it's certainly no secret who comes off as the smarter of the two , but Arnold does say some interesting things , and there are some good tidbits of information , as well as an anecdote regarding the reading and casting of Michael Biehn . The thing that stands out about this is the editing . . . I'm not quite sure how much raw footage there was , but this is definitely more than one interview ( made obvious by the fact that in some shots , Jim has facial hair , whereas in others , he . . . doesn't ) , and this does make it a little confusing . I doubt this is the fault of the creators of this , they seem to have done the best they could with the material available , and apart from the editing , this is a good featurette . The stills shown are Cameron's own artwork , and they're quite nice to see . This is fine to watch if you can get past the editing and you enjoy the movie . I recommend this to any fan of the Terminator movies , James Cameron and Arnold Schwarzenegger .
A few lessons in professional filmmaking . . .	1 # : A lot of explosions DON'T make an action movie . Not even a bad one . 2 # : When you're writing a script , try to keep the cliche-count low . Reasonably low , at least . 3 # : At least TRY to make interesting characters , they help in making the movie good . Apart from what I've written above , the movie is decent . There's a nice , somewhat well-choreographed fight in the end between Luci Liu and Ray Park . Rent it , if you have seen every single other movie you have any intention in renting , and you NEED to see an action movie . .
Big Whoop	I remember passing up many an opportunity to watch this film . . . I would catch commercials stating that it would air within days , I never made a point of watching it ( in fact , I rather made one of missing it ) . Tonight , I saw it ( as the famous line in Spaceballs goes ) for the first time , for the last time . The movie is just not funny . I never laughed , smirked , heck , I didn't even smile . It wasn't charming , clever or even sporadically amusing . I'm generally not into movies about sports . . . but I have liked them . I didn't like this one . Didn't care for it a bit . Whoopi Goldberg has her moments , but they are few and far between . . . and none of them are in this flick . The plot is daft and poorly written . The acting is unimpressive . The characters are thin , clichéd stereotypes . The humor is simplistic and unfunny . The timing is off , more often than not . The sports scenes aren't particularly exciting or involving . The score is decent enough , with one or two great songs . All in all , the film is just not all that interesting . . . it might be decent entertainment for fans of basketball . But then again , the same could be said of Space Jam , and we all know the level of quality presented in that film . . . exactly . That film may actually be more entertaining , since it at least has one or two comedic talents ( take that , Goldberg ) . I suggest you skip it , unless you really want to see a basketball flick . I recommend this to fans of basket and / or Whoopi Goldberg . Everyone else probably shouldn't bother .
A decent sequel	After having seen the wonder of the first Psycho , and the mediocre horror-film reminiscent of contemporary slashers that was Psycho II , I was looking forward to seeing this , the third installation to the series . I am not exactly disappointed by it , as I wasn't really expecting anything particularly good . It's decent , as Psycho II also was . It builds a little more on the twist of Psycho II ( I won't reveal that here , for anyone who hasn't seen it ) , and though it did an OK job , I still found it to be too far-fetched to make sense , like the first one did . The twist in this one barely even made sense at all , and was almost totally unbelievable . The killing seemed more or less random , which wasn't a problem of the first , and ( to the best of my recollection ) not the second one , either . In this one , they just seemed to knock off minor characters whenever the film dropped in pace . The plot is reasonably good , quickly grabs your attention and keeps it throughout the entire runtime . It never really drops in pace for too long at a time , and you never lose interest in it . The acting ranges , of course Perkins pulls off the same excellent performance he also did for the first two . The characters were reasonably well-written and credible . All in all , this is a decent sequel . I recommend it to Psycho fans who want to see the entire series , but be advised that the film has a lot of ridiculous scenes , and the twist almost makes the very bad twist of Psycho II seem like the best twist since the twist of the original Psycho .
Nice special effects , but only really funny for kids	I didn't think I'd really enjoy this movie , it being apparently a kids movie , but I have to say the effects are pretty good , and some of the spy stuff is pretty good too . A very little part of the humor is good too , but I wouldn't watch it just for the humor ( unless I was a kid ) . This movie is mainly a kids movie , with almost nothing worth watching for teens and adults , apart from the special effects and the spy stuff . Some of the humor that I could actually laugh at was minor spoiler the scene where a German Shepherd talks in German ; I found that too be funny , and unexpected . . . I had never thought of that gag . Apart from that , I guess some teens and adult might enjoy the voices of the lead cats and dogs , which include : Alec Baldwin , Joe Pantoliano , Michael Clark Duncan , Tobey Maguire , Sean Hayes etc . I especially liked Alec Baldwin as the veteran dog agent , and Joe Pantoliano as the tech dog . I guess some parents can watch it with their 7-10 year old kid ( s ) , and most other people should skip this one . You want a family film everybody can watch and laugh at , you should check out Shrek .
At least it wasn't a very long stay	Two half seasons , amounting to just over one whole season ( if going by the 22-24 amount that seems to be the usual for American television series ) . That's what this show got . I wish I could claim that it's that tough to determine why . The problem is that this just really doesn't have that much to offer . Originality is low to where it's impossible to ignore . . . I'm not sure I've ever seen so many episodes about the same thing ( s ? ) . Jokes and gags are repeated ad nauseum , with a handful of basic material ( which is not to say that it isn't sometimes good , or that none of it is new ) about the various certain situations and characters being reused , merely minorly rewritten , as the most common method of attempting to garner laughs from the audience ( when the canned track more often than not can be taken as an instructor in when you're supposed to find something funny , you know something's wrong ) . One episode has an absolutely meaningless scenery-change there for no other purpose than to stage a line of puns , the idea behind which was done considerably better on Married . . . With Children , you know , oh , about a decade back , if not more . One thing that is just too " loud " on this is how Fran ( who , it already has been pointed out by others , is basically playing the same character as usual ) seems to constantly be parading around her improved life and new-found happiness ( so much so that one would think that it isn't just in the fiction , honestly , at times this whole thing seems mostly put together as a vendetta . . . and I'm not unsympathetic to the pain of heart-ache , nor against art born from strong , even vindictive , emotions - The Crow is a splendid example that such motivation can be excellent - but when this is the result . . . I mean , if there is this little creative force behind it , then please at least get assistance by someone who could raise it to a higher level ) . Why so much sex ? It's in every other punchline at times . The Halloween episode has nothing interesting to offer ( granted , not every other does , but with how many , including unlikely ones , have , it's a legitimate expectation ) . The production as such is fine , nothing special . The supporting players aren't bad , they just aren't that memorable , nor their performances that strong ( worst of which by far McPartlin , who was clearly cast entirely based on his appearance ) . It has already been said that Drescher is lacking a solid grown-up character to play off of ( like Niles on The Nanny ) . The references to aforementioned title in which the lead also kept her first name were cute at first , but got old long before they ceased . Writing could be more consistent . In the end , this just never really succeeds to put anything on the screen that is all that memorable or fresh , in spite of what humor it does contain ( which is hardly the least I've seen on a sit-com ) . Unfortunate . I recommend this only to the biggest fans of Fran Drescher . I at best like her , at worst don't usually mind her mainly Jew-centric ( not a criticism , just an observation ) comedic work .
Well , at least they were honest and kind enough to put a warning in the title	I cannot claim that I ever got into this one . After starting with a scene the ending of which is so obvious that one wonders why they bothered putting it in , this continues at a pace that can best be described as drab , and with a basic idea so " been there , done that " that there are clichés going " oh , come on " . Something as basic as the volume levels are messed up in this ( forgive me for being of the persuasion that one should not have to have the remote in hand , fingers fixed over the controls ) , and if you can't scare your audience without deafening them ( I will mention no names . . . Paul . . . yes , you , with the initials after ) , you might want to consider improving your skills in that field . At one time my eyes were away from the screen ( well , not only one ) , and what I heard reminded me most of the animated segments ( ! ) on Monty Python's Flying Circus . Finishing off the audio side , the music never seemed to actually follow ( or even all that properly contrast to ) the action , and every single bit in the film that had people be on the phone with each other had the involved parties speaking completely separate ( and not necessarily parallel , for that matter ) conversations , at least at one point or more before hanging up . The cinematography and editing vary , but they go further in the direction of the negative ( and take a break on the slow-mo , John Woo-wanna-be . . . it is not working for you ) . The acting didn't impress me . The mystery ended unsatisfactorily ( it sure did to me ) , if taken in sans analysis ( and I'm not putting that much effort into it for this one , no dice ) . There's a sex scene , reportedly rather graphic ( I wouldn't know , I didn't grant it a single look , not into pornography , same reason ( coupled with an utter lack of interest in the subject and person ) I'm not watching Caligula ) , which is entirely gratuitous ( the Trivia claims that without it , all the main couple would do when seen together is argue . . . come again ? They hardly do so at all ) . I found this much more valuable as something MST3K than anything else . But hey , I'm not into Italian horror , I don't care for Argento either , so you don't have to take my word for it . If I haven't deterred you from viewing this by now , go right ahead . I recommend this to . . . people still considering this after reading this entire rant .
We comedy-fans are grieving . . . it's a process . The way sucking the fun out of this film must have been	In case you are wondering about my one line summary . . . it's based on a gag in the film . And it's so much of a running gag that they must've had that thing training for a marathon before they made the movie . I'm not kiddin ' , it's said the better part of a dozen times , in a 90-minute movie . Now , I grant that the first was hardly a work of art . By all means , it was perhaps good for a few laughs on a slow night with nothing else or better to do , but this , my gosh , this " film " takes everything the first was and takes away what charm there was to it . The characters are reduced to stereotypes . Tons of jokes and scenes are recycled , and any merit they may have is all from having appeared ( and possibly worked ) in the first film . Someone compared this to Men In Black 2 . . . and I would have to agree that this is a sequel in that same vein . More or less everybody comes back , some simply to reference their character in the first , and everything is , supposedly , taken up a notch . Scenes are pushed further into the extreme . Any humor that could have existed in this film is lost due to everything being so forced . The plot is written around how to shove Crystal and De Niro together again , and it only goes downhill from there . Was there any point to making this sequel other than the anticipated profit ( which apparently did not come to be ) ? Analyze This did not need a follow-up . La Paglia isn't terrible . I suppose the film is watchable , and not as bad as others out there , but you ought to ask yourself : " Is this something I need to spend my time and / or money on ? " I recommend it only to those who simply must see more after watching the first . . . and even those should take care , because opinion seems evenly divided between those who enjoy it and those who regretted watching it .
An OK black comedy	This was a little too far out and boring , it has it's moments , but mostly it's just one long lesson in " how to be one of the cool girls in high school " . The plot is pretty far-fetched , but does allow a few very funny , very black moments . The acting is pretty good , mostly . The plot seemed to try to get going right from the start , and then the scriptwriter ran out of ideas , so he just stalled the movie , until the ending . The humor is pretty black , and definitely too much for many peoples taste ; however , if you're into black humor , you'll most likely enjoy it . Most of the film is a bit slow and boring , it pretty much goes downhill fifteen minutes into the movie ; it doesn't really pick up until the very end , and by then it's too late to save it . It has it's moments of great black humor , but at the end , it just seems empty , without a real purpose other than an instantaneous laugh , only to quickly forget it again . This is a movie you can see once , if you're into black humor and teen comedy , and then never watch it again .
Not bad , but not good either	This is an average teen slasher , where the main characters are chased by what seems to be mutant hillbilly inbred psycho cannibalistic killers ( yes , seriously ) . They run around in the woods , chased by aforementioned inbreds . There is not really any surprises in this , it uses the usual shock scares rather than really building up any decent suspense . There is hardly a scene where you can't guess the outcome , if you know the slasher genre . The killers are less scary ( to me , at least ) than the average slasher killer ( s ) , as they throw and shoot to attack , rather than slashing and stabbing . The ending lacked the usual intensity of usual slashers . The killers are , as expected , unrealistically strong , seemingly impossible to kill , and , something reasonably new to slashers , horribly disfigured . The movie does present an attempt at an explanation for this , but it doesn't make it any more believable . The plot is OK . The acting is substandard , especially Eliza Dushku . The characters are horribly underdeveloped , and half or their actions seem more or less unbelievable . In the end , this is just a standard , not particularly entertaining , teen-horror-slasher movie . I only recommend this to people who really love this type of films . It really is nothing special .
Decent	First of all , I'd just like to make clear that I haven't seen any other Spike Lee films , and I mainly saw it because of Milla Jovovich . Maybe that's why I found it to be decent at best . . . maybe I should have seen some other Spike Lee films first , to get used to his style . Or maybe I shouldn't have expected Milla to have a big or important role ( because she certainly didn't seem to have that here ) . Actually , I believe one could edit out all of her scenes without actually taking anything important away from the plot . . . without having an impact on any aspect of the movie , apart from its length . Of course , I'm not unhappy Milla had a role in the movie ( if she hadn't had one , I probably wouldn't have seen the movie at all ) . . . I'm just a little disappointed that her role was so empty and seemingly pointless . The plot is OK , but nothing too impressive . . . maybe it's my lack of understanding of black culture , but I really don't get the whole hysteria surrounding basketball . And this , lets not beat around the bush , is a movie about basketball . Concordantly , I don't see what the big deal is . The pacing is bad . . . but then again , maybe it's just that I'm not used to Lee as a director . But I was bored most of the time . Some of the dialog is OK , a little of it is even halfway good . . . but most of it isn't . The characters are well-written but not always credible . The acting is OK . . . Denzel turns in a great performance , as usual . Apart from him , though , the only impressive actor in the lot was Milla Jovovich . She portrayed her character really well . The lead playing opposite Denzel was a poor actor . . . I know that he's a basketball player in real life , but couldn't they at the very least have done about his acting skills , or replaced him with an actual actor ? He did a terrible job of carrying half of the movie on his shoulders . . . had it not been for Denzel , I wouldn't have been able to watch any of it , I think ( apart from Milla's scenes ) . You want to see a good something - other - than - actor - turned - actor giving a great first-time performance ? See 8 Mile . Check out Eminem . Now that's acting . The film as a whole just isn't interesting enough , I think , and has far too few worthwhile moments to make it worth sitting through . The only redeeming factor of the movie is , you guessed it , Milla Jovovich . I bought the film ( low-price , don't worry . . . I'm not a complete idiot ) because she's in it , I saw it ( well . . . some of it . . . didn't manage to pay attention for the whole thing ) because she's in it , and what I liked of it ( which was very little ) was because she's in it . I don't know . . . maybe Spike Lee is just one of those directors / writers that you have to get used to before you can really enjoy their work . I recommend this to fans of Denzel Washington and Milla Jovovich . Fans of Spike Lee might want to see this too ( I assume , but I have no idea how this is in comparison to his other films ) .
The illegitimate child of Saving Private Ryan and Band of Brothers , standing in the shadow of its considerably more accomplished parents	Bryan Harley and his crew , AMF productions . . . they've brought some quite entertaining , and often rather competently done , short films to those of us who care to watch . This one seems a bit . . . " early effort " , it's a nice try , but it has its shortcomings . The plot isn't particularly captivating or memorable , what there even is of it , and whatever point , if any , this attempts to make about war , well , it isn't presented with enough skill that it is terribly discernible , and the entire thing really doesn't make much of an impact on the viewer . The production values , on the other hand , costumes and props , tend to be pretty solid , save for one awfully glaring exception ( was that just not possible to cover ? ) , and , of course , the various inconsistencies and unrealistic details . The acting is decent , but at points it just does not work . The dialog is mostly good , and for its length , there is some reasonable character development . This is 14 minutes in total , and it isn't really ever boring , as such . Pacing is fine , if not that engaged or engaging . Editing varies , there could be more shots , it certainly couldn't hurt any , and little of it is effective . Intentions ( of characters ) could be clearer in one or two bits . The effects are OK , but while one obvious issue is faced head-on , their solution for it doesn't work out all that well ( someone else comments on this in their review ) . Sound is a mixed bag . Music isn't bad , I'm not sure I noticed what someone else on here writes , that it's too loud . Sound effects could be better , quality , use , choice of which to use and such . All in all , you could do worse , and the price is right , but don't expect too much . I recommend this to fans of indie shorts , AMF and war films .
Standard comedy ; some laughs , quickly forgotten	I must admit , when I sat down to watch this , I was pleasantly surprised ; it was funnier than I had imagined . . . however , with my expectations being very , very low , it doesn't really mean that the film is anything more than average . A pretty good amount of laughs , but nothing memorable . The ending seemed to be too much of a " happy ending " and was obviously done to open the film up to the mainstream crowd . The plot is decent enough , but it is obviously just written to put the characters in unlikely situations , and is at least a little too over-the-top . The pacing is pretty good , the film isn't really boring for the 90 minutes it lasts ( then again , it isn't really that hard to make people laugh for an hour and a half ) . The characters are somewhat well-written , and one or more manage to rise above simply being tired stereotypes . The dialog is often quite humorous , and mostly well-delivered . The acting is decent , for a bunch of no-names ; the only well-known actors in the cast are Jake Busey and Jamie Foxx , both of whom prove their worth as comedic actors . The humor is quite good , if a bit dull and predictable . The film has next to no memorable parts to it , though it is somewhat funny . All in all , an average comedy , and worth watching once if you can see it for free . I recommend it to fans of typical American comedies . If it's on TV , see it , unless you've seen it before . I have seen it once , and have no intention of seeing it again .
So , terror lies in outer space . . . what else is new ?	I sat down to watch this movie , almost praying ( I'm not a religious man . . . but if I was , I would have been praying ) that this wasn't going to be yet another one of those run-of-the-mill sci-fi flicks that tries to convince us that the danger will come from outer space . . . it's not enough to blame other people , or even other countries . . . now , we have to blame our problems , our inevitable demise on something as intangible as alien creatures ? When will we humans learn to admit to our guilt ? Granted , this film features some admitting of the blame in the opening narration , in that it's made clear that humans destroyed the earth through pollution , making it impossible to survive . Apart from that , the film lets us have that nice distance from the danger . . . it takes place in space , and it's not even our fault . Oh how tired I am of such superficial , simple-minded science fiction . What happened to the era of truly good sci-fi ? William Gibson , Philip K . Dick , Isaac Isamov . . . the list goes on . If you want some talented sci-fi ( granted , Gibson is more cyberpunk than sci-fi ) , check some of their works out . Anyway , back to the film ; there's really nothing new here . The plot is the old ' at a new place , seems deserted , oh no , there's danger ' . The pacing is so poor , you have to wonder if the editor and / or the rest of the crew was actually asleep while making the film . The acting is pretty much unimpressive , despite the big names in the cast ( who have all proved themselves elsewhere , I might add ) . The dialog is dull and clichéd . Actually , the whole film is terribly clichéd and stereotypical . If you have more patience than me ( I couldn't bring myself to actually pay attention to even a few minutes of it in succession . . . and I'm a huge fan of science fiction ) , you can play a game of ' count the clichés ' . The action is dull and uninspired . The special effects are decent . In conclusion , I'm very happy I decided against buying this back when I had the chance , and instead waited until it made it to a TV broadcasting , since it clearly isn't worth my money . . . not one cent . Avoid this one , unless you just want to watch it for the actors ( not worth it , in my opinion ) . I recommend this film only to big fans of the actors . Sci-fi fans , skip this one .
" Disney-fied " far too much ; decent at best	Just when you thought Disney had ruined enough classics , they pounce like a predator on the brilliant work of Charles Dickens , Oliver Twist , and turns a great story into a cheap family / children's tale . Now , I haven't read the entire book , but I read much of it when I was younger , and what I remember was definitely much better than this cheap , made-for-TV Disney production . They changed the story very much around , and removed some of the more " inappropriate for younger viewers " details , which pretty much ruins the story , and reduces it to an immature retelling of a great Dickens story . The plot is decent , but it's so damn predictable and dull ( not to mention different from the original ) that only a child or someone with way too much free time and / or patience could enjoy it . The acting is decent at best , with one or two actors obviously trying to transcend the embarrassing level of acting , but failing miserably due to the awfully written material . The script is poorly written . The characters are badly written and often come off as cliché-ish stereotype versions of the people they're portraying . The dialog is poorly written . The humor is juvenile . Overall the film is a very childish and immature production , which I guess is supposed to represent the target audience . I've said it before and I'll say it again ; Hollywood , listen up : a children's movie doesn't necessarily have to be a childish movie . There is a difference , and that difference is most commonly known under the term " level of quality " . Even for a TV film this is bad . All in all , a decent Disney production , but if you want a good retelling of the story , look elsewhere . Or , even better , read the book . I hear it's excellent , but I can't remember much of it . I recommend this only to children , and only to children who are ignorant of the works of Dickens . Anyone else should avoid ; unless , you have absolutely nothing better to do , you have to kill 90 minutes , and there are no good spots left on the walls to stare at .
Plenty of pretty pictures , nothing of interest	I originally saw this in theaters and couldn't really remember any of it , when I recently heard it was going to be on TV . All I remember was a distinct sense of disappointment . Having just watched it again , I now know exactly why ; there's really nothing in this film to justify its existence . There's some nice visuals , but nothing worth sitting through two hours of painfully dull and pointless film for . By now it's a cliché , but this was truly two hours of my life I will never get back . . . or four , if you want to get technical . The plot seems to be made up as an excuse to blow stuff up and create excruciatingly predictable ' life / death situations ' as the MPAA puts it . Knowing Martin Campbell ( as little as I do ; seen two other films by him ) , it most likely was . The pacing is hideously awful , as is the acting . If you don't fall asleep , you'll find yourself laughing at the pitiful attempts at convincing performances by pretty much all involved . The special effects are decent at best . The intensity is lacking due to poor acting and even worse character development . I never felt for any of the characters , since all of them are poorly acted , the better part of them are clichés and stereotypes , half of them are just there for comic relief ( promised but not delivered ) and the fewest of them are even slightly interesting . Not much else to say ; just avoid this one . Nothing worthwhile here . As Officer Barbrady of South Park would so eloquently puts it : " Ok people , nothing to see here , move it along . " I recommend this to . . . uh . . . well . . . fans of Campbell , I suppose , if such people exist . I urge climbing fanatics to stay far away ( much like anyone who appreciates quality cinema ) , since apparently even the climbing aspects ( as far as realism goes ) of the film are completely off .
Definitely not great , but surely not as bad as some claim	This is a movie about the well-known famed monsters of the 1800's , mainly Dracula , The Wolfman and The Frankenstein Monster . While the original movies , and pretty much every movie about one of these creatures is a horror movie ; this is , however , just a comic book movie that features them , and Dracula's nemesis , Van Helsing . It has no horror in it at all ; several of the creatures in the film are ridiculed more than they're feared ( well , mainly Igor , but at times Frankenstein's Monster too ) . The movie does do something to pay respect to the source material , but , alas , most of it is lost in special effects . Nearly every scene features some form of special effects ; there are more effects in the film than there are action sequences . I don't know any other films by Stephen Sommers , but in this , the action consists of far too much CGI , thereby giving us something to look at , rather than something to be excited about ; granted , the CGI does look pretty good , but some " all-live action " action sequences would really have helped . I also found the action scenes to be fairly repetitive . Half of them either start or end with someone being swung by a wire / rope / whatever . That's an OK idea for one or two action scenes , but in this movie , it happens no less than five times . Then it just gets tedious and bland . You start to wonder if the director has too few ideas for how to put together action scenes . It also made me wonder if he had seen too much Tarzan as a child , and wanted to copy him swinging from tree to tree . Most of the action scenes also involve far too much talking , and far too little action . There was a scene were the vampires kept talking on and on for five minutes or so , before finally attacking the victim , whom they had cornered from the beginning of the scene ; of course , this only happens to the main characters , anyone else is killed instantly . Which just makes it all the more predictable ; quite unfortunate , seeing as how it was seemingly made to create tension and intensity . The action scenes are fairly intense , but the director hardly ever gives us time to breath between them , thereby just annoying the viewer , rather than giving an intense feel to the film . The action , whilst being intense , fails to excite or entertain , which leaves the viewer feeling bored . The talking in the action scenes also usually kill any form of excitement , rather than intensify it . In fact , the film seems to prefer special effects over action ; there were several scenes that could have become great action sequences , instead something " unexpected " happens , and we are " treated " with more CGI . They also seemed to love the things they could do with the special effects far too much , resulting in them overusing it to the extreme ( main examples being Dracula's walking on walls and werewolves & Mr . Hyde jumping constantly from one place to another , which just annoys and distracts the viewer ) . The plot is OK , but very far-fetched and only barely makes sense . I got the feeling that the script was written more or less around which plot twists the director wanted ( in fact , if I'm not mistaken , Sommers also wrote the script , as well as directing it ) , and which action / special effects sequences he wanted in the film . The acting is not particularly good , but not bad , either ( well , some of it , but most of it is OK ) . The Monster has the delivery of an opera singer . . . I wasn't sure if I should laugh at the poor acting , or clap at the notes he hit . The characters seemed too much like clichés ; the bad-ass hero who cracks jokes and saves the day , the strong female who can fight for herself , except for when she needs to be rescued by the hero , the slow , goofy sidekick who's only in the film ( at all ) to provide comic relief , etc . The humor in the film is decent , however there is a little too much of it for a dark film based on horror movies . A few of the jokes did make me laugh , however , the goofy nature of several scenes made me laugh harder . All in all , a decent comic book movie that lacks any of the serious nature of its source material . I recommend this movie to fans of comic book movies , but fans of any / all of the source material should be advised , that this does not pay very much respect to the original stories . Just remember ; you were warned .
A decent spoof of The Blair Witch Project	When reviewing this film , it's hard not to be at least a little biased ; there are people who love some of the hip-hop / rap artists in this film , and hate the rest , there are some who hate all of them ( and the entire rap music genre ) , and then there are the few who love all of them ( I guess , though I've never met anyone who loved all of them , especially since many of them hate each other ) . Let me say right now : I hate Vanilla Ice and Ja Rule , I have an enormous amount of respect and love for Eminem and his music , and most of the rest of these artists I am indifferent to ( several of them I don't even know ) . I did indeed want to see this film because I knew Eminem was in it , though not as much for his talent or my being a fan of his , as simply the fact that I knew that he can be incredibly funny , as I've seen a lot of interviews with him , and he also played a great funny character in The Wash with Dr . Dre and Snoop Dogg . And let me tell you right away , if you like Eminem's warped , funny sense of humor that we often see in interviews , you will like his performance in this film . He can really convince you that he believes what he's saying is true , no matter how bizarre it sounds . Many of the other rappers give half-decent witness statements , though a few were very bad and just took up screen time . Worst was probably Ja Rule and Vanilla Ice , in my opinion , but then again , that might just be because I hate them . The " main characters " of the film have unbelievably little screen time , actually , and are probably only there to make fun of the original group of morons from the original Blair Witch film . They only have one really funny scene , and then a scene at the end that obviously makes fun of a similar scene in the original Blair Witch , and apart from those two , I'd guess they have two or three other scenes , that might have one or two good jokes in total , while the rest , like several other things in this film , merely take up screen time . What's funny about this film is , even though there seemed to be so many low points and pointless scenes , I never really felt like turning it off , or leaving the room to do something more fulfilling , like I seriously considered with the original Blair Witch film . Maybe it was just to see the next hilarious Eminem sequence , but something definitely kept me glued to my seat throughout the entire runtime . A lot of the jokes in the film are based on what the viewer knows about hip-hop and ghettos , not to mention black slang , which definitely limits the audience of the film , though I would say that the title can't throw too many people off . This is a spoof of The Blair Witch Project , that revolves around various hip-hop stars . The plot is fairly incoherent and all over the place , though I think that's the point . Don't expect some huge plot twist or to be told a great story . It's basically some hip-hop artists making fun of the basic premise of the film , a witch hunting hip-hop artists . The acting is hard to comment on , I wonder if it's supposed to look as lame and bad as it does , which I'm pretty sure that it is . The characters are also all over the place , with only a few of them being part of the actual story ( apart from , of course , the hip-hop artists themselves ) , and even fewer of them have enough screen time for us to actually recognize them , in the next scene they're in ( but maybe that's just me ) . All in all , a decent film if you're a fan of hip-hop and you just want to have a good laugh that's mostly on The Blair Witch Project's expense , but not something I would recommend too many people to watch , as many will hate it ( It appears that most who've seen it already do ) . I recommend it to huge fans of one or more of the hip-hop artists , or just people who'll go to great lengths to laugh at and mock The Blair Witch Project . Not something you want to spend too much money on ( I got it as a gift , thankfully ) .
Standard stuff , in a slightly original package	While the theme and basic idea behind this film is somewhat original , the film itself is just the typical Van Damme action cliché-fest . They just threw in some science fiction and time-traveling to make it seem fresh and new . The idea of criminals committing crimes " in the past " is kind of good , but the futuristic science fiction aspects of the film don't hold water . It's not just because we are now actually in 2004 , which is where the movie takes place , since , being made ten years ago , I guess they thought it wasn't entirely impossible for this time to be so developed , no , it's more the fact that we're expected to believe that virtually every single crime being committed ( every major one , at least ) is being with one intent and purpose , and organized by one man . Of course , I won't reveal neither the purpose nor the person here ; wouldn't want to spoil the story for someone who actually does care about it ; I can't say that I did . The plot is the typical predictable out-to-avenge-a-wronging action plot . It's decently paced . The acting is laughable at best , with Van Damme having the exact same facial expression for the entirety of the 90-minute runtime . The characters are for the most part clichés and stereotypes . The action is pretty good , but nothing you haven't seen in all of Van Damme's other action flicks . The special effects are poor . The writing is simple . The dialog is often cringe-worthy rather than funny or exciting . The science fiction aspects are poorly done with ( apparently ) little to no actual thought put into it . All in all , the film is just the typical Van Damme flick . Not really anything that sets it apart from the rest of his films . I recommend it mainly to Van Damme fans , though I will say that you could do worse than this for a Van Damme film ( Double Impact , for example ) .
Dark , but too corny	When someone takes such a good idea . . . a man who decides to break the ten commandments in order to spite god . . . and creates a movie out of it , I tend to sit up and pay attention . I won't lie , part of me watching this was in order to enjoy watching someone mocking religion ( me being a lifelong Atheist ) , at least at first ( when I watched this at age . . . what , eleven ? when it first came out ) , but I started to see it as a somewhat good satire . However , that's all it is . . . somewhat good satire . There is some good questions in this film . . . dealing with faith and religion . However , the film spends too much time on . . . nothing . Plenty of time passes without anything important happening . And in the end , it's just too cookie-cut and happy to mean anything . It should have kept with the style instead . The whole film is shot very darkly and dreary , every single scene looks at though it's night-time and is seen through the eyes of a natural born pessimist . The plot is fairly good . The pacing is decent . The acting is solid . The characters are fairly well-written , though a few of them are underdeveloped . The whole romantic part of the film ( together with the ending ) makes it too sweet and pretty . Too positive compared with the rest of the film . As if the writer / director was bound and gagged while someone more positive finished the film and added the romantic subplot . The dark comedy is one of the best points of the film . Very funny . The satire is quite good , as well . All in all , a fairly good film , but not one to make a quest out of getting your hands on . I recommend it to fans of the actors and of dark comedies . People with questions for religion ( particularly Christianity ) might also want to check it out .
For die-hard Simpsons fans only . . . and it helps to be uncritical	In an attempt to make money off of two popular franchises . . . those being the GTA and The Simpsons series . . . this game was ( poorly ) made . Now , I've been a fan of The Simpsons for the better part of my life . And I liked the original GTA , as well as Vice City . But this is just awful on so many levels . The game , with all factors taken into consideration , is mediocre at best . The control sucks ; every time you're not in a car , you have to run around with bad control over your character , who seems to change directions every time the camera changes , which it does almost constantly ; furthermore , you can only run in the same direction all the time , you can't change direction while running ; you have to stop running , walk in the new direction , and then run again , which is all the more irritating when the camera changes , as you have to change directions again . The car control is also bad ; most of the cars seem to instantly stop every time you hit something , which is nearly impossible not to do , as the cars all turn either too fast or too slowly ; either in a quick flash , which is way too fast , or unbelievably slow , which will cost you precious time , and will often cause you to lose the mostly time-based missions . The missions consist of mainly time-based driving , either racing another car , or racing to a certain point in the level , with usually only just enough time , which means that you can't make one single mistake ( the game actually simply throws more meaningless challenges at you later on , to heighten the difficulty ) , or slow down or anything , and still win the mission . The camera angles are horrible ; most of the time , they're all wrong for what you are trying to do , whether it's trying to walk over some straight line , where falling down will force you to start over again ( which most of the walking portions of the game consist of . . . along with the irritating jumping puzzles ) . The camera is only good when driving , and , as I mentioned before , the driving portion is very bad ( and that's the majority of the game-play ) . On the plus side , there are plenty of cars in the game , if you have the patience to get them , which mostly consist of either buying them at increasingly large prices ( getting to be ludicrously high at the very last levels ) , winning them in extra races or obtaining them after completing " bonus " missions . The cars are quite diverse , and there is pretty much a car for every liking ( and just about every single car in the history of the show is there ) . There are also a huge number of in-jokes , for the hardcore fans of The Simpsons who've been watching the show since it started . The creators also did a fair job of making Springfield , and most of the well-known landmarks are there . You can go to the Kvik-E-Mart . . . in the Lil ' Bandit , the Canyonero or even the Stutz Bearcat . Levels can be interesting . There are also a number of jokes in the game , but it's mostly the " new " humor , which means it's humiliating , extremely stereotypical or just plain gross , mostly . Nearly no sign of the comedic genius of the earlier episodes . I suppose fans of the new episodes will like it , though . The voices of all of the characters in the game are the actual actors from the show , which is good , I guess , but it's more of a marketing gimmick than anything else . Now , are there comical catchphrases and such , said by the very characters ? Yes . And does it get annoying after five minutes of playing ? Again , yes . . . and this time , in italics , with bold letters and yes , even an underlining . Some get annoying after hearing them a few times , but most of them were never funny to begin with . Also , many of them ( along with all of the cars ) are apparently from the last attempt at a Simpsons-themed car game . . . Road Rage . Furthermore , several of them contradict what's going on when they are spoken and they're not randomized very well . The police get all over you if you destroy enough property . . . which is the only way to gain money for the items ( required to gain the 100 % rating , which is the only thing keeping you playing past the story missions , which don't take very long to complete ) , past the coins that you can pick up ( which there aren't enough of ) . They're both too difficult and too easy to avoid ( getting caught costs you 50 coins , setting you back ) . The pedestrians seem to intentionally getting in the way , and the cars intentionally driving into you . . . making it seem as if everyone in the game is against you ( not a good thing to make pre-teens and teenagers , the main group playing this game , think ) . Also , you can't die ; now , I can understand and appreciate the attempt at not including that in a game meant for the two aforementioned groups , but this just rids the game of a sense of danger . And before anyone says that not all games need to contain that , play five minutes of Heart of Darkness , then five of this game , then tell me that I'm in the wrong here . The writing contains little sense , limited creativity and several times , actions which contradict the characters that take them . Rather often , it felt like the writers and level designers weren't on speaking terms . I could spend many more words describing the low points of this game , but I've reached the word-limit on this site . Overall , the game has some good stuff for Simpsons fans , as well as for car / racing / GTA gaming fans , but the repetitive and at times frustratingly difficult game-play makes it barely worth playing at all . For huge Simpsons fans only . I recommend this to fans of The Simpsons who really wants to see more of them , and who are totally in love with the idea of being able to play them and drive around in Springfield . Everyone else should skip it .
At best , worth a single viewing , if even that	It's no surprise to see a formulaic , by-the-numbers action exploitation flick like this ; the surprise is that even with Clint Eastwood in the directing chair , it ends up being completely pointless . As well as directing , he also stars in the film , in a role that pretty much screams ' Dirty Harry ' , and is hurt by how damn old and worn out he looks . Charlie Sheen co-stars with him , in the typical ' partner ' role . For the first half , Sheen's pretty much a wimp ; for the second half , he's a bad-ass guy who kicks almost as much ass as Eastwood does . Both give pretty good performances , but that's nowhere near enough to save such a cliché-ridden , stereotypical and predictable movie . Raul Julia does a great villain , as always , but like Sheen and Eastwood , he's not good enough to save the film . The plot is dull and uninteresting . The pacing is awful . . . the film could easily have been half an hour shorter without removing anything important or even remotely interesting . The action isn't particularly exciting or well-choreographed . The film brings absolutely nothing new to the genre , and does very little of interest to the viewer with what's already there . Only fans of one of the three lead actors or fans of exploitation action flicks could possibly find this interesting . From reading the trivia section of this site , you'll know that the film features more than twice as many stunt-men as it does actors . . . that describes the movie better than anything I could possibly write here . I recommend it to only to very big fans of one or more of the three lead actors , Eastwood , Sheen and Julia , and fans of exploitation action films .
No , I'm not sure what it's about , either	When a production is confused and doesn't know what it is about , one can't really blame the audience for finding themselves stumped , and not being certain what it's supposed to be . This special , located on the X-Men 1 . 5 DVD , released in 2003 , starts with a handful of brief parts of the actors in the film , essentially every one of them that the audience might know from elsewhere , each saying something brief ( that doesn't necessarily make any sense , at least out of context ) , and that isn't the last thing that will suggest something about what the contents are , without any of the things really taking charge and becoming the focus . The people in this talk about casting , their experiences making it , and what they like about this , and / or think it's about ( McKellan and Stewart come off as well-spoken , charming and wise . . . Paquin and Berry , however , each say one or two things that make them come off , let's say , less than smart , and I'm honestly not sure that's accurate ) . I could go on . That sounds like a lot , no ? Oh , it is . And at 24 minutes , this doesn't have the length to do it all justice , and it really winds up coming across as almost a dumping ground for great footage ( admittedly , it is ) that doesn't fit in anywhere else . I also got the feeling that this was mostly a commercial than an exploration ; it's " we have such good intentions ! " before " what's worth noting and considering herein is . . . " . Yes , both are there , but the latter is marred by the , at times ( no , not always ) seemingly utterly randomly chosen , clips of the movie that are inter-cut , that seem to be picked for the action and otherwise aesthetically appealing aspects over those the movie have to offer that are interesting , deep . The editing is somewhat half-hearted and sloppy , it frankly seems somewhat thrown together . In addition to interview bits , this also holds some behind-the-scenes material , which isn't bad , as well as what is arguably the best this has to offer : The portions of scenes that were trimmed , or removed entirely , from the finished piece . All in all , this isn't devoid of worth . . . it's just a messy mish-mash of stuff stuck together , perhaps based entirely on being unwilling to exclude it completely , even if they couldn't assemble enough on each subject to make a solid featurette on any of them . I recommend this to fans of the silver screen effort , though I'm not sure I'd go for more than a single viewing . Then again , to each his own .
When blandness hits	No more Mr . First Blood guy . Perhaps taking that out of the title was a signal to any potential viewers that they were going away from what this series started out as ( not that they didn't at least start to with the second one ) . They didn't even keep entirely to the guerrilla war-fare in this . They add a kid who , whilst not ranking all that high on the " obnoxious " scale , is featured there nonetheless . They do let the foreigners speak their respective language , about half the time . On that , there seems to be less harsh words than in the other two , if not quite as few as the Parents Guide might make one think . The action isn't bad , it's just not that memorable . There's enough of it and it's entertaining to watch , though . I suppose this is as good a point as any to say . . . obviously , to enjoy this , you must temporarily be of the mindset that fit at the period in which this was made , or you will find trouble sympathizing with whom you are meant to in this . Those who cannot aren't likely to get into this . The plot is about what one'd expect from the genre . This takes the rest of the step into pure macho-ism . There's no dialog or one-liners particularly worth quoting . The ending is arguably a deus ex machina ( the writer winds up with the characters in a situation they can't get out of in a satisfying way , and has a solution come out of nowhere to save the day ) . The DVD holds three featurettes ( one long and two shorter , apparently edited from the former ) , a teaser , a trailer and a photo gallery . I recommend this to those who want to see Rambo again something fierce .
William , get out of that chair , who let you sit in it ?	Special Collector's Edition review . I imagine one thing could be widely agreed on . . . Shatner should not direct again ( and I'm not just referring to the many odd and / or downright misleading , confusing bits ) . Some might add " perform spoken word " , and certain might say " do fake pain " . I understand that he spends the vast majority of the commentary track complaining about not receiving enough money or getting the time needed . It shows . Half-hearted would be the polite way to put it . This starts out with reasonable atmosphere , and I won't claim that I hated this . The effects aren't all bad , and at their best , they can be pretty good ( in the other end of the spectrum . . . the less said , the better ) . Almost half of the humor does work , it's more that far too often , this tries to be funny , and falls so flat on its face , the ground is still shaking from the impact ( and the Klingons have the worst appearance of any of the TOS movies , from the bad hair day to the punk-rock clothing ) . The lighting , well , when it was there ( which is not nearly enough ) , it was at least fine . The new cast-members , their acting . . . it seems to go back and forth between overdone to the point of being unintentionally funny , and being next to nonexistent , to a large degree . Why the retread ? Plot , situations , music . . . it was better the first time these were seen in this series . The action and story seem as if they should have had a far stronger " wow " factor , yet they wind up tame and unremarkable , wasting a lot of potential . The language is pervasive like the others , with a few relatively harsh exclamations . The guns in this were nice , and probably my favorite part of it . The DVD has several extras , mainly featurettes , they are so-so and one of them is cut in an interesting manner . I recommend this to fans of Star Trek , or , rather , those of them who must see all there is in the franchise .
Just when you thought sequels were as bad as they would get . . .	Judging from just how poor the first film was , I'd have guessed it set the tone . I suppose it did , but I'd never have imagined the sequel to be even worse . The odd thing is , the film is basically exactly the same . It's like Terminator 2 ; just enough things are changed around in order to make it an actual sequel rather than a remake ( obviously , though , this is where the similarities between the two films stop ) . Every single scene is basically the same as the one in the first . . . with few , minor changes . Of course , being a sequel , it has to be pushed to the extreme . . . so that's what McG did . He took the first film and made it more extreme . So we've got the exact same structure , pacing and plot . We've even got the same twists . Yes , seriously . I don't know if McG actually did wake up one morning before writing this film and said : " I wonder if I can get away with doing the exact same film again ? Will anyone notice ? Will anyone care ? Will it matter at all ? " I don't know if he did say that to himself , but I wouldn't be surprised if he did . The problem with pushing it further like this is that the first was stylized and very . . . out there . Making that more extreme is not a good idea . The result is pretty much a feature length music video , and by the time the film is done , you'll be very tired of the MTV-editing , the high requirement of suspension of disbelief and the pitiful attempts at actual drama . It's so clear that McG is and always will be a music video director . . . he can't do films properly . The whole thing comes off as forced ; there's no chemistry or real emotion anywhere to be found here . The way the film is like a remake , but with some big details changed around screws up more than you'd think . The Thin Man has a different part this time around , and his character is hideously exaggerated . The new Bosley just doesn't have the charisma of the old one . Seriously , Bernie Mac to replace Bill Murray ? Please . The humor is terribly overdone . There's a gag that goes on for about five minutes , based on a one-note joke . Of course , there are one or two fairly clever puns and one-liners . . . but there are a dozen or two painfully bad ones . The cameos are cool enough . The extreme sports are too . . . uh , extreme . They're just overdone and overly ' macho ' . . . there's so much testosterone in the film that it can be used as a hormone injection . Really , there's hardly anything in this film worth your time . . . which makes it even less than what the first film had . Well , I suppose the sex and action is fairly good . . . especially in the unrated version , which I saw . But apart from that , there's nothing here . Absolutely nothing . If you pricked a hole in this film , it would deflate . I recommend this only to huge fans of T and A , possibly of the stars of it and , if such people exist , of the first film . Everyone else ( apart from obviously straight teen guys ) should avoid this film like the plague .
What , were you expecting an answer to that question ?	This featurette is found on some DVDs for The Matrix , and one of the 10 discs in the Ultimate release . One has to wonder what the point particularly is of this , and if they by the title are referring to concept art , as that is one of the two things this consists of that aren't simply clips from the movie , for comparison . This has no interviews , no explanations , and essentially no information . What it is , however , in addition to what I've already mentioned , is footage of the process behind making effects , meaning , seeing them at different stages , with a little behind-the-scenes that one can then attempt to piece together to determine how the animation was achieved , and / or , I suppose , see how it went from idea to actual visual . Running at almost 11 and a half minutes , in spite of not being downright slow in pace , especially considering what this is , it's pretty boring . It can even be argued to hold spoilers , so you may not even want to watch it before seeing the title itself . There is no offensive material in this . I recommend this only to those out there who just have to view every single special that comes with purchasing the film .
Average at best	I didn't really care for this mystery-thriller at all . . . it barely has anything that gives the viewer a good reason to watch it . The ending scene has a little intensity , but it is badly filmed , as is the rest of the film , so the small amount of intensity there is , is lost in bad cuts and lousy camera work . Apart from the ending , the only feasible reason to see it is the mystery and the humor . The film does have a decent amount of humor , but humor can only make up for so much bad acting , boring plot , and dull film . The mystery is OK , it did have me guessing until the very end , but it just seems like a lazy attempt at making a " family " slasher film , by having someone die on a regular basis . Unfortunately , the family part shines through far more than the slasher does , so all of the kills , and I do mean all of them , are off-screen and barely detailed at all , to keep it safe for the kids , too . What in the world were they thinking ? Why would kids watch this , why would the family sit down and watch this ? There are plenty of other , better family oriented films out there , why ruin what little potential this one had as an teenage / adult film . Had this been R-rated , it would have been much more interesting . I know that this is a remake , and that there are two films made earlier with virtually the same plot as this , so , if you're reading this , and you can't figure out which one of the three to choose , take my advice : take the second movie , from ' 75 , or , better yet , take the original , from ' 46 . I haven't seen either but I can almost guarantee that they are better than this . I can't really imagine them being much worse , actually . I recommend this only to huge fans of mystery-thrillers , as it is definitely not among the best in the genre . At best , it's average , but maybe that's enough for big fans .
There's a new bird in town . . . it's remarkably similar , though unlike it's predecessor , its quality doesn't quite soar	I watched this before the original The Crow . In fact , I'm not sure I realized that this was part of a series , much less the third part . Now , having watched the original ( I have not seen the second movie ) , comparisons are unavoidable , and they are , I'm afraid , entirely and mercilessly unfavorable . This " gets " rather little from the first at all , and even less of it gets done right . There are attempts for the tone , but in spite of introducing new perverted enemies for the undead bird to seek out and combat , it just doesn't have the impact of the first . The language and nudity is present , but that's hardly what made the first excellent . The style . . . I don't know , it tries . More often than not , the film comes off as silly ( unintentionally , I'd wager ) . The plot could have been better , and it seems like there was at least one point where they go for demystifying some of the supernatural elements ( fantasy is by no means a genre I venture into often , much less enjoy , but in the original , it definitely worked ) . The powers may have also been altered . The pacing is reasonable , I guess . The acting is usually unimpressive , except for perhaps moments by the two leads . The music isn't bad , mostly rock , and dark in mood , fitting . I wouldn't exactly put up much of a fight if someone tried to sell me the soundtrack . The action has some to offer , as well ( if it gets terribly overblown and overdone at parts , in its attempts to outdo the first film ) , though I can't claim that it'll stay in your memory for long ( and , come on , if we're going to watch a young man fight , are we going to choose Eric Mabius over Brandon Lee any day of the week , on a dare , to win a bet and / or any other reason ? I refer you to Will Smith's oft-used catch-phrase of many of his movies for an answer ( hint : it's the one where he uses a word that refers to downstairs , and no , I'm not talking about a basement ) . The effects are good . The movie is shot and edited fine , if there aren't really any ground-breaking moments . A lot of this seems almost remade from the first , just lacking what made that film great . Gone is the poetic justice . Images , events and the basic structure of the film are recycled from the first , almost to the point where you start to wonder if these film-makers actually had or even thought they had anything to actually contribute to the franchise , or if they just saw a cash cow , grabbed a teet each and squeezed , as hard as they could . Actual fans of The Crow should steer clear of this . If all you want is a revenge flick , and you either don't mind or prefer them with some touch of fantasy and / or the supernatural , knock yourself out . I recommend this to those who find themselves in the latter group ( I've got no problem with people in said group . . . I just want to make it clear who are likely to enjoy the film ) .
Does what it's supposed to	This featurette consists of four sit-down interviews , shown one by one , inter-cut with a few pieces of artwork , stills from production , behind the scenes video and footage from the movie itself . One interviewee also spends a minute or two describing his work on the subway scene while he shows the audience the animation software he used . There's not really anything fancy or wildly attractive about the production of this . . . it's very straight-forward . The editing is about as to-the-point and without surprises as it comes . At one point , an interviewee puts away the slides he's been showing , and the camera slowly pans back to his face . . . no effort is made to conceal the relaxed camera-work . And who says that such is necessary ? This wasn't made to entertain , it was put together in an effort to explain some of the effects of the film , as well as giving us an idea of how the design came to be . . . and it succeeds in doing that . It's a fairly thoroughly interesting and informational 22 minutes , and it is neither too long nor too short . Each interview details specifically with one aspect of the film , the one that they dealt with . These include the creation and conception of Pearl and the fighting styles ( including a brief outtake from practice ) . There is a brief glimpse of Snipes as he has a bit of scene planning explained , and as he practices some choreography , but apart from that , this really focuses on the interviews and the details therein . All in all , an adequate presentation . I recommend this to any fan of the film ( and anyone in general , really ) who wants to know more about the design , fight choreography and special effects .
No real purpose	You know what I like about films ? You know what makes me consider ( some ) movies to be art ? It's the way they're unique , or at the very least have potential to be . When you paint or take pictures , you're limited to a visual representation . When you make music , it's audible . Writing , it's the story and the reader's mind you depend on . Movies have all three ; visuals , sounds and story . Something for the eyes , something for the ears and something for the brain . It's the result , the presentation of a lot of people's vision of one idea , one story . That is why movies , when well-directed and open , are great . You get the creative energy of so many people , you'd have to go through dozens of museums , music albums or novels to get something remotely as potent . Unfortunately , that doesn't help poorly directed and empty movies . This is one such film ; there is nothing here . No ideas , no thoughts , no creativity . The writer took the film everyone has seen a hundred times and around some minor stuff . Kidnapped child , parents wanting it back , try to trick the kidnappers and turn them against each other . It's such an easy way to make a movie , it should almost be forbidden . Outlawed . Not accepted . All potential future directors should take a sacred oath never to make a movie that had been done to death before they were even born . Now , onto the specifics of this film . . . the plot is vague and barely makes sense . The pacing is awful . That hour and a half felt like three times as much , and I barely even paid attention to the film for most of it . The characters and their motivations are nonsensical . The acting is fair , but wholly unimpressive , from the names on the cast . I can think of several movies for each of the main actors where they've done better ( well . . . apart from Courtney . She's never really good or bad ) . The cinematography is a bad joke . Half of the time , the camera is moving so fast that you don't realize what happened until half a minute after , sometimes even more . There is little to no suspense , and no real scares . The script is unimaginative . All in all , there's just nowhere near enough good things in this poor production to justify its existence . I recommend it only to huge fans of the main actors ( and even they should think hard and long whether or not they need to see every film featuring their favorite actor ) .
Stylish and entertaining , but definitely not without noticeable flaws	When you hear the name Dolph Lundgren , you rarely think of quality films . I can't off the top of my head name one single good film I've seen him in . However , you can usually count on him being a good lead in the typical more-Braun-than-brain action-flick . This film is a tad bit uneven , but it doesn't deserve its low rating and bad rep . The plot is not original , but the twists are fairly good ( I didn't see them coming , at least ) and the pacing is above par for the genre . The acting is a bit below average in some scenes , but it's mostly satisfactory . The characters are pretty much one-note and underdeveloped . The cinematography is stylish , but there are times when it's a bit overdone ( you know how , sometimes when you watch a film , you're wondering if the cameraman has fallen asleep ? There were times during this where I wondered if the cameraman was sober ) . The director uses slow-motion a bit too often , particularly during action scenes . To counter that , however , there's some very good camera-movement in some of the action scenes as well . The one-liners get to be a bit over the top in some parts of the film . The action is usually intense , but a bit too often it's unrealistic , to the point where it becomes completely unbelievable ( a goon's gun running out of ammo in a half a second burst , for example ) . The film managed to do something quite unusual for the genre , namely surprise me several times . I thought on more than one occasion that I had figured out exactly what was going to happen next , but the film surprised me . Something that bothered me ( being a weapons enthusiast ) was the amateurish way the guns were handled . Many silenced weapons made the sounds of non-silenced guns of a completely different type . Of course , that probably won't impact the viewing experience for anyone who isn't interested in weapons . All in all , good for a single viewing , if you can catch it for free . I recommend it to fans of the typical action-flick and / or Dolph Lundgren . Not particularly good , but you could do a lot worse .
Just barely watchable for non-fans	Before I saw this , I thought it wouldn't matter much if I didn't know the characters beforehand . I was wrong . I could barely follow the story , which annoyed me , since it was so simple that it hurts . The plot is OK , but unless you're a fan of Bionicle , you won't really care about it ; it spends too little time telling us who these characters are , or giving us reasons to like them , or care for them . I realize that this is a children's movie , but it should have been better ; most Disney movies give you characters to care about . The acting varied from decent to very bad . The characters were OK , but too many of them seemed to be there just for the sake of comic relief ( on a side-note , why did one of the Toa's talk like Yoda ? ) . The CGI is mostly OK , but at times it descends into mediocrity . Something I found repetitively annoying was how the animators kept trying to give these characters with barely any facial features at all emotion ; it just doesn't work , when the eyes are lights and the face is a metal surface . Light and metal can't convey emotions like human actors can . They should have realized that , and put more action in it instead . With all that said , the action was the most entertaining thing in this movie , especially the fight at the end . Apart from that , this movie has very little to offer to non-fans of Bionicle , and if you get around to watching this , you'll be happy that it's only 70 minutes , because you won't be able to sit through any more of it when it's done .
Just tries way too hard	I wanted to like this film . I really did . Despite loathing soccer , not caring much for ' mixup ' comedies and just generally not being terribly nuts about seeing this , I truly tried . The plot is a mess . There are under ( and un - ) developed subplots all over the place . The mix-ups are too plentiful and overwhelm you to the point of not caring . Furthermore , they're pitifully close to the level of the later years of the show Sabrina , the Teenage Witch . . . meaning , basically juvenile . Anyone with even a hint of common sense could have seen right through everything that happened , if it were to take place in real life . Every major character is basically a stereotype , and not one of them are even mildly developed . The acting is overplayed , the cinematography uninspired and shoddy and the overall directing is just lackluster . The film doesn't entirely stink , but there is a distinct reek of " inexperienced director " . Fickman may turn out to be a good ( enough ) director later on , but he needs practice . Lots of it . The humor is basically that of a sitcom . . . situational comedy . Take a bunch of characters , put them in an awkward situation and let things go from there . That's all fine and good . . . the thing is , the jokes never get time to delve in . Any comedian with at least a basic understanding of humor will tell you that you need to pause briefly after a good joke . . . let people laugh , let the punch-line sink in , let them come over the funny truth you just handed to them before you give them another . Fickman is blissfully unaware of this . The punchlines keep coming , at far too great a speed , and it doesn't take you long to simply tire of this . It tries too hard to make you laugh and comes off thin and weak . Sad , because the film does have some merit . Based on a Shakespeare play , the mix-ups are amusing and the basic idea interesting . The battle of the sexes is seemingly an eternal one . . . and this method of fighting it is original ( well , was , when Master William wrote it ) . Bynes shows definite potential , and had the script and directing been better , I'm certain she could have carried this well . As it is , the writing is too superficial , the characters too one-note and limited , and the overall movie just . . . hard to sit through . I laughed some times , and some of it almost succeeding in being moving . . . but then Fickman tears us away from it with an attempt at humor , making him and his directing seem as shallow and daft as the high school types he seems to make fun of . A fair try , but unsuccessful . I'm not sure I regret watching this . . . but I'm rather certain I won't be watching it again .
Not the worst King adaption , but definitely not the best either	From what I've heard , this is a fairly faithful adaption of the Stephen King story of the same name , but I've never read the book myself . The plot is decent , but somewhat ridiculous . . . and the pacing is awful . I was bored for most of the other half of this movie , despite it only being about 90 minutes long . The acting varies , but it's mostly bad . . . Kari Wuhrer displays a particularly obvious lack of talent , and Robert John Burke proves that he doesn't have the charisma or talent to carry a movie . Actually , Joe Mantegna pretty much steals the show , and every scene that doesn't involve him has you bored and wanting to see him again . The humor in the film is actually surprisingly good . There are some pretty good exchanges of dialog , and , as a nice variation from the typical King film-adaption , most of the laughs are intentional ( though there are a few parts which still seem lame and make you laugh , as opposed to seeming scary and frighten you ) . The special effects vary , but for the most part , they are quite good . The films gore and violence may be a little over the top , and is definitely extreme , though there isn't terribly much of it in the film ( but when there is , it's very graphic ) , but it didn't bother me as much as I had expected , from hearing it described by someone who has seen the film . Since I haven't really seen any other films by the director , Tom Holland , I can't say if fans of him will like this film . One thing that the fans of King will surely enjoy is that he himself has a role in this , and a pretty easily recognizable one , at that ( not the typical somewhere - in - the - immediate - background cameo that writers / directors typically have ) . All in all , fairly enjoyable horror , but not something that you'll want to see many times . I recommend it to big fans of Stephen King , huge fans of the various actors , and people who just enjoy watching somewhat uneven films just for the heck of it .
My advice ? Skip this one	After hearing nothing conclusive about this film , I borrowed it from a friend to see if it was good or not . I popped it in the DVD player , pushed play , and was immediately hit with a teeny-popper song . . . before the production company titles had even begun ! I don't believe I've ever experienced a film digging its own grave before the first image or title appeared on-screen . . . why , I ask you , would a movie that is labeled a thriller start the opening credits with a song that only young teenagers ( and mostly girls ) could possibly enjoy ? And I answer : because it wants to make it absolutely clear that it's aimed entirely at the teen audience . . . and not the entire teen audience ; only the part of it that enjoys sappy TV-series like Dawson's Creek and reality shows . I was immediately scared that this would indeed set the tone for the rest of the film . . . I shall stall no longer ; it does . The plot is ridiculous . The main character gets grades just too low to get her into Harvard . So she kidnaps her teacher . Makes a lot of sense , right ? No , I don't think so either . Well , believe it or not , it goes downhill from there . . . the pacing is horrendous . I don't think I watched for more than three minutes at a time during any point in the movie , before doing something more valuable with my time . The acting is really bad , only Helen Mirren gives a good performance . The characters are poorly written and clichéd . The suspense portions of the movie are not particularly good , and I felt more like doing something else , instead of pay attention to it . The film really didn't have too many positive points . . . the attempts at humor are tame and inspire boredom rather than laughter . Half of the gags were drawn out terribly , as well . . . a good example would be the one teenage girl acting out about five minutes of a scene from The Exorcist . OK , we get it , she's bored . All in all , the film doesn't really have anything to offer , apart from the occasional attractive teen girl . On a final note , Kevin Williamson really shouldn't direct . . . ever again . I recommend it only to teenagers and fans of movies aimed specifically at teenagers . Everyone else , skip this one .
A very average drama	I have to admit , I expected a little better for a Natalie Portman movie ; sure , she's not the best actress out there , but she usually gives believable performances , and portray interesting characters . This seemed like it started out as a joke , but then the script-writer ( s ? ) decided to throw in some drama , without actually trying to make a good balance between the two . I honestly can't say that Natalie won me over with her naive , barely likable teenage character , or her over-the-top fake southern accent . The plot seems to go nowhere , even though there's material for several long films , or quite a few TV series . The whole thing with the number 5 bringing bad luck ; it just seemed like a very weak plot device , that could've been thought of by a child . The plot twists are barely enough to keep the story going , and are mostly just desperately trying to keep the viewers interest , usually unsuccessful . This is indeed a very average attempt at a drama ; the only honestly positive thing I can say about it is that the humor does have its moments , just too few of them , and the actors mostly do good work . Most people should skip it , though . I only recommend this to people who have low standards for dramas , or big fans of Natalie Portman .
" Why , Tony , why ? "	Having not really seen any other Tony Scott films than Enemy of the State , I didn't entirely know what to expect from his new revenge / vigilante action-drama , but the trailers looked so darn promising , so I thought , " what the heck . . . can't be all bad . . . " Believe me , I've learned my lesson ; never judge a film by its trailer . The film is decent at best , overlong and it jerks the audience's sympathies around , without delivering any actual action . The plot is pretty good , but why does it take so ridiculously long to take off ? My gosh , I was halfway through the film and almost falling asleep before something happened that wasn't just character development for Denzel Washington and Dakota Fanning's characters . When the revenge actually took place , I sat there , in the theater , attentively , and really expecting something awesome to happen . But it didn't . I waited through the rest of the film , and nothing remarkable happened . There are " action " scenes ( if you can call a bunch of large explosions ' action ' ) , but they aren't actually impressive , as they appear in the trailers . The acting is pretty good . The characters are somewhat well-written . The pacing is dreadful . The film seems to never actually take shape and be anything . . . first it's a character driven drama , then an action piece , then a character driven drama again . . . and it keeps jerking our sympathies around , until the audience don't care about anything but when the film ends . The cinematography is pretty good , but it keeps cutting and skipping and it winds up giving you a headache . Once the revenge starts , Scott overstylizes the crap out of every moment , presumably because he didn't get to do his thing before that point in the film . The ending was probably the worst piece of typical Hollywood crap I've seen for a while . What kind of supposed feel-good crap . . . how are we supposed to believe that ? If you see this movie , you'll know exactly what I mean . In conclusion , Tony can direct action decently , but he should stay far away from character driven pieces for a while . After seeing the film , leaving the theater , thinking more and more about it , I realize that I sympathize more with the kidnappers than the main characters . That's not as much the fault of Tony Scott the director as Tony Scott the human being , though . He expects us to care about this family just because they're the main characters , while the villains in the film have it much worse than they do . Bad idea , Mr . Scott . All in all , a decent film , but not one I care to see again , and not one I would classify as ' action ' . Not even partly . I recommend this only to big fans of the actors and director Tony Scott . Everyone else , smell the smoke and realize that this is a dud .
Eh . . . average , I guess	Since this has just about every conceivable teen flick stereotype and just about every teen drama cliche there is , it's kind of hard to take it seriously . The story is just the typical " unaccepted romance " , with the happy ending which is in plain sight of everyone but the most naive of viewers , less than two minutes into the film . Think of every single cliche and stereotype for teen dramas ; the interracial relationship , the teen who's headed for trouble because he / she feels the need to rebel , the troubled relationship , the parent who doesn't accept this or that . . . every single one , with one or two possible exceptions is crammed into this movie . The plot is decent , but it's seen before , and it's been done better . The pace is decent , but pretty draggy , for a 90 minute film . The acting ranges , from good to pretty bad . Dunst's performance ranges between those two . The various other actors performances range ; about half of them are good , and the other half bad . The characters are , like I mentioned before , mostly stereotypes . That makes it fairly hard to relate to any of them , or even care the slightest about what happens to them . The dialog is flat . The humor is nearly non-existent ( arguably not necessarily something that needs to be taken into account in a romance-drama , but still ) and often badly delivered . The romance portion of the film is so dull , predictable and fake in appearance ; like another reviewer so eloquently put it , a few Kodak moments do not make a good romance . All in all , I guess the film is decent , average . Nothing more , possibly a little less . I recommend it to fans of the actors , fans of teen dramas , and fans of romance movies . Everyone else should avoid it .
Makes for a good watch , once or twice	After buying the collectors edition of From Dusk Till Dawn ( mainly to see Full Tilt Boogie , which was also featured in it ) , I saw this nice little documentary . It has some very good interview bits with the various actors and crew-members , but all in all , it's mainly just the actors and crew-members expressing their opinions about Tarantino and Rodriguez , which isn't something everyone cares about ; it has little to no information about the actual process of film-making ( which I suppose Full Tilt Boogie has ) , but I enjoyed it . It was fun to hear the various actors talking about Rodriguez and Tarantino , and there are a few bits where the director and writers family members ( Tarantino's mother and Rodriguez ' sister ) talked about them as well . Not much else to put here , but I suppose I could write a fun little piece of trivia about the collectors edition DVD ; it features two music videos , ZZ Top with She's Just Killing Me and Tito And The Tarantulas with After Dark . Both videos were directed and edited by Rodriguez . I thought that was kind of funny ( partly because he wasn't contractually obliged to do them , which means he just did them , probably for fun ) . They are good , by the way . Both feature immense amounts of Salma Hayek , so most guys will probably enjoy them . All in all , I give this documentary a . Good for a watch or two .
An unimpressive entry in a genre that is plagued by lack of quality	The raunchy teen comedy . . . one of the few genres where good film-making is such a rarity , you would wonder if it exists within it at all . I've seen my share of these films , most of them when I was younger and the tone appealed to me . . . but once you get over the age of 18 , it's hard to look back and not consider them juvenile and tacky . There are a few fairly good films in the genre . . . the first example that springs to mind is American Pie , or my personal favorite , Road Trip . This , however , is not one of the good films . . . it's actually not awfully good at all . The humor is crude and pretty poor . The plot is dull and progresses so slowly , it will lull almost anyone to sleep . Anyone who doesn't laugh like crazy at the constant utterances of obscenities and references to sex , of course . The acting is mostly overplayed , as is the humor ; gags and jokes are poorly set up and forced . The characters are poorly written and barely developed at all ; I honestly can't tell the group of friends that make up the main characters apart . There is little to no comedic value , all the humor is based on being crude and / or seeing someone in embarrassing situations . That's not humor , that's being provocative and serving the inner jerk in the audience ( ever hear of " schadenfreude " ? ) . This just isn't a good film , period . Lazily made , plot barely coherent and nothing memorable neither as far as scenes nor as dialog go . One to avoid , unless you are an avid ( or should I say rabid ? ) fan of the genre and you simply have to see every film of this kind . How this has risen to be one of the most popular and well-known of the genre is beyond me .
Please , someone , help this film figure out what it wants to be	Really , the film is as confused as some would argue the cross-dressing military units are . I'm not a fan of John Cleese . That's hardly a secret . I tolerate him on Monty Python , and I will grant that he can entertain , but as a general rule , I don't exactly make it a point to seek out his work ( though I do not make as strong efforts as I could to avoid it , either . . . I reserve that for those that I genuinely cannot stand ) . This film was purchased for me by someone mistaking it for something having to do with his comedy troupe ( with good cause , as its crude pun title was translated to " Python at the Front Lines " ) . A rather see-through attempt at passing it off as something it's not , really , as he's not joined by even a single other member of the group . One of the main problems is that this cannot seem to make up its mind on what to be ; a comedy or a war-drama . Neither of them are achieved particularly effectively , separate from each other , and whenever the two are attempted at the same time , it's even worse . There are times when the war aspect seems tacked on , as if the writers were busy writing the attempts at comedy , and suddenly remember that it's set during war-time . The drama begot little emotional response from me ( albeit I will admit that it did manage some , near the very end ) . The comedy . . . I don't know , it seemed to mainly consist of the flamboyantly gay character being , well , flamboyantly gay , and shining a spotlight on the fact that the men , soldiers , no less . . . wait for it . . . are wearing dresses . Yup . That's about it . I guess the musical numbers weren't bad . Cleese does nothing to amuse , playing it more straight than many of us were aware he was capable of . He plays someone who , at least appears to be ( it's not really clear ) deeply religious , and I couldn't tell if this trait was supposed to be part of the comedy or the drama aspect of the film . I don't know , if you're into musicals and / or men in drag , you may like it . I recommend this to people in either or both of the aforementioned groups ( I won't stoop to the level of suggesting that those who enjoy one are highly likely to also enjoy the other ) , but I'm not sure who else to steer towards this . Don't watch this thinking that Cleese does what you're used to ( those goofy-looking poses that you see on the cover of the home release . . . they're from one bit in the film , during the credits , which is really the only time he's Python-y ) .
" What's that boy ? There's a Lycanthrop in our backyard ? "	I have not read the novel , nor do I particularly intend to . It isn't too difficult to tell that this is basically ( that would be completely fine , if it was just , you know , good ) a dog movie ( right down to the usual near-ending scene of such ) , with the addition of a werewolf . That likes to play with its food , tends to be utterly incapable of closing its mouth , and the effects of which scream " we paid for this animatronic and darn it , we're gonna use it " . The framing seems odd . The pacing only gets to be painful when this tries to build suspense ( meanwhile , did it ever occur to them to go for an effective reveal on the creature ? Or at least attempt to hide how obviously fake it looks ? ) , with it merely being decent apart from that . The characters , motivations and credibility could use more consistency and quality writing . The script jumps straight into all the pitfalls of clichés and predictable developments , and after it makes an effort to change the familiar rules of the lore ( presumably to tailor them to what they wanted to do in this ) , it proceeds to follow them instead of going with what they changed it to . The music isn't always dreadful , but it is considerably grander than the visuals it's put to , once or twice . The acting is adequate , no one really stands out as either strongly positive or negative ( and they didn't have a lot to work with ) . The actor playing the being does have the voice and the appearance to match it . The kid isn't that expressive . This at most barely reaches the running time of a feature-length production . The camera and editing are powerfully uninspired , when at their best . There's some gratuitous sex and violence , and a little language . This can be fun to MST3K , though beyond that , hope for and expect little satisfaction from this mutt of a picture . I recommend this solely to the biggest fans of canine ( think Lassie ) and / or undead flicks .
Not really anything special . . .	When you know a movie is being directed by someone who has never directed before ( and hasn't since ) , you know not to expect anything great . This teen flick is no exception . Wait , teen flick ? This movie isn't even R-rated . . . it's PG-13 . In other words , it's far , far tamer than most of the crude sex comedies of later years that begun their return to popularity with American Pie . These films will always be popular with teenagers . . . the reason why escapes me at the moment . Well , there's the sex and the crude comedy . . . I suppose that would be it . This has less nudity and cuss words than that of the R-rated ones , making it easier to sit through for those who don't care much for such ( though why anyone like that would watch a movie like this is beyond me ) . It's got a good deal of the humiliation humor and usual " let's hurt someone to make people laugh " attitude . Schadenfreude . Feeding the inner bastard in all of us . Like with most other less-than-impressive teen comedies , it's got more of that , the typical teen humor , than morals and , say , anything of actual interest . There're the nice messages of " high school is tough " and " kids can be cruel , to anyone " in there , but they're practically covered by clichés and bad taste . They're also quite heavy-handed , when they do come up . The plot is somewhat original , but also rather uninteresting and uninvolving . The pacing is poor , I found myself hardly watching at all . The acting is fair , but many parts are over - or underplayed . The humor is fair , with some good laughs from the likes of comedy talents such as Eddie Griffin and the O'Connell brothers , Charlie and Jerry . Most of it is crude and unfunny , though . The cinematography is uninspired . The direction is vapid . All in all , just not a terribly good film , and one that is rather quickly forgotten . I recommend this only to the biggest fans of teen comedies , and look elsewhere if you want T & A or swearing .
Maybe I should have seen the original instead	This movie is only average , and it's only even barely average . As an action movie , it's pretty weak . Only one actual shoot-out sequence , and too much Hollywood in the other action scenes ; huge explosions , overuse of slow-motion , etc . As a drama , it's very weak too . The drama doesn't really turn up in the movie before the second half , and after that , it's nearly constant . You nearly forget that it is supposed to be an action-thriller . It got very boring after the charm of the first thirty minutes of the movie , and after that you pretty much just sit around , waiting for it to end . Which is very bad , even for a relatively bad movie , it should be able to keep your interest beyond the first fourth of the movie . The only thing that kept me watching , was hoping for another shoot-out like the one early in the movie . That was the only thing the movie has going for it , that and the lines Fonda said . Those were truly great ; I don't think I've ever experienced that much provocation in a female role , and Fonda did a great job on that . However , I have no doubt that the original ( made by Luc Besson ) is better . So , if you want to see something like this , you should probably check it out instead of this .
And this time . . . it's plural	Just when you thought it was safe to travel into the jungle . This sequel to a movie that was bad enough on its own manages to be utterly uninteresting , and shows already in its second scene , a brief attempt to justify taking a trip to one of the most dangerous places in the world today , that this is purely a film for those who enjoy B-movies . It's really almost a shame , because the explanation given in the film for the ridiculously large snakes actually sounds downright logical ( then again , I was watching this at the time I heard it , my expectations and sense of criticism may , by that point , have been effectively dulled ) . The writing has so many clichés , you'd think the script had been pieced together by them , only to be dropped in a large vat containing all the clichés for such a film , further drenching it , at which point , some more clichés were carefully added . There is a mass amount of predictability , as well . The character writing is so thin that the easiest way to tell apart the people ( apart from the fact that they seem to go out of their way to include every major race ) is really to go by which irritating behavior that particular one engages in . More often than not , the character attacked was so annoying at the time that it's more of a relief than a shock . On the subject of shock , the film doesn't consider itself above jump-scares . The expedition consists of a Cameron Diaz-wanna-be , two or three token black people , at least one of which more or less resembles someone famous , and and American-looking and - sounding Crocodile Dundee . The dialog is downright dreadful . The reference to the far superior " there's a dangerous creature out there " film ( the title of which you can find in Movie Connections , or by watching the film , I don't want to spoil it for anyone who hasn't managed to sit through enough of this crap to see that bit ) was probably not a good idea , because it just helps to remind one how sorry an excuse this is for one such film ( and I haven't actually watched the other film , nor do I intend to , nor am I particularly interested in this kind of films ) . The effects aren't bad , if the CGI is perhaps obvious ( but not necessarily bad-looking ) . I recommend this to people who want to watch a B-movie creature flick .
More of the same , for better or for worse	If you've seen or are planning to see this film , chances are you've already seen the first . If not , I suggest you go see that , even if you only have the chance to see one of them . It's better and it basically lays the foundation for this film . This has more silliness and less style than the first , and one will be hard pressed to find someone , somewhere who wouldn't rather have seen the first , if given the choice ( if the popularity-based ratings are anything to go by , at least ) . The plot is , much like the first , very simplistic and formulaic . It's pretty much ripped straight out of a 60's superhero comic book . The characters , most of them returning from the first film , continue to be comic relief and clichés , and a few of them , as little development as they have ( in the first ) actually go backwards as far as that goes . The villains both lack the originality of the one of the first film ; both are rather obviously rip-offs of famous superhero villains ( or super-villains , for short ) . The humor goes more towards the silly and campy , something the first one started nicely on . Fewer one-liners , unfortunately . The action is decent enough . . . it's slightly larger in scale than that of the first , but its uninspired filming costs a lot of intensity . There is more direct T & A in this installment , to appease the young males in the audience . Most of it is just there , for no actual reason , making it stand out embarrassingly . The dialog is poor , both as far as writing and delivery goes . The script has its share of clichés , but judging from the overall tone ( and my experience with films that Roger Corman is involved in making ) , I would wager that it's fully intentional . All in all , an entertaining and fairly worthy followup to Black Scorpion . I recommend this to fans of the first and of comic book movies in general . I urge anyone to watch the first before trying their luck with this , though , and if you don't like what you see in that one , don't bother with this one . It's just more of the same .
Average at best	These Disney Action Games have never been known for their high quality , but this seems to be a new low . Control is awful , camera is painfully bad , sound is poor and game-play is all over the place , random and barely making sense . Since I haven't seen the film , I can't say if the story faithfully follows it , but from what I've been told , it seems fairly accurate . The control is weak and slow , making the ant you control seem like a heavy , mech-like creature that needs to run every movement command through a series of filters before commencing with them ( now , I haven't watched the film , and I don't plan to , but don't they run a lot ? ) . The camera is the same as in Action Man : Operation Extreme , meaning it works against you most of the time by centering your view every time you turn around , making it nearly impossible to get an overview of what's going on , and making strategic movement virtually impossible . Why programmers turn the very camera of games against you , I will never know . They can hardly be doing this accidentally , with how many games there have been with it , so far , and , well , given that simple logic dictates that this type of programming will leave you with a rather unfriendly camera . You can't run away from the enemies , because once you turn around , the camera turns with you , turning that button you're pressing to run in the opposite direction 180 degrees , making you run smack into what you're trying to run away from . The sound , much like in the Hercules game , consists of the same three or four lines that barely relate to the situation at hand being repeated ad nauseum . The game-play is pitiful , with most levels simply being about finding the way to the end of the level , which , most of the time , is far harder than it should be , probably in a desperate attempt to make the game longer ( it took me at most two hours to beat ) . I'm not kidding , this game has some of the most confusing levels I've ever played through , which doesn't really make sense , since it's a children's game . There are power-ups in the game , but they barely make sense ( and do nothing whatsoever to raise re-playability , which is what they were put there for ) . If you collect all the corn in a level , you get full health . So ? Most levels are either easy enough for you not to get hurt or has a plant that spawns endless supplies of health ( more about them in a moment ) . If you collect the four letters of Flik's name ( I . . . don't have to tell you which ones they are . . . right ? ) , you get an extra life . Goody . With about fifteen levels , that's , at most , fifteen extra lives . And once you start getting hurt , you almost certainly die . One good point about the game ; when you do die , you start off almost exactly where you die , having lost nothing but the life ( no progress or weapons , for example , is lost ) . That's about the only positive point about the game , though . If you collect a special weapon , a golden berry ( more about them later ) and kill every enemy in the level with it ( enemies re-spawn when killed by any other means ) , you get a bonus clip from the movie . Wow ! What a treat , huh ? Really something you want to fight hard for , especially if you don't have the movie itself ( what would you need them for if you do ? ) , which costs roughly half of what the game does . Now , to get back to the plants . . . much of the game revolves around finding seeds for the plants , and upgrades for the seeds . The seeds come in a variety of different kinds ; one for sending the player upwards or in another direction , used for gaining access to higher areas , one that grows a plant with leaves that you can stand on , again to gain access to higher platforms , one that grows a generator plant , that spawns various helpful items in the different states , like health ( like I mentioned earlier ) , one that spawns a more powerful berry for you to fire and one that fires berries at enemies . The real problem with these is that the variations are often used as poor excuses to create levels around . Several variations are just made for one level , never to be seen neither before nor since ( you lose your upgrades every time you defeat a level , and have to start over from scratch ) . About a third of the levels , maybe more , are set around the player having to find more upgrades for the seeds . That's just a lack of creativity . Now , as previously mentioned , one of your two means of attacking ( the other being jumping twice and sliding into enemies , something that is every bit as slow and ineffective as it sounds ) is throwing berries at the enemies . These berries can be upgraded . The first is too weak to defeat tougher enemies , like grasshoppers ( which occupy many of the later levels , and one or two of the earlier ones , as well ) . Like the seed upgrades , these are lost every time you beat a level . With a tougher berry than the regular one being necessary to defeat grasshoppers ( and just about every boss enemy being a grasshopper . . . lack of creativity again ) , the boss fights are usually limited to you having to find a berry upgrade , and then just firing at the enemy ( since all they'll do as far as attacking goes is either throwing stuff at you or walking into you ) . No challenge there . Graphics are fine . There's just not really anything in the game worth playing it through for , and definitely nothing worth returning to it after you've gotten through it . No challenge , no entertainment , nothing more than a means to kill some time ( and an incredibly poor means at that , since it's so short ) . One definitely only for the kids , and only the least picky of them . I recommend this only to huge fans of the film and / or Disney's other Action Games ( if such exist ) .
Not as good as its predecessor , but decent	After having seen Nitten Røde Roser ( 19 Red Roses ) , I found this movie , the sequel to it , and was interested , due to 19 Red Roses being fairly good for a Danish movie ( from the 70's , no less ) . Unfortunately , it's not entirely as good , partly due to the story being far less interesting and the unrealistically sudden evolving of violent tendencies amongst the gang / group of friends . The plot is pretty good , but perhaps a bit unlikely , especially near the end . The acting is mostly good , and the eight leads ( four teenage boys and four detectives ) are all pretty credible in their portrayals of their respective characters . The characters are well-written and credible . The script is fairly good , but the way the violent behavior of the friends suddenly escalates near the end is highly unrealistic . The dialog is fairly well-written , the detectives in particular have some pretty good exchanges . The film does some have pretty good potential , but it's ruined by lesser direction than that of its predecessor , and a less believable script . All in all , a decent Danish crime film , but could have been so much better , with a few script revisions ( the ending was right out of a Hollywood action flick ) and some better direction ( some of the early plot was really uninteresting , which was , in this case , the directors fault rather than the scriptwriter ) . I recommend it only to big fans of Danish movies , the actors involved and 19 Red Roses . If you're a looking for a good Danish crime film from this time period , check out 19 Red Roses , instead .
Well , I got what I was expecting . . .	We like thrillers . We especially like thrillers if they end with the clear bad guy being killed by the clear good guy , and it's good if the good guy is so good that we can't bear the thought of him / her dying , and the bad guy is so bad that we can't bear the thought of him / her surviving . Oh yes , we like contrasts like that . We are quite easy to please , aren't we ? Apparently not , because we've grown accustomed to that kind of thriller , so now we need thrillers to be empowering , too . . . and that is the birth of this film . This film is about an abused wife who won't just take the abuse laying down . . . at first , she tries to run from her husband , but she ends up deciding to do what we've waited for her to do for the entire film . . . fight back . Yes , instead of going to the authorities or trying to reason with him ; fighting back . Respond with force . Fight fire with fire . Sure , why not . If it gives beaten down women courage , why not . The plot is decent enough , and it only feels a little like you've seen it done before , and done better . The pacing is fair . . . if you want the whole thing , it keeps stuff happening and such . Honestly , I just watched it to see Lopez kick butt . It's fairly see-through and obvious . . . I was never in doubt of what would happen or how the current scene would end . Acting is OK . Campbell shows how good of an actor he is , again . Lopez proves once and for all that she should never have tried to expand her career beyond singing ( maybe not even that ) . The action is decent . The cinematography is hurt by the seemingly controllable desire to overuse panning to the extreme . As a thriller , it's average . As an empowering film , it's fine . As a quality product , it's a joke . What the heck was the point of Noah Wyle's character ? Was there any ? I recommend this to fans of empowering films and / or Jennifer Lopez . Everyone else should only see it if they're really nuts about watching Lopez beat up a guy .
Does what it's supposed to	This is an eight-minute special about the vehicles of Batman & Robin , featured on the 2-Disc Special Edition DVD release of said film . It could have moved faster , but it's fine , I suppose , paced alright . Editing is about the same . The only one of the stars of the film featured ( as in , interviewed , talking to the camera , and not just seen ) is Chris O'Donnell , who plays Robin . Apart from that , everyone in this are crew , the people working on the film , behind the camera . They detail the processes of creating them , and what decisions were made and such . If you want to find out how various effects on the vehicles were achieved , or find out what they were going for with the design , or just see clips of the vehicles , in use or not , you've got a decent enough chance of that if you watch this . They cover all of the vehicles , as far as I can tell , featured in the film ( I won't give away what those are , here , in case someone hasn't seen the film and , against better judgment , and the well-meaning advice of every single person around him who knows the film and wants anything good for the individual , is going to watch the film . . . you're not meant to know until you see them in the movie , I'm assuming ) . It's fine , if you're interested . I recommend this to anyone who fits in aforementioned group .
Water , water , everywhere , and . . . absolutely nothing else	First of all , I don't care too much for water . . . especially not as a plot item in movies . The whole drowning / submerged thing has just been used too much , and I can't help but think about how the appropriate reaction next time I see something where a character is about to drown is to calmly , perhaps in a British accent , point out to the character ( not . . . expecting a response , I'm , in spite of how I'm occasionally perceived , not , in fact , a crazy person ) " Well , just stay on land . " . It's actually rather simple and easy . Same goes for sharks . Yes , I really don't find H2O scary . . . and I hold little , if any , appreciation of it . But what I do like is James Cameron's direction and the actor Michael Biehn ( in particular when the two are combined ) . Therefore , I gave this a try . I'm not sure if I didn't like it because my viewing was based on the wrong reasons . . . I should have gotten a hold of the original version instead of the Special Edition Director's Cut . . . the theme was too lame . . . or the overall thing was just so dull and the end was way too preachy ( but if I had to guess , I'd go with the last possibility ) . The plot is boring and very , very old . It's been done to death , and it had in ' 89 , too . Something happens to a bunch of people , someone else is sent to investigate . James adds nothing new to this idea . Instead he just expects the audience to sit through stuff we've seen tons of times before , while offering nothing in return but some nice visuals . Half of this thing is spent Under The Sea , which can only really impress people who really love underwater-shots , I imagine . I didn't really care . I think this was about 45 minutes in before I stopped paying attention . The film clearly didn't deserve it , so why waste my time on it ? The characters are not particularly interesting or well-written . Most of them and their backgrounds are clichés . The acting is OK . The special effects are well-done . The ending was really , really preachy . This really has nothing to offer but something to look at , and that really doesn't do that much for me , not for being 2 and a half hours long . In conclusion : either the guy got really lucky on the good pieces he's helmed ( Terminator 1 & 2 and Aliens ) or he just had no idea where to take this one . The moral is like something a five-year-old child would say to his parents ( and was better when it was in a far superior feature almost forty years before this ) . Ridiculous . One would have expected something more profound than that from the man who made aforementioned titles . Little to no action , un-engaging adventure , silly sci-fi , poor thriller and no real drama . I don't particularly recommend this to anyone , save for diving lovers and huge fans of Cameron . I doubt anyone else will find it worth watching .
Switches to much back and forth between romantic and black comedy	I don't know what exactly went wrong with this film ; I guess they wanted to make a comedy , and they couldn't figure out whether to make it a romantic comedy or a black comedy . It could perhaps have been both , but that would require for it to start out as both . It starts out only as a black comedy , and the romance just surfaces from out of nowhere about half an hour into the film . Romance can add to a film , but with some black comedies ( including this one ) the plot is too far-fetched for you to really care about the characters , and romance in a movie is empty if you have no one to care for . What's left is just some unoriginal black comedy gags that seem worn out ; people who should care about the dead guy but don't , the guy talking sense being mistaken as the crazy one , the ceremony that should be silent and holy , but is constantly interrupted . . . I could go on . We've seen it all before , often done better than here . The plot , while being extremely far-fetched , is fairly original ( as far as I know ) and it does allow for at least a few funny scenes . Too many of them just seem recycled . The acting is not bad , in fact it's better than what the script is worth . The script is fairly badly written , especially with the randomly thrown-in romance . Many of the characters seem like stereotypical cliches too . All in all , the film could have been far better , had the plot been more believable , the romance better worked in , the script better written , the material more original and the film overall less predictable . It has its moments , but it fails to entertain throughout the runtime , which it should be able to , as it's only 90 minutes . It does have a few pretty good laughs though . It's just barely entertaining enough to sit through , and it's not the worst way to spend an hour and a half , if you've got absolutely nothing better to do .
Juvenile comedy with little to no charm or redeeming features	Rob Schneider just doesn't have the charisma or charm to be a leading man . There , I said it . He and Adam Sandler ( who gets by on similar humor , but does better due to him looking as much as a child as he acts like ) have been making these juvenile crude comedies for a while . . . I haven't bothered to count , and don't expect me to be part of the group of people grieving them when they stop . I don't see any creativity or thought put into any of their films , really , and this one is no exception . All of the gags and jokes are based on sex , bodily functions and / or fluids and crude sound effects . Come on , have a little imagination , will you ? There's also one or two uninspired spoofs of popular movies . The plot is ridiculous , and is of the same type as several of Sandler / Schneider other films . . . the " destroyed - something - important - have - to - fix - it - in - time " type . Hmmm . . . isn't that just like another popular form of entertainment ? Oh yeah , Donald Duck cartoons . Please , that plot had been done to death several decades before this was even a fart-joke in the scriptwriter's / producer's / whoever - the - hell - thought - up - this - movie's mind . The pacing is bad . The film is just basically dull and bland . The acting is nothing special . The characters are all one-note jokes , clichés and stereotypes . The humor is , as I've already said , juvenile , childish and predictable . I will be very surprised if anyone who has seen this hadn't figured out what would happen in every scene at the very beginning of it . Unlike The Animal , this doesn't have any comedic talent to make it easier to sit through ( though Eddie Griffin is usually funny , he's just lame here ) and no attractive leading lady ( come on , Kate was as bland as they come ) . The only reason I can think of for sparing this film as much as a glance are the scenes in which Bree Turner's character dips her white T-shirt unwittingly in water , rendering it see-through . Apart from that , this has nothing to offer . At all . I recommend this to fans of Adam Sandler and Rob Schneider , as those are the only ones who'll find this entertaining .
Some good , some bad	Disney's first direct-to-video sequel . . . a rather dubious honor , surely . It is , apparently ( I haven't watched very many of them . . . this one was given to me ) , one of the few Disney sequels that is actually a direct sequel , rather than the story of the kids of the main character or characters of the original film . It's a mixed bag . There aren't many songs , and one of them may even just be ( some ) new lyrics for one from the first . . . but on the other hand , both Iago and Jafar get a song ( each ) . . . the latter was supposed to have one in the first , it just didn't quite work out , and Freeman ( Jonathan , not Morgan ) certainly does sing well . The pacing isn't too bad , I guess . The plot certainly could have been better . Abis Mal is not that interesting of a character . The themes aren't as good and the developments just don't work as well as those of the first . The animation varies , some bits are downright poor when compared to that of the first . The energy and creativity in no way measures up to that of the first . I realize that the following is not necessarily something they could have fixed . . . but Castellaneta just does not make as good a Genie as Williams . Sorry , Dan . . . I like ya , I do ( honestly possibly more than Rob ) , but some parts just suit certain actors better , and , let's face it , Genie is essentially Williams as an animated character . Dan tries , but it just doesn't work . In fact , it seems almost like they changed the character of Genie , either to move it away from the Williams performance or to suit the new guy , and if there was ever a character in fiction best suited for a fast-paced stand-up comedian , rather than an actor perhaps best known for his voice-work portraying one of the slowest , most dim-witted characters in the history of animation ( it should be noted that I love The Simpsons , the first many years , until it turned sucky ) . . . yeah , that character would have to be Genie . The film is a mere 70 minutes or so long , and only about an hour of it is actual film . There are dramatic parts , but the film is just not the adventure that the first was . It's nowhere near as entertaining . . . but hey , the actors do return ( save for Williams ) , and at least Freeman does still do well ( Gottfried was . . . not as good as he was in the first , a pity , since his character , Iago , is featured so heavily in this , especially early on . . . maybe that was the problem , he was overexposed ) . The DVD . . . could be better . The menus aren't as attractive as those of the DVD of Aladdin . The extras . . . well , there are three . One that takes you directly to any of the songs in the film ( which , sadly , serves to underline just how few there are . . . and the DVD of Aladdin actually had other recordings of the songs featured , as well as deleted / unused songs ) . One that will have Aladdin describe how people wish in different parts of the world , divided into brief clips . And lastly , a feature that will allow you three wishes granted by Jafar . . . that one is actually decent enough . All in all , I'm not sure there's terribly much lost from not watching this . I recommend it to fans of Disney , Aladdin , and / or those who want to see more of Jafar . . . and it helps to not be terribly picky .
Decent plot , marred by awful acting	For this type of thriller , this movie is entirely average . The plot and overall theme is decent enough , but the film loses any potential it might have by featuring such lousy acting . Even Max von Sydow , who is a veteran and is normally an excellent actor was disappointing in this . The only actor who did even a decent job was Matt Dillon . The film also has a bad pace , it's far too slow ; in fact , it's incredibly slow and boring , for such a short film ; it's just over 90 minutes , yet I can't bring myself to sit through the entire thing again ( I did once , but ever since then I haven't been able to do so ) . The climax in the film is also below average , and flat-out boring . The supposed twist-in-the-end was lame , and not to mention far too easy to figure out . Also , the film introduces the villain far too early , in my opinion . Five minutes into the film , you knew who you were gonna root against . That's just too early . The film lacks any real surprises , as well as any great qualities . The few scenes detailing the psychopath's gruesome murders are decent , but lacks any real intensity or excitement , simply because you know exactly what will happen . As far as thrillers go , this is average and entirely forgettable . I recommend it only to the biggest of thriller fans .
For some , this will have a bunch going for it	I've played both VG's , several times through , and I enjoy them . I don't think many are going to argue that this has a lot of atmosphere , almost every moment of it , and builds mood , often rather well . There are a couple of real nice visuals in this , and the overall look and feel is achieved almost invariably successfully . That's , unfortunately , most of the positive . Before I get into the negative , let me tell you , if you dig the original , 2001 game , you are in for a treat here , the references , the things they got right , they really hit the nail on the head with . Obviously that isn't going to count for anything to those not going in with such in mind , so I'll also say that select pieces of the action , especially near the end , were very cool . There isn't much of it , though , in this , which really stands in stark contrast to its source , which has received comments about having too little varying play , in that it was almost entirely based on shooting ( and the moves ) . I'm afraid that's brought me to the bad . . . this is merely the sum of its elements . Overuse of effects occurs . . . the first time we see a flickering light , it's good , but it gets excessive , if not that strongly . It also seems very intent on both telling us that it has a high production value ( which it does , no doubt ) , and I'm not sure all the suggestive material was there for any other reason than attracting young people , and one can question whether it should really be in something like this . On that , Kunis is too young for the part , and she does not have the femme fatale thing going on . Wahlberg is closer in age to his role , and he does brooding reasonably well . But let me get back to where I was just headed . . . does this fit in the genre that what it comes from does ? Max Payne , both when we saw him in ' 01 and when we rejoined him in ' 03 , was a mix of film noir , John Woo movies and a dash of The Matrix . That can't really be said about this . Bullet-time is featured , but only barely at all , and seldom that impressive . The tone is dark , bordering on drab once or twice , and at least one downright tasteless sequence , that I'm also not sure was meant to have the overtones it wound up with . There are a handful of attempts ( that I imagine few will laugh at ) at comedy , but no actual humor . Not all of it is thought through , and characters get exposition-happy some . The acting tends to be average or better . This isn't without dramatic moments , and actually has a different and interesting take on certain aspects of the story , which they actually translated relatively well to the silver screen . The CGI is quite excellent . The style is noteworthy , if limited ( perhaps intentionally so ) . And anyone who thinks Nolasco can only ever be the sympathetic Sucre , well , just hold off on judging that until you see this . Sound has something to bring to the table , and music , as well . Pacing may not be flawless , but I can't claim that I was ever bored watching this . The cinematography and editing have stuff to offer , if not devoid of odd choices . You can tell this was PG-13 , at times . The language isn't pervasive , and harsher is found elsewhere . I recommend this to fans of the interactive efforts involving of the same title , and those intrigued . . . albeit I would advise that you keep an open mind , the former group to a greater extent than the latter ( who , honestly , will probably get less out of this ) .
The qualities even out to about average	Following an intro that tries way too hard to be creepy ( and really , really doesn't succeed ) , " Always " begins . . . and largely continues the over-stylization ( for my money , this fares much better during the fairly few attempts at a more " classic " approach to horror ) . This isn't entirely a sequel to the first two , and it actually doesn't require having seen them at all . This has both good and bad to it , and is decent as a whole . There are definitely some cool death-scenes herein . . . and some of the writing . . . well , maybe not shines . . . there are flickers here and there , let's put it that way . The " flash " kills , pun intended , some of the potential scares ( it seems to be used in scenes with such , in particular ) . There are still some that do the job , and there is reasonable tension at points . Effects vary , but they tend to be in the positive end of the spectrum . The plot isn't too poor , and the connection to rest of the series is OK . I don't personally have a problem with the twist , but it could certainly be argued that it could have been better handled . Cinematography and editing are fine , but could use work ( who was in charge of the framing ? " No one " is an entirely acceptable answer , and would , quite frankly , help to explain it ) . Acting is a mixed bag ( where some wise guy wrote " crappy " on the majority of the paper slips ) . The " red herring " factor is so-so ( quality and quantity alike ) . The DVD has several trailers , a ' making of ' and a commentary track by the director , and I have to say , it got me to respect him and the film moderately , and is absolutely worth a listen . This does add an interesting thing or two to the franchise . Fans of it may want to give it a chance . I recommend it to , well , aforementioned group of people .
Decent spoof movie	This at first appeared to be a spoof of James Bond , but in actuality it spoofs a lot of different movies ; this could probably have worked , but unfortunately , most of the gags are not very funny . The few gags that did work for me were the spoofs of Pulp Fiction and Home Alone , but apart from those , most were not funny , some of them were even embarrassingly bad . Considering the material , which movies they spoofed , they could've done better ; most of the movies spoofed ( and especially the main theme , James Bond movies ) could've been parodied a lot better . Unless you're a hardcore fan of Leslie Nielsen , you probably won't enjoy this film on any more than a casual level , as it's nothing special . I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone , unless they truly can't stand the very thought of there being a spoof movie that they haven't seen . This movie is very average , and there is nothing at all in the movie to indicate otherwise . The gags are mostly boring , the acting is embarrassing , and the parodies are almost so unfunny that it hurts .
We don't need to make fun of Hollywood and its movies . . . they both do that just fine by themselves	I suppose this one is just easier to enjoy if you know nothing about the original version , and / or the novel from whence that film came . I say " that " , and not " these " , because beyond the title ( which , it should be noted , Fred Zimmerman , R . I . P . , the director of the 1973 version , fought to change on this one ) , the movies have fairly little in common ( I wouldn't know about the book , I haven't read it ) . Instead of relying on the tastes of the audience , and the memorable writing , this Hollywoodizes the entire thing ; it gets " personal " , the lead characters are more clear ( in stark contrast to the " presenting " nature of the original , Day of the Jackal , more like a documentary than something for / on the silver screen ) , subtlety tends to go out the window , and of course everything is " bigger " . Several scenes are remade from " Day " , with some exaggeration and such , to the point where it , at times , resembles parody , presumably not intentionally so . . . and I am not the first to point this out . This is more action-oriented than " Day " , which is not to say it's entirely devoid of interesting elements ( there are just few of them which aren't found in " Day " , and more well-done , there ) . Music and script is about what you'd expect , and hey , there are worse of this kind out there . Acting varies , this gets its share of attempts at accents and lesser performers . Direction , well , it's not particularly bad , but do note that the guy went on to do the second Basic Instinct , which I've not seen , but from what I hear , it's clearly just a recent sequel of the sort that not so much " just doesn't live up to the first " as " destroys some of what the first carefully and skillfully built up and / or developed " , which , even just planting himself in the director's chair for would indicate that he does not get that fact , that he does not care , or that he simply needed money that bad , and none of the options are conducive to commanding respect as a serious and intelligent director . Not necessarily awful , suffers from the unavoidable comparison to a far superior piece of cinema , which it could have easily steered clear of by merely eliminating the similar situations and , you know , calling it something else . I recommend this to fans of action as done by Hollywood , and only the fans of Day of the Jackal , book or celluloid , who want a send-up of the material .
Nowhere near as amazing as the first	Considering that the first is a masterpiece of fantasy / adventure that can be viewed by all ages , I'm amazed at how dumbed down and childish this is . The first had humor , but it was humor that everyone could enjoy ; this one has unbelievably childish humor , that only , and I do mean only , kids can enjoy . In fact , probably only young kids , kids who are seven-eight years old will laugh at it . Some of it consists of old cliches , including the " a person who the audience considers normal meets a person who is from another world / planet / whatever . He misunderstands some of what the ' normal ' person says or does " which is older than Stonehenge . Even some of what amazed or fascinated you in the first is turned into lousy jokes . Everything I loved about the first had been changed around to something bad ; the actors are all new , with one or two exceptions , the voices for creatures such as Falkor and Rockbiter have changed dramatically and now sound very bad . They even managed to screw up the perfectness of the Childlike Empress , who had the most moving and emotional part in the first , and was absolutely perfect in her innocent appearance . This time , they gave her curls . . . now she just looks like a regular girl dressed up as a princess . But that's not all . Not only did they screw up all the old characters , they also made nearly all of the new ones horrible too ; the gigantic bird is just extremely annoying , Rockbiter Junior made me cringe so bad that I nearly turned the film off . . . and I could go on . I don't know if the story follows the source material very accurately , but the story is reasonably good . It just lacks the ' adventure ' feel of the first , somehow . Or maybe it's just the jokes that kill it . The effects seemed overused , and not as well-made as they were in the first ; or maybe the first just did a better job of hiding how bad the effects are , instead of flaunting them . The plot is OK , but lacks the adventure of the first ; it never excites you the way the first did constantly . Despite this , it does move along at a pretty good pace , and you aren't really bored at any point in the film . The acting is bad for the most part , especially the new actor portraying Bastian . They should have kept the great actor from the first , just as they should have kept all of the other actors . All in all , the film lacks just about everything that was good about the first , and is really only good as a decent followup to a great film . Watch it if you want the adventure from the first to continue , and you don't mind seeing a much less entertaining film . I recommend this only to young kids who enjoyed the first or to any older fans who don't mind the ( extremely ) childish humor .
Stupid , juvenile and predictable	Just when I thought I'd seen the worst teen-oriented romantic comedies . . . this baby hits me . And when I say hit , I mean like a dropkick to my stomach . You may think you've seen it all , but you haven't seen this . . . and you should consider yourself lucky . Like Walt Becker's previous directing attempt ( which was about as big of a train-wreck as this one ) , this features Ryan Reynolds and has incredibly poor taste in humor and will disgust just about everyone who watches it , at one point or another . Granted , this isn't as sick or graphic as Van Wilder , but it's every bit as poor . Becker decides that his talentless direction isn't enough to torture us poor viewers , and tried to write the script for this mess . Luckily , he co-wrote it with Peter W . Nelson . . . who doesn't seem to have written another movie neither before nor since . I don't think I have to tell you just how poorly written the film is , as the direct result of this . The love story is contrived , sappy and unbelievably predictable . The acting is just bad . The characters are never credible , their actions make no conceivable sense and all of them are paper-thin stereotypes . The humor is so painfully obvious and stupid that I can't see anyone finding it funny . The jokes are poorly set up , never funny , and repeated to the point where we're sick of them . There's only one good thing about this movie , and it's Alyssa Milano as a stripper . If you consider that reason enough to see the movie , then be my guest . Lord knows that was the only reason I gave the movie any chance at all . I recommend this to fans of romantic teen comedies and Alyssa Milano . Anyone else shouldn't bother . In fact , if you doubt you would like it , then don't watch it . It's most likely not worth your time .
Pure Stallone vehicle . . . no real substance	After having seen this about a year , maybe a year and a half ago , I couldn't remember that much of it , except that it wasn't particularly good . I've heard many say that the original ' 71 version is much better . . . believe me , I'll take your word for it , as it can't be much worse than this . Stallone can't really act , and this film shows it . The story is decent , but it never really gets the viewers interest or attention , and what you're left with is a bunch of car-chases and tough guy beating tough guy or tough guy beating weak guy fights . The plot is pretty dull , doesn't really hold your attention at all , and quickly loses your interest entirely . The acting isn't very good . The characters are pretty thin and most of them are just either tough guy clichés or weak - guy - trying - to - appear - tough clichés . The soundtrack is cool , with lots and lots of excellent techno tracks . . . but that's pretty much the only good thing about the film . My recommendation ? Rent the soundtrack . Skip the film . For an action film , it really has little to no actual action or tension . It's all so predictable , and all of the action consists of car-chases and fighting scenes , anyway . One of the biggest reasons I watched this drab , mediocre film again was John C . McGinley . If you've read a review of mine about one of the other films I've seen which had him on the cast , then you know that I nothing short of love the guy . He's just so damn cool , and his personality works great in the film , in the character . But , alas , he has too damn little screen-time , and it's not worth sitting through the parts of the film that doesn't have him . All in all , just not really a very memorable film . The dialog tries too hard to be cool , the editing tries too hard to be stylish . . . the whole thing ends up as a mess . I recommend this only to very big fans of Stallone or possibly huge fans of crime-action-thrillers . Everyone else , skip this one . . . maybe look for the original film . It appears to be much , much better .
Fortress 2 : this time , Lambert is in space	Christopher Lambert ; the king of newer B-movies . The guy has been in every ( I think ) Highlander movie so far , despite the fact that only the first was particularly popular . He's done so many B-movies that one has to wonder if he is aware that the films are bad and doesn't care , or if he really doesn't realize their quality ( or , rather , lack thereof ) . Here , he returns in a sequel to the fairly low-budget B-movie action-science fiction flick , Fortress . In the first one , the prison was huge , and underneath the ground . Here , it's . . . well , it's still huge , but this time , it's in outer space . I guess the writer thought , hey , the first time , it was underneath the ground . . . the only place that could be worse than that would be outer space . I hope he's right . . . I surely do , because if he is , maybe we won't see anymore half-cooked action-sci-fi flicks like this . Lambert portrays the exact same character , which I suppose is good , as he was a decent character in the first . A few somewhat big names also join the cast , most noticeably Pam Grier . The cast of characters from the first are pretty much remade ( apart from Lambert himself ) , meaning that the new cast pretty much just fills the shoes of the characters from the first ( anyone who knows how the first ended knows why ) . Unfortunately , that means that the film seems more like an overblown remake with the same guy portraying the lead , rather than a sequel . The hacker from the first ( who was a neurotic , nervous guy , beautifully portrayed by great horror-talent , Jeffrey Combs ) is replaced by an annoying black-guy stereotype . The female lead is replaced by a girl from the resistance ( which Lambert's character is said to be a member of as well . . . odd . . . I don't remember that from the first . . . does that mean he joined the resistance after he got a kid ? Who'd do that ? ) , instead of his wife as it was in the first . . . apparently mainly because the scriptwriter couldn't find a good way to capture both Lambert and the wife-character , without capturing the kid . The Men-Tel prison commander ( who was played by the cool bad-guy actor , Kurtwood Smith , from RoboCop fame ) is now an annoying wimp with a ridiculous British accent that really gets on your nerves ( as opposed to the cool Smith , who was a menacing and threatening presence ) . The plot is a rehash of the first . The pacing isn't particularly good . The very scenes in the movie seems to be ( for the most part ) remakes of the scenes of the original ( talk about lack of originality . . . ) and the action is mostly just rehashes of the first , just made a little less exciting ( remember those way-cool machine guns with three barrels in the first ? They're replaced with dull futuristic-looking stick-stun-guns ) . The special effects are decent at best . The script is a weak rehash of the first , with a few added sub-plots , none of which being particularly good . . . most of them are just there to keep the film going , or put it an action scene , in order to distract the audience from the poor writing . The dialog is pretty bad , with one or two exceptions . All in all , the film is just a tame rehash of everything the first was ( which isn't even a lot ) . Somebody took the first film , said , " hey , this is popular . . . but it's not very good . . . how about if we try to do something of even lesser quality and see if people will like it ? " Probably writer / producer / actor John Flock , who , going by the plot and the writing of this film , really is as dumb as he looks . I recommend this only to huge fans of the first Fortress , Lambert or B-movies . Everyone else ; don't bother . There's a million better ways to spend 90 minutes , and there's at least as many reasons not to see this film .
Just average	When I first saw Elijah Wood , I don't remember if it was in one of the trailers for The Lord of The Rings , or if it was in the awful Disney version of Oliver Twist , I almost instantly loathed him . I loathed him for every possible conceivable reason there could ever be for loathing another human being ( almost , anyway ) . I hate his baby-face , his height , his " charm " ( or , rather , lack thereof ) and the fact that the three aforementioned features always gets him work in movies ( not to mention , makes far too many girls go mad over him . . . I suspect much , but not all , of course , of the female audience that actually sat through the Rings movies did so because of Wood being in the lead . . . ridiculous ) . I thought : " The only possible way Elijah Wood could actually be just a tiny bit more annoying was if he was a child actor ( instead of a teen / adult actor ) " . Then I saw Chain of Fools , where he actually is pretty good , and realized , hey , maybe I misjudged him , maybe he is actually a decent enough actor ( somewhere in-between I also saw the faculty , but that didn't really affect my opinion of him , in any way , shape or form ) . Then I saw this movie . . . and my worst fears came true . He was even worse as a child ( actor ) . His character in this enraged and annoyed me to the point of not being able to watch the whole thing attentively . . . well , I suppose that's not entirely true . . . the trite pace and poor execution of a pretty good idea helped a little , as well . The plot is decent enough , but the pacing is bad and the execution of the good idea is just bad . The ending made me cringe . The acting is decent , but since every major actor in the film plays exactly the same character they always play , it's not particularly impressive . The film was predictable and rarely entertaining . The characters were poorly written . The dialog had its moments , but they were few and far between . The whole thing was just too overly romantic and children's movie-like . The film takes a great premise and turns it into yet another bland romantic film . The end was surprising ( slightly ) , yes , but it wasn't good . It was sappy , sentimental garbage . Actually , pretty much the entire film was . All in all , this film is just average at best . I recommend it only to big fans of Mel Gibson , and possibly ( sigh ) girls who like Elijah Wood .
The Holocaust For Dummies or : How I Learned to Pay Attention and Care About the Prosecution of Jews	This film is very basic stuff ; the dream / time-travel theme , the typical war-drama clichés , etc . The whole film is just so bland and and the way it handles the serious subject . . . I don't know , it's just like a . . . Schindler's List Light ; you get the important subject and a few well-known actors , but without any shred of anything else worth watching a movie for . The plot is lame , just a rehash of the dream / time-travel formula , in which the main character travels through time because he / she must learn an important lesson ( like , say , Christmas is important , caring is important , and in this one , the Holocaust was and is important ; bear in mind , I'm not saying it's untrue . . . I'm merely saying that it's an overly tongue in cheek way of telling us that ) , and wanders about , constantly talking about things that don't exist in that time period , instead of wising up and keeping her mouth shut ; how many of these movies have been made , anyway ? They should have stopped making them back in whatever decade they started . It's too bad the important subject has to be dumbed down to a childish " adventure " just to make teens and kids aware of what went on during the Holocaust ( which the film arguably does a somewhat half-bad job of , since it's made into a PG-movie ) . Come on , I'd have rather sat through an informational but dull retelling of the story , instead of sitting through this tripe . The plot is tame and cliché-ridden , badly paced and not very interesting . Once again , too bad for a film with such an important a subject . The acting is decent at best ; not surprising for a TV-movie cast , but come on . . . Brittany Murphy and Kirsten Dunst can do better than this . They may not be the best teen actresses out there , but they're better than this . The characters are mostly clichés and stereotypes . The cinematography is unimaginative . One of the biggest problems apart from everything I've written up to this point was that it focused very much on the Jewish religion and their customs , which seem strange and ridiculous , at least to me . That made them all the more unappealing to me , along with their one-dimensional personalities and poorly written and even more poorly delivered dialog . But , maybe I'm just too anti-religious and atheistic . Meh . My point is ; you don't really care about these people , since their personalities are paper-thin and you know from the very moment they are introduced exactly what is going to happen to them , at least if you have any experience with the genre . Basically , the movie has a good point , but it's poorly presented and too much of the film is just poorly executed and ends up making you smirk or even laugh at what you're supposed to start crying at . I recommend this movie only to kids and other easily impressible people . I suppose if you must see every movie about the Holocaust , this isn't the worst either . You could do a lot worse , but you certainly could do a hell of a lot better , too .
A movie that just fails on so many levels . . .	I've read a good deal of the reviews of the film on this site . Most either claim that the film is an attack on Microsoft and Bill Gates or that it's a mindless popcorn flick . There is some that claim that the attack is justified , while some say it's exaggerated and too obvious . Personally , I'll have to go with a mix of these ; it's an attack on said corporation , and an obvious one at that , but it's also a popcorn flick . . . and that might be the core of the problem with it . It tries to combine mindless entertainment with an actual message and fails terribly in this attempt . The plot is mindless techno-babble ( quite derivative , too . . . The Net , anyone ? ) that lost my attention less than half-way through . The pacing is incredibly poor . . . the first half hour tells us far more than the remaining hour and a half , leaving the majority of the film being awfully slow and event-less . The acting is nearly unforgivably bad ( what happened , Robbins ? ) , and the casting is dubious at best . Ryan Phillippe as a geek ? Please . He doesn't look the part in the least . The rest of the geeks at least look like they spent some time in front of a screen , but he looks more like he just left Dawson's Creek . The film is packed with twists , each more ridiculous than the last . The writing is pitiful . The dialog is just bad . The editing is frantic and confused . There are several sequences of MTV-like editing , only good for giving the viewer a headache . The cinematography is sophomoric and daft . The whole film just doesn't really have anything to offer the viewer at all . . . apart from some fairly accurate computer-stuff ( as far as I can tell ) , which shows decent research . . . but what does that matter , when the film itself is so poor ? I recommend this only to pseudo-geeks and fans of popcorn flicks . Everyone else should avoid it .
No , I won't do an obvious " score " pun here	This is a special feature on the second disc of the 2-Disc DVD release of the second X-Men film , X2 , and it deals with the music of said motion picture . The majority of this is interview bits with John Ottman , as he talks about his type of score , who and what are his inspirations , and , the definite high point of this entire presentation , the specific themes to the film , immediately followed by portions of them playing , over some film-clips edited to the pieces . As positive as that is , it doesn't last all that long , which I suppose is why they tacked on the somewhat superfluous and awkward footage also found here . Why were Singer and Stewart in this documentary ? Neither are interviewed or otherwise add something ( apart from the latter's charm , but that does nothing to combat how terribly out of place they both seem and are ) . In total , this comes to about eleven minutes , and they don't really drag , nor does the superfluous portions take up that much time . Indeed , there are some good things to this , if it does , overall , come to about average quality for what it is . If you're interested in the , in my opinion rather magnificent music of the film , and the forces who put it together , this is fine for a watch . . . just know you'll either be fast-forwarding , or have to sit through material of the orchestra messing up ( ! ) . I recommend this to anyone on whom the aforementioned description fits .
Entertaining , but not for purists or those looking for more than just that . . . entertainment	An action film set in Victorian England . A movie based on a masterful graphic novel by a man of undeniable talent in the art of writing them . Sounds interesting , and as if it has quite a bit of potential . The movie could have been worse . . . and it's definitely entertaining . Directed by the man behind the first Blade picture , this is as flashy and stylized as they come . At times , this takes away from the enjoyment , but mostly , it's just cool to look at , and the film does feature some rather nice visuals , and only once or twice does the much-used animation only look cartoon-y . The script changes around quite a bit of source material , and fans of the original work by Alan Moore ( yours truly included ) will , by no means , find this to live up to the quality of that . There are various references to famous literature , though nowhere near as well-implemented as they were in the novels , and , whilst probably conceived as cute and clever , they more often than not come off as embarrassing . For all the teenage boys out there , in spite of the low-cut piece that Wilson wears in the poster and on the cover , she dresses far more conservatively than that for most of this . Hyde's transformation is somewhat interesting . Characters are changed around , mainly for sheer cool-ness effect . Some of the camera-work and editing is quite nice . Much of the dialog is atrocious , and some of the lines are even poorly delivered , due to how awful the writing is ( some things , you just can't get to sound good or real ) . The action is mostly exciting and well-done , and I'd say it's the best thing about the film . The pacing is slightly off . Characterization is limited , but reasonable . Acting varies . The villain is somewhat ruined ( early on , at that ) by too much exposition ( in that he works solely as a mysterious , unseen character . . . beyond that , he starts to seem silly ) , and he's not the only one . . . and on the subject of exposition , some of it is really obvious . The film has events that require serious suspension of disbelief . The characters all seemed interesting . The humor is good . The special effects are also very good , much better than several other new movies ( read : Pirates of the Caribbean , Terminator 3 ) . The film isn't bad , it just isn't terribly memorable , either , but it does provide reasonable entertainment for the duration , if you can stand the stuff that doesn't work well , and , well , for fans of the novel . . . personally , I just view this as a separate entity altogether , inspired by , but not based on , Moore's work . It helps . I recommend this to any fan of action and adventure . . . as long as you aren't too upset by inaccuracies , that you have a high threshold for bad dialog , and you don't have to pay much money , if any at all ( catch it on TV , instead ) to watch it . Attention and time could also be better spent .
" Yes sir , we will proceed . . . it's just that none of the teams sent to discover redeeming qualities have been successful . "	Now , it's not really that this has absolutely nothing to offer . . . it's really more that it takes an idea with such massive promise , and not only fails to deliver , but actually ruins parts , adds and changes without doing anything , at least positive . I have not read the original by Stevenson , but I am not certain anyone working on this did , either . There's marvelous conflict in the very idea of the character , and this barely manages to realize that at all . The look of Hyde is just bad , and the design of the transformation , the concept used , seems dumb . Much is unintentionally silly ( as the other reviewer comments , this would have been good for Mystery Science Theater 3000 ) . I've seen excellent films using non-linear time-lines , but this plays around with time so much , and for so little point ( some setting up the final twist , which could have been considerably better , as with the rest of them ) . . . the plot has enough threads , with little to nothing , most notably not the main subject of the character ( I did notice that the credits said " derived from " , not " based on " , when listing the book ) , actually resolved or properly addressed . It also has too many things going , at the same time . The dialog has select moments that are noteworthy , with the rest , the very most part , being utterly preposterous . The acting is seldom commendable , save for Caine , and even he has weak instances . Effects tend to be poor . Ladd's character and what she brings to the story is worse than useless , it hurts the movie . Music is unimpressive , and portions are far too loud . Attempts at comedy are ironically the least funny bits in the film . A lot of things happen without this ever engaging or interesting the ( or at least this ) viewer . Editing and cinematography cut corners and has so little to offer , you have to wonder why they bothered to make any effort at all . This may also feature the least helpful / discreet ( in unexpected situations , at least ) servants I've ever seen , even if they do ( at times ) seem to have good intentions . I recommend this to . . . well , those people who just must watch every adaptation and / or Michael Caine feature out there . The rest of us , please remember that just because it's TV , it doesn't have to mean it's bad ; this is outdone even by productions in the same ( financial and whatnot ) class .
I wish I could claim that I liked this	On the Animatrix disc , this is the sixth short . I'm sorry to say , but this is my least favorite . I can appreciate that the animation is interesting and different . The concept is definitely deserving of attention . The voice acting is very good . However , with all the time spent on back-story , and an execution that just did not grab me ( which I am willing to grant may have more to do with personal tastes ) , this just doesn't seem that great , especially considering what the other ones are like . This just comes off as having wasted a lot of potential . The visual style is like a grotesque caricature , and it is similar to Aeon Flux . Strangely hypnotic . It is unpleasant to watch , one bit in particular , and I would say that that is intentional . This is almost nine minutes long . The story-telling utilizes a non-linear time-line , and you have to pay attention to follow it . The DVD holds a making of , seven and a half minutes , and it , along with the commentary ( not in English but with subtitles ) , are worth taking in . I recommend this to fans of The Matrix universe and / or science fiction .
Just when you thought it was safe to go back to Danish cinema . . .	Midsummer ( or Midsommer , as it is called in Danish ) . What an astoundingly unremarkable attempt at a horror flick . Danish films are very rarely any good at all , and our horror films are probably the biggest embarrassments . I decided to check this film out , as a friend of mine had it , and I could borrow it for free . I knew pretty much what the film was about , and was aware that it wasn't particularly good . When I sat down to see it , I immediately had the same gut feeling that I usually have when I ( attempt to ) watch a Danish film . This film never really got my interest , and certainly didn't keep it at any point . The plot is poor , and the way it evolved was so clichéd and predictable . In fact , the whole film was predictable and dull . The acting is bad . Nothing else to say . It is just plain bad . The characters are poorly written , even more poorly developed and paper-thin . They are stereotypical as well . The script is incredibly poor , and the shocks are cheap . The film seems overly loud , and about half of the scenes involve the characters drinking alcohol . Are we supposed to care if these people live or die ? All they do is drink . Their actions didn't seem to make sense half of the time , either . I barely payed attention to the film , but I could make out that much . I'm not entirely sure how it ends , and frankly , I don't care the least bit . One to avoid . I recommend this only to big fans of Danish films ( which would have to be Danish people who can't speak English , since everyone else prefer to watch films that involve actual talent in their production ) .
" So , who's interior decorator ? "	While the sum of this admittedly comes out to about average , it is not without aspects worth noting . I haven't seen the original classics based on the books , nor the film called the same as this . A pretty good job is done of basing the characters on the novels , from what I know of them . The three creatures / types get a fairly decent amount of screen-time as well as development each . Some of the design is interesting , though there are definitely also areas of it where they cut corners . Lighting isn't bad . The effects vary , but some are well-done , remarkably so in several cases . I'm not sure if there are multiple versions of this , but for me , it lasted about two hours and forty minutes sans commercials , so about an hour and twenty per part . There is relatively well-done suspense in this . There is a lot of cheese and corn herein , as well , but hey , they can both be found in a nutritious meal , and some insist on some of either or both in their diet . The humor certainly has its moments , and it's mostly natural , seldom forced . The script is hit and miss , and it may break a rule or more . It does a reasonable job of updating the myths and such . The plot is fine . The pacing is , as well . The acting is a mixed bag . The cinematography and editing feature some inspired bits . This is genuinely scary at times . There is moderate violence and gore , but I didn't hear any language . I recommend this to fans of horror , and those into the monsters . Just be aware of what to expect .
Just when you thought your childhood memories were safe . . .	Is Hollywood ever going to stop remaking old classics , or turning old cartoons into live-action films ? I was never a big fan of The Flintstones , but the show did have charm , and was decent children's entertainment . This doesn't , and it isn't . The film starts off with a poorly acted scene that acts as a prologue to the film itself and sets the tone nicely . That means that if you're considering watching this movie , just watch the scene preceding the credits and you can make up your mind on whether or not you want to sit through the rest of this . It acts as a fair warning to even the most overbearing parent . As soon as this scene is over , we get a live-action version of the famous and well-known intro to the TV-series which will make even the most mentally hardened die-hard fan break down in tears and yell " Please make it stop ! Oh my gosh ! " at the screen . The film ends with a live-action re-enactment of the end credits sequence of the show as well , which most likely will bring forth the same reaction . I'm not going to lie to you ; I didn't pay that much attention to the film . It might have been because I saw it once when I was a kid ( almost ten years ago ) . But , more likely , it was just because it was really dull and downright offensive to anyone who is / was a fan of the show , even slightly , or anyone who actually does demand just a little quality from a film they watch . It's so tacky and crude . Honestly , I couldn't tell you one single joke or gag from the movie , and I've just seen it . My mind , my very subconscious represses it , pushes the memory of the film away from the surface . . . and you know what ? I'm thankful for that . No one should have to see this film . No one . It might have a good effect as a torture device , but that's it . Now , to break it down just quickly for you : The plot is dull , pointless , completely predictable ( in fact , almost painfully so ) . The pacing is awful . For a movie that's only 90 minutes , it certainly felt much , much longer . The acting isn't all bad , but it certainly isn't impressive . The characters are cheap clichés and stereotypes , mere cardboard cutouts of their characters from the original TV-series . The special effects are so see-through and poorly done that you have to wonder what the heck the film-makers were thinking . . . if they were thinking at all . Maybe that's it . They slept through the whole thing , and wound up with a bunch of finished film , had it edited by a man with two broken arms and sent it off to the cinemas . I recommend this film only to children , as no adult could possibly be forgiving enough and so indifferent to quality that he or she could actually enjoy even part of this film .
Overplayed , dull and predictable	When I first heard of this film , I remember being quite unimpressed . Everything I heard about it told me that it was , at best a half-cooked , Luke-warm psychological thriller . I put off watching it for the longest time ; I only just saw it tonight . Sadly , it proved to be exactly what I had expected it to be . The basic idea is decent enough ; the idea of believing something and suddenly finding yourself doubting those beliefs . Of course , some genius decided to take that idea , put it in a psychological thriller and mix it with a horror-mystery . The result is a mish-mash that never actually becomes anything even remotely solid . The focus is all over the place . About half-way through the film , plot twists start to crop up . . . apparently to keep the film going and to distract the viewer from how pointless and nonsensical the film is . The plot never actually makes sense . The acting is overplayed , as is the direction . The characters are caricatures . There is nothing new here ; merely an unsuccessful attempt at combining two far too different movie genres . What really gets to me is that this is done by Mathieu Kassovitz . . . the man who directed The Crimson Rivers , which at the very least showed promise . This doesn't . It's just incredibly poor . One would think that he'd have improved , but he seems to be getting worse . The writing is awful . I can't recall when I've last witnessed such horrible dialog . The scenes , actions and the rest of the writing aren't exactly the epitome of good film-making , either . This movie is just as bad as they all say ; possibly worse . There is nothing interesting or worthwhile here . Everything here has been done before , and far , far better . I recommend this only to huge fans of the people involved in making it . No one else should bother .
Possibly the worst of the Shadows of the Bat series	This is the least interesting Shadows of the Bat entry that I've seen . . . now , I have yet to watch the one for Batman Forever , but given that that film was at least tolerable , I could see its entry being superior to this , if only slightly . Goldsman ( Akiva , the screen-writer for both of Schumacher's Batman movies ) offers up the explanation / excuse for the movie that if comic book characters aren't changed around some , they won't survive in the long run . Michael E . Uslan briefly sums up what each of the four films are like , which era of Batman comics , which is quite interesting . It is pointed out that Joel saw it very much as a comic , which helps explain ( also mentioned is the fact that he doesn't like it too serious ) . And he himself actually apologizes ( well , perhaps only to the people who loved Batman Forever , but were disappointed by Batman & Robin ) , which helps , I guess . John Glover doesn't say terribly much , but it isn't bad , and one of the things is somewhat amusing ( if really obvious ) . O'Donnell comes across as much smarter and grown-up than in the other special features on the DVD ( the 2-Disc Special Edition release of Batman & Robin ) . The approach to the film is described , and any fan will be able to tell right away where they went wrong ( heck , if you have a basic concept of what Batman is , as a character , you can ) . Arnold tells us what made him choose the part , helpful for those who stay up nights wondering . The working with the toy companies and such is mentioned , as is the choice of letting the costumes include the infamous nipples . I suppose you can watch this if you are interested in these movies , but I wouldn't make it a point to watch this . I recommend this to anyone in aforementioned group . . . and anyone who wants to hear Schumacher apologize ( just remember , even a DVD will eventually be worn , so limit your use of the rewind button , no matter how nice it is to listen to ) .
Watch it for the fights or don't watch it at all	Many celebrities don't know their limitations . Once , Jean-Claude Van Damme just thought he could act . This film marks the first time he believed himself to be able to direct , too . Luckily , he didn't do so again for a decade . . . with some luck , he'll either be prohibited from further attempts at the ( admittedly tough ) art of directing after his next effort , or have learned a thing or two since he made this . I'm holding out more hope for the first , to be honest . I suppose , if one were so inclined ( personally , I have no interest in liquor ) , one could play a drinking game with watching this movie . . . but there certainly are other pieces of cinematic entertainment that are easier to sit through , and which would do the job for that just as well . The plot plods along , never really holding your interest ( or even getting it in the first place ) . The pacing is among the closest to non-existent in any film I've ever seen . The acting . . . well , the less said about it , the better . The children in the first few scenes give in better performances than the actual names on the film ( and believe me , that says a lot ) . The score is nothing worth mentioning . The writing is all rather poor . There is but one reason to watch this movie . . . and it's the fight scenes . Seriously , any martial arts fan should watch this for that one reason at least once in his life-time . So many styles of professional fighting represented . If the idea of watching a tournament right out of the Tekken games appeals to you , give the last third of this film a chance . About half an hour of this movie is non-stop fighting . Once it finally gets to it , it hardly ever stops to take a breather . For any other Tekken ( well , from the third game and onward ) fans out there , the fighting style of one of my personal favorites is featured . . . Eddy . Something that especially makes the fights exciting and entertaining is the unpredictability factor . . . while , admittedly , you kind of know who the ultimate winner will be , and who his main opponent will be ( this is Hollywood-ish action , after all . . . can't break formula ) , the majority of the fights , due to the fighters only being that ( none of them are really developed as characters ( not that that's all that different from the level of back-story and development of the actual characters , but still ) ) . They're possible opponents for our lead . Few of them are made out to be definite winners or losers . Think of it as the surprise level of the first Paul W . S . Anderson film you watch . . . only , you know , good . That is the one aspect of the film that makes it watchable . Well , that and it's good for a laugh ( but there are other , less painful films to watch that provide the same ) . I recommend this only to huge fans of Jean-Claude Van Damme and martial arts .
Romeo Must Die . . . but Li gets off with a warning , if he promises to never ever make another movie again	Oh , where to start on this pitiful mess of an attempt at a martial arts action-flick ? Jet Li is expressionless and lacks charisma for the entire duration of the film . The plot is decent , but most of it seems to be written around which martial arts scenes the director ( who doesn't seem to have actually done anything worthwhile movie-wise , what a shock ) wanted in the film . The pacing is downright bad . The acting ranges , but for the most part , it's bad . The casting . . . to be brief ; Anthony Anderson has a fight scene . That's all you need to know to judge how bad it is . The caricatures , oh , sorry , characters are all stereotypes and clichés . Do we seriously need more films with African-Americans acting out the black-gangster stereotype ? I think not . The action is incredibly poor . The gun / shooting scenes are either over - or underdone , with completely unrealistic weapon physics and specs , not to mention that the guns look like what they are ; props . Honestly , they look like plastic . Nothing is done to hide this . The martial arts scenes are about as bad as they usually are in Jet Li films ; the wire-work is daft and obvious , the choreography is overdone ( making it perfectly clear that something of that very nature could never be done in real life ) and the intensity is just not there . There's a scene in which Li has to fight a woman , but it goes against his principles to hit a girl . . . so he uses another character to hit her . Ridiculous beyond belief . From what I've seen of him in movies , I'm starting to doubt if Li can actually fight without the aid of wires . The film has no memorable moments and the same amount of quotable lines . All in all , there's just really not anything in this movie that makes it worth watching . I recommend it only to fans of Jet Li . No one else should bother .
Just when you thought Chucky had reached his lowest . . .	This film is so far my least favorite of the series . . . never mind the rating , I actually like Child's Play 3 more than this . I haven't seen Seed Of Chucky yet , but I'm fairly confident it's not as bad ( or worse , if that's possible ) than this . . . honestly , it can't possibly be . I really don't think so . The plot is the most nonsensical and poorly written P . O . S . I've heard of for a very , very long time . The pacing is even worse than the third film , and , believe me , that says a lot . I think I would find it more thrilling to watch paint dry than to see this poor excuse for a Chucky film again . The acting is not as bad as it was in the third film , but it's close . The characters are the most poorly written ( so far ) in a Chucky film , and by far the most underdeveloped . None of them are really likable , so you have to just go by which actors you like or who you find attractive . Going by that , I preferred the screen time where John Ritter or Jennifer Tilly is on-screen . Unfortunately , that's not a lot of time , and I was bored for just about every remaining second of the film . The film is kept going through a series of ' twists ' which act like introducing a small amount of electricity to a dead body ; you get a slight twitching and movement , but it doesn't last long . New pointless characters are introduced on a regular basis simply to be killed off . The whole idea with Chucky's ex-girlfriend just seems dumb , not to mention the teenage couple that are our main characters constantly mistrusting each other . . . I guess it was supposed to make us laugh , but I've never really found Chucky the character to be entertaining or funny , I really just liked Chucky the maniacal serial killer because he was so interesting , cruel and creative . I don't know . . . the whole idea of the film just doesn't work . If you kind of liked the first three films , but you kept wondering how a black comedy featuring Chucky looking like a bastardized monster of Frankenstein , maybe you'll enjoy this . I recommend this to . . . um . . . well , I don't really know . If you enjoy black comedy far more than horror , and you like Chucky the character more than Chucky the killer , maybe you should give the film a chance . Just don't expect anything from it . It's not even worth it to experience the great John Ritter or ogle at the beautiful Jennifer Tilly . . . and that's coming from a big fan of Ritter and someone who's found Tilly incredibly attractive for a long time . Most people really shouldn't bother with this film .
Don't bother with this junk ; watch Tim Burton's version instead	I saw this on TV , as I thought it was Tim Burton's version , which I've seen a year ago and was going to watch again sooner or later anyway ; now I feel like watching it more than ever ; this junk doesn't do the myth justice , it's way too slow and boring . I don't know how faithful it is to the original story , but Tim Burton's version of the story is a lot more entertaining , accurate or not . I think one of the main problems is , that the main character is not the least bit likable ; he seems snobby , greedy and pretentious . Throughout the movie , he was the laughing stock of the town , and he's too stupid to notice it . I hated his character with a passion , and hoped he would be killed off by the headless horseman ; I won't reveal here if I was that lucky or not . Overall , this is just your average , bad , made-for-TV movie version of a somewhat well-known story . I know I've praised Tim Burton's Sleepy Hollow a lot in this review , but I just need to do so one more time ; this movie is nowhere near as good , scary , atmospheric or entertaining as Tim Burton's version . Go watch that instead , and avoid this junk .
This time , it's personal . . . and kinda dumb . . . and really clichéd	I caught this on a plane , as one of the in-flight movies . This was basically the one that made me feel the least amount of strong repulsion , of all the available choices , so I endured the 90 minutes , with some pretty scattered enjoyment . There are some funny things . . . the scene in the dojo isn't all bad . Mostly , the humor didn't really work , at least for me , though . Tucker seems to be growing more irritating as time goes on , and his character seems to have gotten somewhat incompetent . . . in the first film ( I haven't seen the second ) , he was a good cop , unorthodox , and not necessarily popular , but he didn't come off as inept as he did in this . I'm not sure anyone should have to be subjected to the " singing " of either lead . The action has its moments , and there is surely plenty of it . . . even though , as far as recent over-the-top fast-paced action flicks have gone in recent years , since at least the early 2000's , this isn't as ridiculously overwhelming as others . Some of the action clichés , and to a larger extent , clichés in general , are noticeably present . By the time that almost half a dozen instances of characters being endangered by the same basic thing take place in the same scene , in a matter of minutes . . . well , if you don't already dislike the movie by that point , I suppose you may forgive the film that . A previously seen character returns to the franchise , quite possibly the last one we wanted to see again . The film seems to supply as much sexual content and nudity as they could and still get away with a PG-13 rating , and most , if not all , of it is utterly gratuitous , with the only purpose being to attract heterosexual males , and young ones , at that . The plot is obvious and predictable , and sacrifices any kind of sense for the sake of action or comedy ( neither of which are all that strong , for that matter ) more often than not . The cinematography and editing break absolutely no conventions , and both have moments that are downright bad . The acting is essentially unimpressive . The film manages to waste both von Sydow and Baker Hall . The characters don't really possess any charm they might once have had . The one attempt the film makes to stir up emotion fails so miserably , it's not even funny . . . it's almost a parody of scenes like it . This may manage to offend every single race and nationality featured . I guess if you can borrow it from a friend , avoid having to pay , it'll do . I recommend this to fans of the actors , Ratner and / or the franchise .
Standard fare for Van Damme	It's written by Joe Eszterhas ( Basic Instinct ) . . . yet it's virtually entirely uneventful . It's directed by Robert Harmon ( The Hitcher , which I haven't seen but is said to be at least mildly interesting ) , yet barely holds your interest at all . It features Jean-Claude Van Damme ( a man known and loved for Karate ) yet has little to no fighting at all . The story isn't particularly involving . The plot is dull . The acting ranges , but most of it is Damme's standard . Oh yes , it is that bad . I enjoyed Ted Levine's character , but really , when you get to see that guy do his thing , how can you not ? The action is as non-existent as it is uninspired . The writing , dialog and humor is pretty dim . The characters are clichés , one-note and poorly developed . The whole romance subplot just barely works . The leads are unappealing and lack charisma . The kids are more annoying than anything else . The film is ridden with action-flick clichés . . . that and Van Damme's rather poor excuse for acting kept me laughing rather than watching in excitement . . . I was on the edge of my seat for a fair bit of the time spent watching it , but that was because I almost fell of my chair from aforementioned laughing . I had seen this film once before , a few years back . . . and I remembered it as forgettable , not really worth my time and thoroughly unimpressive . As it turns out , my memory is not all that bad . Luckily , I didn't waste too much time paying attention this time around ; I recognized most from the last time I watched . I guess it had etched itself on my mind , in order to keep me from forgetting how drab the film is . All in all , I suppose it's OK for big fans of Van Damme , just remember that this is not one of those of his films ( meaning , the vast majority of them ) where he kicks his way through all obstacles . Look elsewhere for that . I recommend this only to fans of Van Damme , as everyone else just won't see the point to it ( as I did on this second viewing , after not being a fan of Damme's anymore ) .
Sneaks onto the movie scene , misses the mark somewhat , and may die as fast as a target in one of the games	There are going to be two distinct groups that this will / may appeal to ; the fans of the video-game , and your average action fan ( or fans of average action ) . I fit into both . However , the problem is that those in the first group may very well find this as ultimately unsatisfying as I did ( which is not to say I was not entertained , or regret my viewing , on the opening night , here in Denmark ) , and that those in the second , honestly , could do an awful lot better . I've heard this described as Bourne light , and those who are familiar with both characters , even superficially , will know how wrong that is . As far as the action fans go , the action just doesn't work as well as other efforts ( though there are some fairly cool moments in there ) , and not that much of it is particularly memorable , though most of it seems to try , and want , to be . It's shot fine , though there is occasional confusion , and in at least one sequence , it was downright difficult to tell what was happening . The physical fights are somewhat ineffective , with so-so choreography and very obviously overdone sounds ( I would guess they were trying to make it " bigger " , which makes sense to do , but the execution , pardon the pun , needed serious work ) . One thing , that really hits any viewer of this film , is just how little coverage there is of the background . The trailer describes what may be the intended background for the film . . . but if you haven't seen that , you might not know much of it , because hardly any of it is present in the film . Guys , a hint ; if you're going on " people know it from the video game " , you sorta have to actually use the same background . Apart from the bar-code , the baldness and the . . . ( wait , that's actually it ) , the background really isn't that of the games . That is acceptable ( if it does rob the character of his most interesting qualities ) , my complaint goes to the lack of detail and explanation in the film . There's a difference between mystery and simply not sharing information . Now , to those who are fans of the games , some of which may very well have desired a movie for close to a decade ( be careful what you wish for ) . On the plus side , they did get some stuff right . They did not ruin the look by trying to give 47 hair , and the bar-coded baldy actually somehow fits in the film's universe , not seeming out of place . He wears his trademark suit . He does seem to prefer his good old Silverballers , and the ever-recognizable symbol that's been with the games from the beginning ( which , together with the suit , may be one of the things to change the least , through the four games ) . There're a reasonable number of nods to the games , and those of us who've been fans for years will recognize many things . Unfortunately , there is also bad . . . perhaps the biggest issue being Nika . From the first time I watched the trailer , I knew about her being in the film , and I had the feeling right away that it was . . . not good . Her inclusion makes this even more Bourne light , and , frankly , she doesn't do a thing in the entire film . She was added to give the young males something to look at , and to an extent , add emotion to forty-seven ( but really more the first ) . I would have had no problem if she had been added for a meaningful purpose , but when she spends most of her time setting up the title character's " I'm such a bad-ass " ( which he is , but we don't need it shoved down our throats ) lines , and / or walking around with little to no clothing on . . . it just doesn't belong here . It could be argued that they took the name , the popular title , and turned it into mindless action . The character's personality . . . he talks too much , even to the point of having one-liners . I would have liked more facial expression and body language . His awkwardness towards women is straight out of the games , but it did not work anywhere near as well as it did there , and it's not used well , if at all , here . The casting of Olyphant has both good and bad to it . He fits , more or less , the physical ( I am not kidding you , I might not have watched this at all , had Diesel actually starred . . . my dislike of him notwithstanding , he is not 47 ! He's a big muscular guy ) type , and his eyes and some mannerisms / movements do fit , somewhat . But I don't know if Tim has the range , or if he understands the character . Hit-man is perfectly capable of talking , but he only really does it when it's necessary . The film didn't have enough of the subtlety ( though it did have some , and it was pretty good ) found in the games , focusing far more on him killing groups of people , guns blazing , which , while possible in the games , is something that is a lot less beneficial and encouraged , throughout them . The pacing seems in a hurry , hence the lack of these sequences . There is some build-up , however , and I would say that at least one thing does pay off . . . however , almost all of it , well , just doesn't . The plot is rather messy and self-contradictory , considering how simple it is . The acting is decent . Ulrich Thomsen has done better . Scott has or uses an accent that , to me , was quite distracting . Robert Knepper isn't too bad . Cusick , whom I do like , doesn't look , sound , or in any other way , really fit the character he plays , not even the nationality . The dialog is not really memorable , and seldom very good . The tone can be crude , unnecessarily . One could have hoped for a more sophisticated , stylish ( when this attempts to be that , which fortunately is not often , it fails ) approach , more in line with the games . All in all , don't expect the greatness of the games , but you could do worse . I recommend this to fans of action-flicks ( not really fans of the games ) .
The worst in the series ?	Yes , of all six . At this point , nothing ( or infinitely , insignificantly little ) remains " real " in these movies . That , in itself , doesn't have to be a problem . But we can tell . It doesn't feel right . Sin City doesn't have this problem , nor does 300 . The effects are , technically speaking , amazing , but nothing else in this really goes beyond being " decent " . The romance lacks credibility ( and yes , I am aware that some of it was left on the cutting room floor , but we're going by the finished product , not the intent ) . The overall story . . . well , Lucas gives many fans something they may have wanted in spite of there being absolutely no basis for it , and sacrifices it making sense in doing so . This tries too hard to tie in with the OT ( which , I should point out so that no one mistakes me for someone who grew up with it , I didn't attentively view until Episode I was out ) . The dialog gets to be downright painful , with one even contradicting something in the first ( written by the same guy , a few years earlier . . . ! ) . The plot isn't that engaging , and things that ought to be in the next are here ( and vice versa ) . The pacing is reasonable . The light-saber bits could be considerably better ( they are particularly unimpressive compared to Phantom Menace ) , and at times , it's the tamest it's been since Return , although it isn't all bad . The action in general , mostly , it's just overdone , and goes on for too long . There are cool ideas and concepts , but their lackluster execution results in them merely being unable to be used soon by more talented film-makers . The title could be that of a 50's schlocky sci-fi flick . The battles do have notable , interesting aspects . . . in the editing and cinematography , mainly . The actors have put in solid performances elsewhere , or , at least , less embarrassing ones . Characters could stand improvement , and , you know , consistency . The score is still good . The DVD holds over a dozen ( not all more than minutes long ) featurettes , deleted scenes , trailers , TV-spots and a commentary . I recommend this exclusively to those who must watch all of Star Wars .
I guess I might have enjoyed it more if I was thirteen . . .	This is ( obviously ) a kids movie , though it was a bit entertaining , if you just get over the childish humor and a few ridiculous scenes . I liked Michael Biehn as a villain , that was pretty good . His presence pretty much saved the movie for me . All in all , I guess it's not too bad , if you're either a kid , or you're willing to to watch a childhood fantasy made into a movie . For kids , I'd rate it . For everyone else , I rated it .
Indecent Proposal makes for a decent comedy . . . go figure	Elvises . . . so many Elvises . You know when you're looking for some quality films to add to your collection at the local video-store , you can't seem to find any good films , or even any you've heard about , and you stray over to the bargain bin , looking for some cheap film so you don't have to go home empty-handed . That was what happened with this film , for me , at least , and I fear it will happen for many other people . There's no good way to warn people about the dangers of such a casual way of buying films , so I just hope people will look past the three familiar faces on the cover and smell the stench of this turd of a film . The plot is an obvious rip-off of Indecent Proposal ( the book , not the movie . . . I know this came out first ) , and it's quite poorly written , for coming from so good source material . It's basically a cat-and-mouse game with Caan trying to keep Cage away from Parker , trick her into staying with him , moving back and forth whilst he has people slowing Cage down . The acting is overdone and uninspired . Cage yells and goes off in fits of rage every few minutes , Parker basically just stands by and looks pretty while going back and forth between the two men ( emotionally , not literally ) , and Caan just does his gangster-shtick . The dialog is vapid . The chemistry is close to non-existent . The many Elvises in the film , as well as the two main settings , Las Vegas and Hawaii just shows how hard the director tries to sell this film . He can't think up good scenes or interesting characters , so he just throws in stuff he figures everybody likes . Everyone likes Elvis , right ? Yeah . . . when there's one of him , and he can actually sing . Every song by him on the film's score is sung by other people ( probably because they didn't want the hassle of buying the rights to use his vocals along with his lyrics ) . In short ; the film just isn't funny . It tries way too hard , and winds up looking like some under-produced unknown little 80's comedy with either actors who can only do one character or actors who have never worked , neither before nor later . Caan , Cage and Parker deserve better . I just wish they would have realized how awful it was going to turn out and not signed on to do the film . Instead , I stand here with about 90 minutes of my life almost completely wasted . . . and I urge you to take heed , follow my warning . . . don't make the same mistake I did . Don't watch this movie , don't buy it , or any other's you don't know anything about , no matter how cheap they are . You were warned . I recommend this film to insipid people who don't understand subtlety in humor ( which this film has none of ) . Everyone else . . . go see Indecent Proposal instead . Or not . Just don't watch this one .
From the director of the enjoyable Cruel Intentions comes a train-wreck of a road movie	What's more appealing than three attractive women in their mid to late twenties sleeping around with just about everyone they meet ? How about throwing in a road trip and a nauseating amount of ' true lover conquers all ' ? What could possibly be better ? Apparently , everything from a root canal to listening to Fran Drescher . This film is a mess . It's a chick flick romantic comedy with a road trip and loads of sex and crude humor . Who thought of combining all of that ? A producer , probably , or possibly a group of them . Yes , they're far more dangerous when they flock . What really irks me is that this was directed by Roger Kumble , the man behind Cruel Intentions , a film I thoroughly enjoyed and found funny , entertaining and clever . This has none of those properties ( possibly because he didn't write this one ) , and just falls flat in just about every category . It fails on every level . Really , with all the poor , often exaggerated humor , the out-of-place feel of everything in the film and the sheer pointlessness of the whole production , what you're left with is ( uh , are ) three attractive leading ladies . The plot is derivative and dull . The pacing is awful . The whole film drags by and when it's finally over , you're going to be either asleep or bored out of your mind . The acting is fine , but no one really ' shines ' . The characters are clichéd and stereotypes . I could barely tell the three main characters apart ( well , apart from their looks , naturally ) , since their personalities ( or lack thereof ) were so similar . The humor is crude and tries too hard to be provocative and offensive to the point where it completely forgets to be funny . The film just doesn't really entertain on any level , but I suppose male teenagers will get a kick out of the sex appeal of the film . If you do decide to watch it , and you're into crude humor ( even slightly ) and not too easily offended , make sure to pick up a European version , and make sure it includes ' the penis song ' . I must admit , I did find that funny , even though it was so exaggerated and overplayed that it almost lost any potential to be even slightly entertaining . I recommend this to men who are attracted to at least one of the three leads and don't care too much if all they're getting out of the film is plenty of opportunity to glare at the three lovely ladies . I won't pretend I wasn't in this group when I sat down to watch it , but I will say that I'll most likely look for at least a tiny bit more substance next time .
Turned out to be better than it seemed at first	This was on TV when there was nothing else , so I gave it a chance . It's one of those moral-containing family films , where a special lesson is learned by the end . The message is fairly good . The plot isn't bad , it's mostly wrapped up . This can be pretty predictable , and unless you've never seen one of these before , it's not likely to particularly surprise you . The " comedy " consists of gags and jokes that just aren't really funny , and some lack proper set-up . They are usually childish , but never crude or gross . The acting isn't terribly impressive . Editing and cinematography are fine , except for a sequence that looks like they ran out of money and shot it with a hand-held camera , and a use of slow-motion near the conclusion that I'm not sure I'd call the most fortunate or the one that turned out the best in the history of motion pictures . This has a running time of around an hour and a half . The music was the high point for me , at least partially consisting of rap , and the lyrics are " clean " ( and extremely obviously written for exactly where they were used , very little room for interpretation ) . In fact , there's nothing in this that renders it impossible to watch for any age , so anyone can sit down with it , which is clearly what they went for . It's got a little basketball action , nicely captured and exciting , if you're into it . If you can't stand the sport , this is not for you , nor was it intended to be . I recommend this to any person or group who finds this appealing . There are stronger efforts out there , however .
As a slasher , it's average , but as a Halloween movie , it's embarrassing	After watching H20 , I had reasonable expectations for this sequel . I thought the Halloween franchise could be saved . I was terribly wrong . This is so incredibly bad , that if this doesn't kill the franchise , apparently , nothing will . In the very first scene , they eliminate one of the main reasons several of the previous installments in the series were good . I won't reveal which , as I won't ruin this for anyone who wants to see this . The movie goes on , constantly portraying things that Michael Myers shouldn't / wouldn't do , things that attack the legend of the first film . The worst thing this movie does wrong , though , is that none of the main characters are the least bit likable . I actually cheered during several of the murders , as I actually preferred the psychotic Michael to the unbelievably stupid stereotypes that all of the main characters are . Don't watch this unless you have really low expectations for this Halloween movie , or if you have never seen any of the previous Halloweens and you're just looking for a mindless slasher , to kill 90 minutes ( no pun intended ) . As a slasher , it's barely passable , and , as such , average .
The same Damme thing	First of all , I'd like to apologize for the very bad pun I put in the one line summary , but it's late , and I swear , it sounded much better in my head . However , it is fairly accurate ; the film is exactly like every other movie Van Damme has done . The lame one-liners , the cliché dialog , the stereotype characters , the decent-at-best action . . . I was honestly barely paying attention to this film , partly because I had seen it before , once , and couldn't remember if it was good or not ( believe me , had I remembered it , I never would have watched it ) , but mainly because every time I did pay attention I almost instantly wound up mocking and laughing at what went on on-screen . It's just so typical and by-the-numbers that it's ridiculous . Every single action scene involved stuff that we've seen before ( and more than enough of ) , every line of dialog tried to be clever but wound up being embarrassing , each of the " cool " villains were just too damn stereotypical and the whole thing was so preposterous and predictable that it was laughable rather than anything else . The plot is predictable and poorly paced . It's about . . . uh , Van Damme # 1 gets killed , Van Damme # 2 finds out # 1 existed , some tame unrealistic fighting ensues , Van Damme breaks bones with the ease that only he and Steven Seagal can manage . . . eh , something else happens . . . like I said , I wasn't really paying very much attention to it . The one good thing I can say about this , and a lot of people will probably crucify me for saying this , but I have to say it ; Natasha Henstridge looks hot as hell in this film , and if you are ever forced to watch this for whatever reason , or you find yourself being half bored by the film , stay awake for the sole reason of seeing her getting her freak on . . . the one bad thing about is that Damme is there too , but that is tolerable to see Natasha like that . If you're having trouble sitting through it , think of Natasha , look forward to the scene , or , even better , do what I did ; laugh . Laugh at every single cliché-like and stereotypical thing that happens in the movie . That'll take you through it . What else is there to say . . . cinematography is uninspired , dialog is badly written , action is tiresome and not particularly well-choreographed , acting is decent , characters are cliché-like and stereotypical with not one shred of personality or development . What can I say ; a decent at best typical Van Damme movie . I recommend it to fans of Jean-Claude Van Damme and anyone who are willing to sit through about 100 minutes of bad action flick to see Natasha Henstridge naked .
Attack of the German male models , or Jean Claude Van Damme Vs the pirates of the 21st century	This movie is basically a typical , campy , B-grade action flick , from start to finish . Most of the " pirates " not only look as I describe in the summary , but sadly possess the same acting abilities as such . The action ( which does perhaps have its moments , and there certainly is plenty of it ) is relatively violent , but apart from that , nothing above the usual for 80's movies of this kind . It would undeniably pose something of a daunting task to locate a mere second ( ! ) in this that isn't infinitely and instantly ( not to mention incredibly ) MST3K-worthy , and that tends to be the greatest source of entertainment when I watch it . What gives this what merit it does have ( which really isn't an overwhelming amount ) is that it actually features some pretty decent atmosphere , as others have said , partially due to the stretches that do not have any dialog . The story isn't terribly told , and it isn't the worst piece of cyberpunk out there . This goes somewhat fast , but it could also be attributed to it not even being 90 minutes long ( seemed closer to 75 without credits ) , though there are some films of similar running time which are considerably more difficult to sit through . I guess this is sort of a cult feature ( and it did somehow beget two sequels ) , and as such , some people will love it , but most people probably won't . I recommend this to big fans of gloomy , dystopian future works . . . if you're not one , you may find this rather uninteresting .
Cheesy fun and special effects-heavy deaths galore	There are two distinct kinds of horror movies ; the serious ones , and the not-so-serious ones . Occasionally , a horror film tries to be serious but winds up being . . . less than serious . Then there are the ones that set out to be cheesy from the start . . . this is one of those movies . From the very beginning you can tell that this movie was merely made to entertain horror movie fans who like their shocks with a side of humor . There's more gore and deaths in this in just the first five and last twenty minutes ( and quite a few in-between , as well ) than several other huge gore-fests of horror movies put together . Even better , you get to see no less than three major horror icons in the film . I'm honestly not a huge fan of this kind of movie , but I have to say I found it highly entertaining . . . if you're in the right mood for it , it may " work " for you ( it definitely never strives to be something more or different than what it reveals that it is from the very beginning ) . The plot is pretty tame , but it allows for plenty of gore and death ( and includes one well-known possible consequence of wishing for stuff from a genie ) . The acting is decidedly poor , either over - or underdone . The dialog ranges , but mostly it's very bad . That works to the film's advantage , so it's no big deal . The pacing really doesn't leave much room for complaining , the film doesn't really let up for a second ( it is , of course , quite uneven . . . Kurtzman is clearly not a director ) . The film has a short running time and I found it to possess surprisingly high entertainment value , as well . The special effects are great . No way around it . The deaths and gore effects are original and interesting , not to mention amazingly pulled off . Fairly low budget , but it was spent right . . . mostly on effects , I'd wager . I recommend this to any fan of horror , particularly cheesy horror . If you're into it , you'll love this . Trust me . And be careful what you wish for .
It does tend to be entertaining	Some films are victims of circumstance . It could be argued that this was dealt a bad hand on account of its ( obviously unforeseen ) timing ; however , that argument may be void and null . I'm not so sure it'd have fared all that well , regardless . . . even if it hadn't coincided with the tragic real-life event ( this is not the appropriate forum to discuss whether or not it could have been prevented ) , or subsequently undergone changes . It's just not that strong , overall . It starts out pretty well , but the way it continues . . . the movie and the people working on it don't seem to realize ( or if it does , no readily apparent measures to correct this were taken ) that the merciless berating ( whether or not it's true ) of Colombia gets really old , very fast ; rather , it continues throughout , and whatever point may have once been present disappears in all the repetition ( how many times do the words " kidnapping " and " drugs " have to be mentioned in just one feature in connection to a single geographical location ? ) . The plot starts out as more or less usual revenge-flick stuff , and had it stayed there , this would be fine . But it tries to judge and moralize , and it winds up with too many things going on , too many pointed fingers , in various directions , and apart from not fitting with the tone of the flick , and worse than that , it just gets messy and unfocused . The acting is fine . Both John's do their thing some , but they have very little to do , other than advance the story . Cinematography and editing are decent , nothing special , and they do manage to render unclear one or two parts of this that'd be intense and fun if only the viewer could determine exactly what was happening . The action isn't bad . . . this can be quite exciting , and that's probably its greatest asset . Arnold dishes out some , and if he is perhaps not as . . . liberated as in earlier efforts , he does fight dirty some ( I've decided to nickname him " Mike " from now on ) . Pacing is OK . I recommend this to fans of Arnie , and the genre in general , but I wouldn't suggest a purchase , or maybe even rental . . . but if you can borrow it from a friend , or it's on TV and you've got to watch some stuff blow up and such , this'll scratch the itch ( if not as well as other pieces could ) .
Mad Max meets Fortress	When I first sat down , to see this movie , I wasn't expecting much ; In fact , I was preparing myself mentally for a total flop . . . but it really took me by surprise . It's actually quite interesting , and has some good action sequences . The plot is pretty interesting , and moves along very nicely , quickly moving on , constantly developing . The acting was convincing enough , there wasn't really any scenes that were terrible , even though a lot of the scenes and lines were very corny ; it fit perfectly in with the movie , and as such wasn't out of place . It's pretty much a B-movie , but if you like ( or just enjoy mildly ) B-movies , you'll probably be at least reasonably entertained by it . It's reminiscent of movies like Fortress , but just a little better in that it's very unpredictable ; no matter what you think is gonna happen , you'll be surprised again and again by what happens . It's pretty interesting all the way through , it has some good , 80's style action , corny B-movie lines , a B-movie feel throughout the movie . . . so , if you can watch it for free , either borrow it from a friend , or watch it on TV . . . if not , only watch it if you're into movies like Fortress .
Water-borne terror	All I knew about this going in was what I'd heard years back about the , as described in Crazy Credits , " infamous opening " ( which is , indeed , well-done ) . It turned out that the cast also mostly consists of people I have not been exposed to elsewhere , with Byrne , Harrington and the ER woman being the only I had watched at least some other things of , mentioned in order of most to least amount of such . It is quite enjoyable , and I have gotten the impression that this is widely disliked , and I'm not sure it truly deserves so . There are definitely silly moments , and the end , while not bad , could have been both more built up and satisfying beyond what it was . A time or two , the music really doesn't agree with the screen . The acting could be stronger . But it's entertaining . The horror can be rather effective , and as has been pointed out before , this can be very atmospheric ( and darn creepy ) . While there are violent and gory parts ( literally ) , it doesn't overwhelm you with either . The shocks tend to be pretty well-done . There are cool bits herein , the adventure was fairly good , and that's from someone who isn't inclined to care for that . The story is reasonable . More development could have been put in the movie itself , but for what it's worth , it's a fun 90 minutes . Don't expect too much depth and you can find this worth a viewing . In addition to what I've already mentioned , there is a little nudity , as well as language . I recommend this to fans of horror / thriller and the people who made the film .
He never did take any pictures	I guess I get it . The first introduced the one-man war-machine , it was fairly believable as well as genuinely good , and the door wasn't closed on it . . . so a sequel was perhaps inevitable . Never mind the fact that it not just didn't need a follow-up , but almost certainly shouldn't get any . Hollywood overruled sense in favor of profit . Not the only time it's happened , and won't be the last . Heck , bad things don't have to come of that , anyway . It does , here , though . Why did the Russian guy sound considerably more like a German person ? What possessed them to put Napier in the role that they did ? Has he been that unimpressive of a screen presence since he appeared on TOS ? On second thought , don't answer that . The plot isn't terrible . Neither is this flick as a whole , really . It's fine , and can be fun , it's just pretty obvious , and , at times , predictable . The action is cool , relatively exciting and well set up , and has memorable moments to it . There definitely is plenty of it . The acting is reasonable . There is also a message in this . The language is much milder and less frequent than in First Blood . The DVD holds a photo gallery , a trailer and a dozen or so featurettes , usually mere minutes in length , the editing of which , it's not poor , if they end abruptly ( and redefine the term " reused footage " ) . I recommend this to fans of the people involved in making it , in particular Stallone and Cameron ( you can tell that he worked on the script , some ) , and those who found the battles the best part of the predecessor and / or wanted a movie with a greater amount of such ( the guerrilla aspect of this can be kinda awesome ) .
Funny early in the movie , then slopes downward in hilarity factor	I don't know ; maybe I'm just not into Joe Dante's style ( I didn't care too much for Small Soldiers and Gremlins 2 either ) , but I just didn't like this movie very much . In the beginning , I couldn't get into the movie at all ; it seemed like we were supposed to care about this drunken lazy jerk who treats everyone else like garbage , and accept him as some sort of hero ; I just didn't buy that . I hated Dennis Quaid's character from the very beginning , honestly . Then we were introduced to Martin Short's character , who was mildly redeeming in terms of quality , and I more or less got into his character . I can't say I really payed very much attention to the film , it really didn't grab my attention . The only thing I really liked was Martin Short's character , and the only really funny bit was about 45 minutes or so into the movie , when Martin first discovers what's happened with Dennis . That was a couple of scenes I did enjoy , but after that it stopped being funny . Save for the scene in the bathroom of the restaurant / cafe a little further into the film , I didn't laugh at all . The " inside-body " camera shots were disgusting at times , and seemed to be there mainly for that purpose ( I mean , honestly , Dante could have done that some other way ) , but maybe that's just me . Most of the characters weren't likable , and far too many of them I flat-out hated , including two of the good guys ( Quaid and Ryan ) . The humor was lame , apart from the examples I mentioned earlier , and just fails to inspire any laughter at all . The film just didn't really have anything going for it , apart from the humor , and there's way too little of that in the film . The special effects were very well-done , though , for such an old movie , and the acting was also quite good . All in all , decent enough , just too little good humor and too much forced humor . I recommend this only to fans of Joe Dante's other work . Surely they'll enjoy it ( not to say that no one else will , but they'll enjoy it more than most others , I think ) .
" Eat cookie ! "	Considering the concept of this , it could perhaps have been funnier . And if the ending was not as formulaic , unsatisfying and easy to figure out / obvious , that would have been just peachy . But what you get isn't bad . Caan , Grant , Tripplehorn , Young and Viterelli shine . Anyone who would call themselves a fan of one or more of aforementioned may want to consider giving it a look or three . This definitely has memorable moments of pure gold and hilarity . The jokes and gags tend to remain within the confines of what can be called good taste , without being boring . The whole Italian / mobster thing is played well , in spite of somewhat clichéd portrayals here and there . The pacing is good . The music choices are . . . interesting , but often nice and fitting . As far as mafia comedies go , you can certainly do worse , there are ones out there where you have to wonder why even one movie was made , much less a sequel ( read : Analyze This series ) . I recommend this to all who think this sound appealing . There are scenes in this that can leave you in stitches . It's really too bad both of them are within the first half hour or so .
Not very good , but OK for this kind of a movie , I guess	Before watching this film , I had no idea there was something called " snuff films " . Apparently , snuff is porn that suddenly turns into a real-life killing , right there , in front of the camera . I don't know if these films exist for real , but I know that they are rumored to be real enough . The movie deals with these sick films , or , rather , one film in particular . A widow finds a snuff film in the safe of her dead husband , and so she hires a private investigator to find out about whether or not the killing is real . The P . I . ( Nicholas Cage ) has to see and experience the most disturbing and disgusting things during his investigation ; fetish porn , several other snuff films , etc . The film shows how he finally snaps , near the end of the film , after having experienced so much filth . This sounds good enough , and it could have been good , but the directing lacks the intensity and raw emotion that it should have , leaving the emotion that is in the film feeling forced . The plot is fairly good , but it moves along at a very bad pace . Almost the entire second half is dedicated to the P . I . flipping out after having seen too much , and it just seems like the director wanted to milk this theme for all it was worth . The acting is mostly good . The characters are , with the exception of the main characters and one or two supporting characters , badly written cliches . Though I did think the overall theme was pretty good , the execution was very bad ; they really wasted some good potential there . I recommend this only to big fans of the mystery / thriller genre , or to people who the theme appeals to .
Nice to look at , not terribly much more	Ah , time travel . . . a concept that has fascinated man-kind for many generations ( offered as evidence , the fact that Wells wrote about it , a man who died half a century before this film was made ) , led to many an interesting debate , theories , and yes , some good stories in various forms of media . Is time fluid , is it a straight line , can we truly change occurrences , and is time travel even a realistic possibility ? However , for how many good , thought-provoking , food-for-thought-serving , awe-inspiring stories there are done , there are , of course , also many that are . . . not . This isn't really bad , it's just not great , either . It looks good , no argument there , and it does manage to be exciting and entertaining some of the time . The filming and editing help show gorgeous scenery as well as add intensity to the scenes that aim for that . The pacing is reasonable , if the film seems longer than the 90 minutes that it is . Acting ranges , but isn't too bad . Not sure I realized Orlando Jones could play it so straight . The special effects are amazing , almost without exception . The production design is excellent . The film definitely creates some beautiful imagery . Direction is done by Simon Wells , H . G . ' s great-grandson , and that's about all there is about him . . . he did a few animated features , including Prince of Egypt , none of which I believe I have seen . I've neither read the original nor seen any of the other versions , so I can't say how closely the story is followed . All in all , entertaining enough , and definitely good-looking , so if that's what you're up for , hey , go for it . I recommend this to fans of the people involved and those who enjoy looking at visually appealing imagery .
Informational enough	Featuring brief interview clips with about half of the main cast ( keeping in mind that the movie had a rather packed main cast ) , clips from all three movies and more or less every interviewee ( including Robert Rodriguez , himself ) ' s opinion on what the movie is , this is a fair behind the scenes piece . Robert explains how Tarantino pointed out how Rodriguez was basically making a tribute to Sergio Leone's Dollars Trilogy , and suggested the clever and fitting title , Once Upon a Time in Mexico , and how the movie then came to be from that , years after the conversation was had . The various actors speaking about what they did as far as stunts go and going into detail about their character ( though no one - the audience included - apart from perhaps Rodriguez himself , seems terribly certain who the Bad and the Ugly are . . . as this is quite clearly The Good , The Bad and The Ugly , the third and epic movie in Sergio's trilogy ) . It was interesting enough to hear , and the pacing isn't too bad . I would have liked to hear from Danny Trejo , and maybe Mickey Rourke , too , but knowing Rodriguez ' shooting habits , they probably quite simply weren't there when the interviews were done . I recommend this to any fan of the actors , the movie , and Rodriguez .
If you had trouble taking the first one seriously . . .	Entirely abandoning the little grittiness and atmosphere the first one did have , this embraces the approved-for-kids tone fully . Personality and threat , and thus engagement and excitement , are abandoned in favor of jokes intended for youthful offspring , and not even all being good ones , properly set up ones , or remotely original ones , at that . " Family films " might have less of a bad name if they genuinely tried to offer something , instead of just throw the lowest common denominator at the audience , hoping that they're either of the age where they find it funny without applying any criticism , or the parents of such , paying for the theater ticket regardless of quality . It is possible to create truly good ones , and ones that are still appreciated by the viewer . The real The NeverEnding Story ( of ' 84 , I do not acknowledge the others ) is a marvelous example . Wouldn't the children want proper adventure ? Perhaps even be challenged , at least a little ? Would fairy tales have the appeal they did if there were no consequences to people's actions in them ? The plot is far-fetched and squeals sequel ( it would scream it if it could , but the puns have gagged it ) . The pacing is uneven . The ending is unsatisfying . The acting is overdone , possibly intentionally . A new main character is introduced , allowing for more of the intolerable " shock at seeing something unbelievable " reaction shots , in case you didn't get enough of that in the one that precedes this , or the countless other movies that have such . The martial arts do have some nice choreography . The effects vary . The DVD holds a wide-screen and full-screen version of this , a theatrical trailer , as well as a reasonable mini-game , called Pick That Flick , where you , from a single frame , have to pinpoint which of the ten titles it is . I recommend this to fans of the Turtles , particularly younger ones , or those who of a mindset that fits with that group , it being at whom this was aimed .
Slightly above average , good enough to watch if you're into the genre	First of all , lets get one thing straight : Christopher Lambert makes B-movies . I've never seen him in anything that wasn't a B-movie , and as far as I know , he hasn't done one single non-B-movie for his entire career . This particular B-movie , however , is more interesting and entertaining than that of the typical B-movie ; the story revolves around a few people in the not-too-distant future ( the year 2017 , if I remember correctly ) who are in a futuristic gigantic prison , which is said to be impossible to break out of . So , naturally they try to break out . The plot is OK , it moves along at a pretty good pace , never really loses your interest or bores you . The acting is all bad , but what do you expect from a B-movie ? It has plenty of action to keep you distracted from the horrid acting , so it probably won't bother that many people . The characters are all cliches , but , again , what do you expect ? The action and sci-fi parts of the film are reasonably entertaining , and pretty good for a B-movie . The film depicts a gloomy futuristic fascist world , but that's nothing that hasn't been seen many times before . All in all , a pretty typical B-movie , just a notch higher in quality than most others . I recommend it to fans of action / sci-fi B-movies and / or Christopher Lambert .
Fine reimagining of a classic	I'm usually up for seeing films that use A Christmas Carol as their source material , in particular the ones that go for a different interpretation of it ( the BlackAdder version takes the cake , I'd have to say ) . Thus , when this aired , it wasn't a hard sell . It's pretty much worth it , if the tone that they set isn't maintained entirely ( though almost ) throughout , and it does contain at least its share , possibly more than , of sap . The acting is usually good , the children in this are by far worse than the grown-ups in it , but that is usually the case . The production value is reasonable , with some nice effects . The script plays around with the original story and characters the appropriate amount . The humor is probably the best thing about this , because in the positive end of the spectrum , there are great jokes and gags , including one or two memorable and even quote-deserving ones . There are , however , also times where they try far too hard , where it's juvenile , that it is downright stupid and / or where they fall flat . There is dark comedy herein , albeit relatively mild . Little tip ? If you watch through the opening credits to this and find what occurs to be harsh and not funny , you're not likely to be in the target audience . I recommend this to those who can stand the holiday being taken a tad less seriously ( for a stronger " anti " movie , look elsewhere ) .
Sufficiently entertaining , but not particularly good	Let me start off by making one thing perfectly clear ; I dislike Jet Li . No ; I hate Jet Li . He's everything that's wrong with new Hollywood martial arts movies . Has he ever done a movie without wire-work ? Anyone who even thinks they know the first thing about martial arts movies know of Bruce Lee . He never did wire-work ( unless I have been grossly misinformed ) . And he was , and still is , one of the biggest names in the genre of martial arts movies . Anyway ; the one reason I sat down to see this movie was because the advertisements ( I saw it on TV ; didn't have to pay for it , thank god ) all claimed that it was directed by a man who I have immense respect and praise for , especially when it comes to action : Luc Besson . Then , the movie starts , I see how painfully bland the direction is , and I go to this site to find out that it's only written by Besson . However , I decided to see it to the end , as the trivia section said that there was little to no wire-work in the movie . For you people who like Jet Li or have no special relationship to him ( i . e . you don't hate him like I do ) , don't worry ; I've decided to direct my anger , no , loathing , towards the network responsible for the false advertising , rather than at Li or the movie . So , in this review I will try to keep the hating to a minimum . Really . I will . The plot is poorly written and entirely predictable . It's badly paced and dull , as well . The acting is not particularly good , not even from Bridget Fonda , who normally turns in a pretty good performance . The characters are somewhat credible , but they're poorly written and mostly just one-dimensional clichés . The bad guy is an exceptional example of this . The dialog is decent at times , but at other times , it's painfully badly written . . . a preview : [ on the phone ] " She got away ? She got away . . . how could she get away ? " . . . OK , maybe it's not the dialog itself as how poorly delivered the lines are . The humor is lame and obviously trying hard to copy the humor of Jackie Chan movies , with the whole ' different cultures ' thing . . . of course , it fails miserably , mainly due to Li's lack of charisma and charm . The martial arts are good . . . about the only good thing in this movie , actually . The fights are intense , exciting and well-choreographed . Not the best I've seen , but pretty good . All in all , a decent martial arts flick , but only good for a single watch and only if you're really bored , or a big fan of Jet Li . Otherwise , avoid . I recommend this to fans of martial arts movies , Jet Li and action films in general . Just don't expect too much .
A reasonably funny " black " comedy	I haven't seen too many of these " black " comedies , only this and The Wash , but I guess it's somewhat good . The Wash was definitely better , but this is pretty much the same style , so if you like one , you probably will like the other . If the choice is between this and The Wash , I'd choose the latter . But that isn't to say that this is bad . It just isn't as good as it could've been . The plot is something a lot of guys will recognize , the hunt for a booty call . This is sort of a " what if " scenario , dealing with the question : " What if you had to go through a lot of ridiculous trials to get the booty ? " And some of the trials are truly ridiculous . But far-out isn't the same as bad ; a lot of the humor is good , as long as you can take some rough , gross & extreme humor . There are a lot of semi-nude scenes , and sex scenes , but never any direct nudity . I don't know if this is to open it up to more audiences ; I guess there are people who don't care about sexual humor but can't stand to see some nudity . If you've seen The Wash , or something similar , and you liked it , maybe you should check this out . Just keep your expectations reasonably low , so you don't get disappointed .
The idea	This is an ultra-short ( it's only five minutes ) featurette , one of seven , on the DVD of Team America : World Police , obviously about that film . It goes into the concept behind it , and reveals some about South Park : Bigger , Longer and Uncut , and the initial thought they had on what to do with the puppets , provided that wasn't a joke . Yes , all that in roughly the time it takes a microwave oven to cook you dinner . The pacing is quite adequate . It's concise without being curt , though it is , of course , limited how much detail you can put in it , being no longer than it is . This consists entirely of Matt and Trey talking , from at least two separate locations , intercut with clips of the two movies . They have fun stuff to say , and at least one rant is heard . There is a little language , and it is relatively strong , albeit considering the duo of speakers , it's enormously underwhelming . I recommend this to anyone who liked TA , and / or want to know more about it , and I could imagine this also appeals to those who have rather little time in their day .
Good music , and one or two good scenes . . . but most of all , a mess	A buddy comedy with action , a mismatched couple of in-laws , loose ends and a general lack of sense . I can't claim that I had high expectations for this . . . but I gave it a chance , and I wanted to like it , I really did . Michael Douglas is good , as always . He delivers , action , acting and comedy . The only real problem is , apart from the first-mentioned quality , no one else delivers in this film . Brooks is usually good . . . at least as far as acting goes , and I could have sworn he had me laughing in at least one of his roles . . . maybe not film-wise , but his guest-roles on The Simpsons were hilarity itself . Reynolds has limited talent , and he's unfortunately cast , in that he isn't playing the typical womanizing teen-ish guy that we've grown used to him being . I haven't seen enough of Sloane to rate her performance according to how well she typically is , or compare her role to what she usually portrays . Tunney isn't really bad , she just has too little to do , and a character that is fairly uneven . She is a tool to bring about certain circumstances throughout , and that's too bad , because she does have some talent . One of the problems is that it's quite simply not very easy to accept these characters as people . . . they're too extreme , caricatures of perceptions of people . The ex-wife , for example , is stitched together of all the bad and " far out " qualities one could think of . One would hope that fairly few people in the world are quite that bizarre . The seemingly endless sub-plots are another mistake . . . for a film that lasts just over an hour and a half , there's story enough for a saga . Shakespeare could hardly have thought up more story for just one production . And they seem to just show up at random . . . as if the writer didn't want to deal with just one story or one pile of complications , so he had to think up more , and just kept adding until he had enough to make a film out of . The material just doesn't work well . We've seen the " odd couple " before , the idea of putting two people who have little in common isn't new . . . and it really isn't put to terribly good use here . The spy stuff and the action aren't bad . . . though the tension did seem tame at times , and the threat of the bad guys , the sense of danger just . . . isn't really there . Douglas makes a fine spy , though I'd wager that Peter Falk made a better one ( I have yet to see the original , though I certainly intend to look for it ) . I didn't find the film particularly humorous . . . occasionally entertaining , but never really funny . The music was almost all good , though . And that's pretty much it . . . for those wanting spy-stuff , it'll do . And if you like your movies with a side of feel-good music , this certainly isn't the worst you could do . But for most anything else that this could offer , there are better movies out there . I rate this just above average , for the good things that it does hold . I recommend this to fans of the actors and the genre , and anyone with an hour and a half to kill who'd prefer something spy-related with music that is kind to the ears .
An OK teen comedy	This is a typical PG-13 teen comedy , with a pretty original idea ( to the best of my knowledge ) ; a blonde who wants to go to Harvard Law and become a lawyer . Elle Woods , the blonde , is considered stupid by most characters throughout the movie , but we find out that while she isn't a genius , she has some inner strength , and isn't a total dimwit . The plot is good enough , for this type of movie , but apart from the original concept , it seemed too slow and rarely very funny . The characters are believable , the acting is good , mostly , and the humor , while somewhat rare , is mostly pretty funny . There are some very entertaining court scenes near the end , which I enjoyed very much , as I'm a big fan of court dramas . The film is too slow though , and if I had seen it at the cinema , I might have fallen asleep . I found it worth sitting through for the final court scenes , though , and I'd say that they are easily the funniest thing in the movie . I'd recommend it to teens who don't have too high expectations for PG-13 rated teen comedies , and people who enjoy sexual innuendo , as the film has plenty of it .
One of the better spoof movies	As I watched Scary Movie 3 , I dreaded the thought of this one being as bad as the first two . I was very relieved when the gags started , and the room filled with laughter . This one is a lot better than most other spoof movies I've seen , and unlike the first two scary movies , actually has a plot , instead of just being an hour and a half full of gags . That's not to say that there are no gags , there are plenty , and most of them are hilarious . A few of the jokes fall flat , but most of them are great . The plot is a mix of some popular newer movies , including ; 8 Mile , The Ring , The Others , Signs , etc . The characters are also taken from those movies , which allows for some good spoofing of several of the movies as well as characters . I'd recommend this to anyone who enjoys spoof movies and has seen at least one of the films it parodies . All in all , it couldn't have done a much better job spoofing those films while bringing the plot forward . There are just a little too many jokes that fall flat or let down the audience . Not the greatest spoof movie , but up there with the best .
The making of a comic book film . . . interesting , if not memorable featurette	This is a fairly good featurette . I must admit that I did not particularly care for Guillermo del Toro's entry to the Blade franchise . . . after the admittedly flashy , fun and fast-paced first movie by Stephen Norrington , we get this cheesy flick with a strange plot . However , I did enjoy watching this behind-the-scenes feature ( of feature-length , no less ) . The entire process of making the movie is pretty well covered , each department gets credit and time ( but seldom too much of it ) is spent explaining and detailing the work of the various crew-members . The entire thing is interesting and entertaining , and the editing has moments where it's very sharp and creative . The music is cool and well-selected . . . it certainly won't disappoint those who enjoyed the music of the movie ( and possibly even that of the first , too ) . The only real fault of this is that nothing really stands out , nothing really stays in your mind long after watching this . For about an hour and a half of watching , it ought to leave you thinking more than , " That was fun . " For anyone bothered by swearing and such , this featurette has the same . . . shall we say , unrestrained nature to the language . . . as the movies do . If you stick with this to the end , you'll be treated to del Toro describing his interesting take on why vampire-myths exist , as the credits roll . This is entertaining and interesting to watch , with slow moments being few and far between , but it doesn't really feature anything that sticks in your memory . I recommend this to any fans of the movie and anyone in general interested in the creative process behind it ( though I'd advise anyone to watch the movie , if they have any intention of ever doing so , before they watch this ) .
Not the best , but an OK thriller	Having seen many thrillers , most of them being formulaic , I was somewhat excited to see this one , since it has a pretty good cast ; Stellan Skarsgård , Leelee Sobieski & Diane Lane . The plot does , admittedly have some holes , but these newer thrillers are rarely ( read : never ) perfect . All things considered , it wasn't a disappointment , as I didn't have that high expectations . The plot is OK , fairly see-through and obvious though , but it does have some twists that I ( even though I may be alone on this ) wasn't expecting . The acting isn't anything special , but at least Skarsgård and Sobieski both pull of decent performances . The characters are reasonably well-written , none of them come off as one-dimensional stereotypes , even though some of them , in all honesty , more or less are . The script is fairly well-written , though it does have its share of cliches , but most films do , anyway . All in all , a fair addition to the thriller genre , nothing that will stay in your mind for a long while after seeing it . It will , however , most likely keep your interest for the duration of the film , and keep you entertained , too . I recommend it to fans of thrillers , it would help to be a fan of at least one of the actors , and it doesn't hurt to have reasonably low standards or expectations .
Hit and miss , but some of the hits are perfect bullseye's	Allow me ( . . . you really might as well , because I'm going to whether you personally approve of it or not ) to start this off saying that what watched this as was an edited-together version of the six ( ? ) episodes that renders it a movie of not terribly much more of a run-time than 90 minutes or so . Not having enjoyed all that much of of John Cleese's work outside of the Monty Python team and their projects , I put off my viewing of this for a while . This was purchased for me on VHS , immediately following about an hour and a half of the aforementioned group mercilessly butchering routines they did perfectly fine on their Flying Circus ( yet another reason to put this off ) . I am , however , glad I did put it on . I was more amused , watching , than so much all-out laughing , but there are definitely some biting wit herein . The comedy varies , sometimes involving gross-out comedy . Some of the running gags should perhaps have been jogging at a more leisurely pace , because they kept popping up , and it wasn't always funny . The pacing is , presumably due to the chopping up of the episodes to make this about half as long , from what I can surmise , is wildly mixed , with parts speeding by , and others being slow . Not everything seems to pay off , which may again be caused of the cutting . Editing and cinematography are adequate TV quality . Acting is mostly good . There are some adult things in this , and it should not be seen by children . The writing manages to make fun of so many different countries and cultures that almost everyone can be offended , but they do hit the nail on the head with an awful lot of it , and points in this could easily be classified as satirical . I recommend this to fans of British humor and / or Cleese .
Bizarre band of criminals hold cop hostage by mistake	First off , let it be known that the reason I rented this was because of my seemingly never-ending crush on Milla Jovovich . I started watching because of her , but I kept watching because I genuinely enjoyed what I saw . The film starts out a tad slow , but it quickly picks up and never lets the viewer down again . The thought of not paying attention to it never crossed my mind past the ten minute mark or so . I hadn't expected such a good film at all , particularly because the name Bob Rafelson meant nothing to me before I saw this . I seldom have high expectations for films from directors whom I have no prior experience with unless someone tell me that they're good . The plot takes so many twists and turns that you'll have to pay attention to keep track of it . The pace picks up almost instantly . The acting is all very good . The characters are all well-cast , well-written and for the most part credible . The film is quite well-shot . In the end , what keeps you watching is the twists more than anything else . There's very little chance of connecting with any of the characters , and when all is said and done , it's hardly a life-changing film , or even one that will stay in your memory very long after watching it . Good watching for fans of the actors , not good for much else . I recommend this to fans of anyone involved in the film and / or of this kind of thriller .
Not without its charm , but hardly worth more than a single viewing	First off , I hate most sports , and for the most part strongly dislike movies that are , in one way or another , for one reason or the other , based in sports . So maybe I shouldn't really be rating this movie . . . let alone reviewing it . But here it goes , anyway . The plot is decent , as is the pacing . The story is the usual losers-turned-into-winners , and the film sticks so much to the formula that it holds absolutely no surprises . The film is based on - and revolves around - a bunch of clichés and stereotypes . The humor is mostly overdone and lame , but there are exceptions . Not many , but they exist . The acting is decent ; Jon Favreau and Keanu Reeves ( and , of course , Gene Hackman ) give pretty good performances . The characters are all paper-thin , walking , talking clichés and stereotypes . I have seen few other movies that have managed to fit in all of the major stereotypes ; featured is the black guy who's a ' gangsta ' , the weak black guy who pretends to be ' gangsta ' , the Asian guy , the annoying British ( oh , sorry , Welsh ) guy , etc . You name it , this film's got it . What it doesn't have , however , is very much to offer , though a little humor that's doesn't entirely suck is included . But apart from that , the film is pretty much a dud . Even die-hard fans of the sub-genre ( crude sports comedy ) and / or the actors in it should probably find another film to spend time on . This has very little to offer ( and nothing new at all ) and isn't particularly memorable . I recommend only to huge fans of the sub-genre and the actors .
Ang Lee manages to screw up even something as simple as a car-chase	I know that many think of Ang Lee as a very good , interesting director . . . but I don't . He makes action ( if you can even call it that , when he's directing ) look pretty , poetic . . . I'm sorry , have I been asleep and awoken in the future , where action isn't supposed to be cool , exciting and intense , like it has been since sometime in the 70's ? He can make even the most interesting and exciting scene seem boring and dull . He ruins everything by choreographing his car-chases like cars dancing ( like another reviewer points out ) and by using classical music during action ( again , I don't know if anything in this can be classified as action , since it's so dull ) . Lee screwed up Hulk by making it drag a hell of a lot and by directing poorly ( half of the acting was bad ) . He ruined what little potential Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon had , by having them dancing instead of fighting . He seriously needs to turn his attention to something other than action , or learn how to properly direct action , before the rest of the world wises up and ignores his work . No intensity , no laughs and a cringe-worthy ending make this a waste of time . Skip this one .
The first in a great series . . . but before it got to be good	Watching this is kind of like watching a drawing by Picasso from his childhood . . . or a home video shot by Stanley Kubrick . Arguably the greatest Danish series of the comedy genre , the films about The Olsen Gang have entertained countless people in many countries . . . as my father informed me , the former Eastern Germany found it delightful , as it mocked authority ( it was permitted by the censors , due to Denmark being a ( primarily ) capitalistic system ) . Actually , when they translated the films ( by dubbing , as Germany and France are two of the only countries to possess too much arrogance and pride over their language to learn any other , including English ) , they had to cut out the character of Yvonne . . . as they simply could not find a German actress to match her . That says something about the energetic and hilarious performance she brings to each of the films ( apart from the very last . . . as she had unfortunately passed away , which was one of the main reasons that it was delayed so many years . . . and was pitifully awful of a movie by most standards ) . The actors , basic plot progression , even the theme was in place , right here , from the beginning . . . it just wasn't as refined as it got to be , through the series . Much of it is just dreadful ; the humor is silly and mostly stays at the level of the common denominator ( though there are some traces of the satire and social commentary of the later films , as well as the human touch , the small details apparent in most of the films ) . The acting is incredibly overdone in most cases . . . even in that of Poul Reichchardt , a seasoned veteran within the art of acting , renowned not only for his film work , but for his many plays in The Danish Royal Theater . The plot is all over the place . . . for an 80-minute film ( most of the later films reach over 100 minutes ) , it's got more mix-ups and complications than most films of three or four hours . In spite of its almost insipid , uninspired simplicity , it's almost difficult to follow , and far harder to recall . The pace is almost constantly , insistingly off . . . as if the film doesn't know when to move , where it's going . . . or how to get there . Some scenes consist entirely of jokes , and many of these are of a comic , cartoony nature . . . the " gang " survive a major blast from explosives , to give a brief example . Anyone who's seen the film will most likely grant that the last few scenes of the film are just about impossible to take seriously . Then there are all the quips ( though , admittedly , some are somewhat funny ) at porno , and the diverse reactions towards it ( at the time , just before it was released , the issue of it was heavily debated ) . . . all in all , this film is just very much a sign of its time . It was made to appeal to the masses , and this is what Danes preferred back then . . . silly , mindless fun . It wasn't until a few films later that this series really started to become sophisticated . But that doesn't mean that this film should be forgotten ; apart from of course an excellent window into the world view of the Denmark of the late 60's , this film should be watched simply to see the roots of this grand series . Most of what people remember of all the good films of the franchise starts here . . . it may not be as refined or well-executed as it got to be , but it's still there . The walk of the gang , Yvonne's rants , Egon's impassioned speech to Benny and Kjeld , the very first heist of the film which is always destined to go wrong ( one might add that the visual of the three , as we first see them , might have been better saved for a later film , or at least a later moment in this one , as it would have a more humorous effect , once the audience were used to the sight of the three as they usually look ) . . . it started here . It has been said that the most important step of the journey is the first . . . and while this is arguably ( among ) the least memorable or entertaining of the steps that is the journey of this series , it is still that vitally important first one . Without this , the world would never have known The Olsen Gang . For that alone , it has my respect . Starting with the next movie , there are changes made . The series heads towards grandeur . . . slowly , perhaps , but it makes it . I recommend this film to any fan of Danish cinema and The Olsen Gang . If you don't know any of the other films of the series ( this wasn't the first I saw ; this wasn't where my interest in the franchise begun ) , I suggest you either look for the good , funny things in this ( since they all reappear , many of them done far better , in the later films ) or give one of the later films ( starting around number 5 , " Runs Amok " ) a chance before or after watching this . There is somewhat little in the way of overall plot throughout the series ( though I advise making sure you see at least one other film before " Runs Amok " , and make sure you don't start with one of the ( 2 ? I think ) " Gang " films that start at their holiday destination ( any real fan of these films will be able to answer that off the top of their head , and anyone who isn't should find out from the films and not this review ) . Not an exemplary start , but does show some promise , evidence of things to come .
Decent spoof of war movies	This movie doesn't have very much going for it ; it's based on a theme that , no matter how you view it , is pretty corny . . . toy soldier action figures , fighting like real soldiers . Even from the guy behind Gremlins , that's fairly corny . He pulls it off decently enough , though . The action scenes and the various actions of the toys obviously parody various war movies , and this they actually do quite well ; the problem is , why make a war movie parody in the form of a teen-oriented movie ? Most teens don't care about war movies , since most war movies are from before they were born , along with the wars themselves . Had this film been directed at the adult audience , and gone for social satire instead of simple , weird catchphrase fun , it might have been something much better . The voice work is all very good , there weren't really any of the toys voices that seemed miscast . I really enjoyed Tommy Lee Jones as the leader of the army toys , and Sarah Michelle Gellar did a great job on the Gwendy dolls . Apart from the great voice work , I thought the Gwendy dolls were fairly lame , though . That seemed a little like the director had run out of ideas , and just went with whatever came to mind . I thought the actors all did a pretty good job , I especially enjoyed Jay Mohr , David Cross and Phil Hartman . Unfortunately , the film has more low points than high points ; the romance between the two main characters seemed unlikely and bland , like it was just thrown in for the effect . Also , apart from of course the basic idea of thinking action figures , the film has too many unrealistic scenes to be taken even the least bit seriously . Too much of the humor seems forced , only fairly little of it actually has the effect it's supposed to have on the audience . I also thought the whole idea of having the soldier figures build weapons out of power tools and the likes was a decent enough idea , it just lacks any good explanation of how they manage to build such impressive firepower from so little , and this actually bothered me so much that I at times sat there , being generally annoyed at a scene based on such an unrealistic premise rather than entertained by it . Half of the film goes slowly by , with few laughs , little action and very little excitement . The climax is decently made , and fairly entertaining , but all in all , this is just one of those films that you'll watch , and then pretty much forget about . It doesn't really have anything memorable . Even the effects look dated already . They might have been impressive back then , but they look so fake now . I recommend this only to fans of war movies who want to see a decent spoof of it , and maybe kids and teenagers who can accept a decent comedy .
Not a bad vampire movie , but not the best	When I sat down to watch this movie , I was expecting a mediocre , overly gory B-vampire-movie . I was surprised to find such a well-filmed , well-edited overall pretty good vampire action-horror flick . The plot is OK , but it's mostly just there to put the characters into the situations which allow for action and / or horror scenes , involving the vampires . However , I thought it did a good job of explaining the vampires , and making it seem reasonably credible that these creatures could actually exist in real life . The acting is OK , but no top performances . The characters are well-written and diverse . The dialog was very well-written , especially for this type of film . The soundtrack , mostly consisting of rock , is quite good , and fits the scenes and the overall mood well . The movie is fairly entertaining , but fails to be a truly good , thoroughly well-made film . Some parts just seemed to lack a little too much work . Overall , a decent enough vampire flick , but a tad predictable and quickly forgotten . I recommend this to fans of vampire films , and fans of action films altogether . It's not great but it's worth checking out .
Great idea almost entirely ruined by lackluster direction	I haven't read the book by George Orwell or seen any of the other film adaptations of it , so I can't comment on how accurate this is compared to any other version . I've heard it's quite accurate , though . Just about anyone who've read the book has praised it as a terrifying masterpiece about a totalitarian government . That , coupled with John Hurt being in the lead role , convinced me to see this film . I was quite excited to see if it lived up to its reputation . Unfortunately , almost all of the great promise of an excellent idea is ruined by the poor direction and unimaginative cinematography . The film never manages to capture or maintain the viewers interest for more than a few minutes through the entire film . The plot is good , but it moves so slowly that there are times when it doesn't seem to be moving at all . The acting ranges but is mostly unimpressive . John Hurt gives a good performance , but that's about it . The characters are well-written and credible , but I suppose that is because Orwell rather than any of the film-makers . I could be wrong , but that's the one thing ( coupled with the plot / theme , which is Orwell's work as well ) that isn't tame and mediocre . The cinematography is dull and daft . No new or even slightly original angles , pans or cuts . All tongue-in-cheek , old , standard stuff as far as camera-work and editing goes . The film is visually uninteresting and the plot moves too slow for it to be saved on that front . I really found nothing of interest in this film that isn't most likely done , and much better so , in the book , which I've heard is supposed to be far more captivating . It can hardly be worse , that's for sure . Just to put into perspective exactly how boring this is ; I saw the horror film The Dentist yesterday , a movie most write off as pointless and forgettable . I sat through the entirety of that film , and I still remember quite a bit of it . I frequently left the room ( with the film still running ) during this film , and I don't really remember any of it , even though it ended not long ago . This film could have been great , in the hands of far superior film-makers such as Terry Gilliam and Stanley Kubrick . . . too bad it was ruined by a talentless no-name director . I don't really recommend this film to anyone , since the book appears to be much , much better .
Cruelly Intentional and a bit of a Wild Thing , but not a bad movie	This film may be a bit derivative of the two titles I hint at in my one-line summary , but it by no means a truly bad film . It's a tad misdirected , somewhat dragged out and definitely not all-around well-acted , but it is not bad movie . I won't claim I watched this for any other reason than the fact that it features some of the hottest young actresses in newer times , but I will make a point of what happened when I sat down to watch it . I didn't take my eyes off the screen . I didn't get up for a minute or two , and I never really felt like I was wasting time by watching it . For a while , the last couple of weeks , I have had trouble finding a film that really got my attention and kept it . Not since watching Requiem For a Dream have I been following a film so intensely . I didn't want to miss a thing watching this movie , and that says a lot , considering my almost ADD-like short attention span . The plot is not particularly original , but it is interesting . The pacing is mostly good , but around the middle and near the end , it seems to slow down , in order to drag out the material in order to reach the minimum limit for the length of a feature film , something that really hurts the film ( it probably should have been a short . . . or maybe there should have been written more story or more characters ) . The acting isn't all good , but the four leads give good performances ( even Meredith Monroe of Dawson's Creek fame . . . who saw that coming ? ) . The twists and plot developments are interesting , but the mystery of who committed the crime is almost impossible to solve for the viewer until the very end , where it's revealed . Even worse , it makes said mystery seem very simple , since it turned out to be the very person I suspected from the very beginning . The non-linear time-line works fairly well , but it does get somewhat confusing in several parts , because it's not perfectly clear if we're seeing a flashback or something that goes on ' right now ' . There is a fair amount of sex and drug use in this film , so it's not for the easily offended or the faint of heart . I thoroughly enjoyed it , and I believe most people will too , if they give it a chance . I recommend this to fans of the genre , and I urge anyone watching it to give it a fair chance to win you over . It's uneven , but it's not a bad film .
" My dear Watson . . . what , by chance , are we doing in this ? "	Let me start by saying that I have not read the novel . . . nor any other by Sir Athur Conan Doyle ( although I certainly would like to , in particular those regarding this character . . . the detective , not the dog ) , so if you want to know how well this follows it , this is not the place to look , I'm afraid . The plot isn't bad , and it did manage to surprise me more than once ( if I would have been if I had looked my way through the book , I couldn't tell you . . . literally ) , and it develops reasonably . The pacing is fine . The acting varies , for all concerned . . . Frewer goes back and forth between what one might call a good performance and what would be more accurately described as a parody of a stereotypical Brit . There aren't really any stand-out players , in either end of the spectrum . The music is adequate . The technical aspects of this are average , and at times below that . The effects probably won't impress anyone . The " hound " is never that terrifying of a sight , and doesn't instill nearly as much fear as indifference . In general this isn't really sufficiently scary as to warrant being noted for it . I recommend this to fans of horror and crime-mystery stories , and / or Matt Frewer , but you are undoubtedly capable of finding more worthy ways to spend 90 minutes .
Let me be the first to say . . . " what ? " contains medium spoilers	OK , maybe I'm not the first to note that this movie makes very little sense , but I won't be the last . As a few others have also noted , this film is pretty much just a rip-off of Body Snatchers , with a psychotic super-intelligent scientist / teacher in place as the villain , instead of aliens . The plot barely makes sense at all . . . something about some kind of operation that turns normal teenagers into controllable " monsters " . I think what really bothered me with this film was the fact that they had to be monsters , that there just had to be tagged on that they were rapists and killers . What about making them empty , soulless individuals through the process of removing all human emotions and reactions ? Why do they have to be psychotic , as well ? Dang , here the director / scriptwriter could have made a great point ; is it worth it to be intelligent , smart and in every way perfect , if you're empty ? Instead they go for something every teenager can see , by putting some nudity and various references to sex in it , and stuffing it full of violence and " tension " . Like running down a hallway or being beaten up in the dining hall is tense . . . come on , how many American teens don't go through that every single day ? The acting is decent . The characters are paper-thin , for the most part . The script is tame and predictable . The horror / thriller parts are for the most part ineffective and either over - or underdone . The whole premise is so far-fetched that it's hard to explain . Another thing that really bothered me was how the film was so . . . " teenage-flick " - like . Every major character is a teen , it's set at a high school , the villain is an adult . . . come on . No one over the age of 17-18 could enjoy this movie , and the directors obviously did what they could to make sure of this fact . Why ? Why limit the film to one particular audience ? Why not throw some social commentary and some interesting characters into it as well , in order to capture older audiences , or even more critical members of the teenage audience ( like yours truly , for example ) . It would have taken such a small ounce of further work . But alas , it was not to be . Instead the film is limited to teenagers with short attention spans . I think the most disappointing thing is that while the film could have offered some very clever social commentary and proved some good points , it's reduced to a typical teen horror flick that's forgotten before the ending credits have rolled past the screen . It's a shame , I tell you . A damn shame . I recommend this only to teenage fans of teenage horror flicks who don't expect too much from it . Anyone else should probably just skip this . A thoroughly weird movie bordering on being nonsensical garbage . Has one or two interesting elements and scenes , apart from that , a waste of time .
Very different from the first , but I think that's a good thing	I don't know why so many people hate this movie ; oh wait , yes , I think I do : people expected it to be just like the first American Psycho , and were surprised when what they got was a satirical dark comedy that's also halfway a parody of slasher movies . It starts off by finishing off the infamous legend of Patrick Bateman , by having the main character whack him . Most of the rest of the film has her killing off different characters who get in her way and / or annoy her in one way or another . While most , or at least many , of the kills are off-screen , this wasn't boring , and the film does have it's fair share of gore . The film has a great ( dark ) sense of humor that fans of dark comedies will definitely enjoy . Many of the lines had me laughing hard . Mila Kunis , who portrays the main character also delivers a pretty corny narration , which only adds to the overall campy mood of the film . She portrays the psycho killer pretty well , and her psychotic thoughts are what most of the dark comedy consists of . The plot is pretty good , pretty predictable at first , and at times fairly ridiculous , but I think that was the idea ; it isn't meant to be taken seriously ; most of the film points to that , anyway . It did become a bit unpredictable at the end , after a somewhat unexpected turn of events , and the ending did surprise me , at least a little . The actors mostly do pretty good jobs of portraying their respective horror stereotypes , uh , characters I mean . The film is all in all just good , campy , slasher fun . I would say it's more a spoof of typical slashers than an actual horror movie . I guess the reason so many people hate it is that it has so little to do with American Psycho ( both the book and the original film ) , yet still carries the name in the title . For a direct-to-video film , this is fairly well-made . I recommend it to any fans of dark comedy and slashers , who are looking for a good parody of slashers . I don't really recommend it to fans of the first American Psycho , as it has virtually nothing to do with the first , and there is hardly any connection to the first , apart from the opening sequence which features a fairly doubtful version of Patrick Bateman , which I think was more or less made to poke fun at the character from the first film ( which is why fans of the first should probably avoid this ) . If you did enjoy the first film , and you are going to watch this no matter what , I urge you to see it with an open mind ; it's not as bad as many people think .
What one comes to expect of the Disney Action Games . . .	At some point in the early nineties , with video-games becoming more and more common , and Disney cranking out a new adventure for the little ones every chance they got , a fad was born . Now , pretty much every time Disney releases a new animated feature , they also simultaneously release one of their so-called Action Games based on the film ( provided it was one that had some ( if not necessarily very much ) measure of potential to form an action game around , of course ) . While these have varied in quality ( the early ones , like Aladdin ( in particular ) and The Lion King were quite entertaining and fairly well-crafted ) , most of them are obvious and weak attempts at milking the concept , getting more money from the people who enjoyed the movie ( and the parents of the kids who did , provided said kids are good at bugging their folks into getting ' ' em stuff ) . This is one such effort , and while that's pretty clear from the very beginning of the game , it's actually somewhat entertaining ( I know , it surprised me , too ) . You start off training for a few levels , with plenty of references to that sequence . Not long after , you're fighting boss enemies taken from the film . The producers of the game must have felt that there weren't enough possible enemies , so they put in creatures that were never in the movie ( and make little , if any sense to be there ) . This results in three levels right after each other being packed with boss enemies . . . actually , the last two consist entirely of one long boss fight each . While this can be fairly challenging and / or entertaining , it's really hard to ignore how loudly it screams " We want this game to be longer , but we haven't got a clue how to achieve it " . There are an awful lot of other places throughout the game where things are repeated until the point where you're tired of them . Level design is fair , but there are far too many jumping puzzles for my tastes ( those worked so much better in Aladdin ) . It's also fairly repetitive , and then there's the obvious lack of freedom of movement ( the game's just about as linear as they come ) . There are three kinds of levels ; the regular two-dimensional platform ones ( as well as one or two variations thereof , one of which is kinda cool ) , boss levels , and this odd third kind where you run constantly , and you have to move and jump out of the way of any obstacles in your way ( what that has to do with Hercules , apart from his ability to run fast ( and , one would assume , inability to come to an immediate stop . . . ? ) , I do not know ) . Most levels are the first kind , there are only two levels in the second category , and there are three ( as far as I remember ) of the third kind . Some of the level try to maintain a mix between 2D and 3D , which looks odd , because most enemies and characters are modeled ( and look best ) in 2D ( it was a cartoon , not a 3D animated feature ) . The game utilizes the main character quite well , as far as control ( though Wonderboy handles like a friggin ' Mech , for some reason ) and powers go . Where Tarzan had you throwing fruit ( which I , admittedly , never fully understood , for more than one reason . . . how good a weapon is that , anyway ? Gotta be difficult to survive in the jungle if your food can be dangerous ( and enough so that it would make a weapon deemed useful by the guy who's widely recognized as the king of said area ) and Aladdin had you throwing apples ( why would someone who has to steal to survive throw away food ? He also seemed to have the sword way earlier in the game than in the film ) , Hercules allows you to slash with the sword , punch with the fists and charge up one of your fists for a more powerful punch . These are reasonably effective in dealing with enemies and obstacles , but Aladdin still has got this beat in this aspect . The game is quite short ; it took me less than two hours this time , and only one try . Granted , I have tried it a few times before , but still . The makers of the game tried to conjure up some re-playability by putting in a few bonus power-ups , which grant advantages , but most of these are just annoying and should have either had more thought put into their development or been scrapped entirely . There are the letters to Hercules ' name , which are collected in the correct order . . . and most of the time , these just tell you how far you are in the level ( which can help when they seem to go on for too long ) , and how many letters you've already missed . Then there are four vases per level , which , if collected , give you the password for the next level and the ability to save your progress . Hurrah ! We can finally save . Once we find all four of them , and what is the point , anyway ? You can just use the passwords provided . The game-play is quite repetitive . The small effort put into creating background stuff and enemies result in you often ignoring dangers that weren't clear enough . Powerups / general design isn't as accomplished as other of these games . The final boss fight is kind of anti-climactic , being the very easiest fight in the whole game ( no , seriously ; the character is also robbed of all the coolness he possessed in the film , which is a real shame , as he was just about my favorite thing about it ) . The sound is awfully repetitive ( fitting , since most of the rest of the game is as well ) , with , for example , the same four instructions being yelled at you by Philoctetes , in no particular order and at seemingly completely random times during the training levels ( including , but not limited to , him possibly exclaiming praise right after you've gotten hurt ) . All in all , decent , certainly nothing more . I recommend this to big fans of the movie and of Disney's other Action Games . Just keep your expectations low ( shouldn't be a problem , if you belong in the second group ) .
Not as good as the first , but not bad	While I liked the first one more , this wasn't really bad . . . it had some pretty good , more imaginative , death scenes , a decent attempt at explaining why the kids go around killing adults , and better effects . That doesn't make it a better movie though , but it does make for a decent , and somewhat worthy , followup to the first . Once again , there are some moments in the film , when it's hard to take it seriously , just like the first . However , like the first , I don't think it ruins the film , as the overall product is pretty good . After watching this , I am considering to rent a few of the other sequels , just to see if they present the series with some more ideas like this one . This was interesting , like the first , and there are again , some likable characters that you care about . Watch this , if you like horror movies , and you liked the first Children of the Corn .
A movie kids , and only kids , will enjoy	I had higher expectations for this one than I thought . When I actually sat down to watch it , I was expecting ( from all the popularity it has achieved and such ) a good , quality fantasy sci-fi comedy adventure . What I got was basically every other kids movie , just with better effects . I mean , Spielberg is a good filmmaker , so why would he spend time and money making such a typical , formulaic kids movie ? I mean , I realize that the film does establish a good connection between E . T . and Elliot , but does that process necessarily require to alienate every single adult character in the film too ? Every single adult character is stupid , and they are mostly depicted as jerks . I liked the way Spielberg made it kiddy-like by not showing one single adult persons face before the final 45 minutes or so ( apart from Elliot's mother ) , but did he have to make every single adult in the movie out to be so mindless and stupid ? The kids aren't much better ; Elliot is whiny , easily startled and plain annoying . Gertie is girly and annoying , and every teen character comes off as a jerk , just like the adults . Spielberg has , purposefully or not , created a movie that only kids will be able to identify with and like . Anyone over the age of 10 will be annoyed , if not offended , by the way anyone over that age is depicted . The films humor is exactly the same as in any other kids movie , only less disgusting that most other . The only worthwhile reason to see this movie if you're not a kid is the special effects . E . T . himself is even annoying for most of the time . Had this film had something worthwhile to tell us , apart from how , somehow , a kid can relate more to an alien creature from another planet than he can with any human , it might have been good . Hell , it would've been good if it just wasn't so awfully kiddy-like and centered on making it entertaining for kids . If you want to see a good children's movie that anyone past puberty can also enjoy , I recommend the first The Neverending Story . That is a lot better . The only thing that is worth watching in this film is special effects , and very few of the gags and jokes that are funny to anyone above the age of 7 . I recommend this only to kids and huge fans of Spielberg .
Not quite the first . . . which is not to say that it doesn't make for a fine viewing	Since I enjoyed the first , and this one also aired on TV , I gave it a chance , too . It defines itself very strongly as a sequel ( in spite of not actually referencing the start of this series , at least as far as I could tell ) . . . scenes and occurrences from the film it follows are redone with something of a step up . . . in intensity . It's perfectly clear from the start that this tries to outdo the other by making it all " bigger " . It doesn't all work , and on the whole I'd go for Fletch before this . The gross-out comedy for example did not need to go that far . . . nor did the sexual material . To be entirely honest , I didn't particularly care for all the jabs at the South , either . But it still is funny , and I was into this , as well . The dry wit returns . The plot isn't bad , if the ending is a bit much . Pacing is pretty good , and some of the stuff that is of a larger scale than last time around is worthwhile . The acting is fairly solid , and Ermey does a nice job ( and Chase ) . Hartman had far too little to do , for how entertaining he could be ( R . I . P . ) , though I suppose fully unleashing him would compromise the style of humor ( not to mention overshadow Chevy ) . The music is great . The mystery is interesting , and the script isn't bad ( though the man behind it doesn't seem to have worked since . . . hmmm . . . ) . I recommend this to fans of the character , the movie that came before this , and / or Chevy Chase ( people who like what he does , not the . . . man himself ) .
It's decent , I guess	It has a few good action scenes , but the whole film is just too slow ( and possibly too long . . . did this perhaps take itself too seriously ? As in , way too seriously ? ) , and most of the scenes are boring . The pacing could have used work , as could the plot , and come on , any attempt made earlier in the film to turn the creature into something reasonably realistic and explain it all away goes away the instant " Godzilla " . . . yeah , I won't say it here , but other viewers may already be aware what I'm referring to ( and hey , if not , feel free to drop me a line and ask . . . my bite's not as bad as the title creature's ) . I must admit , part of this film , maybe 20-30 minutes of it ( I'm referring to a specific portion ) , entertained me more than the entirety of Jurassic Park ( why is that movie so popular ? ) . The end scene is also somewhat interesting to watch . Something that got my attention was the number of Simpsons actors in this : Hank Azaria ( Animal ) , Harry Shearer ( Caiman ) & Nancy Cartwright ( Caiman secretary ) . I found that to be a funny coincidence , if it was a coincidence , that is ( or is someone in the casting department rounding them up ? I'm not aware of any other movie with that many of them ) . Somewhat entertaining , and maybe worth a single watch , if you can stand to sit through the whole thing ( or jump to lay past the half of it ) .
Slightly above average	This is the typical standard teen comedy , although it is slightly less funny than the better ones ( American Pie , for example ) it isn't all bad . The story is somewhat interesting , and you care about the two main characters , but pretty much every single other character is someone you instantly hate . Which is somewhat annoying , since you'd want to relate to or like at least one character apart from the two main characters . The supporting characters are especially loathe-some . However , to counter feeling bad over how much bad stuff they make the main characters put up with , the director assures you that a lot of bad stuff happens to them , by placing some text saying what happens to the characters after the movie ends . Oh , I feel much better , knowing that all those bad things happen to them . The humor is a lot like the typical movies of the genre , not really anything new there ; if you liked American Pie , you might like this too , only to a less extent . Maybe a considerably less extent . Oh well . They can't all be great .
Not too bad , as a beginning	I base this on the Director's Edition . I suppose part of the explanation behind why this movie is , well , the way it is , is it's simultaneously attempting to reacquaint old viewers with the core people and their relationships , and introduce it to new-comers . A good deal of this consists of establishing , and as a direct result , the characters don't have a lot to do , nor is the overall story given as much screen-time and attention as it could , considering that this is the longest of these . The plot isn't entirely original , if the resolution is satisfying . The moral is also retread ground . This isn't particularly action-based , but , rather , something to think about . That may have been to further distinguish it from Star Wars . This does , however , come off as relatively Hollywoodized , maybe especially when compared to the show itself . All of this isn't to say that this is poor . . . it certainly has its worth . There is genuine drama and tension herein . It feels like a film , grand and epic , with a masterful score , fantastic ( although probably improved in the newer releases ) special effects , and a budget that allowed it to achieve a greater scope . The pacing is uneven throughout . The language is gratuitous , albeit not harsh . This contains more of such than the entire television series put together . This isn't as fine for children to watch as earlier efforts in the franchise , though aforementioned ( be aware that there are a few disturbing details ) is the only thing that isn't handled in a tasteful manner . And there is a reason this has been referred to as The Motion Sickness . The acting is solid , and this in general has next to no silly or goofy moments , but works as a serious piece ( just don't take all of the science as fact ) . Thankfully everyone remembered how to portray their roles , and the writing is credible as well . This should be seen as a starting point , from where the later entries would spring forth . The 2-Disc DVD set holds a commentary track , several deleted / additional scenes ( of varying quality ) , a bit of promotional material including trailers and TV spots and a couple of featurettes / documentaries ( one on the making and another on the recent retouching , both are well-done ) many of which are interesting and worth the time . I recommend this to Trekkies as well as those who have never seen any Star Trek , and fans of sci-fi that holds food for thought . Just know what to expect .
Meh . . . it delivers , I guess	When watching this movie , I was pretty much prepared for the worst ; after seeing what disasters Halloween 4 & 5 were , I was sure it couldn't possibly , in any way known to man , get any worse . Luckily , it definitely isn't the case with this sequel . It apparently pretends that 4 & 5 never happened , but that's OK ; without Laurie Strode returning , this franchise would be dead and gone . Something I more or less missed in this movie was the presence of Donald Pleasance ( R . I . P . ) , but after I got used to the movie missing the good doctor , I actually enjoyed it . It's nowhere near as good as the first , but it's better than some other recent slashers . The movie is reasonably low on cliche-count , unfortunately , the characters are pretty much one-dimensional , and a few of them are just there so that they can be killed off later in the movie . The acting varies , but mostly above average ; the plot is OK , but mostly just there as an excuse to bring back Michael Myers and revive the franchise . It's worth checking out if you're a fan of Halloween ( and you don't have too big expectations for it ) or just a fan of slashers in general . It's watchable .
With that cast , that direction and that idea , this could have been an excellent film . . . had it just made up its mind on what it wanted to be	Comedy ? Not really . Drama ? Little , if any . Tragicomedy ? Possibly , some , but not developed as such . The plot is too complicated for its own good . The pacing is much , much too slow . The acting is quite solid all-round , but that is , unfortunately , not enough to save the film . The action is daft . The tension is low and both poorly built and utilized . The characters . . . I could not get behind anyone's motivation . Also , to quote Team America : World Police ( more specifically , the character of Kim Jong Il ( who I understand is quite a " character " for real , as well ) ) " Why is everyone so fing stupid ? ! " To be honest , it's mainly the mobsters . Why ? I " get " wanting to make gangsters look dumb and inept , but . . . you might want to check the level of reality at some point , too . Or make sure you have your audience check their brains at the door . This started out almost poetically . . . slow , building . . . beautiful images . Then it starts trying to be funny . Much of it is dark comedy , but very little of it actually works . Not long after , it starts trying to be dramatic . . . here , it fails even more-so . With Nicholson being painfully dimwitted and Turner being fairly . . . easy , slutty , it's just difficult to find reason to sympathize with these people ( and let's not even mention the notion of liking them ) . I doubt there's a single credible character in there . I think what takes the cake here , though , is the ending . . . or , rather , lack thereof . Please , anyone who's seen this , let's be honest ; this movie doesn't " end " , it just stops . The words " The End " fade onto the screen , followed by the credits , but there's no real closure ( not to mention , it came across as tacked-on ) . To the story , to the characters , to the plot . I recommend this to only the biggest fans of the people involved in making it , and urge most anyone else to just skip this one . . . it's no great loss . The loss is the great chance that was wasted in the production of this film . . . with an interesting premise ( later made into a Hollywood flick that manages to be more entertaining than this ) , a ( or so I've heard , this is the first of his films I watch ) competent director and a highly talented cast , this could have been simply breathtaking . Instead , it's rather moan-inducing . Sad .
Just another teen movie	This is your typical teen movie , with the addition of some hot girls dancing on top of a bar . The premise is not really interesting , and the plot is extremely predictable . The only reason guys would want to see this is because of the girls dancing on the bar , and who can blame us ; apart from one or two decent humorous lines , the hot girls are the only thing the movie has going for it . Something I truly loathed was the amount of annoying pop music , that almost kept me from sitting through it . It isn't exactly as bad as some of the truly bad teen movies ( read : Crossroads ) , but it's definitely no masterpiece . Most guys will probably watch it just to see the girls dancing , but the good thing is that they can watch it with their girlfriends , since it does feature a lot of girlie stuff . So watch it with your girlfriend , and you'll probably both like some parts of it ; it's not as horrible to sit through as the truly bad teen movies ( read : Crossroads ) , but it does take some effort . On the other hand , pretty much any guy should see this just for watching Tyra Banks pouring water down her chest .
Rather odd	The idea sounds quite interesting . . . and the execution is , as well , no doubt about that . The material just has this bizarre quality to it , and DeVito's direction at times has the film plodding along . There were several times throughout the film where I expected it to end within minutes . . . yet it kept going , for half an hour , a full hour . The plot is intriguing ( no , honestly , it is ; you wouldn't think so from the outline , but it really is ) , though it develops strangely . The pacing is somewhat uneven , but it does move as it should during some parts . . . I'd say about half of the movie is blessed with good pacing , while the other half . . . yes , I'm afraid so . The acting is mostly solid . The writing is . . . out there , very much . Occasionally funny , but more often than not , it's just weird . The comedians are all pretty funny here , though I found that Jon Stewart had an almost criminally small part compared to how funny the man is . With some bizarre humor and various musical numbers , this film is an odd one . Well , when the first few moments are a shadow-play of the host of a children's show getting murdered , you know you're in for an unusual film . I haven't seen too many other movies directed by Danny DeVito . . . in fact , this is the first . Anyway , therefore , I can't really say if this is typical for him or not . All in all , a pretty good film , I guess it's worth watching if you're into the humor . I recommend this to fans of the humor and / or the actors as well as those intrigued by the plot description .
Uneventful and slow-moving	I've seen this film on the shelf of the local video-shop so many times over the last half year or so . I kept considering buying it , and I kept deciding against it , mainly because I had barely heard anything at all about it ( and certainly nothing positive ) . It aired on TV tonight , and I can only say that I'm happy I didn't spend any money on it . It's not a bad film , but it's not really a good one , either . It's somewhat average and it just doesn't feel like a complete movie . The plot is decent enough , and probably original . . . but it drags like you wouldn't believe . I don't remember the last time ( if there was one ) I saw such an uneventful and slow-moving film . De Niro gives the typical psycho performance , as seen previously in Taxi Driver and more recently in Cape Fear . Scott lazily directs this in no particular direction . . . it pretty much just goes on and on , with pretty much nothing really happening . I'm not sure if Scott was shooting for a character driven piece . . . but if he did , he missed . Unimaginative cinematography and repeated usage of the same cuts further adds to the boredom . A fairly good but overly loud score makes the viewing a tad bit more tolerable , as does the fairly high level of talent in all of the film's acting performances . De Niro's character is interesting , but we know too little about him , about who he really is , his past . In the end , maybe the real problem is that there's hardly anyone to root for in the film . De Niro is introduced as if he was the hero , but we quickly realize that he's the direct opposite . We then turn to Snipes , but he turns out to be a superstitious and unappealing athlete . One thing that bothered me was the heavy emphasis on the baseball game ( but that's probably just me and my anti-sports view-point ) . As far as showing fanaticism and obsession at its worst , the film is OK . As genuine entertainment , there's really nothing in this , beyond the fairly good acting and score . I recommend this only to the biggest fans of De Niro , Snipes and Scott . Everyone else should probably just skip it .
A bit heavy on message and somewhat light on entertainment value	I can't say for sure how many times I've seen this film . . . and perhaps " seen " is the wrong term . I watched it a few times , and from then on , it became kind of " background noise " . One belonging in a select group consisting of movies that I kinda-sorta like . . . but I cannot put upon myself to sit through all of , so I simply put it on to listen to while I do other things . . . and occasionally glance at . Some of these films I've seen too many times , some I just only really like scenes of . . . not sure which one this is . Possibly both . Anyway , having had it on as background noise for so long , I , again , couldn't fully agree with the idea of watching it . Not truly watching it . Not sitting down and concentrating on it . Still , I gathered enough to comment on the film as a whole . Something I realized was that the basic plot and the way it develops never truly stuck with me . . . something unusual for the background noise movies . Usually , that is only the case with movies I've watched once or twice and decided was just too bad to give one more chance . . . even as background noise . And even then , it's a seldom occurrence . But it's the case with this one . I simply can't recall it from one " viewing " to another . Something that truly surprised me upon this time ( since I have far more politically and socially aware since the last time I watched it ) was the message and how much of the film it really takes up . And I also kind of noticed . . . this is not a pleasant film . This is not for children . I kid you not , I can think of teenagers who would be frightened by the ideas put forth by this movie ( mind you , rather ignorant and easily affected teenagers , but still ) . This is a movie that very strongly advertises individualism and opposes totalitarianism . . . views that I can only agree with this films opinion on , but here , they just seem painfully heavy-handedly presented here . Not much room for free thought ( ironic , since that is the very thing the film advocates ) about the subject . The plot is fair . The acting is nice , and the actors all play characters reminiscent of what they often , if not usually , play . . . which makes for some entertainment for those of us old enough to know them . Again , this is really not a family / children's film . The humor is decent enough . . . however , half of it is for those too young to see it , the other half is for those of us who are old enough to know everything it tells us and who will most likely find it too simple . The animation is dated , and has been pretty much ( at the very least ) since the film came out . The soundtrack is fair , with a few decent tunes . Doris Day performs the credits song , one so insipid and daft and yet annoyingly catchy , you find yourself humming it and being irritated at the discovery . All in all , there's just not anything to watch this film for . . . except for the admittedly good references to other frequent roles of the cast . I recommend this to big fans of the actors and virtually no one else .
Average . . . very average	Watching this film again , after several years , after having seen many far better films since the first time I saw it , I can't help but compare it to looking at an old class photo , from a school you only spent one year at , and didn't like too much ; you recognize a lot of the faces , but you can't bring yourself to look too long at it , and soon you start paying attention to something else . Of course , you knew from the beginning that it would probably end up like that , and before you know it , you've pushed the memory almost entirely out of your head , once again . Yes , there is a good amount of talents involved in this film , and I quickly recognized Cary Elwes , who I've also seen in Liar Liar , Bram Stoker's Dracula and Robin Hood : Men in Tights , and Kurtwood Smith , who I only know from the original RoboCop , where he played Clarence Boddicker . Of course I recognized Alicia Silverstone as well , but I already knew she was in the film , as I had seen her in one film before seeing The Crush the first time ( can't remember which , though ) . The plot is pretty much a rehash of Lolita , with the tables turned to provide mainstream cliché thriller , in the vein of films like The Hand That Rocks The Cradle . The pacing is daft . The acting is decent , but one would expect better from Elwes and Silverstone ( then again , it was her first film . . . still , we don't see any of the talent that she proved she had in later films ) . I suspect it's the directors fault . Misdirection , or simply bad direction , can ruin a lot . The characters are the usual clichés and stereotypes of the thriller-genre . The film lacks any real thrills , and relies entirely on the typical formula of this type of thrillers ( the psycho-close-to-the-lead ( s ) - tries-to-kill-him / her / them ) . The film has no surprises and is thoroughly predictable . All in all , the film has no real purpose , apart from seeing Cary Elwes and Kurtwood Smith in different roles ( from what I've seen them in , at least ) . I recommend it purely to big fans of any of the three actors and very big fans of thrillers . Everyone else should probably avoid it .
Decent , nothing more , nothing less	This is a little worse than your everyday Eddie Murphy comedy , with a little added action , and the result is , as the one line summary states , decent , nothing more , nothing less . This movie is nothing special , but it isn't the worst movie ever , either . I don't think there are a lot of people who could love this movie , but I don't think it entirely deserves its horrible reputation either . It features some of the best parodies on modern world , and a decent amount of talented actors : Eddie Murphy , Rosario Dawson , Joe Pantoliano , Pam Grier , John Cleese . . . John Cleese surprised me actually , I didn't expect to like his character , since I usually don't like him , but was really a great parody of the British butler / chauffeur stereotype . It has a normal amount of Eddie Murphy's typical humor , and that is pretty much what one can expect of any of his films . This is not Eddies best film , but by no means his worst either . Big fans of Eddie Murphy might like this , or people who love sci-fi comedy . As this is slightly above average , I gave it a .
Not what it could have been , but worth a viewing	Not having read any of the highly acclaimed writer Robert A . Heinlein's work , including the original novel " Puppet Masters " , I can't really comment on whether or not this piece does him or his work any justice , but from a point of view that hasn't in any way been influenced by his work or others ' opinions ( . . . maybe scratch that last one ) , I must admit that it's not half bad . The plot is pretty good , and it keeps developing at an adequate rate , while keeping a fair pace , but it seems to drop a tad once this entered its last half or so . The acting is decent enough , with Donald Sutherland being the one to stand out and deliver a marvelous performance . The characters are well-written , well-casted , credible and believable . This is strangely similar to TV features , in the way it's shot and edited . The special effects are great , but short of spectacular . The creature design was reasonably interesting , and well thought out , and the related effects are actually relatively nicely done . The science fiction aspects of this , with the aliens and their actions are well-done . I liked the way the film utilizes mood and atmosphere rather than excessive gore to scare and thrill the audience . The atmosphere and mood are decent enough , just not as well-done as they could have been . The movie also fails to inspire the same paranoia and fear that , for example , John Carpenter's The Thing does . Finally , the climax was a bit overly Hollywood-like , but hey , this does provide about 110 minutes worth of sufficiently entertaining science fiction-horror about the always dreaded extra-terrestrial invasion . I recommend it to fans of the genre and / or Donald Sutherland ( it should also be noted that Keith David rocks , as he has something of a tendency to do ) .
Unimpressive	This film looked decent enough in the previews . . . Sandra Bullock , gifted teens , death and mind games . So I decided to watch , though I admittedly didn't pay all that attention to it . After trying several times to grant the film all of my attention , I found myself thoroughly disinterested in it . Sure , it was fine , but it was just nothing I hadn't seen dozens of times before , and done far better many of these times . Throughout the film , it felt like an average thriller of this kind . . . then the ending came . The film loses all and any meaning when the beyond-stupid ending hits us like a blow to the stomach . Plenty of people are referring to it as one of the worst endings ever . . . I'm one of them . The plot is decent . The pacing is fair . The characters are somewhat well-written . The acting is good , for the most part . Casting . . . well , what can I say . . . except for " Sandra Bullock as seasoned detective ? Please . . . " and go on to comment that she's far too young to be seasoned and she should probably never have tried doing drama . She's far better at comedy , anyway . The direction is uninspired . I have no previous experience with Barbet Schroeder except for Single White Female , which I was fairly impressed with . He can do far better than this . So can Bullock , for that matter . Not much else to say . . . one to avoid , unless you feel the distinct need ( and I don't mean desire , I mean need ) to see every film in the genre . I recommend this only to huge fans of the people involved in creating it . And even those should probably just pretend this doesn't exist . It'll be easier that way .
" Get me into a damn plane ! " Ben , I think the more appropriate request would be " Get me into a half-decent movie ! "	After seeing this film , I have to say that I'm glad I listened to what all my friends were saying about this film and only paid attention to less than half of this film . The two battle scenes were what I found worth watching , and I hadn't expected anything else , from what everyone told me about the film . Had I not been fully aware that nothing other than those two scenes were worth watching , had my state of mind been completely open to this film , I would have hated it , and my review would have been a thoroughly negative one . It's more than likely that I would have commented on Jerry Bruckheimer's and Michael Bay's lack of actual talent and their extreme use of explosions ( usually overplayed and overdone ones ) to cover this up . But I won't . I won't comment much on plot , pacing , acting or characters . I could complain that this is just another typical , empty Hollywood film that takes a historical event and smothers in with romance and sappy sentimentality instead of bringing the real story ( as if it didn't have enough impact on its own ) , much like they ( seemingly ; haven't seen it , for obvious reasons ) did with Titanic . I could argue that the plot is thin and everything but the actual historical events seem bland and unimportant , that the acting seems flat , the pacing excruciatingly bad and the characters paper-thin clichés and stereotypes . But I'll try not to . Instead , I will comment on the two battle scenes , for those who share my point of view on the sappy romantic drivel of many late epic films . They look pretty good . The effects are impressive , though the CGI is overly obvious at times . Most of it looks good , and the overuse of explosions supposedly won't bother most action fans ( though I , being in favor of realism in war movies , found this to be quite bothersome and annoying ) . If you really like strong war-action , you should check out a movie that delivers more of it ( like Black Hawk Down ) or at a far more realistic approach to it ( like Der Untergang ) . However , if you want to see the Bruckheimer version of a war scene , by all means , see this film . I warn you , though , most of it is simply not worth paying attention to . I recommend this to fans of war movies with Hollywood action scenes and / or people who can't watch a movie that doesn't contain romance .
Too hard , still bad controls , and still lacking an in-level save feature	The final chapter to the trilogy of Commander Keen ( but not the last game in the entire franchise , fortunately , seeing as how the four to come after it are , no offense , great improvements on the trilogy ( which , in itself , wasn't bad , and they certainly learned from their mistakes , absolutely no doubt about that ) ) . . . after having saved the Earth , Commander Keen , the self-proclaimed defender of aforementioned planet ( who most certainly has his work cut out for him in every one of these games ) , the secret alter-ego of the heroic and highly intelligent eight-year-old boy Billy Blaze , follows the alien mother-ship in his Bean-and-Bacon Megarocket to the Vorticon home planet , Vorticon VI , where he must find his way through the dark Caves of Oblivion , towards the Grand Intellect's Castle , and along the way , he will face one of the most dangerous and unpleasant areas that his adventures have taken him through . . . suburbs ! When you're on an alien planet of deadly inhabitants ( with lethal pets and toys ) , even small towns can be risky to travel through ( and if there seemed to be many Vorticons in the second game , or it seemed as if they were set on killing Keen , you ain't seen nothing yet ; the title , whilst rather a simple statement , pretty much nails it , really ) . By the end of it all , you will learn who the Grand Intellect is , and the very last level has you fighting him , as the first ( and one of the only ) boss enemies in the entire series . The humor remains about the same . The graphics are the same as the first two . The sound is , as well , but it isn't bad for its time . The controls are the same , and with how packed with risks the environment is , the dull reaction that they offer is most irritating . This game in the franchise also features a decoding of the alien alphabet in one part of the game , allowing the players to understand the many signs of this and the other two games of the trilogy , since they are all ( I believe . . . it definitely would make reasonably good sense ) written in Vorticon . Not an awful lot new is added , but what you saw in the first two is put to good use ( and I believe this is the one that added the vertically moving platforms , as the ones in the second game were only able to move horizontally ) . This is definitely , by far , my least favorite of the entire series ( and probably the only of them that I genuinely dislike , I'm afraid ( then again , hey , six out of seven ain't bad ) ) , mainly due to story being lame ( I realize that these are children's games , but still , come on ) , the game-play being frustratingly hard ( thank goodness they put in difficulty levels after this one ! ) and the various features missed in the previous two games being most sorely missed here ( which is undoubtedly why they were almost all present in the very next released title in the series , Keen Dreams , the " lost " episode ) , where the lack of them are most painful . The game is much , much harder than the first two games , and here , the lack of in-level saving is most frustrating , due to the levels being longer and the enemies being tougher than the first two . I get that they were making the first trilogy as getting harder with each game ( rather than letting the player choose how hard the game should be , with a difficulty setting , like in the second trilogy of games in the series ) , but this is just too much . The game was so darned hard that I found myself almost cheating ( but only almost ! ) , and finally skipping several choice-free levels ( thankfully , there have been levels you could skip since the first game in this series , though this was the first ( and if my memory serves me right , only ) where I find myself giving up and skipping ahead ) , to the final level . Now , the good part is that this is the first ( and again , one of the only ) of the Commander Keen games to feature an actual boss enemy ; however , he's darn hard due to the two-button shooting ( which was , fortunately , fixed in the next game , first part of the second sub-series , Goodbye Galaxy ! , or , earlier still , the next release , Keen Dreams , the " lost " episode of the series ) and the lack of an in-level save feature ( which was also fixed right after this game , and this was retained throughout the rest of the series ) . I know a boss is supposed to be hard to beat , but after shooting important ( heck , necessary ) and ridiculously hard shots , you like to be able to save , so that you don't have to do it again , at the fear of breaking your darned wrist in the process , due to the difficulty of aiming , carefully planning to use the overly complicated controls to line up your shot , and then pressing two buttons at the same time at one particular half of a second . OK , I'm done ranting now . No , really . I suppose that the game is worth playing through if you're a really , really big fan of the franchise , but the story twist ( which has been built up throughout the trilogy , making it fall on its face and land poorly ) is ludicrously lame , so you shouldn't have to play it through just to get to the reveal ( because the effort , to me , was by no means , in any kind of way , worth it ) . . . heck , you can just PM me and ask , and I'll tell you ( or , even easier and faster , eliminate the middle man and go read the franchise's entry on Wikipedia , which contains a detailed description ) . I recommend it only to the biggest fans of the Commander Keen series , DOS games and platform games . Everyone else ( heck , even those that are one hundred percent certain that they belong in the first category ) , please think long and hard if you really need to play through this game , as it's considerably more frustrating than the first two , and much , much less of a good platform action adventure game than the last four of the franchise .
Typical Schwarzenegger flick	Arnold Schwarzenegger has a wide fan base . The reason he has it , is because of the way his typical action movie formula appeals to just about every man who likes to watch action movies ; big guns , one-liners and plenty of action . The reason most Schwarzenegger films have an audience is because we all know that Arnold rarely deviates from this formula , so we can always expect him to kick ass , dispense one-liners and carry guns that are so big that one who doesn't know much about him might think he is overcompensating . In this , he doesn't deviate much from the formula , but I found it somewhat interesting that he did actually get hurt in this one . Normally we never see him get hit , kind of like James Bond ( only more raw and less of a sex-addict ) , but in this , he was injured at least twice . He also has fewer one-liners than usual , and some of the action is less raw and violent than usual , for a Schwarzenegger film . The plot is pretty good , and less far-fetched than many of his other films . The pace is decent , but the film could ( and should ) have been shorter , because by the time the " showdown " comes around , you've grown tired of the film and merely want it to end soon . The action is pretty good . The ( apparently ) famous short sequence in which Arnold brandishes two huge EMP rifles isn't terribly overrated ( it definitely looks cool ) but it's not all it's cracked up to be . The acting is decent , a few of the actors are ( read : Caan is ) great . The characters are somewhat well-written and credible . All in all , a pretty typical , decent Arnold flick , only really for fans of him . I recommend it to fans of Arnold Schwarzenegger , and not really anyone else .
Decent look at the effects of the movie	Neither this nor The Anti-Hero's Journey were made by Rodriguez . This is a look at the physical ( mostly make-up-wise ) effects of the film ( Once Upon a Time in Mexico ) , with the title of this extra being a direct reference to the movie it's a tribute to ( going by Robert's Mariachi Trilogy being inspired by Sergio Leone's Dollars Trilogy ) , The Good , The Bad and The Ugly . The special effects crew take us through several of the prosthetics and make-up effects , with detailed descriptions and footage from the creative process . They also explain how working on this film was different than others , due to how fast Robert wanted to work , to re-capture the feeling of making El Mariachi . It's paced fine , and it gives good insight into how the physical effects were achieved , for anyone interested in such . Nicotero is always interesting as far as such go , and this does hold some details about Robert Rodriguez and his methods , as well . One to watch for the fans of either , both , or those intrigued by the effects of the film . I recommend this to anyone who finds themselves in one or more of aforementioned groups .
Less than ' Silence ' , but more than ' Dragon '	After having recently seen The Silence of the Lambs , just to review it and refresh my memory of it , and being somewhat bored by it , I sat down to see this , even though I didn't have too fond memories of it . This is the more " action-like " Hannibal Lecter film ( whereas ' Silence ' is the psychological , and Red Dragon is the half-cooked thriller-wannabe ) , as there is plenty of shooting , chasing and a fair bit of killing in the movie . Ridley Scott makes very good use of slow-motion shots , and utilizes quick cuts and some intense editing to keep shootouts and chases ( somewhat ) exciting and ( occasionally ) interesting . The plot is pretty good , but it just seems a little like it was just written to give the Hannibal Lecter fanatics a chance to see the good doctor in action , rather than tell an important story about him . The pacing isn't particularly good , and the film can be almost unbearable on repeated viewings . The acting is good , Hopkins is great , as always , and Julianne Moore is surprisingly good as Jodie Fosters replacement in the role of Clarice Starling . Both Ray Liotta and Gary Oldman are great as well , but that's too be expected from them . It was nice to see Liotta play a character so far away from the gangster-types he usually portrays . Oldman's character reminded me of his character from The Fifth Element ; something in the way he talks , I think . The characters are well-written , credible and diverse . The effects are great ; how they turned Oldman's face into that disgusting skin-less . . . mass . . . great . Ridley Scott understands horror ( as evidenced quite clearly in one of his first films , Alien ) , and he scares the audience pretty good , through gory scenes , where only a few of them are overdone ( the " bowels out " sequence was a little ridiculous . . . how did he cut through all that clothes with one quick cut from the knife ? ) . The dialog is mostly well-written . Any fan of Hannibal Lecter will enjoy most of what he says , does and pretty much all of the scenes that even hints at him . All in all , a decent enough film , but too poorly paced and very little of interest to anyone not interested in Lecter , or who's not a very big fan of any of the actors . I recommend it to big fans of Ridley Scott and any of the main actors , and any fan of Hannibal Lecter . Fans of The Silence of the Lambs might want to check it out , too .
Has real potential , but in the end , it's just too convoluted and long-winded	This sounded pretty good . . . Nicholson is mostly fun to watch , and I enjoyed Chinatown immensely ( Towne returning to write this sequel was a treat , as well ) . I enjoyed it for a while , but not too far past the half-way point , I realized that it had run out of steam . . . the film kept rolling , but it no longer kept the viewers ' attention . Jack Nicholson is no director , and it shows . . . while he is a skilled actor , he should stay in front of the camera instead of trying his hand behind it . The cinematography is close , but doesn't quite make it to being good . . . we have shots that linger , and wasted opportunities aplenty . Polanski's loose , involving camera is sorely missed here . The pacing is also off . . . the film ends up seeming heavy as a result . The writing is quite good . The acting varies , but is mostly on the positive end . The tone isn't entirely sure what it wants to be , but does create some great " noir " moments . Jake's monologues are occasionally spot-on . The mystery varied some . . . parts of it , I had figured out before the lead , whereas others only became clear to me just as they were revealed . This is a hit and miss scenario . . . and unfortunately , it misses more than it hits . This is worth watching as a continuation of Chinatown for those that want more of the plot , and can compromise with the drop in style and finesse of the film-making values . I recommend this to big fans of Jack Nicholson and those interested in seeing what occurred after the events of Chinatown .
Pretty good , for a made-for-TV horror film	I'll start this review by saying that I've read neither of the short stories that this movie is based on , neither Stephen King's Chattery Teeth , nor Cliver Barker's The Body Politic , so I can't comment on whether or not they're accurate conversions of the stories . I will say , however , that based on my limited knowledge of King's work ( and my even more limited knowledge of Barker's ) that I do believe that they did a pretty good job on bringing the stories to life in this movie . The plot for both stories is good ( yes , even the King story , I have to admit , though I despise his works ) , and it's both involving and interesting , for both segments . The acting ranges from made-for-TV standard , and slightly better ; all four of the leads did a good job , as far as I'm concerned : Christopher Lloyd , Matt Frewer , Raphael Sbarge and Missy Crider . I especially enjoyed Lloyd , and his character , the storyteller , who is in both the prologue and the epilogue for both segments , and gives a further chill down the spine with his afterthoughts for both stories . The characters are well-written , credible and easy to relate to , which , I guess , can be credited almost as much to the original authors ( King and Barker ) as the script writer and director ( who , incidentally , is the same person ) . Both segments are about equally chilling and horrifying , though the first has more buildup and the second has more actual action , which shows the difference in the authors ' styles . The direction is pretty good , especially for a TV movie . The special effects are about as good as they get for a TV movie budget . The horror in both segments is fairly chilling and disturbing . They also both give you a little something to think about , once the story is over ; this is also pushed a little further in the epilogue for both segments , by the storyteller , Lloyd , which obviously proves that the director / scriptwriter Mick Garris certainly understood both stories , as well as their underlying themes . All in all , a pretty good way to spend 90 minutes if it's on TV and you've got nothing spectacular to do , but not something you'll be watching over and over again . Good for one or two viewings , if you're into this type of horror . I recommend it to fans of King , Barker and Lloyd , and possibly also Garris . Good for spending 90 minutes watching if it's on , and you've got nothing better to do .
One of those films that you either reject or embrace	For a comic book movie ( which this definitely is to some extent ) this is fairly good , though it is beaten by films made both earlier and later ; films like Batman from ' 89 , or Hellboy from ' 04 , and many more . This is what defeats it , coupled with the fact that it definitely won't meet everyone's expectations nor will it fit everyone's taste . It's dark and moody , and has a great deal of atmosphere , and this is what makes the film enjoyable . It also does present a somewhat realistic hero , by giving him a gigantic network of agents operating all around the world , the ability to use telepathy to hide his existence and his true identity , and his invisibility . I found him to be a fairly interesting and exciting hero , but I know that not all will . I can imagine many also will be unhappy with the fact that the film takes place in a time far from our own , and in the past rather than the future . It takes place in and around the 1930's , and it does present a pretty believable vision of that time . The plot is good , not to say great , and moves along at a good pace . It's not too fast , but not too slow , either . The acting ranges , but it's mostly good , if not great . I found most of the main characters to be quite well-acted and credible . Alec Baldwin , John Lone , Penelope Ann Miller , Peter Boyle , Ian McKellen and Tim Curry . . . all did pretty good jobs . I have to say , Baldwin and Curry gave the best performances , in my opinion . The characters are well-written and credible ; I especially liked Shiwan Khan , who was without a doubt a very worthy adversary of The Shadow . The special effects ( especially the CGI ) is not very impressive by todays standards , but it looks good enough , and it does the job it's supposed to . The action sequences were fairly good , though of course it can't compare to the standard of comic book movies of today . The problem with this movie , apart from everything I've already stated , is that it feels a little too Hollywood ; the sub-plot about the love interest , the climax , some of the dialog . . . it's good , you know , but it just feels a little too mainstream to be great . All in all , a great movie , about a somewhat believable hero . Too bad a sequel probably won't happen , as this did have potential to be a great franchise . I recommend it to fans of comic book movies , and possibly fans of the other The Shadow material ( the magazine , the TV series , the movie from ' 37 , and possibly even the radio shows ) . Fans of the actors or general fans of the main genres might also want to check it out .
Going by the amount of laughs in relation to the running time . . . this is pretty unimpressive	I've always liked Jonatan Spang . . . he's a funny little ( literally . . . he's short ) comedian , who has a style of exploding in angry , loud rants occasionally . . . . Yes , I think I do tend to like aggressive ( stand-up ) comedy . Anyway , mostly , he's quite funny . He's often all over the place , joking about everything . Here , he determines a central topic . . . ladies . Maybe that's where it went wrong . In the interview ( which takes ten minutes . . . a note to anyone who hasn't already seen this ; the 130 minutes is the 1 hour and 15 minutes of the regular show , the 10 minutes of interview and the last show . . . which I believe is around 45 minutes , but I never watched more than a few minutes of it , as Rune Klan ( read my comments on him in my review of Den Ægte Vare ) is in it ) , he also mentions that he's into theater . . . and that this was an attempt to mix that with comedy . As I'm not terribly into theater , this might also explain my low opinion of it . My father and his girlfriend not actually really liking it , either , however ( as at least he has been known to enjoy theater ) , is harder to explain . He also mentions how he goes through various views on women . . . from a male chauvinist to , well , a woman . The humor often comes off as childish and in spite of many great efforts , you simply find yourself sitting and watching this , minutes passing . . . and not a single laugh . Many jokes work great , several of them are really funny . . . but so much of his material is just too based on shock value , crudeness or " silly " humor , laughing at stupidity . He has a fair bit of energy , but you just find yourself sitting around , waiting for the next good joke to come around . . . for far too long . The DVD , apart from aforementioned extra show and interview ( which is fair ) , also features a commentary track with two females ( presumably stand-up comedians ) reacting to his show . Good for perspective . Exposing a few truths and featuring some ( but frighteningly few ) really good points and punchlines , this is just above average . . . but only just . I recommend this to fans of crude , sexual humor , and the biggest of Spangs fans . Most anyone else should probably just skip this .
A tad too much sex-related and low-brow humor . . . Jan , you've done better	Before I write this review , I want to make clear that I did enjoy this show and I do not regret watching it . . . but I am afraid I don't regret not giving it my full attention , either . The warm-up with Omar Marzouk ( who , in spite of the tag-line , is not terribly present in the show ) was surprisingly good . . . my general perception of the man is that , while a fine performer and fairly witty , he's very one-note in his jokes , being an ethnic minority ; his material rarely goes beyond " this part of being a Muslim is funny , because ( . . . ) " . I have no real problem with that , but I feel that humor should be diverse , and I somewhat seldom find him entertaining . All kinds of comedians and entertainers deserve a chance to perform , he's just not one I take particular enjoyment from watching . . . at least not usually . The exception proves the rule , as they say ; his presence steals the show , and in the brief period of time he spends on stage , there barely passes a moment without the audience laughing at yet another clever and well-delivered observation . Oh , if only the same were true of the rest of the show . Running at just about two hours , this show is neither overlong nor too short . Jan is manic and loud as usual , and some of the material is nothing short of hysterically funny . There just seems to be too much of the crude humor that he seems to be fond of at times . Personally , I feel he's at his best when he has little or nothing of aforementioned style of comedy in his show . The show has relatively few jokes about the Middle East , as surprising as that may seem , given the title . Most of them are funny , though . The rest of the show consists of Gintberg making fun of , well , just about everything . As usual , he picks on bikers and body-builders , and he doesn't seem to be too fond of the new government , either ( but who can blame him ? ) . He jokes about Catholicism , Ikea and a reality show or two . He's in fine shape as far as the delivery goes , with the intellectual , word-heavy rants and visual impressions , both of which garner many ( well-deserved ) laughs . The DVD has some special features ( most of which are in no way memorable , as is sadly also the case with the stand-up ) , including a ' comics commentary ' , with Marzouk and Gintberg , which is interesting to listen to , and works well as proof that Jan , in fact , can talk at a normal rate and volume ( and apparently also sit or stand still , as it would presumably take to record a commentary for a DVD ) , something many who see him perform would no doubt have an incredibly difficult time believing . All in all , this is worth watching , though I would advise that you try to see this for free before purchasing , unless you are an absolutely huge ( not necessarily physically , though I can't for certain say that it would hurt ) fan of Jan Gintberg ( though I would consider myself to be , or at least close to , though I by far prefer Anders ' Anden ' Matthesen ) . I recommend this to fans of Jan and Omar and people who enjoy crude humor and / or jokes about , as the title alludes to , jokes regarding Islam .
After seeing this popular 80's horror-comedy , I just have one question : That's it ?	After finally seeing Gremlins , after hearing so much about how much better it is than the second ( which I've seen two or three times , as my favorite Danish TV network seems to be crazy about it ) , I can't help but think : That's it ? That's what I've been hearing so much positive stuff about ? The only horror lies in the horrible out-dated effects , and the humor , or lack thereof , is typical for 80's comedies . Really , what does this film have to offer that any other film doesn't ? It's got all of the typical monster-film clichés just to show exactly how uncreative and unoriginal the writer and director is . The main cliché being ; no one believing that there is such a creature , until they see it with their own eyes . . . and even then , they're doubting the hero . The jokes are tired and dull , and repeated into endlessness . . . the father-character's inventions not working , the Gremlins acting senselessly , noisy and destructively ( strangely reminiscent of bratty children or the typical guy who's a jock and / or drunk ) . . . not to mention them acting like humans ( " look , it thinks it's people ! " ) . What's funny about dressed up obviously fake puppets smashing things , anyway ? I can't imagine why this would be funny to anyone but the kids . The really small kids . The infants . The plot is lame . The pacing is off ( I was bored throughout most of the film and was half-asleep when it was done ) and uneven . The characters are mostly poorly written clichés not to mention terribly unimaginative . . . the old lady who's basically a Mrs . Scrooge , the old wise Asian guy ( Japanese , Chinese , whatever . . . he's got those Asian eyes and he's old , so he must be very intelligent , reserved , and spouting nonsensical fortune cookie slogans ) , the old guy who complains a lot . . . come on , I mean . . . did Joe Dante and Chris Columbus just want the paycheck really , really bad , and didn't feel like bothering with giving us viewers a decent product ? The acting is nothing special . The special effects are instantly see-through and awfully outdated . The humor is dull and repetitive . Well , I suppose if you like seeing stuff blow up ( which the father-character's inventions always do , eventually ) and poorly designed puppets destroying pricey items , you might like it . Otherwise , I don't really recommend this to anyone . . . unless they're die-hard fans of 80's films . One last thing ; what the heck was up with the supposedly depressing black comedy-like story Phoebe Cates ' character gives towards the ending of the film , to explain her not celebrating Christmas ? I mean , I understand her and all , but was that really necessary ? It felt very out of place . I don't mind a depressing story about Christmas , not at all , but it just seems like they were originally making a much darker film , and then decided to redo some scenes , but forgot that one . OK , one last thing ( I promise ) : why am I not surprised that the US is one of the few countries to give this film a rating that says that children can watch it ? It's got plenty of violence and disgusting imagery , so I can't see why . . . oh , that's right . . . there's no sex in it . Silly me . Because , as we all know , sex is the very worst thing in the world and children may not , under any circumstances , be subjected to it ( or even a hint of it ) on screen . Please . The MPAA are ridiculous in their ratings . This is a childish film , no doubt about that , but hardly a children's film . I recommend it to fans of 80's films and not really anyone else , as I doubt anyone else will enjoy it . My rating is only above 5 to acknowledge the effort put into it .
Definitely a B-movie , but one of the more enjoyable ones . . .	When I first heard of this movie , I naturally just wrote it off as one of those ' formula ' scary movies . . . you know , find one thing that a lot of people are afraid of ( spiders , heights , closed rooms . . . and , in this case , dentists ) . But it was actually better than I expected . I does have some genuine scares , and the mood of the film is thoroughly creepy and unpleasant . Even though I've never been afraid to go to the dentist , I found the torture scenes to be quite painful and sometimes even hard to sit through . In fact , I might have problems the next time I go to a check-up . The plot is surprisingly original and interesting . The pacing was good . . . I wasn't really bored during any part of the movie . The acting is where the movie fails to surpass the low expectations towards the movie . . . it is exactly as bad as you'd imagine , and sometimes worse . The characters are also kind of stereotypical . . . there is just about every single kind of nervous girl with dental problems that you can imagine . The script also has quite a few problems . . . suddenly , more and more people show up to see the dentist . And even though the first couple of patients come out crying and in various states of unpleasantness , the rest of them are still ( somewhat ) eager to get in the chair . I did like the slow descent into madness of the dentist , Dr . Feinstone . That was surprisingly good . Normally movies like this have little to no explanation of the killers motivation , but this one had a somewhat good one . The cinematography was kind of experimental , like the camera crew and / or the director of photography wasn't sure what angles they wanted , and just threw in anything they could think of . As a result , some of it looks good , and some of it looks very first-year-of-film-school . The gore effects range from good to mediocre . I could tell how many of the effects were done , but some of them had a good . . . uh . . . effect . There was relatively little gore , which came as a surprise . . . most of the scares are achieved through suggestion and the eerie mood of the film . I found it to be a nice diversity when the kills were done without dental equipment . . . this only happens a few times through the movie , but when it does , it's a good change of pace . The film has a few good qualities , and about as many poor qualities . However , the latter group can be ignored by being a little forthcoming and looking at the good , entertaining stuff in the film . There's a good amount of attractive girls in the film , and the scares are reasonably good . I recommend this to fans of B-movies , horror flicks and possibly of the director or one or more of the actors . I urge anyone who's scared of dentists to think twice about the film , though . . . it might turn them entirely off to dentists . Everyone else , consider watching this movie . It's surprisingly entertaining and not as bad as many claim it is .
Stupid beyond belief	Another ( Hollywood ) remake of something that was popular . . . I haven't seen the original TV-series , but I tend to believe that it's a hell of a lot better than this . Despite huge star power and sex appeal , the film fails on pretty much every level . The action is dull and powerfully overdone . The plot is ridiculous . . . 30 script rewrites , and that's what they end up at ? Jesus . . . the acting is good enough , I suppose , but for so many big names in the comedy genre I expect to actually laugh during the movie . The movie spends a lot of time referencing far better movies . The special effects are decent . Too much of the film is ripping off better movies . . . the slow-motion bullet effect is an obvious rip-off of the much better effect presented in The Matrix . The film is predictable and barely makes sense . The plot has multiple gaping holes . The only worthwhile thing in this movie ( don't bitch about me saying this , I'm a guy , and the director is obviously as well ) , I'm sorry to say , is the sex appeal of the three main characters / actors . There are plenty of scenes that are really alluring and it's hard to completely hate the movie , due to that . The movie is silly , corny and cheesy , but if that's your thing , you might enjoy it . Otherwise , avoid like the plague . . . unless you're a straight ( preferably teen ) guy . Decent for a single watch and then forgetting , if you don't actually have to pay for it .
A step up from the first . . . but a pretty small one	When The Olsen Gang became a franchise , writers Bahs and Balling were quick to eliminate characters that were deemed unnecessary or simply didn't seem to make sense , in that the gang continues their adventures . . . gone are the hookers from Hansen's bar , Benny's fiancée Ulla and the two other kids in the Jensen estate . . . Børge remains , as the only kid of Kjeld and Yvonne . The acting starts to find a more grounded level , instead of always being so incredibly overplayed . Dynamite-Harry ( portrayed by none other than Preben Kaas ; who could possibly play a major drunk better than one who is ( well , was . . . RIP ) one , in real life ? ) , Benny's hopeless drunk of a brother ( who is , of course , very skilled in the use of explosives ) is introduced . The series moves towards the great films that we have come to know it for . The humor is still mostly silly . . . still containing a few mix-ups , as well , though most of these are much funnier and so infrequent , they manage to surprise you ( rather than annoy you , as got to be the case with those of the first ) . The plot is an interesting case ; not so much for the writing itself ( certainly not , it's quite pedestrian , not at all up to the level of some of the later films ) , but for how early the idea it presents came about in the series . The Gang going straight . . . no more crime . . . with the added twist that they are framed for a robbery they didn't ( but certainly could have ) commit . Added to the cast are now the well-known Ghita Nørby as the young , female social worker of Egon ( who has a school-boy crush on her . . . illustrated by the seemingly angelic light that appears around her person many of the times he looks at her . . . believe me , it's funnier than it sounds ) who helps the three " career criminals " ( before Danish audiences knew and saw them as such ) getting real jobs . Most of the jokes about about pornography are absent . . . as is the ( let's face it ) gratuitous half-nude women . In their place are more of the social commentary and satire that the first showed signs of , and that we know and love the later films for ( along with the daring heists , the human touch and the energy ) . Authority is made fun of yet again ( though less bombastically ) , and this time , German discipline and rehabilitation / psychology are thrown into the mix , too . Usually funny , and more often than not , hysterically so . This is also when the series start to feature longer films . . . the first was an hour and 20 minutes , this clocks in at not much less than two full hours . Arguably , much of this time could one do without . . . the scene at the bar featuring the gang , Harry and Mrs . Hansen , the social worker ( and a scene or two immediately following it ) is too long and could easily be cut without it detracting from the overall experience ( opposite that , however , are the delightful scenes at the toy factory , which are among the funniest in the series ) . But this is still a step up . A step further away from the mediocrity of not only the first film , but most other Danish films of the period . It wasn't until later that this series really started to stand out , but this is still a step , and one in the right direction ( it's always annoying when franchises start to step away from the path it really should stay on ) . A few key ingredients are still missing , and , overall , this film just isn't really much better than the first . It's still worth watching , at least to those who want to see how it all started . I recommend this to the biggest fans of the series and those who want to observe the roots of it . As a bonus , Poul Bundgaard shows off some of his talent as an opera singer in this film . Also , this has a fairly good amount of James Bond-ian gadgets . . . for anyone who enjoys seeing that in movies .
Ultimately just not all that satisfying	I guess it's just difficult to view this as much else than a recent entry into the recent Hollywood fad of " the big ' twist ' picture " . There are some magnificent actors in this , but what they're given to work with . . . or maybe they just didn't particularly fit the material ; bottom line is , it doesn't work as well as it could . Various performers attempt to play " creepy " , with varying results ( Fanning certainly gives it her best shot , with decent results ) . The plot , well , it's there , and it keeps the thing moving along . Pacing is fine . Acting is a mixed bag . It wouldn't have hurt the editing to turn down the flashiness just a tad ( though it's not as bad as other works ) , but it is tight and at times effective . Direction could be more engaging . There are some scares , though , and build-up isn't without accomplishment . Cinematography is mostly good , there's one particular angle that's perhaps overused ( you'll know it when or if you see it ) , and more often than not , you can't quite tell what's going on . The violence is beyond what a child should see . Effects are pretty well-done . The twist . . . I don't know , in the end , after ( as is what happens with these films ) the viewer basically spends the entire thing theorizing . . . and the very end just . . . I don't know . Some may like it . Personally , I find this to be about average fare . I recommend this to big fans of twist films and horror , as well as the actors .
Action at a high pace ; in fact , almost overwhelmingly high	Ah , the " die hard " scenario . Since the movie of the same title came out in ' 88 , many directors have tried to recreate the tension and energy of the classic action film . The great idea of an location packed with innocent people that's been taken over by a villain ( or a group of them ) , and a single good guy in the same place . . . the only chance of bringing the explosive situation to a reasonably good end . This film was an attempt at re-capturing that , and at making Keanu Reeves an action-star in the process . I'd say they succeeded more at the second . . . The Matrix Trilogy speaks in favor of that , I'd say . The plot is fair . The basic idea is actually pretty good . The pacing is intense . . . the movie hardly ever lets you take a breather . In fact , it almost reaches extreme amounts . . . becoming overwhelming , leaving the viewer exhausted rather than entertained . The acting is decent enough . The characters aren't terribly developed or fleshed out . The action is pretty cool , and well-filmed and edited . The clichés are sadly present ; the cackling ( ! ) villain , the damsel in distress who screeches more than the bus tires and the heroic ( male ) lead . The dialog has its moments , but much of it sounds too much like trying to be macho and cool . The one-liners vary , but it's hard to deny that the whole " pop quiz " bit is cool . All in all , a pretty cool ( if overwhelming ) action film that just doesn't really break any new ground . I recommend this to any fan of action , the actors involved and anyone interested in the basic idea . Just know that you may find yourself more exhausted than entertained by the end of it .
Could have been better	I guess one of the biggest problem with this film is the so-so acting of Eric Bana . Every scene he's in , that involves him to participate in a dialogue or show emotion is badly acted , in my opinion . At times I found myself laughing at how bad he actually was . Something that also ruined a lot of the movie was the transitions ; they were mostly bad , and very misplaced , and took the feeling or intensity out of the scenes . That's probably the biggest mistake the movie makes . The plot is pretty good , considering how much it strays away from the original story of the Hulk character . The acting is sometimes decent , sometimes laughable . Unfortunately , mostly the latter . Eric Bana as mentioned earlier , and Sam Elliott both perform pretty badly . The special effects are incredible ; definitely the best thing about this movie , with the action scenes ( mostly ) coming in a close second . The action is mostly good , though I found some scenes , especially the very last one , somewhat dull . It could have accomplished a bit more , I think . I guess fans of the Hulk character , especially his rage , might enjoy this . Most other people may enjoy the sci-fi aspect of the film , or maybe even the drama aspect . I can't say I particularly enjoyed a lot of this film , except for the few good action scenes , and the state-of-the-art special effects , of course . Most of the rest of the film is nothing special . I recommend this to big fans of comic book movies , and fans of the original comic book , who are not uptight about the story being changed around a bit .
Slightly inferior to Demon Knight , but in some ways better	While I enjoyed the humor and the Crypt Keepers puns more in this than in Demon Knight , the overall experience of this is just slightly inferior . This one suffers mainly under not having such an entertaining villain / main monster as the first one ; Lilith does have some decent lines , but almost all of them were sexual innuendos , which gets old a little too fast . The Collector was more entertaining , with his cynical and sarcastic personality . There's also less " action " in this one , though there might be slightly more gore . In this one , the plot also moves along a little too slowly , considering the fact that it's only meant as entertainment ; with that in mind , you have to wonder why it takes so long to tell the story and get to the gore and blood . The ending sequence was also slightly less entertaining and exciting than the one in Demon Knight . Like Demon Knight , the film manages to bring in plenty of both sex and violence , often both at the same time . Apart from Rafe ( Dennis Miller ) , there weren't really any interesting or entertaining characters . Miller does a really great job , portraying the type of character he usually does ; a slimy , sarcastic jerk . That is the Miller that we fans know and love . It's nice to see him in a role that compliments his talents so well . The film , like Demon Knight , is very gory and violent , although apart from the Crypt Keepers puns , and some of Miller's lines , this didn't have that much to offer . It's good enough to watch , if you've got 90 minutes to kill , and you don't want to see Demon Knight , don't want to re-watch it , or can't find it . The films are both worth watching , but I'd suggest Demon Knight over this one . I recommend it ( like the first ) to fans of gory horror films , and people who just want to be entertained for 90 minutes without having to think very much .
Typical Schumacher production ; decent for a single viewing	Joel Schumacher . . . a director with a pretty bad reputation among audiences , partly due to him ( from the opinions of the fans of the franchise ) ruining the Batman franchise , which Tim Burton had done such a good job of resurrecting / building . Many think he's an awful director , but the fact is that he's efficient , fast and cheap . He gets his movies done fast and on a reasonably low budget , compared to many other Hollywood directors . Personally , I find him to be a fairly talentless director , but I haven't seen Phone Booth ( which I've heard many great things about ) , and some claim that his movies are underrated . So here he teams up with Jerry Bruckheimer , the famous Hollywood big-time executive producer who has made tons of newer action flicks , and puts Chris Rock and Anthony Hopkins together in a buddy-comedy-action-flick about spies . There's no doubt about it ; the film is fairly typical Bruckheimer action flick , and it doesn't have a lot to offer , that we haven't seen before , often better . But I think Rock and Hopkins make a good " odd couple " , and they have pretty good chemistry . The plot is pretty tame and typical , and it tries to keep itself interesting by throwing in a bunch of twists . The pacing is decent , and it's possible to sit attentively through the film , once , provided that you like either Hopkins or Rock ( or both ) enough , and enjoy this type of films . The acting is good enough . The characters are diverse , credible and well-written enough . The action is pretty good , Hopkins has some cool scenes . The humor is good , Rock and Hopkins have some great moments together . The dialog is good , especially between Rock and Hopkins . They play characters exactly like what we've seen from them before , and it works pretty good . All in all , a decent but entirely by-the-numbers action-comedy flick , good for a single viewing for fans of the people involved in the production of the film . I recommend it to big fans of Rock and Hopkins , and possibly Schumacher and Bruckheimer as well .
Hidden strings pulled by invisible hands	This is a special feature found on the X-Men 1 . 5 DVD release , which came out in 2003 , and , as the title tells you , it deals with the visual effects of the film . They talk about how many techniques were used , and go into detail about several effects . There are interview bits , both from the set and from a studio , as well as behind-the-scenes footage , including actual takes , practical effects shot . It stays nicely on topic and has a reasonable amount of information , though some of it is explained so much in technical terms that those with animation experience may be the only viewers to fully comprehend it . Almost all of the interview material is of the crew , and Paquin isn't interviewed ( she appears in clips , hence the credit ) , and neither Marsden nor Singer are in it much , not to say that what they say isn't good . There are spoilers herein , so it would be best to hold off on this until you've watched the film itself . Some of the stuff described , one thing in particular , is rather impressive . Pacing isn't bad . The editing is fine , one transition is about as subtle as a jackhammer making its way through the inventory of a china shop , and really gimmicky , too , but hey , one can understand why they did it . On the whole , this is decent enough , and definitely worth watching for anyone who wants to know more about the effects of the film , practical and impractical ( I'm kidding . . . I mean computer-generated , of course ) alike . I recommend this to anyone who fits in that group , but if you're not an animation wiz , maybe make sure to watch it with someone who is .
It's not bad , it's just not that far above average	I haven't read Grisham's novel ( nor really any of his others , with maybe one odd exception . . . and I do mean odd , the one I'm referring to is Skipping Christmas ) , nor watched too much other stuff of Foley's ( Fear , and maybe one or two others ) , so I don't really know too much about either ( but I haven't really found any of the latter's to be amazing ) . The plot is good , and it develops fine throughout . Story-telling is mostly reasonable , though there are a few places where it could really use help . The pacing isn't bad . The acting is usually great . O'Donnell is a surprise , a pleasant one , Hackman and Dunaway are magnificent ( for the very most part ) , as usual . The film seldom , if ever , stoops to the lowest common denominator . Cinematography doesn't really impress . Editing is at times effective , and for the most part , it's sharp and , at the very least , sufficient . There are some good scenes in this , and it does tend to keep you interested and entertained . The continuing uncovering of the truth never lost me , on either of my two viewings . It doesn't really bring anything new to the table , or anything that you mustn't do without to the media of film . But that's not a crime , and you certainly could do considerably worse . I recommend this to fans of the people involved in making this , perhaps even fans of the author . . . even if he has said it's his least favorite adaptation .
Decent	This is a featurette found on the DVD for The Matrix , as well as on one of the 10 discs in the Ultimate release . It consists of behind-the-scenes footage , test material , animatics and an interview . John Gaeta , the man behind the technology , explains . . . throughout this . . . and thus answers the question posed in the title . It's not bad , and the information is interesting , it's just perhaps not the most gripping way to tell it . The method is described , and we do get good insight into how it works and the way they do it , the photography and all . For being so short . . . six minutes . . . it does hold a fair amount . The editing is fine . Pacing is unimpressive . This breaks no new ground , and has nothing to offer anyone who doesn't specifically wish to find out more about this particular subject . This doesn't necessarily give anything in the film away ( the first one , obviously , what with the year on this ) , and it doesn't hold anything objectionable , the strongest is images of bullets hitting , of which there is slim to nil in this . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know about Bullet-Time , and maybe fans of the franchise .
A good attempt , but too many special effects and action scenes	I don't know if this was meant as a horror movie , an action movie , or a mix of both , but I think it just drowns in way too many explosions and special effects . I hadn't expected a masterpiece when I found out that Arnold Schwarzenegger was playing the lead , but considering the material , it should have been at least a little better . I've never been that much into Christianity , or religiousness , but the story did interest me a fair bit , and I think it's unfortunate that they had to put in so many unneeded action scenes and showy special effects to impress the mainstream audience . It could have been a very intelligent movie , had it not been for that . Oh well . I guess it's fine as it is . The plot is pretty good , but moves slowly at too many points in the movie . The acting is a notch better than average , so don't expect Oscar material . The characters seemed reasonably well-written and credible . The special effects are pretty impressive , it's just that there are far too many of them , and it distracts the viewer from the plot . All in all , a fairly good action horror mystery thriller . I just wish they'd have eliminated a few of the pointless scenes , in order to also give the film a more suitable length , as near the end , it just seems like it's been going on for far too long , and you just want it to end quickly . I recommend this to people who are interested in the topic and basic idea of the movie , and people who enjoy a fairly good action / horror piece with good special effects .
Pretty good atmosphere and original concept , but very repetitive game-play and too basic	Original concepts are rare these days . Movies are remakes or sequels . Games follow the basic rules and go by what's popular , seldom creating anything new . When I heard of the basic idea of Evolva , I knew that I had to check it out . After downloading a demo and playing it through over and over , I went to the video game store and bought it . Not long after , I put the game on my shelf . . . and left it there . Recently , I started to remember what I loved about the game just after I found it , and I reinstalled it , this time playing all the way through . I'll elaborate on not beating the game on first try later in this review . What immediately grabbed my attention was the basic idea of it . You're the leader of a field team of genetically mutable humanoid creatures called Genohunters . You control four of said hunters , on a mission to rid a planet of a huge parasitic creature , that is killing the indigenous animals . Ironically , in order to accomplish this mission , you have to kill a good deal of the indigenous creatures yourself . Now , here's the real fun of the game ; in order to gain new weapons and abilities , you have to kill whatever creature has them , and absorb their DNA ( which is as simple as destroying the body ) . Whenever you meet a new type of enemy , you will be able to use their weapon as soon as you've killed them . You enter the ' mutation-screen ' , in which you'll be presented with current stats and two possible mutation outcomes . Unless you have all kinds of DNA , the possibilities will eventually also drain DNA material from your current stash . This simply means that while you can really mutate at any time , you need to kill enough parasite creatures and indigenous life forms before it's really beneficial . All four of your hunters can mutate , and do so independently of the others . This means that you can give them different abilities and make four completely unique warriors or make four virtually equal ones . It's all up to you . . . however , you must remember that most of the game has you controlling one of the hunters and the remaining three are controlled by AI which is tailor-made for head-on fighting with all weapons and abilities . The game is a hybrid of action , adventure and strategy , with the mutation system hinting at RPG . The main genre is definitely action , with a new fight around each corner , whereas the adventure is reduced to three objects which can be picked up , two of which can be combined ( guess how many different combinations are possible ) , and the strategy basically comprising of a very simple command system and the ability to control four units at a time ( well , one , with the three being controlled by AI ) . Actually , that's really the keyword of this game : Simple . And that brings me back to why I didn't play it through the first time . It's too simple in so many aspects , and I was stuck in a level , because of how simple it is . Sounds confusing ? Let me put it this way : just about everything in the game is pretty much as simple as it can be . The control is reduced to the basic third-person shooter game ( move , attack , jump ) , the mutation is simple and limited ( as described earlier ) and the AI and command system is limited to move , attack , absorb . The enemies are divided into two basic groups ; fast and armed for close-quarters combat , slow and armed with a projectile weapon . This also means that there's one basic strategy for each group ( distanced and defensive for the close-quarters enemies , up close and personal as well as offensive for the projectile ones ) . That's really all there is to it . No other interesting weaknesses so often seen in games with plenty of diverse enemy types . The levels are very linear and hard to find your way through , because all areas look alike ( which is the reason why I didn't make it through the game on the first try ) . You get a compass-like display which points to the nearest objective and towards north . That's all . Oh , and a somewhat vague description of your objective ( s ) . " Blow up a weak part of the rock . " Sure . Uh . . . what does a weak part of a rock look like ? That's how it is most of the game . You have to just try all options , and sooner or later , you get it right . Something I noticed early on was that I kept running towards later objectives and cleaning out areas of enemies which I wasn't intended to go until later on ; That's because the game never really ' asks ' you to use said compass . I figured it out by myself , about halfway through the game . You never know exactly what you're supposed to do , until you do it . The game-play is , as said in my one line summary , pretty repetitive . You walk around looking for the next objective , often fighting off enemies ( which is reduced to the aforementioned two strategies ) and occasionally picking up one or more of the three objects in the game in order to advance . The only variation comes around when you kill a new enemy and acquire their weapon . The good thing about the weapons is that they're inventive and entertaining to use ( just don't aim near your fellow hunters , because friendly fire is aplenty in this game ) . Also , once you have a weapon , you have unlimited use of it , based on a energy system that replenishes over time ( remember , it's part of your own DNA now ) . Forget about searching for ammo . Health is another matter ; there's fairly little of it scattered in the levels . Fortunately , you only have to keep one hunter alive to beat any given level . The game is quickly beaten ; there are only twelve levels , and none of them take much more than thirty minutes to defeat . The game has no replay value . Fun but easily forgotten . I recommend this game to fans of the genres . It's quite original and fairly entertaining .
Better than I expected , but considering how low my expectations were . . .	Back when I first saw the trailers for this film , I immediately thought ; " Oh . Another cheap rip-off of The Matrix . . . and it seems like they stuck some Blade and The Crow in there , too , for good measure . " I was fairly surprised when I saw it , but it didn't really show me something that fascinated me , like The Matrix and its sequels did . The action in it is reasonably good , but several of the scenes were confusingly filmed ; you couldn't really keep track of where the different characters are at any point , except for when they're on screen together . The action also almost only consists of shooting guns , which really doesn't get a lot of results in the film ; I found it to be far more exciting in the rare situations where the Lycans were transformed and fighting the Vampires . The very last fight scene in the film was also great , very intense and unpredictable . The special effects in the film are very well-made , both the CGI and in general the creature effects look very good . The film somehow seemed to focus more on the plot than the action or the effects , which is a pretty big mistake with a film like this ; first of all , it's a film made in a time where this sort of film is made to be bigger and better than the last , which mainly refers to action and / or special effects , second , the story isn't that great nor very original . I think they overrated how good the story is , not to mention all the unexplained new things they introduce to the concepts of Vampires and Lycans . I do think the story was fairly interesting , and it is somewhat original ( I guess ) . I think one of the things that annoyed me the most was that a lot of the time , I wasn't entirely sure who were the Lycans and who were the Vampires , since they basically look the same , in their human form . The plot is OK , reasonably original , but the film makes a mistake in making it so plot driven instead of focusing on at least a little more action . The acting is mostly decent , no fantastic performances , but what can you expect from a movie like this . The characters are hard to comment on , since just about everyone apart from the two main characters either are jerks from the beginning , or turn out to be jerks somewhere in the film . The cinematography is nothing special , at times it's even very bad . I have to congratulate the crew on what a good job they did on the creature effects ; just before writing this review , I found out that nearly no CGI effects were used at all . That's very impressive , considering how good the creatures look . Great job on that . All in all , the film does look like a rip-off , but only on the outside . On closer inspection , the film does have a few original thoughts in it . I recommend it to fans of dark , gothic films , containing some action and special effects , with a decent plot . Don't expect to see loads of great action sequences , or huge effect-filled scenes . Don't expect a great plot . Actually , about the action , if you've seen the trailer , maybe you shouldn't even bother seeing the film , because most of the good action sequences are shown there anyway . Only watch this if you really love this type of films .
Wax on	I like the original . It's no masterpiece , but Price is cool to watch and the concept was different . I tend to dislike remakes . . . unless there's an actual need to update , the new director has something to bring to it , or the old film simply was not that good , and an aspect ( or more ) about it deserves another try , I am of the opinion that they shouldn't really be done . I could write a rant , perhaps even a lengthy one , in a review of one , about such , presumably concluding that sooner or later , this relatively recent fad ( lately , it's being done more than can be justified ) will have to end , as eventually they'll run out of other people's work to do-over , and creativity will yet again be a prerequisite of every one of the , and not just many ( hopefully still most ) , movie-making processes . But not this one . No , this one is actually fun . Turning the 50's piece into a slasher was by all means an obvious move , but it paid off . There are even homages and references to it . The plot isn't bad , and it develops fine . The acting is reasonable , with Hilton being the definite low-point of the bunch , but is anyone actually surprised by that ? The way her character was written was fitting . The script has some nice twists and unexpected events . The music worked well . The cinematography and editing show measures of inspiration , and among the reveals are great ones . The suspense and scariness is pretty solid , most of the way . The story is decent . I would advise against reading too much about this before having seen it , you may accidentally catch spoilers . There is a bit of language , a little sexuality , and a lot of violence , gore and disturbing content . I recommend this to fans of horror , particularly this sub-genre thereof , and those who helped put this flick together . It's certainly sufficiently entertaining and enjoyable for at least one viewing .
Just OK	This movie started out as an apparently good movie , but about halfway through it started to go to hell . The only mildly good thing about the latter half of the movie was Sean Connery , who pretty much shines through the entire movie . His acting was pretty good , and could have been a saving grace , had the movie not been so bad . The end was especially horrible , as it was a nearly total ripoff of Cape Fear ( the new version , with Robert De Niro ) , in fact , several lines were taken directly from that same scene in the movie . The second-to worst thing is the ' twist ' in the end , that was so obvious that I could just as well have been sitting there , waiting for it to happen . The worst thing is that the twist ruins everything that has happened up to that point , and makes the whole movie pointless since it directly opposes nearly everything that happened in the movie before that . I wouldn't recommend this to anyone other than huge fans of Sean Connery , or people who love to watch crime mysteries . Other than that , there is no reason to waste time on this movie .
Not a particularly good movie , but watchable for Carrey fans , and does have a good message	Since I was a fan of Jim Carrey ( almost a borderline psychotic fan ) a few years ago , I saw just about any Jim Carrey film I could get my hands on ( even the somewhat doubtful Batman Forever ) . Therefore , I saw this one many , many times , even memorizing every single funny line and facial expression ( I told you I was a borderline psychotic fan ) . Not long ago , after having my fandom reach a somewhat more healthy level , I realized that I haven't seen this film for several years , and I had never written a review ( which may be a good thing , since I would have praised it just a few years back ) . The plot is somewhat good . It's about a cable guy who just wants a friend . The acting is pretty good , by pretty much everyone . The characters are well-written and credible , though I thought that the character of Robin came off too simple-minded and " easy " , and Owen Wilson's character was just too one-dimensional . I know that we were supposed to hate him , but jeez , can't you give the guy a little personality ? When he hate him for no particular reason , it's harder to enjoy what happens to him ( then again , maybe we weren't supposed to enjoy it , and it's just me who thinks I'm supposed to enjoy it , while we're actually supposed to feel bad for him . Who knows ) . The humor wasn't really that good , the crude parts were almost embarrassing . The typical Carrey humor is somewhat present , but only the biggest of his fans will enjoy it . There is some pretty good satire present , mostly dealing with people's TV watching habits ( as The Truman Show also had ) . The film has a pretty good message / moral , which is something to the extent of : everybody needs other people , and don't sit too much in front of the TV . Unfortunately , this message isn't very well-presented or executed , and therefore , it ends up being a slightly tragic comedy-thriller , instead of the great film it could have been . Some final thoughts ; is there a particular reason for the many comedians that are in this film ? Janeane Garofalo , David Cross , Jack Black , Owen Wilson , Andy Dick , even the director himself , Ben Stiller , has a minor role . I don't know if this was some sort of " comedians unite " or something . Also , I wasn't entirely sure if I was supposed to feel sorry for or hate The Cable Guy ( Jim Carrey's character , not the film ) . He does some truly despicable things , but then again , he just really wants a friend , right ? What more can I say . . . I enjoyed the various references to popular movies and TV shows , and the film as a whole is enjoyable , I guess , and not overlong ( it's just about 90 minutes ) so I guess if you want to see it , go for it . You can't be that disappointed . I only recommend this to big Jim Carrey fans , and possibly fans of Ben Stiller's directorial style ( if he has one , I'm not sure ) .
Decent at best	First off , I haven't seen the first one , so I can't draw any comparisons between the two . The film is a trilogy , a collection of three horror short stories . Each lasts about half an hour . They are reasonably entertaining and scary , but on repeated viewings , the effects and the acting seems cheap and tame . The stories are all three pretty good , but they could have been more well-done . The acting isn't all good ; the leading lady isn't a terribly good actor . The supporting cast are of varying talent . The first time you see the film , it might be reasonably scary , but on repeated viewings it quickly falls apart , due to the low-budget cheap special effects and less than impressive acting . Especially the effects on the final story , not to mention the overdone sound effects , often actually inspires laughter , rather than fear . Also , according to many people , the story of the doll , the last story in the trilogy , is basically a remake of the first . I'd like to see the first Trilogy of Terror film , from ' 75 , since it seems to be far better , judging from all of the reviews . All in all , it makes for a decent watch , once , if you can see it for free . I recommend it to fans of horror movies , who can see it once , for free . Just don't expect anything great .
Not too memorable	I've been a fan of William Gibson for a few years . . . I've read his Cyberspace trilogy and Virtual Light . This film is easily recognized as a work of his . . . the body-upgrading implants , the visual representation of cyberspace and the dystopic future world are among the trademarks of his work that is seen here . They might not be terribly well-presented , but at least they're there . His creativity is also all there . In expanding his short story to fit feature length , Gibson puts in too many subplots , too much symbolism and in the end , it just feels to " big " , especially with all the un - and underdeveloped material . Sad , considering this man coined the term Cyberspace and basically predicted what we're moving terribly close to in terms of everyday life ( superficiality reigning , and technology as part of us human beings ) . I'm impressed with his writings , and I may look for the original story behind this film . I might even try my luck with the one other feature production based on his work . The plot is interesting enough , takes off as it should , and develops fine . It's somewhat predictable , though , in spite of some good surprises , early on . The pacing is fairly good , though it slows down somewhat near the very end , and at one or two other points throughout the film . The action is OK , though quickly forgotten . The cinematography is pretty . . . Longo may not know much , but he knows how to assemble nice-looking shots . The acting is so-so . The dialog ranges . . . at times , it's really good , but some lines are downright embarrassing . For the most part , it's at least fair . Gibson's sense of humor and social commentary is clearly present , which is nice . Also , for any other fans of him reading this . . . there is , in fact , some hacking in the film . It was definitely what I enjoyed most about the film . The effects are fine , if dated today ( obviously , since the film is a decade old ) . The DVD has a few special features , which are fair . All in all , you're probably better off reading the short story . OK for a rental or if you can watch it for free , and you're a big fan of Gibson or someone else who had a lot of creative control on this film . I recommend this only to the biggest fans of William Gibson and possibly others who worked on it .
" Oh no . . . the Style-O-matic 3000 is stuck on hyper-drive . . . I can't turn it off ! "	OK , admitted , this documentary isn't constantly as over-stylized as I perhaps insinuate . But when it is , it's . . . not good . Not pretty . Coupled with a handful of really silly bits , if they are maybe reasonably executed , and the fact that it's edited from at least much of the same footage also used for the film's part of the Shadows of the Bat series , as well as the other special features on the DVD ( which are all of far superior production quality ) . . . yeah , this " making of " feature on Batman Returns comes to be a considerably less interesting special feature than , well , all the others on the DVD . The rushing editing of much of it doesn't exactly help . Still , you could do worse , and this does have some things that make it worth watching ( and some of it is decently cut ) , be it behind the scenes footage , interview bits or actual clips of the film . And if you haven't watched the film , this can be watched beforehand ( though it will of course spoil the surprises of the costumes and such , but hey , it could be argued that the trailer or poster does the same ) . Urich is a decent enough host , though he doesn't really help fight the stream of camp . The production is very obviously put together for TV , and seems to try to fit in too much , as well as make sure it can cut to commercials every so often . If you can tolerate the look and the cringe-inspiring gags ( believe me , " gag " is the appropriate word ) of this , it isn't bad for a viewing or two . And hey , like I said , the film won't particularly be spoiled for you if you see this first . I recommend this to fans of the film and the people working on it , and since this is on the new DVD , you won't have to go out of your way to find it .
Hardly worth watching , except for one of the end scenes	When will Hollywood stop coming up with ridiculous plots to crap out more cookie-cut romance comedies ? It's obvious from the very beginning who's gonna end up with who , and how it'll end . The characters that we're supposed to hate / dislike are one-dimensional downright despicable and incredibly stereotypical . The one's we're supposed to cheer for aren't much more fleshed out , to tell you the truth . . . they're as thin as the " losers " of the film , only the direct opposites of them . They're goody-goody constantly nice people , as opposed to their moronic and superficial opposites . The plot is tame and doesn't evoke the least amount of care or worry from the viewer . . . ' oh no , if this and this doesn't happen , this big-budget film might not make enough money . . . how awful ! ' Come on . The pacing is bad . The acting is good ( enough ) , for the most part at least . I must say , I was disappointed by Hank Azaria as the Spanish guy . . . his accent was terrible , and the acting was below average for Azaria . The characters are all clichés and stereotypes . Almost all of the actors play exactly the same character they've been playing their entire careers . . . Billy Crystal is the fast-talking , witty guy who gets on your nerves almost instantly ; Julia Roberts plays the second-fiddle to the character who carries herself better than Roberts , but is always perky and mostly either smiling or laughing ; Catherine Zeta-Jones plays the beauty who knows she's hot and plays on it constantly ; John Cusack plays the neurotic , nervous guy who talks quickly but surely . Seth Green plays a slightly different character than what he usually does ( normally his characters are more confident than this one ) . . . however , he has virtually no fun lines or actions in the movie at all . Now , we know he has comic talent . . . just look at one of the three Austin Powers films , or Idle Hands . . . heck , even Enemy of The State , where he had a tiny little supporting role , he was funny . . . but not here . The script is tailor-made to the actors , and that makes it both predictable and boring . The film has virtually no redeeming qualities , except for one scene , near the end . It involves a few very shallow people being revealed for what they really are ; it had a very nice ' anti-Hollywood BS ' touch to it , and that I absolutely loved . That one thing pushes the film up to a , but only that . If you are forced to see it , at least pay attention to that one scene . . . it's great . I recommend this to ( very ) big fans of the actors and / or romantic comedies . Everyone else should probably just stay away from it .
Riding Boys in Cars	I remember back when I saw the commercials announcing that this was coming to theaters . I didn't think much of it . All I heard was " featuring Drew Barrymore " , and then I decided I didn't want to spend money on a movie ticket to see her in a leading role , since I hadn't ( and still haven't ) seen an impressive performance by her . Then , for the last week or so , I began seeing commercials for its airing on TV . At first , I couldn't for the life of me tell the commercials apart from those advertising Home Fries ( pregnant Barrymore , dimwitted father , etc ) . Still , I decided to give it a chance . I think I held out about half an hour , and then the film simply got too boring for me . The plot is good enough , and it develops nicely . The pacing is worse . What really tears this apart is the characters . Beverly comes off as a self-absorbed , pretentious , stubborn woman with the mind of a little girl . It's heavily hinted at that she's very intelligent and an excellent writer ( which I understand the real Beverly was ) , but we are never convinced of this . Barrymore does an awful job of bringing her character to life ; I never cared in the least about what happened to her ( which may be part of why I only watched with half an eye after the first half hour ) . James Woods is terribly miscast . Brittany Murphy does a fair job of her character , but she's given far too little to work with . Steve Zahn does a good job , considering this is the first even slightly dramatic role I've seen him in ( I don't know if he's actually done any other drama ) . On the outside , the film looks like it's about Beverly's relationships with men ; when you look a little deeper , you'll see it's about choices and consequences . The problem is , it doesn't seem like it . I never felt like Beverly made the wrong choice . I felt like she just had problems , and blamed them on her unwanted son . Obviously , this is not what the director meant . . . but either she was unable to communicate her point properly , or Barrymore just lacks the capacity to play anything other than an airhead . I'm almost entirely certain that the book is far , far better , but I probably won't read it . After seeing such an embarrassing attempt at bringing it to the silver screen , I doubt I would be able to read it unbiased . Whether this movie was ruined by director Penny Marshal's inability to create something solid or Drew Barrymore's poor acting performance , I'm not sure . But the fact of the matter is , it is ruined . It is just not a very good movie , no matter how you look at it . If you're reading this and you're interested in the story , go read the book . Stay away from this movie . If you've read it and enjoyed it , stay even further away . From what I hear , it's wildly inaccurate . I recommend this only to very big fans of the actors in it . Everyone else : This is not worth your time .
To be taken with a grain of salt . . .	Compared to the other Resident Evil games , this has poor graphics , less scary monsters , less challenging game-play and less . . . well , just less . Does this mean that the game is bad ? No . It just means that is less than what you'd expect from a typical Resident Evil game . And that seems to be more than enough reason to write it completely off for many RE fans , it would seem . Let me make one thing completely clear ; in my life , I doubt I've spent more than a few hours of gaming time playing any of the RE games . I don't care much for them . The camera angles often work directly against you , posing more of a threat to your safety than the walking dead around you . The door opening animations break the intensity and lower the pace . The aiming is painfully and unnecessarily hard . Because of my general dislike of the RE games , I enjoyed this game . Quite a lot , actually . The story may not be terribly original ( in fact , it's one of the handful or so of those stories that writers fall back on using . . . but hey , it did become an element of the plot in the first Resident Evil movie , so at least it made a lasting impression on Paul W . S . Anderson , and judging by how he paces his movies , he suffers from extreme ADD and believes that every young person today does as well ) , but it keeps the game fairly interesting . The game contains tidbits of information about the other in the series , about their time-line and the events which took place . Not awfully interesting to me , but I'm sure most RE-fans will enjoy reading them and piecing the whole story together . There's even an attempt or two at tying this game and its story into the regular RE franchise . The game-play is somewhat unique ( well , not anymore . . . but I believe this game was the first of its kind ) in combining the genres of first-person shooter and light-gun shooter . Of course , US players will have to import this game from Europe in order to use it with a light gun ( something about PAL vs . NTSC coding . . . technical stuff , a censor thing , I think ( and a fairly logical one at that , since the game does reward firing a gun ) ) . . . but that's a small price to pay , not counting shipping . Control is highly entertaining with the light gun ; you point at the screen , you shoot , you point away , you move . This is surprisingly easy to master , and you'll wonder how you ever enjoyed a shoot-em-up game without the light gun . If you don't have / don't want a light gun , the controller control is fine , too . If you hold down R1 , you can fire . Release it , and you can move . Moving is as simple and easy as any other first person console game . . . the controller isn't really made for it , and you'll miss your keyboard and mouse ( well , I did . . . never really got why they make first person games for consoles , anyway ) . . . but it's fine . Sound is pretty good ; from what I understand , if you use headphones , you'll be able to hear where the zombies ' moaning is coming from . . . very cool . Graphics are fair , but not impressive compared to the other games . The game has far less emphasis on puzzle solving than shooting than the other RE games . Pretty logical , considering the first person camera and the fact that you can control it with a light gun . Not much room for adventure elements , really . It's not really about survival either , the game is incredibly easy . . . it's just about shooting , and finding out exactly what has happened ( not that it's particularly hard to piece the " mystery " together . . . I had figured it out long before the main character , and , well , that's never a good thing in a story-driven game ) . The shooting isn't as entertaining as , say , the House of the Dead games , where you can actually blow the zombies apart , but it's quite good nonetheless . The freedom of movement is pretty good . The game is very easy ( you can beat it on your first try without much of an effort ) and pretty short . I beat it in about an hour and a half , and you can't really spend much more , there's little time spent looking for the way , and even less on figuring out puzzles . There's no in-game save feature , but it's really not necessary . The only thing you can save is how many guns you picked up . That's one of my favorite things about the game ; there are plenty of different routes to go through it ( and a pretty good amount of guns . . . all of which you can keep at all times ( none of that limited inventory stuff of the regular RE games ) , which is good ) . There are three different paths to go . Each has a different piece of the story and some enemies and areas the other ones don't ( though one of them is , admittedly , pretty lame ) . Each one has one specific gun to collect , too ( I believe all the other weapons can be picked up no matter which way you choose to go , or how many times you play , as each path takes you through many of the same areas ) . As such , there are four main guns . . . one you start out with , the other three you pick up . . . and they all have unlimited ammo ( as the only guns in the game ) , but each has different specs ( speed , reload time , accuracy , damage done and such ) . Obviously , you have to beat the game at least three times , each time going a different route to get all of them . Not much replay value apart from the three routes , though . The voice acting is just . . . bad . The writing and dialog is painfully poor . Fair shooting game . I recommend it to fans of shooting games . Fans of Resident Evil should think twice before playing this , as it's barely even a game that belongs in the franchise . Had it been an unrelated game , it would get less negative words for it , but it would probably not have had as wide sales .
I realize that the thing's invisible , but you still missed the mark	Following up on a film the effect of which was largely based upon not seeing the entity that we dread , and slowly building up to showing it / him , is not an easy task . . . just look at the Halloween sequels ( if you can stand the sight ) . Well , you don't have to . Still , it really ought to be possible to do better than this ( and I say that without even caring that much for the first ) . Clichés are introduced right from the start of this . This tries so hard to be cool ( to live up to its predecessor , presumably ) that just about every character ( and the ones who inhabit this tend to , in general , be difficult to take seriously ) who actually has lines delivers at least one " badass " quote , and yes , that does get every bit as ridiculous to watch as it sounds like it might . The plot doesn't measure up to the first , and the fact that someone watched Aliens , and really , really liked it ( be it a writer , either the one with the unfortunate name or his brother , or the director ) shows , and I don't mean that in the meaning that it is noticeable , but more " show " as in something you'd be charged a fee to enter , and once you enter the large , colorful tent , you'll view such sights as dancing animals and acrobats . It's tough to ignore . The pacing is decent . This has something the first didn't stoop to : a sex scene . Pleasing the young male demographic at the cost of potential sophistication . I'm not going to claim that the first was some piece of art , but still . The acting varies . There are good things herein : the effects improved since last time around . Weaponry is expanded . Hall is still spot-on ( R . I . P . ) . There is plenty of action , and it's mostly nicely done , not to mention shot and edited well . This isn't bad , it's just not that far from average . I recommend this to fans of Predator , the creature as well as the movie .
Not exactly what one might expect	Anderson's films are usually predictable , once you've seen at least one . His " surprises " , his tendency to play on claustrophobia , and I could go on . This one is different . . . whether that's positive or not is up to the individual viewer . The script is by the man who wrote Blade Runner ( which this is set in the same universe as ) and Unforgiven . Quite why it was handed to Mr . Video-Game Movie , I do not know . . . perhaps someone lost a bet . He does actually treat some of the ideas herein fairly well ( and there is about equal focus on that and the stuff that veers more towards the lowest common denominator ) . . . it doesn't feel entirely like a W . S . flick for that reason , but comparing this to Event Horizon seems to indicate that it's a toss-up , as far as quality goes , when he directs something he didn't write . . . it could really go either way . The plot is reasonable . The pacing is so-so . The action is somewhat light in amount . . . and it varies some , but there is some pretty good , and certainly relatively inventive among it . The acting ranges somewhat , but Russell is fine . The special effects are almost invariably great . There is a bit of violence , and a little language . I recommend this to fans of Paul W . S . Anderson and / or David Webb Peoples .
Just barely OK	This movie is really a lot less funny that what I would expect from a funny guy like Owen Wilson . . . it has few funny jokes , most of the material just falls flat . The gags are also a bit lame , half of the time . It also seems to throw in to much love drama for a supposed comedy . The plot is OK , but the movie goes at such a slow pace that I almost fell asleep out of boredom . It barely entertains at all , using mostly used material . The acting is OK , but nothing special . The humor seems tired and worn out , it rarely gets as much as a smile out of me . It does have a few mildly amusing scenes though , among others , several of the robbery scenes had me laughing a little , at least . The whole romance thing never works when it's worked into the movie as clumsily as it is here . It also seemed so misplaced in this film ; it might have worked had it been done with just a little bit more seriousness , in fact , the whole film would have had to have been more serious . Either that , or the romance had to be dumbed down . It just doesn't work well here . I recommend this to fans of Owen Wilson who really love his films , otherwise you probably won't like it much . I know I didn't .
Enough with the math , people , we've got a crisis on our hands !	As other of Bryan Harley's projects , in particular those involving Andrew Isaac , and often Jared Marshall ( and others not featured herein ) , this is quite silly . It's a spoof , a take on the trailer for The Sum of All Fears , or a fake trailer made for the film . It combines footage from the film itself , some other sources , and some shot by themselves , which includes the three aforementioned guys . There's no real plot to it , it seems to be the story in the film itself , with some changes to make it less serious . It's some scenes cut together , of varying quality ( particularly noticeable is the cinematography , both in motion and in framing ) . The editing is usually quite good , the meshing of studio-produced material and what was shot basically at their houses and such ( Bryan and crew have done some pretty convincing shorts . . . this isn't really one of them ) . The humor is almost all silly , and some of it is rather random . There's at least one jab at a real person ( take one look at the cast-list and you'll know who ) . I've neither seen the film itself nor a trailer , so I don't know about stuff specific to either . Pacing isn't too bad , but the whole thing , from start to finish , is less than three minutes , closer to two and a half than three . I recommend it to fans of Bryan and co . , but if this is the first thing by them you watch , please give more of their work a chance , this really isn't the most flattering piece you could look at .
Decent entertainment , but definitely not worth more than a single viewing	As I began watching this , I thought that , from the plot outline which I had glanced at before it came on TV , it wasn't going to be a particularly interesting or impressive film . Therefore , I didn't really pay that much attention to it , for the first five or ten minutes . When I did start paying attention , I noticed that it was surprisingly well done , and the style and score of the film were pretty good . So I started paying more attention to it , and found myself being entertained with it . For a while . Then it started to dive in interest , and I realized that the film only really works if you take the whole thing as just a big joke with some action thrown in for good measure . A black guy with a Scottish name wearing a kilt ? Who could possibly take that seriously ? The problem with the film is that it only sets out to entertain , absolutely nothing else . . . yet it still fails . A lot of the humor is lame ( the whole ' bollocks ' bit . . . please ) or based on juvenile stuff , like gross-out comedy . The characters aren't really that interesting or credible , nor are they particularly well-acted . The plot never really grabs you or keeps your interest . So a chemist has made a new drug that blows everything currently on the market away ? Hooray . Let's celebrate . More junkies . The film tries so hard to be cool and funny and mostly just falls flat on its face . What makes it worth watching ( once , and not entirely attentive ) is the style and the score . Not really much more to say . . . Samuel L . Jackson is cool as always . The guy from The Full Monty is decent as his partner . The female lead is fairly interesting and cool . Ronny Yu does an OK job directing . The film is at best worth watching once , without paying too much attention to it . I recommend it to fans of the actors and the director .
Has some truly hilarious moments	I've never been a fan of Richard Pryor . . . I don't know , he just seems like a foul-mouthed loud-mouth to me ( and not a fun one at that , like Chris Rock is ) . But in this film , I have to admit , he does very good work . He and Candy ( whom I've always rather liked ) have great chemistry . The first scenes had me laughing quite a lot . The plot is pretty good , but it's ( rather obviously ) not original . This is the seventh and apparently ( I've heard reports claiming it not to be ) latest in the line of films based on the novel of the same name . The plot evolves at a fair pace and remains interesting through most of the film . The acting is very good , there was no performances that were overplayed or less than solid . The characters are well-rounded and credible , with both ' good ' and ' bad ' guys being equally interesting and human ( though it's not exactly rocket science to distinguish them from each other ) . The writing is fair , but more laughs are derived from Pryor and Candy's performances than dialog and situations ( though the film tries quite hard , sometimes too hard ; basically throwing everything its got at the viewers at times ) . The humor is typical 80's , but much of it works , and like I point out in the one line summary , the film has some truly hilarious moments . . . it's such a pity that they are as few and far between as they are . I barely laughed at all in the latter half of the film . All in all , a pretty funny film . I recommend it to fans of 80's comedies , Richard Pryor and / or John Candy .
Think about it	This is a special feature found on the 2-Disc Special Collector's Edition of Star Trek V : The Final Frontier . At first , I wasn't sure why it was , apart from it being about regular people looking up at space , but then it went into an analysis by one man of certain episodes of TOS , and , more to the point , one of said film ( and a line or two about it possibly being underrated ) , spending less than half of the production on that . This has some interesting people being interviewed , including Ray Bradbury . One would almost wish they would talk about other things , as well , as what I've already mentioned is about all it amounts to . I suppose the overall point is religion , and where that is in science fiction , specifically ST , and in particular the 60's show . How deities fare there , the relations in that regard , and such . The running time is about 13 minutes . It does hold nice shots of the sky and the like , stills and animated material , as well as what may be genuine , " live " footage of it . I recommend this to , I guess , anyone who feels that what I've described here sounds worth watching .
Not a masterpiece , but sufficiently entertaining	I'm quite a big fan of the typical British humor , I find it a lot more sophisticated than the typical American humor . If you're into British humor , you'll definitely enjoy at least some part of this , as it's packed with it . Some of it is basic , and some of it is wacky , but most of it is good . It deals with a lot of the questions and stuff guys and girls have with having sex as a teenager . The plot is nowhere near realistic , nor very interesting , but it has it's moments , and the humor is worth sitting through the movie for . At the very beginning , the movie was at it's funniest , and after that , it gets slower and less funny , at a continuous downwards loop . . . unfortunately . But , it has some incredibly funny moments at several points in the movie , so it's worth checking out , unless you can't stand British humor or the heavy British accent that every single person in the movie has . The movie could have been great , if it wasn't for a few slow scenes , and some gags that don't have the funny effect they're supposed to have , but you should check it out if you're into British humor , or just plain sexual humor .
It seems like it ought to be better	I haven't watched a lot of films concerning werewolves . In general not really creature flicks . This is , obviously , something of a different take on such , and it is certainly an admirable attempt . I just , I don't know , maybe it missed the mark . There is clearly going something on beyond the whole turning ( which is handled fairly well , and this more or less succeeds in making something like that at least relatively believable and possible to take in for those not usually into that kind of thing . . . and those who might shy away from this thinking it'll be the typical entry , don't worry , you can tell the impact the director as well as its star had on this ) . Maybe that's the problem . . . in the end , Nichols doesn't know quite what to do with the wolf . The drama is interesting and reasonably engaging , but beyond that . . . well , some of it is good . If you look beyond what , at least to me ( I am open to the possibility that it's just Mike's style that doesn't appeal to me ) , comes off as uninspired camera-work ( those zooms serve more to distract the viewer than emphasize ) and half-hearted editing that occur more often than not in this , it does have some to offer . Slow-motion never really works in this movie , in my opinion . The score is fine . The acting is pretty much flawless . The effects vary , though they're seldom all that convincing . Nicholson ( who was just about perfectly cast ) is his usual cool self , and I would not at all have minded more Hyde Pierce . The plot isn't bad , and definitely has moments . That describes the humor , what minimal amount there is , as well . There is a bit of violence / gore , and a moderate amount and tone of language . Those seeking horror will probably be underwhelmed , and the people expecting something else may be shocked by some of the content . I recommend this to folk in either or both groups who consider their open-mindedness to be of notable extent . Fans of Jack Nicholson and / or Mike Nichols may also want to grant it a chance .
It could have been better , but it certainly could also have been worse	I did watch some of the animated series that precedes this , but I can't be claimed to have really followed it , so I honestly don't have a basis of comparison . From what I understand , it's better and / or much more complicated than the movie . Throughout watching , I didn't really dislike this , not as such . . . it certainly has its moments , and tends to entertain . The plot isn't horrible , and has an idea or two of interest . . . it does come off a bit like an agenda-driven piece , at times ( to say what exactly I'm referring to would be revealing spoilers ) , and whether or not you agree with the message ( if it is well-delivered , on the whole ) , well , there are other forums for expressing such , and it wasn't really evident that it was going to be such . . . and if you spend about an hour and a half watching something , you ought to take more away from it than something that could be summed up in the words " insert word is bad " ( but I would say that I did ) . The writing is hit-and-miss . Dialog does have some lines that are reasonable , but the poor ones are , at times , awful . The story does perhaps feature an instance or two of the scene that they really wanted in there being put in even though it contradicts something else in the film . Æon is almost / maybe too strong and skilled , and is too seldom in true danger . . . a flaw that this shares with Ultraviolet , but that picture has the advantage of some utterly unique , stylized imagery ( and some unbelievable action ) , and where this does have , well , somewhat stylish visuals , there could still have been more tension in the action scenes ( on the other hand , much of it is pretty cool . . . though there are occasions where the camera doesn't realize where it should point until it's too late ) . The editing and cinematography are fairly standard , which isn't necessarily a bad thing . . . except for when there are such odd angles and cuts that it takes you out of the experience , which is . The technical aspects seem rather marred by there being cut too many corners ( why all the reused footage ? ) , to the point where it more or less gets difficult to ignore or overlook . The special effects vary , but some are good . The look is nicely done , costumes , props , all the way ( possibly more the design than the actual execution ) . Pacing is decent , I was never really bored . All in all , it is definitely watchable . Worth watching ? Well , if you know what to expect , and the film is what you want . . . I enjoyed it , not everyone will . Don't go in thinking you'll be treated to mind-blowing sci-fi , action of Matrix proportions or execution , or something that will make you re-think your life . . . instead , just know that the action is awesome more often than it isn't , and that not-rid-of-clichés plot is not as stupid as that of an awful lot of sci-fi action fare . I recommend this to those interested in what I describe immediately preceding this sentence . Fans of the show may find themselves disappointed .
Average , only really enjoyable by Tomb Raider fans	This has some similarities to Indiana Jones films , the only big difference is that the hero is female . The plot is OK , only a little more ridiculous than typically for the adventure genre . The acting is average , no Oscar performances and no horrible performances either . The special effects are pretty good , but nothing fascinating . Something that annoyed me a bit was the fact that there seemed to be more attention devoted to finding ' exciting ' locations for the film than the action sequences . The action is mostly average , but with just a little more work , they could have been so much better . I doubt that typical adventure / Indiana Jones fans will really enjoy this , it seems to be made primarily to satisfy the fans of the video-games . On a final note , if you do enjoy this movie , you should check out the DVD . It has loads of good special features . I would only recommend this to big fans of the games , since it doesn't offer anything you wouldn't find in pretty much any other film , apart from stuff that only the fans would enjoy .
Highly entertaining . . . but make sure you know what kind of movie you're in for	The genre of B-movies has taken a lot of flak . . . they're simple , they're of low cinematic quality . . . and let's not even get into how poorly done the vast majority of them are . In spite ( or because ) of that , many of them end as guilty pleasures and cult classics . This , my friends , is the ultimate B-movie . Starring the king of one-liners and senseless violence , Commando is an hour and a half of pure , unadulterated action . Explosions , gunfights and macho-ism all over the place . The trivia informs us that Schwarzenegger kills roughly ( meaning it's an estimate . . . there's simply too much high-octane death going on in the film for anyone to provide an accurate count ) 78 people in the film . . . that's almost one person per minute in the film . The plot is thin as paper and close to nonexistent . Backstory is sloppily told with a complete lack of subtlety . The character development is hardly there , and the characters are all completely one-note . The acting is beyond ludicrously bad . The score is mostly overplayed , coupled with a few really dated rock & roll songs . But who is looking at or for any of that ? On the other hand , the action is great ( if the shots are somewhat uninspired . . . little of the cinematography is exactly extraordinary , or even beyond average ) and the one-liners are very funny ( good thing , too , as basically half of the dialog consists of them ) . With this film , you have two choices . . . go with it , accept that what you're watching has no value other than entertainment . . . or hate the film and regret watching it . If you should choose the first , you will be treated to Arnold running around with a large arsenal of weapons , gunning down baddies , fighting off less than forthcoming security guards and detonating massive amounts of explosives . This is just too good to miss for any fan of B-movies . . . remember , you can't say guilty pleasure without the word " pleasure " . I recommend this to any fan of Arnold , B-movies and action .
Worth a watch or so	This is a twelve-minute documentary , detailing the work on the costumes of Batman & Robin , featured on the 2-Disc DVD release of said movie . It's a reasonable enough special , and has some good information about the costumes , both design and use . In addition to obviously the crew behind the costumes ( of which Dragon Dronet is by far the most entertaining to listen to . . . he also delivers the funniest anecdote ) and such , the director ( who doesn't sound like as big of an idiot as he does elsewhere on the DVD ) and the star actors ( all five of them ) are interviewed . Silverstone comes off as a spoiled brat , if nothing else , compared to the others , and really doesn't have much to offer in her parts . Thurman isn't featured much . Clooney makes a good point or two , and is more or less just his cool , charming self . O'Donnell isn't bad , and he points out something in the film that doesn't make that much sense , which makes him alright in my book ( view stuff critically . . . if you don't acknowledge some things being bad , how can you ever expect to get anything of a higher quality ? ) . It has something to offer for anyone interested in the film or at least the costume work that went into it ( which wasn't actually poor , more misguided ) . I recommend this to anyone who fits in either or both aforementioned groups . It's good for at least a single watch or so .
From someone who finds some of Tarantino's work interesting . . .	I don't like Reservoir Dogs . Matter of taste . Call me an ignorant film aficionado if you must , but I simply don't see what all the fuss is about with that film . I've later enjoyed several of Quentin's films , though . Anyway , when I heard of this 10 + minute long ( or should I say , short ) documentary comparing it to another movie , I was intrigued . I must say , it's hard to deny that White has a point . There are frighteningly obvious and clear similarities between the two films ( though there is no doubt ; even from someone who doesn't care in the least for the film - such as yours truly - Tarantino definitely improves on the original ) , and I'm not certain that Mr . T acknowledges his source . If he does , there is no grounds for the allegations put forth here . . . if not , Mike is a man who goes against the herd , one that is not afraid to stand up and tell the rest of us ( though a few have made similar claims , few , if any , have gone this far with it ) that the emperor has no clothes ( or , at the very least , he's embarrassingly under-dressed ) . I recommend this documentary to anyone who's seen Reservoir Dogs . . . regardless of whether they love it or not . Keep an open mind . You might be surprised .
It has some to offer	This nine minutes long documentary is featured on the Special Edition DVD release of Batman & Robin , and it details the special effects of said movie . It isn't too bad , and one crew-member explains / details the major change in how special effects are done , and what purpose the creators of them need to serve , what need they fulfill , and this is the absolute high-light of this presentation . Some footage of the behind the scenes people planning and such is featured . Schumacher doesn't sound the most like an idiot here , but he still . . . really has nothing to say or offer ( I shan't subject myself to the feature commentary by him . . . for anyone who does , I wish you the best of luck , and I am impressed if you make it out with your tolerance of boredom still intact ) , nor is that smart about saying it ( when Arnold can say it better . . . gosh ) . There is some material about the miniature shoots , which wasn't too bad . The overall thing to this , though , is . . . CGI . And person after person saying " see how good we can make this look ? You can't even tell " and , well , the problem is , yeah , we kinda can , it didn't look that good in the film . The film had a number of problems , and one of them was overusing a still young technology , that of animation meant to look like real movement ( cartoon animation has looked good for a while , but real people animation . . . well , we're still struggling with it , it's still seldom seen done right , and I tend to lean towards the people who feel that it should only be used to supplement , and / or take over where what we build ( come on , you can tell it's not real , sometimes ) stops working . I'm not saying we shouldn't use it , we just shouldn't overuse it , either , if more of the footage in a film is CGI than live-action , come on , take that extra step , just go for an all-CGI feature , instead ) . I recommend this to anyone who follows the evolution of special effects technology , and / or any fans of the film ( however , I would guess that the first group is considerably larger than the second ) .
It's fine	There are seldom many places to go , for behind-the-scenes productions . The main point is arguably to inform and spark an interest in the film in whomever watches it , and as a bonus , perhaps entertain or at least not bore you . This is as plain as the majority of such , but it isn't bad . In about 14 minutes , including credits , it tells you of the ideas of the film , shows a few clips of it , and has interview bits with all of the main cast members , the director and Anthony Bregman , one of the producers . It's fairly concise , and the trivia is interesting enough . It's edited and arranged well . They cover some of the excellent effects , though without really going into detail on any of it . As this is featured on the DVD of the film itself , any fan of it ( who has a DVD player ) will have an easy enough time of getting to watch this . It's worth your time , as such . The special is clean enough , I don't think there is really any objectionable material ( beyond of course the themes of the film , but that's part of the point of the very existence of this , and as such would be considerably less justifiable in having ever been made , had that material been excided ) . I recommend this to any fan of the film , as well as anyone hoping to find out more about it , whether or not they've watched it ( and if you haven't , one can argue both the convenience and inconvenience of it being found on the DVD ) .
Underdeveloped and ultimately only good while you watch it	My fiancée and I watched this together , both of us fans of science fiction . We watched the theatrical cut , not the extended version ( I have since watched the deleted scenes , however , and I'm not sure I see how they particularly improve the overall quality , though I'm not sure it actually worsens it ) . While we did think the cinematography odd at times ( though there is a reason for that ) , we enjoyed watching it . However , going over the film , and even just watching the ending , the fact that it wasn't completely satisfying became clear to us . The plot seems as though it was written to fill out 90 minutes . . . and no more . Questions are left unanswered , and writing is at times contrived , convenient . There is a definite lack of consequences to many of the actions in the film . Some characters seem expendable and / or unresolved . The pacing was fine , it kept our interest , and the film did have us guessing and theorizing pretty much throughout . The suspense isn't bad . There are a few jump-scares , but it doesn't rely too heavily on them . The effects are good . Editing is fairly consistently good . Camera-work has some bad moments , but was decent on average . The twist is good enough , it just needed more elaboration , as does the overall writing in the film . The concept is interesting , and could make for downright compelling cinema , but the writers opted for a mainstream flick which will not satisfy either the ' missing kid ' crowd or the sci-fi community . The acting is adequate , no real powerhouse performances ( and the children are not good actors , nor are their scenes particularly realistically written ) . The commentary track featured on the DVD is fine to watch if you're interested in such , it has more information and detail than I think I had imagined it would ( though it does hold some cuss-words . . . but so does the film , and some are censored ) . All in all , enjoyable enough , but sadly underdeveloped and something that had potential to be more and better . I recommend this to those looking for a quick twist-flick to keep them interested , and suggest more thought-out science fiction for those inclined to watch such .
Like Diet Scream , or a step or two further down	Don't get the wrong idea from my summary . . . this is entirely watchable , it's just somewhat bland ( and comparing this to aforementioned earlier Williamson piece is pure death to the former , pun intended ) . The concept is based on an urban legend ( mentioned herein , though lacking the clever referencing and hinting at self-awareness that , again , the other script Kevin brought us featured ) . I have not read the book , nor any other by the author ( though I've also watched I've Been Waiting For You ) . The plot isn't bad , and there is a fine enough amount of random creepiness in the movie . The acting varies , not even all the " name " ones deliver particularly mesmerizing performances . The dialog is mostly standard ( or below it ) , but it does have moments , even if they are few and far between . It usually tries too hard , and winds up not sounding " young " , hip , clever , or anything it goes for . The music is not anywhere near as good as that of Scream ( the first one , and to a lesser extent , the trilogy as a whole ) . This has what you'd expect in ( at least one of the newer ) slasher flicks , and it's passable ( if not always terribly creative ) . The scares aren't all jump scares . It can be exciting at points , and if you are sufficiently generous , it may get you going . Cinematography and editing are nothing special . I recommend this to fans of the kind of film it is , just know that there are more accomplished ones out there , and more or less everyone involved have done better work elsewhere .
Skip this one . . . especially if you liked the first	Ever heard of the saying ' ignorance is bliss ' ? Well , apparently , Peter Hyams hasn't . Despite his own ignorance , he feels that we should be told a thin explanation of everything of the first AND the second film . Despite the first film being visual and symbolic , this tries to simplify every single little thing in the first through basic , I - told - you - there - was - a - simple - explanation - to - it Scooby Doo-like explaining . Why apply cold logic when the first did so well without it ? Hyams tries to tell the story in a smart and funny way . . . failing terribly on both accounts . The guy who brought us the insipid Timecop and the plain awful Sudden Death once again manages to underwhelm us with his unbelievably stupid and quite unneeded explanation for everything that happened in the first . The film never caught my interest , even though I was quite intrigued to hear of a sequel to the visually stunning masterpiece 2001 : A Space Odyssey . The plot is dull and moves too slow . The pacing is just bad . The acting is not impressive in the slightest . The characters are poorly written and paper-thin . The film just screams ' Hollywood ' from the top of it's lungs , and reeks of it from every single orifice . The language-barrier between the Americans and the Russians is nearly non-existent . The film throws in numerous completely pointless characters that could easily have been removed without impacting the film in the slightest , top of which must be that endlessly annoying kid . The film rationalizes and explains away everything that was interesting in the first . I really didn't see any point for this sequel at all . I urge any fan of the first to avoid it , as it may very well destroy your fond memories of the first . Don't go near this one . I recommend this only to those who watched the first and didn't like the way everything was left a mystery , who wanted to have all of it explained . I would recommend it to fans of Peter Hyams as well , but I doubt ( and certainly don't hope ) that they exist .
Not particularly funny , but reasonably involving	We watched this film in English class , to get into the subject of clash of different cultures . I think the first thing that got to me was the very unnecessary gag very early in the film . . . very literally toilet humor . Anyone who's seen it will know what I'm referring to . A similar gag occurs several more times in the film . The question the viewer immediately poses is , quite simply , " why ? " It has no proper place in a drama about national identity . In general , the humor doesn't work well , and it at times even hurts the strength of the drama . The plot is fine , and it develops OK throughout the film . The pace is sufficient . What little of the humor does work , works really well . Personally , I found the male lead difficult to comprehend a lot of the time . . . had it not been for the subtitles ( as us Danes are and have been used to for many decades ) , I would have had a hard time of following the plot . The film provides some perspective on the subject of immigration as well as that of mixing cultures . These people are neither entirely British nor Pakistani . . . the father desperately clings on to his Islamic heritage whilst the rest of the family find themselves preferring their surroundings , England . The choice of whether to adapt to your new environment , become assimilated . . . or to stubbornly resist . As bad as the father looks at times , as easy as it would be to hate George . . . his cause and motivation is impossible to ignore . He's afraid . He sees the bad that complete assimilation can do , and he has faith in the ways of his old country . His dominance over the house is a thing of frailty , and the slow but determined struggle to challenge it is a big part of what makes the film worth watching at all . The film presents an image of a Middle Eastern family living in a Western country . . . whether or not this image is accurate is arguable , as is how objective it is . My final thought . . . is George's frequent outburst at his kids , calling them " bastards " an ironic statement made by the director . . . or is it simply a sad testament to the fact that , at the end of the day , that is what he considers his own children to be ? I recommend this to anyone interested in films dealing with what happens when dramatically different cultures meet , but be forewarned that the jokes rarely work and the overall film isn't as well done as it could be . I will say that anyone finding themselves watching much of the film , and not downright hating what they see , ought to watch it all the way to the end . . . a scene right by the end is funny , strong and empowering . I'm not sure how I feel about the very end , but that one scene made the lesser scenes of the picture worth sitting through .
Well , if nothing else , it is consistently disappointing . . .	You know what AvP2 really needed ? No , I don't know , either . . . but we shouldn't feel bad , because clearly the people behind this were equally , if not more , in the dark . My theory is , they took a long ( speaking of which , know what isn't ? . . . get your mind out of the gutter , I'm referring to the single player of this ) look at it , and a sentence was spoken : " Well , if we can't do better , we can at least do different " . And that was the first step in creating this , and going by the minimal nature of almost everything found in this , it was probably not very far from the last step ( please , no AA jokes ) . I'm not sure I can think of any other production within gaming which so aptly could be described as simultaneously phoning it in and trying too hard . This really shouldn't cost money . It adds basically the handful ( if even that ) of stuff having to do with the races not in the former title , and some other things , as well as tweaking one or two such , of what was already there . Two new weapons . . . dual pistols for the human ( because if there's one thing that really makes sense to put into this , it's something out of a Woo flick . . . come on , what next , throwing knives , slow-motion , stunt moves ? ) , and the equally out of place Energy Flechette ( fast-shooting . . . do I need to say more ? ) for the Ancient version of the more humanoid of the other two . Oh , and Face-Huggers now harm what they hit . . . because that was totally necessary . MP gets additions , but they really aren't that fair ( well , there are also some that are just useless ) . There don't seem to be very many maps that weren't already there , for that matter . Level design in general is rushed , and usually , quite frankly , ugly . They tried to make this challenging , which is fine , really , the issue is the way they did it . . . primarily through simply sending hordes of foes at you ( going so far as to them appearing literally out of nowhere ) , entirely disregarding the masterful atmosphere of what this is an expansion to ( and they don't even provide a final fight ( or that cool of one ) for each ) . Not all the game-play is easy , but most of it is poor . The AI is worse , this saddens me to say , but at times less impressive than even that of the ' 99 title ( no , I'm serious , and I'm not exaggerating ) . The scripting is not of the quality that it was in the second . Nothing in this makes as much sense , either . The direction in it needs some logic injected into it ( at times pretty badly ) . The story isn't as interesting , and the three aren't even all ( at the very least , not particularly so ) active in it . It does fill gaps ( though I can't claim I ever found them to be gaping , certainly not enough to justify this ) , in it being a prequel ( not sure even Lucas could mess one up like this ) , but it really does little good apart from that . This being so short means that the guns are collected at such a ludicrous pace that it stands out like a pink elephant doing river-dancing whilst performing opera-singing in German . On the subject of foreign languages . . . the Russian accents get old real fast ( remarkable , really , considering how quick this passes ) , which they didn't in that which came before this . The voices are largely the same , if the voice acting is almost invariably unsatisfying . The races don't get to do what they're good at , and aren't in situations that compliment them , or not enough so . In the campaigns , you now control others than that of its predecessor . . . a Corporate , a PredAlien , and the already-mentioned old guy Predator ( yeah , they ran out of ideas almost immediately on this thing ) . Changes are made for this reason , but hardly any of them go beyond the HUD color scheme , least of which the last-mentioned species , which just has red on both sides now . . . yeah . The first-mentioned also has another variant of Motion Tracker , but it's a 360 degree , 15 meter version . . . so essentially , they doubled one and cut the other in half , and this really isn't as much of a lazy edit as it takes away from it ( and there's barely any use for it , well , in SP , anyway ) . The one left over has an altered display for the Headbite , which actually is decent enough . New material is added , including effects / designs / textures not seen in the others . There could be more , and , as pointed out on Wiki , it is hopelessly clumsy in its implementation ( granted , some of that was my opinion ) . There just really isn't much at all to find in the films that isn't already in the VGs , and what of it this does have is either not that fun or important ones , or they're not done right . Sentry Guns , Turrets and Exo-Suits for multi-player ( and the first two in both , the last one was already there before this ) could surely be a truly great thing . . . but here it's just not . Maybe they're too easy ( and would it maybe be nice if there was at least one for the other two ? Acid spit , maybe ? Honestly , the self-destruct isn't that big an advantage , and it could be considerably more awesomely done , did these guys watch the movies ? ) to get , to use , and it could be that they are more difficult to fight than they should be . I can't say . The result is the same , no matter what . It's uneven , and battles aren't as engaging or involving . All in all . . . this just isn't worth much , if any , time , and definitely no money ( I'm grateful the copy I'm playing belongs to someone else , and was lent to me ) on , unless you're a stubborn completist ( even more so than I am , and that would be a lot . . . ask those that know me ) . I recommend this to the people I've just mentioned , and I sincerely suggest that anyone else , and those who risk their memories of the other entries in this series being ruined , especially so . . . should consider if they need this .
Fair	This is a special feature found on the second disc of the Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines DVD . It details the main characters of the whole series , and does so relatively well ( though can someone tell me what the heck that footage they used for at least Reese was , could they not get the right for actual clips of the first , so they made this . . . whatever it was , instead ? ) , and also the various machines seen in the films . The painfully obvious thing about it is that its main purpose is to boast how awesome T3 is , and comparing the amount of detail they use to describe what was seen in the earlier movies ( the fact that there was a T800 before they came up with the silly idea of the T850 , and I'd say it's clear why they thought of it , is entirely ignored in this ) to what it is for what the Mostow-helmed flick introduced , its focus is impossible to miss . You will be asked a Trivia question before you can view the separate " files " in this . In the end , this just never exceeds the level of advertising ( and when you watch this , you already have the thing in your player , so what are they hoping to achieve ? ) , to even particularly be fun , enjoyable or informational . I recommend this to those who want to do all that there is of extras . Not that it takes up that much time , anyway .
Nothing special , but not bad	First off , this should not be watched by anyone who hasn't already seen the film , unless they don't care about spoilers . I'm not sure the film will hold any surprises whatsoever if you see it after this . As far as behind-the-scenes featurettes and such go , this is informational enough . It has interviews with various people who worked on it , and a handful of special effects in the film are briefly explained in adequate detail by the people who created them . A few tidbits of info are divulged , including how locations were found and where . Interviews with the actors are also featured in this . The pacing isn't bad , and the short running time was a good choice . It isn't terribly entertaining . The editing breaks no boundaries . This and the other featurette ( On the Set - The Making of The Forgotten ) featured on the DVD of The Forgotten are fine , and fans may want to check them out . The commentary track of the film may be worth a listen to those interested in info , as well . For anyone who wants to interpret the film to be anything other than exactly what is presented : you may not want to watch this . No mention is made of even the possibility of the movie being about anything but what it , itself , ends up saying it is . I'm not sure anyone who didn't love the film would find anything in this particularly interesting , unless they deem it so from reading this review . The special effects talk isn't bad , and the interviews are OK . I recommend this to fans of the film , except for those who want it to be about something other than what it claims it is .
Dark comedy doesn't get much darker than this	This is one of the better dark comedies out there , and it's definitely one of the darkest I've ever seen . It's basic theme revolves around the many people who dream of being young forever ; many people , just in their late 30's or early 40's think about that , so It's a pretty appropriate subject ( especially to make fun of , given the ludicrousness of the very idea ) . Most people around that age will probably feel with one of the two female main characters , which are both obsessed with their looks . The plot is pretty good , definitely something people who feel older than they are , or at least think they look older than they should , can relate to . The acting is all good , especially by each of the three main characters . The characters are well-written , humorous , and credible . I really liked Willis as the nervous , weak goofy-looking husband . Both Streep and Hawn portray their superficial , slightly psychotic characters well too . The humor is pretty much as dark as it can possibly get , without involving stuff as bizarre as is often seen in a typical Monty Python sketch . However , something seems to be missing ; maybe it's because there is hardly any character who is just slightly likable , maybe it's because the film mainly just uses the plot to put in dark jokes , and never really tries to transcend the standard dark comedy . It's too bad , really , as it has a very good point . It's just hard to find if you don't look for it . The film drowns its moral in an ocean of dark jokes and gags , and , don't get me wrong , the jokes are great , I laughed almost constantly ; but it just seems like a missed opportunity to state the good point the film has . If anyone ever makes another movie about this , that just looks slightly like this it will instantly be tagged a rip-off , and I doubt that they could possibly make an equally great dark comedy like this again . If it's too much like the film , it'll be called a rip-off ; if it's too little like it , it'll be called an inferior film using the same basic theme . All in all , a pretty good film , that only makes me wish the director had either concentrated entirely on making a film about the theme , or on making a dark comedy , without any important , noticeable theme . It apparently can't be both ; dark comedies and truly good themes / morals don't go along too well . I recommend the film to fans of dark comedies and / or people who can relate to the subject , and who have the stomach for it ( the film , not the theme ! ) .
Good on some levels . . . bad on more	I remember when I first got this game , back when it was released . I was one of the viewers who found the brief stint of the well-known small green toy soldiers to be one of the best parts of Toy Story . At the time , I figured that I must be in the minority . Judging from the massive gaming franchise this spin-off has turned into ( though I've only played this , the second game , and demo versions of the third and Air Attack ) , I can surmise that I was mistaken . Nevertheless , even as a fan of the game and the concept , I can't deny the sad and simple truth ; this first game wasn't particularly good . The design is lazy and underwhelming . The areas are tired and dull to look at . The graphics in general are unimpressive . The score is uninspired , and often downright intrusive . The sound in general is substandard , though the voice acting isn't too bad . The AI leaves a lot to be desired . Often , you are required to protect or rescue other characters , and these missions prove to be downright frustrating , as a direct result of this . You cannot issue orders to the men you are meant to keep alive , so they stay on a fixed path , no matter which obstacles they find on it ( presumably , this was done to ease the programming of the levels ) . Few fight back . Something anyone playing this game will learn quickly , as I did , is that the " solo " missions are by far the most entertaining . They occasionally have a Rambo feel to them , with you as the one man army out to save the day , though some require more tactics . But the squad-based combat . . . well , it's nearly non-existent . You can only issue a few orders . You can ask your squad to follow you , attack or defend an area . That's it . Really , as much as I respect 3DO and have enjoyed their games , they should have made a definite choice here ; improve the squad AI before you release the game , or make it be Sarge trapped behind enemy lines , with no means of getting troops to him . Honestly , I can't think of many ( if any ) levels that would be hurt by removing the squad system . The levels are divided as follows ; three different area types , those being desert , mountains and swamps . Each area type has about ten different missions , scattered across four maps . This means that there's only twelve actual maps for the entire game , and you complete a few missions on each before you move on to the next . Each mission usually takes few minutes to complete , once you know what to do and you do it right . . . making the game possibly to beat within the same day you acquire a copy ( relative to how much spare time the buyer has , that is ) . The game offers you precious few tips on how to do what it asks you to do , though it is generally fairly specific on what you are to do to complete your objectives . Important tactical information is often found on the map . . . of course , that requires the player to look at it , something the game never even suggests might be a good idea . The boot camp instructs how to use the weapons , and how to control the simplistic squad system , and even goes into vehicles ( which are not all that much in the game ) , but doesn't even mention the map . Missions are often best solved by the player trying out all the possibilities , and going by whatever works ( keeping in mind that there is no save feature . . . the game only saves your progress when you've completed a mission ) , which occasionally leads to downright ridiculous tactics . It's as if the level designers had one particular solution in mind for each level , and they want you to find out what that was and do it . A strategy game should offer battles that you want to fight again . . . great experiences that excite the spirit and tax the brain . Here , you're simply glad you got through the level . This really feels far more like an action game . . . an overly hard one , at that ( with locked difficulty settings ) . The interface is fairly easy to get into , but it's tough to love . Control is slow . . . like you're moving a mech rather than a toy soldier . Yes , I would guess it's fairly close to how fast the movement and reaction speed of a real soldier is , but here , it's just annoying . Now , the game is not without good parts . . . the plot is actually quite good , if the ending is somewhat unsatisfying ( and obvious , to a degree ) . Also , the weapons , though limited in number , are very fun . Hand-grenades , mortars , mines , explosives , and , ( oh yeah ! ) flamethrowers . . . and let it be known that these soldiers don't just look plastic , they act it , too . Light up and watch the enemy melt . Blow them up and see the plastic bits scatter . I also found the method of firing the grenade weapons much , much better in this than in the second game , though I will grant that it can be a little annoying and take some getting used to . You can only carry three weapons at a time . . . the rifle being one of them ( which , by default , is semi-automatic , though there is at least one upgrade to fully automatic on each map , usually in the first mission , if you'll look for it , which I advise anyone playing to do ) , the secondary including basically all of the remaining weapons ( yup , sadly so ) , and the third being the " special " stuff , such as aforementioned explosives , as well as mines , mobile health packs and a mine detector . The multi-player has fine connection , but offers too few maps and playing modes . The vehicle system is great , though aiming ( as when on foot ) could have been improved . All in all , this feels rushed and simply does little to leave a lasting impression . It should be noted and remembered for having started the game series , but for little else . I recommend this to fans of the series and idea , but few others .
A good message . . . and , admitted , a few ( too few ? ) laughs along the way	I have a ( fairly ) vast collection of VHS tapes . I rarely get rid of anything , especially movies . Given that , there are a few among them that I don't care all that much for . . . some , I've even forgotten . There are even two or three that I've only watched once , and never really felt like watching again . . . each time it came up as I searched through my collection of films for something to watch , I would cringe at the thought of sitting through it even one more time . This is one such film . I'm not entirely sure what compelled me to give it another chance . . . I read a quote or two , half-remembered how they were said , and recognized some names on the cast . . . Phil Hartman , Ed Begley Jr . and Jere Burns ( in order of how talented and funny I'd rate them ) , all three of which I've seen elsewhere and grown to appreciate the talents of ( Douglas and Fox were the only two actors I knew the first time I watched this ) , and I think those were the main contributors , the last of the two reasons being the most important ( in fact , Hartman is one of the people on a short mental list of people that I want to watch all of ( well , at least as far as the watchable ones go ) the work of ) . As the opening credits come on , I nearly regretted this decision . . . but that went away fairly quickly after the film itself began . The plot is pretty good . The actors all fit their roles and perform quite well . The cinematography does its job fine , as well as the editing , even if they are a little weird at times ( speaking as a film aficionado ( and someone who enjoys using words from foreign languages in everyday life ) as well as someone who's enjoyed the pleasure and the privilege of trying his hands at both , it seems like there were many situations ( be it in the production or post-production phase ; shooting or editing ) where they couldn't quite think of a good solution how to get all the elements or properly frame the shots , so they just went with the best they could think of ( which leaves a bit to be desired , at times ) . It isn't that huge a deal , though ) . All those elements are fine , if not downright good . The real problem here is the humor . . . in spite of some wit and some black comedy that is among the darkest I have seen , there just seems to be too little of the film's humor that works . The timing is occasionally off , and a lot of potential ( not to mention comical talent ) is wasted . For a comedy , this just doesn't provide enough laughs to keep you watching for almost two hours . What made it truly worth it for me , and the main reason I urge anyone who decides to give this film a chance is the moral . . . the message of the film ( it alone lifted my rating above the average of a 5 ) . It gives such a clear perspective on greed , one that I don't believe I've ever seen presented before ( and certainly not so skillfully ) . I recommend this to any fan of comedies who is willing to accept a lesser comedy to get to the great message of it ( which is neither preachy nor heavy-handed , as some the moral of some message-movies is ) . Maybe the biggest fans of the actors should avoid , though . . . you may hate for the sole reason of how little the biggest talents in the film get to do .
Decent , I suppose	I " saw " this film for the second ( and most likely last ) time today . . . the quotes are simply to make it clear that I didn't pay enough attention to it to claim that I actually saw it . . . more like glimpsed at it , occasionally . Do you know why ? Because I had seen it once before . Once . That's all there is to it . The film is decent , but it's overlong , tame and much less than it could have been , which makes it almost impossible to sit through , more than once . The plot is decent , but it's mainly made up to combine drama and action in a story about a general who's put in a military prison , where he fights the commander whom he finds to be a bad leader . . . leadership is one of the biggest themes in the film , which may or may not be part of why it fails . The pacing is bad , and pretty much ruins every thought of watching the movie more than once . The acting is pretty good . Redford is good , as usual , and Gandolfini is pretty good as well . The supporting cast also do their jobs fairly good . The characters are fairly well-written , but , once again , they're mostly just there to combine action and drama . The action is decent . The soundtrack is fairly good . The cinematography is unimaginative and bland . All in all , there's just not really anything in this movie that's worthwhile . . . at best , it's worth a single viewing , and only if you're a big fan of prison flicks , Robert Redford or films about the military . I recommend it to very big fans of Redford , prison flicks and military flicks . If you have to see it , rent , don't buy .
It's OK , considering it's a TV movie	This was an OK thriller , the plot is especially good , but it just isn't as good as it could / should have been , even for a TV movie . The plot seemed great when I read about it , but it just wasn't very special once you got into it . The movie is another typical " guess who did it " mystery thriller , and it primarily fails because it's almost instantaneously obvious who the perpetrator is , and from there , it's just watching the cops get to the bottom of the case , which you've already done . The acting ranges from good to just above average , but none of it's totally bad . The excitement of the movie is barely ever present , as most of the movie consists of the mystery of who did it ( which is obvious very early on in the movie ) , and not the possible suspense of " can we save someones life ? " . It's just above average , and I guess it's worth watching if it's on TV , and there's absolutely nothing else interesting to watch . You could do a lot worse than this though , as a thriller it's just above average , and that's good enough , as this type of thriller rarely is more than that .
Just not very good	I am not a fan of basketball , Michael Jordan or the Looney Tunes . Why , then , do I own a store-bought VHS copy of this film , you ask ? Darned if I know . Maybe it was a present . Maybe it was from a time where my taste was less discriminating . . . but hey , even kids must have some limit , some point at which they stare in disbelief at the crap thrown at them . The film opens to a scene which has a soundtrack song the choice of which is so painfully obvious , that actually choosing it is almost ridiculous , goes on with such highlights as a number of the Looneys all spitting in unison , and ends in a major showdown , with occasional awful acting by basketball players , and one rather underdeveloped , faint attempt at an emotion-evoking subplot along the way . The strange thing is that , save for said showdown , there's really hardly any basket played in the film . . . one would think that to be one of the main attractions . Their lead is one of the good players of the sport , and the plot can't be summed up or described without mentioning said free-time activity . Scenes that seem like they'd lead to at least some basketball . . . just exactly don't . Dan Castellaneta shows up in a cameo , doing nothing . The plot is OK . The pacing isn't too bad . The humor isn't all good , but it has its moments . The large cast of characters , some of which are animated , allows fairly little time for almost all of them , but I suppose people aren't used to spending too much time with the Tunes , so that may not be a bad thing . Oddly enough , they really hardly do any of their trademark gags . The film doesn't overstay its welcome , coming in at not much under an hour and a half . This is the introduction of Lola Bunny , who , I gather from the Trivia entry regarding this , stayed with the franchise . Bugs is this time , and some from this point on , performed by Billy West , also known from Futurama . If you listen carefully , you can tell the " Fry " in some of Bunny's lines . The direction is done by Joe Pytka , who , before this , had done a few Michael Jackson videos and a Richard Dreyfuss comedy . The blend of animation and live action isn't always smooth . The effects look dated today , in particular the CGI , but the general animation isn't bad . The film does have some reasonable moments . . . the initial arrival of the aliens to the land of cartoons , for example . The music is good enough . I guess it's a decent enough film for those who are fans of the sport and / or the cartoons . Just strange how much there is to be found in the film that features neither . I recommend this to anyone who finds themselves in either or both of the aforementioned groups , as well as anyone still interested after reading this review .
Fine behind-the-scenes	This is a feature-length special feature on the second disc of the 2-Disc DVD release , from 2003 , of X2 , the second X-Men film . This is perhaps said movie's version of the X-Men Production Scrapbook , on the first film ( found on the 1 . 5 DVD , not the original release ) , in that both are about an hour in length and a general , one-special-covers-all kind of behind the scenes . This does not adopt the candid tone of aforementioned , but rather goes about its objective in the more traditional way , and hey , which way you prefer is entirely up to the individual viewer . This consists of behind-the-scenes footage , stills , interviews and film clips , some inter-cut with each other . The new faces in the cast aren't too bad to listen to , though Cumming doesn't come off as having a lot to say , here . . . Hu is perhaps the best of them ( and Stanford is pretty good ) . The writers and such are quite good , as is Singer . The overall focus / tone is perhaps somewhat loose , which is not to say that the editing isn't tight ( it is ) . Some material of the rehearsal and / or planning of stunts and effects is included . The entire thing is fairly nicely put together , and does have info . I wouldn't call this memorable , but it's got a reasonable pace ( 59 minute running time and I was never bored ) , and it's worth watching for any fan and anyone who wants to know more about the film . I recommend this to anyone who fits into either or both groups .
Attack of the romper-wearing mutant kids	I don't really know , about this film . . . it just didn't seem as interesting and fascinating as some of Cronenberg's other work , like Scanners and such . . . the whole plot just seemed a little tame to me , and I have to say that I found it kind of hard to be scared by a bunch of midgets running around in rompers , attacking adults . I know that this isn't supposed to be taken literally or anything , that it's a metaphor , symbolism . . . but unlike Scanners , I never really cared enough about the film to find out , or even consider , what that could be . It just seemed too far-fetched , and hardly scary . The plot is OK , it deals with some weird new experimental method of psychology , or something . . . to be honest , I wasn't paying that much attention . The whole thing just didn't interest me as much as it should ( and obviously needed to ) . The pacing isn't very good . . . Scanners was a little slow , at times , but this just seemed to drag almost for the entire film . The characters are fairly well-written . The acting is typical Cronenberg . . . meaning , not very good . The special effects are OK , but they are way too easy to figure out for the film to be scary through this . The music / score is quite good , though , and that's where most of the scares came from . I don't know . . . maybe this had a huge impact back in ' 79 because it was new , maybe I should have seen this before seeing Scanners . . . I don't know . I just didn't find it particularly good . The showdown at the end was very tame , especially the way it ended . . . the one in Scanners had me biting my nails at the edge of my seat , this one had me just barely looking at the screen . I recommend this only to very big fans of Cronenberg , and possibly fans of B-movies . Most others should just skip this .
Sufficient	This is a featurette found on the DVD of Johnny Mnemonic , the subject of which is , well , right there in the title . It's fine , for what it is . It consists of behind-the-scenes footage , interviews ( mainly with the actors , though the director and Gibson get to talk a little , as well . . . I wouldn't know , however , why neither seem to have particularly much to say , save for some excitement about it getting made by the latter , and some . . . possessive sounding . . . self-promotion , or something , by the former ) and clips from the film . There is some narration , trailer-style . This lasts about ten and a half minutes , and does an average job . It's paced reasonably . The editing is OK , it certainly has moments , and whoever cut this tried their darnedest to keep it interesting , with music over all the material of takes and the like , and by keeping early parts of this thing tight and concise . This does hold information regarding the movie itself , but if you're looking for insight , into either this or the book ( or his other works ) of William's , you might want to look elsewhere . I recommend this to fans of , well , all that I mentioned in the sentence before this .
Chris Tucker carries it	The one reason to see this movie is to experience Tucker , who is as funny and energetic as ever in this somewhat daft attempt at a buddy-comedy action flick . Sheen and Tucker have too little chemistry to pull it off , and the whole thing just winds up being carried entirely by Tucker's great performance , which is the only thing in the film worth mentioning . The plot is good enough , I guess , but it seems like it was mainly just written to do a buddy comedy pairing up Tucker and Sheen , and comes off as a little forced . The film has a decent pace , but the main reason for watching the whole thing is , you guessed it , Tucker's performance ( which is disappointing , since Sheen and Locklear both are known to be humorous and entertaining in other productions ) . The acting ranges , and at best is pretty good . Pretty much everyone but Tucker seem a little bored with their roles , and don't do very much to bring their characters to life . The characters are well-written and mostly credible . I did find the mix of characters somewhat humorous and thought out , even if a few of the major characters seemed to be clichés or stereotypes . The humor is pretty good , though some of it seems a little forced . Most of Tucker's scenes are good , though , and he mostly manages to entertain you . The dialog is fairly well-written and entertaining . All in all , for a failed attempt at a buddy comedy , it's decent . Tucker's performance pushes it just above average . The action is decent , as well . I recommend it exclusively to fans of Chris Tucker .
What exactly went wrong here ?	While the first Blade was good , bordering on great , this was so bad that it actually hurts to watch it . You are literally in pain . The special effects suck so much that it hurts the eyes to look at them ; in the first , whenever a vampire dies , it explodes / disintegrates into dust ( which makes perfect sense , as that's what happens to vampires when they die , according to all of the myths ) , but here , they explode in a violent chaos of light , with loads of sparks flying every which way ; is this supposed to look cool ? It looks so bad I can't even explain it ( not that you should see for yourself though , don't waste money on this crap ) . The acting is also incredibly bad , particularly Leonor Varela's shockingly bad performance . The action sequences are also appallingly bad ; you're actually sitting there , complaining out loud , it's so bad , it literally hurts to sit through . The action in the first one , I was ( more or less literally ) out of my seat , rooting for Blade . In this one , I was sitting , hoping for the scenes to end ; if I left my seat during those scenes , it was probably to leave the room , until the scene was over . Truly horrible . You can't imagine how bad it actually is , unless you experience the horror yourself ; not that you should , unless you are really a big-time fan of Blade . Oh yeah , the director who made this crap , is also behind the truly horrific movie , ' Mimic ' . If you like that , you might like this . They are equally bad . I gave this movie a , but it was just because of a few scenes , which were decent I guess ; if they hadn't been there , it would have been below average . Please don't watch this , unless you seriously have nothing better to do ( which is almost impossible with this film ) .
Another sci-fi show cancelled before its time . . . the execution killed it	I've watched every episode of this . After months of uncertainty , The 4400 was cancelled . Possibly a victim of the writers ' strike , probably not the only one . . . but it would be unfair to put all the blame on said union act . Yes , this show definitely had its ups . Yes , there were occasional great episodes , such as the season two finale ( which shall remain nameless in this review , to avoid spoilers ) , and even the rare extraordinary one , such as Life Interrupted . Yes , some of the show was fantastic . Some of the writing was intelligent , realistic . Several points made , themes explored , were very interesting . There was genuinely good and worthwhile science fiction found here . How often do you find that on television ? Among the action and the special effects there were parts that were truly impressive . The drama wasn't without accomplished moments . No , this show wasn't all bad . But all the wasted potential is just difficult to overlook . The problem is , the very concept is flawed . . . it's partially overreaching ( twelve episodes per season ) , and it's also just not limited enough . The obvious gaping plot hole , the logic problem , was never addressed ( I cannot reveal what it is here , because it would be a spoiler ) . . . in fact , the show always seemed unwilling to limit itself , for purposes of concise story-telling ( and never run out of material . . . and for an inestimable amount of such , not to mention only having 42 episodes in total , for four seasons , they had far too many episodes that . . . just weren't all that good ) . Said storytelling did have something to offer , but not very much . There were too many things that they seemed to never really explain . Plots and ideas were introduced , seldom developed enough , and they either were not concluded , or it was done in an abrupt and unsatisfactory manner . Characters were presented , explored ( if even that ) , and dismissed ( another error in that department is arguably taking the Mulder & Scully approach ) . Acting was hit-and-miss . The symbolism was blatant , sometimes even insulting . It always seemed like it was going somewhere , bigger , smarter , better , and it just never got there . If it had some message , it lost it along the way . The season finales got increasingly more desperate , trying harder and harder to be given a renewal , and to promise viewers more , but continually failed to deliver . They almost never seemed to handle actors being unavailable terribly well , either . In the end , this was a mini-series that got unexpectedly high ratings , so the network decided to capitalize on that ( and the lack of ( new ) Summer programming ) by bringing it back as a series . . . and the producers may not have had enough of a plan . The people behind it maybe just weren't up to the task . The behind the scenes people were of insufficient talent , I suppose . I recommend this to fans of sci-fi and the actors ( a certain one , perhaps known more from his horror work , who's done sci-fi before , appears . . . excellent as always , a bright spot in the show ) . . . just don't expect consistent quality over the run of the series , or for everything to be wrapped up ( partially due to the show's cancellation ) .
Not all bad	The marriage of Arnie's physical type of film to the wise-cracking , not entirely law-abiding DeVito role is not an entirely happy one . Most of the humor is derived from aforementioned qualities , as well as the naiveté of the former . Like other 80's comedies , such as the Look Who's Talking series , this isn't entirely " clean " , or OK for children to watch . While the sexuality is toned down to the point where someone who doesn't know what it is won't actually realize it , they're still beyond what a number of parents would consider OK to show their off-spring . The comedy never gets to be childish , in spite of silliness and one or two downright painful punchlines . The two stars do well , and when Scwarzenegger gets to let loose the muscle , it tends to be entertaining . Danny is genuinely funny when at his best in this . This movie seems quite happy to provide eye-candy for both genders . The pacing is usually good . This does contain an argument in the nature vs . nurture debate , which earns it esteem ( except , perhaps , if one disagrees ) . I recommend this to any fan of the people involved in making it .
Inferior to the first	I can't tell you how happy I was when I got the full version of the first game . . . after having played the demo more times than I can count ; finding out that the game itself was more of the same greatness that the demo was . . . now , imagine my disappointment in finding that the sequel to one of my favorite games is nothing more than a weak attempt at a quality game and a product entirely inferior to the first . I think the real problem is that the game just seems to move away from what made the first game so good . . . among other things , the Gothic style . In the first game , you woke up in your own grave , and fought your way through a cemetery in the first two levels . In this game , you wake up in a museum ( inexplicably filled with zombies ) and fight a large dinosaur ( which is , of course , only bones ) . Cool , sure , but not really Gothic . . . not at all , actually . It becomes Gothic later on , but never as much as the first game . Then there's how nearly unmatched hard the game is . You take damage about twice as quick as the first game , and you can't go back to previous levels and use the health sources if you already used them when you beat the level , like you can in the first game . I suppose this is fair enough , but it makes the game almost ridiculously hard to beat . Whenever you're hurt by an enemy , you're unable to attack immediately after . This means that , if you are unlucky or inexperienced , you can basically be forced into a corner by a small group of weak enemies , and die from their constant attacks ( as you can't do anything but dodge their attacks and stay far enough away to not be attacked by them ) . There are far too many puzzles in the game . . . every level has at least one , and one level consists entirely of solving them . Hardly ' action ' . The bosses . . . heck , there are just about one per level . The question that first springs to mind is ' why ' ? They are less entertaining , both to fight and in design . The villain in the game is also far less entertaining than that of the first game . There , you had a grumpy old man who hated how happy the people of a small town were . . . and he just happened to be a warlock , so he wreaked terrible vengeance upon them . Here , you have a guy who wanted to be an aristocrat . . . but he couldn't be , so he decides to wake the dead ( with Zarok's spell book , nonetheless . . . one would certainly think this to be a continuity error , given the end of the first game ) and have them attack people who have nothing to do with him . He's just mindlessly evil , and it makes no sense . Also , several of the enemies don't even have anything remotely to do with him . . . they aren't even undead . What's with the villain and his two henchmen , anyway ? They use magic and are transformed into freaks . Why , exactly ? Also , the villain and the heroes are face-to-face half-way through the game , yet do absolutely nothing to each other ( well , the villain sends a boss for Dan to fight , but once he's dead , he just goes away . No one tries to stop the others ) . And on the subject of the good guys , what is Professor Kift , Kiya and Winston doing in the game at all ? The first game had you on a quest , a one-man fight against an army of evil . That was part of what was so cool about it . Now you've got a ' boss ' , a headquarters and you even get a briefing before most missions . Where the heck did that come from ? Their characters really add nothing of value to the game . . . Kift is a moron with no real purpose ( other than turning your chalices into weapons . . . what ? No Hall of Heroes ? What in blazes . . . ) , Kiya is the last thing a game like this needed ; a damsel in distress and Dan's love interest , and Winston , your every-day Cockney Casper the Friendly Ghost look-alike , acts like the gargoyle heads in the first game ; leading you on your way with riddles . This makes little to no sense , seeing as how the gargoyles enjoyed mocking Dan and merely led him further to see how far he could go , since they were certain that he would fail sooner or later , while Winston is an ally who'd want you to succeed , even if that meant canning the riddles he apparently enjoys so much . The enemies are far less creative than those of the first game ; instead , the creators of the game went for challenging foes . Then there's how frightfully similar much of the game is to the first ; as if it were trying to cash in on the popularity by reminding people of it . Most of the weapons are exactly the same ( this time , the weapons you don't have are actually blacked out in your inventory . . . way to ruin the surprise ) , several levels echo levels of the first , several enemies return and some levels have pretty much the exact same objectives as levels in the first game . The plot is lame . It's a bad excuse for bringing back Dan and putting him in roughly the same situation as in the first game . The characters are paper-thin . The voice acting is below average . The humor has been taken down ( quite ) a few notches since the first game , and is now Looney Tunes-like and childish . No more satire and clever gags , just entertainment for the little ones . The game-play is just dreadful . Incredibly hard and not really fun anymore . Several levels don't even have chalices , making killing enemies seem pointless and dull . Graphics are about the same as in the first game , despite the two-year difference in release year . There are a few new features , but they're barely worth mentioning . Definitely not worth getting the game for . I recommend this to fans of challenging games , but not fans of the first game .
Ah , pre-vis . . . where would the movie had been without you ?	Why such a low rating ? As of writing this , there is only one other review , and it isn't by one of the 36 . 5 % ( ! ) ( only nineteen people , but still . . . besides , that doesn't sound as impressive ! ) who voted a 1 for this , so I couldn't tell you . As the title tells you , this deals with the pre-visualization of the second-to-last of the more recent of the two trilogies . . . Episode II ( and as the Trivia page will reveal , it's featured on the 2-Disc DVD release of it ) . It's fairly short , 23 minutes , but it's good throughout . It is also remarkably funny . . . so much so that it's worth mentioning . You're treated to some footage of crew-members standing in for some of the stars , and acting out one of the scenes . . . near the end of this , one of the people working on it likens the process to something else , quite amusing , and finally , at the end credits , animations that . . . didn't end up in the film are nicely inter-cut . Don't let that fool you , though . . . this is still a serious documentary , and a pretty decent one at that . It is perhaps short ( the other review suggests that the release of the DVD was rushed ) , and certainly doesn't detail every scene , but it makes use of the time , and it does go into some big sequences . It provides a possible ( and understandable ) explanation ( if not openly , or necessarily even intentionally ) for something that many , many viewers disliked , that's never a bad thing , right ? Gone into are such things as what they did on the earlier films , with the technology just not being as advanced as it was by the point they made this . It's all interesting and well-done . It's got great editing throughout . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know more about the subject , and / or animation / special effects .
Where's Utopia ?	This is another special feature on the Æon Flux DVD , and in case it still eludes you after reading the title of it , in its massive , overwhelming intricacy and subtlety , this one's about locations . Locations used in shooting the film . After wasting two minutes or so telling us about a location that they wound up not using at all , this plods along further as they detail what they did wind up using , going over a number of them and showing us behind-the-scenes footage ( and similarly candid material of the locations , showing a single clip of the original show and employing interviews ) , this definitely wasn't all that interesting or entertaining of a featurette . It comes to fifteen minutes , with credits , but it moves much too slowly , and tells you too little , managing to be simultaneously overlong and too short . There's a native German speaker herein , but fear not , subtitles to the rescue . Not particularly thorough ones , but hey , beggars can't be choosers . My DVD claimed to feature " 5 amazing shorts " ( not why I got it , don't worry , also , it was a gift ) , allow me to remove the curtain and affording you a gander ; this is one of them . All five are just featurettes . Nothing more . Don't let them fool you . I recommend this to people who want to know more about the locations , and those who just must scratch the itch of " where on Earth did they shoot that " ( no , they didn't leave the planet , not to my knowledge ) , and it certainly does good to be very patient and / or tolerant .
Great idea , less-than-great execution	Sandra Bullock is by no means a particularly good actress . Most of her success has more to do with her looks than her talent . Still , I think she pulls off a decent , if not perfectly believable , performance in this fairly credible cyber-thriller . The plot is pretty good , and not entirely impossible . The movie does a good job of convincing the viewer that what happens in the movie , could probably happen in real life as well . The acting is OK , but no top performances . I did enjoy Dennis Miller's short , but funny role . He did seem fairly miscast as a psychiatrist though , that's the last thing I ever saw him as , and this is the third film I've seen him in ( the other two being Bordello of blood and Never talk to strangers ) . The characters are pretty well-written , though I found that Sandra Bullock's character , being that she's a hacker , would be less naive and would have anticipated at least a few of the things that took place in the movie , being that most of it involves hacking . The thriller aspect of the film is fairly well-executed , the chases are exciting and reasonably realistic , though a few of them are less than credible . I thought the whole hacker aspect of the movie , and the idea that something like this could happen in real life was the most interesting and exciting part of this movie , unfortunately it's not as well-executed as it should have been , and could have been . I guess they just missed the opportunity . Too bad , really . It could have been a masterpiece . I've heard that the series that are based on this movie are better , as they delve further into the whole Praetorian thing . I guess if you like this movie , you should check it out afterwords . I recommend this movie to people who like a good thriller , especially people who know a lot about computers and the Internet , as they will understand it a bit more . Anyway , most thriller fan should enjoy this .
Dull , slow-paced and overlong	What bothered me most about this film was the fact that it takes a full hour , half the movie ( which is about half an hour too long ) to get through what is described of it in the plot outline . To put it another way ; what should be a twist in the film , what should have been kept a big secret is casually mentioned . The first part of the film leads up to that moment , and we already know what is going to be revealed . Think of it as watching a contest knowing who the winner is beforehand . Then there's how obvious and by-the-numbers the film is . Face it , it was really predictable . No great twists here . At one point , something out of the ordinary happened , and I hoped it was going to keep it up . . . a minute later , everything was back to normal . This wouldn't really be that much of a pain if it wasn't for how freakishly slow and dull the better part of the film is , and if this was the first of its kind . . . but it was , and it isn't . The plot is decent enough , but way too much of it is revealed in any summary you read or hear . The pacing is horrid . The acting is quite impressive , for the most part . The characters are somewhat well-written and adequately cast . The violence is quite graphic and brutal . All in all , this is just another run-of-the-mill kidnapping-flick , one that tries to pass itself off as something better but ultimately fails . I recommend this only to big fans of Mel Gibson and / or any other actor on the cast , and possibly big fans of this type of thriller . No one else should bother .
My analysis spoilers Don't read this unless you've seen the movie ( this contains little in the way of an actual review )	I write this for people who've seen the movie , and don't understand it . First of all , you have to understand that Sarah suffered from multi-personality disorder from a long time before the movie started ; most likely since she was a child . She didn't know this herself , because it's like that with MPD's . The regular personality doesn't know what the other ( s ) are doing . They are simply unaware . And her other personality hated men , while her regular just didn't trust them . That's why she thought her old boyfriend Benny left " without a note or anything " . Her other personality reacted aggressively against a man that her regular personality loved ; it killed him , and made it seem to her and her close friends , that he just left suddenly . She didn't know he was dead . However , although her other personality usually hates men , it falls in love with Tony , as well as Sarah herself . This is obvious in the scene where Sarah appears in Tony's home , slaps him , and has sex with him . Her regular personality wasn't ready for that kind of commitment yet ; also , her other personality's way of having sex is very aggressive . Everything weird , bizarre , or directly threatening that happens towards Sarah , is caused by her other personality , because it's jealous . It wants Tony for itself . It starts out threatening her ( the paper , the flowers ) , and ends with trying to kill her ( with the heater in the bathtub ) . Sarah , who doesn't know that it's her other personality , and isn't good at trusting men , especially men who are close to her , blames Tony , because she doesn't feel safe when he's around . However , at the end , she is told the truth by Tony : He is investigating her , in order to find out what happened to Benny . In the beginning , Sarah doesn't believe that she's " been stalking herself " . However , when her father enters , he triggers some memories , that awakes her other personality . She reacts aggressively to both , because she feels , as usual , that men are the root of all evil . She starts by killing Tony , because she was , in fact , in love with him , and it seems ( to her , at least ) like he isn't in love with her . After killing him , her father , not knowing she is not " herself " at the moment , tries to calm her down ; this triggers more unwanted memories ; she feels like she's back at the top of those stairs , her father making her cover his crime . She reacts very aggressively , as that memory is one part of the origin of her hate against men ( the other being sexual abuse by her father ) . After killing him , she destroys the tape , which is the only devastating proof toward her suffering from multi-personality disorder . At that point she's still not " herself " , but her other personality . She then covers her own crime , as she feels that it was her father's fault , just like back when she was little . After covering up her crime , she sits down by the body of Tony , and her other personality subsides . Sarah is herself again ; thereby , she doesn't know what happened , but guess / thinks that Tony killed her father ( which would seem logical to her , as she was certain that Tony was insane ) and she shot him in self-defense . We hear that the police aren't going to file charges , since it seems like an obvious case of self-defense . She then gives us a definition on a multi-personality disorder ( which fits perfectly on herself ) and goes out with Cliff . She doesn't know that she is guilty of killing two people close to her , and the movie ends with the disturbing conclusion , that unless something hinders her from killing more , her other personality can keep killing men , while her regular personality can have a clean consciousness , as she doesn't know the truth . Review : While watching this movie , I thought that it was just the regular thriller . I was very surprised at the ending , which tries to turn it into more . . . I'm not quite sure it succeeds , but it made everything that preceded it easier to forgive . The movie has a very Hitchcock feel to it ; suspense , shocks , atmosphere . . . It felt like it could have been the work of the late Hitchcock himself ( save for the sex scene , which I'm not quite sure was so much necessary as an easy device to attract those on the look-out for such a thing ) . I recommend this to fans of thrillers ( just don't expect a masterpiece . . . but hey , it's got Rebecca De Mornay , does anyone actually see her name on the cast list of anything and think " oh , quality cinema lies ahead ! " ? ) , particularly those who like them with a " twist " . Yes , I actually just made that pun . .
A sequel in the vein of Terminator 2	This is another of those sequels that . . . suffer ( ? ) . . . from a not entirely uncommon illness , known as " The T2 Syndrome " . Terminator 2 may not be the origin of said illness , or even the first film to fall victim of it , but it is commonly accepted as the first recorded case of it . The syndrome renders any sequel as more of a remake of the first than an actual sequel , but the quality is a variable , it can go either way ( or nowhere at all ) . Usually , everything in the film is kicked up a notch , higher production value , more action and more entertainment . . . sometimes signifying a higher budget . These films are often a desperate attempt by the film-makers to re-create the success of the first without breaking new ground or showing any originality or creativity . For whatever curiosity value it may hold ; Charlies Angels : Full Throttle is another victim . As a victim of this illness , the film contains scene after scene ( in fact , it's put together by them , it consists entirely of them ) that are mild re-writes of scenes from the first . The plot is basically the same , and at best , fairly interesting . The minor lift the film has received in content , the fact that everything is just slightly ' more ' than it was in the first makes for a few entertaining scenes scattered throughout the film ( good thing , because without them , the film is barely worth watching at all ) . Apart from the entire original cast ( well , the foundation , at least ; the McCallister clan is back ) returning for this sequel , we are also joined by the comedic talents of Rob Schneider , Tim Curry and Dana Ivey ( I know , I know , but think of how she was in the Addams Family films , seriously ) , which pays off big time . The pacing is fine . The acting is mostly goofy and overplayed , which I suppose is the idea . The humor works , on occasion . There is one thing I just have to say ; I don't much mind the silly humor of most of the film , but at the end . . . when it turns to slap-stick , Looney Tunes-like humor . . . that was just too much . It was bad in the first , this time , it's worse . I could barely watch . I found myself turning away again and again , taking longer and longer to look back at the screen . The content disgusted me . This is coming from a man who , in the last week , has seen Dawn of the Dead , Saw and Hellraiser : Hellseeker . . . during which , I never turned away , or , for that matter , regretted that I hadn't . The tone is just too much in this film , during those last scenes . I don't know what disturbs me more ; the fact that I , myself , as a child , enjoyed these scenes . The fact that as I write this , there are children enjoying them . Or the fact that there are grown people . . . not only enjoying watching them , but thinking that it's OK , that it's OK to put that in ( children's ) films , to tell children that it's OK . That it's responsible . That children may , or even ( shudder ) should think that . It disturbs me . Quite a lot , in fact . That aside , the film does a nice job , through cinematography and dialog , to show the world as seen by a young child . . . of course , that only makes aforementioned fact even worse . I only recommend this film for people studying films , so they can analyze and debate it , get into the frame of mind behind this film , understand it . Anyone else watching it should take great care to understand that it is , in fact , fiction , and has very , very little to do with reality . I wouldn't consider this proper viewing for kids , unless these are very mature and understand that it's not real .
An average movie . . . yeah , it's " like that "	How watchable this film is depends almost exclusively on your tolerance of Martin Lawrence . It's pretty much entirely his movie . Wilson is just barely there at all , and the rest of the players are there to play off Lawrence ( or maybe rather , for him to play off ) , or provide obstacles for him in his continued quest for the diamond . I'm not quite sure why exactly we should care about his character . . . he's not sympathetic , and his actions are all motivated by his desire to get his hands on the aforementioned former piece of coal . The action is somewhat limited , but OK . It may have gone more for comedy than excitement , well , that , or the director didn't know how to do proper action ( and the end of the last bit to feature it came out of nowhere ) . The plot is decent , I guess . The acting varies . Chapelle . . . you wouldn't know he was funny , from this ( he certainly was in Robin Hood : Men in Tights ) . Greene , well , all you have to do to know the guy can play an unsavory character is watch either Pulp Fiction or The Mask . The music selection is , if nothing else , fitting . Some of the humor is gross-out comedy , and , while it could have been worse ( which it probably would have been , had they not been trying for a PG-13 . . . how they got it , I do not know , there was profanity enough ) , seemed . . . unnecessary . I recommend this to . . . fans of Martin Lawrence .
Not great , but not awful	I used to read the comics as a kid . . . by now , I only vaguely remember them , and those of the animated attempts that were produced that I watched , but a lot of things do seem to fit with what I remember . And hey , at least it's produced by the French , featuring the French , France being where the comic is actually from . There are many details that ring true as far as the source material goes . . . the first few moments contain a well-known image from the comics , reproduced in live action . This also has an interpretation of the singing of the village musician ( I can't claim to know the original French names ) . Also seen is a recreation of the village leader on his shield . Whether or not you particularly care for seeing this , and whether or not you agree with this envisioning of it , it's there to take in . The small dog is there , as well , and he gets used some for comedy ( if in fairly morbid and grotesque ways ) . The production values are of high quality . The acting is pretty good , if some is overacted , more or less intentionally . Depardieu isn't bad in his native language , either ( and he is a fairly logical choice , as far as physical type goes , for Obélix , and Roberto Benigni ( who , I guess , speaks French . . . ? ) is one of the best additions ( although one could argue that he wasn't up against much ) , and gets several laughs . Ceasar was done well , the actor looks and performs as he should . The humor isn't bad , if at times childish , much of it derived from the comics ( more or less well-integrated in the film ) and some of it is run right into the ground . I did laugh at this film , if not terribly often . I watched this in the original , French language ( not a fan of dubbing . . . actually , that's a powerful understatement ) , but some of the material still worked . The pacing is reasonable , well , it runs fine , at least . The plot isn't too bad , and works , if some more or less minor points don't make sense once you think about them ( and one sub-plot is never fully resolved , characters not seen in the film anymore once they've done what they were there to do ) . Some things are lifted from the comics , though perhaps too much material from there was used , leaving too little time for development of what there is , as others have pointed out . This is a cartoon brought to life , obvious in the action ( which I'm honestly not sure I've ever found particularly intense . . . entertaining , occasionally , maybe , but not intense ) . One particular character shows that the French , too , know of , and stoop to , the lowest common denominator ( though I suppose it could have been more gratuitous , but this is at least partially a children's film . . . torture sequences and such notwithstanding ) . Most of the characters from the comics seem to be there ( again , whether or not they're properly done or well-integrated can be debated ) . The effects are quite good , and help with the cartoon-y action that we know from the original stories by Goscinny ( R . I . P . ) . Some ideas could have been explored in what the plot does , in particular something near the very end , but are not . There is one reference that could be considered clever . . . but by the second time it's made . . . yeah . The music isn't bad . The casting and costumes aren't bad . I guess fans might enjoy it , if they aren't too attached to the original . Making live action productions of drawn source material is seldom a good idea . I recommend this to those who want a live-action version of Astérix and Obélix , but not those looking for a good one . Whether or not the second one would fulfill that need , I can't say .
Jim Carrey , the Farrelly brothers & a disaster of a film	We all ( well , most of us , at least ) know Jim Carrey . . . the master of physical comedy and facial comedy . We also know the Farrelly brothers , who've done a lot of R-rated crude comedies lately , and who directed Carrey earlier in Dumb & Dumber . Now , imagine that these meet , in a movie that's typical for the Farrelly's , with Jim acting the way he always does ( which is usually funny , even in bad movies ) . Sounds great , right ? Wrong . Wrong , wrong , wrong . The film has virtually no laughs at all , as it's taken to the extremes and beyond . . . constantly . The humor tries far too hard to be funny and shocking , and winds up being disgusting and embarrassing . The only laughs come from the three black teens in the film , one of whom being the nearly always funny Anthony Anderson , probably better known from Scary Movie 3 . Their characters talk like black rappers or kids from the ghetto ( swear words , yelling ) but are very intelligent , at the same time . This has a bit of a comedic effect , even though it's just a gimmick and it does wind up getting old , about half-way through the film . Carrey himself has some funny bits , but too much of it is just not him ; he's supposed to make funny faces , say funny noises and jump around . That's him at his best . The first Ace Ventura film is a good example of this , as is Liar Liar . However , in this film he doesn't get to use his talent for physical comedy all that much . Half of the physical comedy is just him being beaten up . . . it was good to see him fight himself , but there was too little of it . And why does half of the humor center around Carrey being humiliated ? The director of Ace Ventura 2 ( Steve Oedekerk ) made the same mistake , and look how ( un ) popular that film was . In conclusion , the only right director for Carrey is Tom Shadyac ( Ace Ventura , Liar Liar and Bruce Almighty ) , at least in my opinion . The plot is daft and poorly paced . The acting is nothing special . The characters are cardboard cutouts and stereotypes . The dialog holds very few memorable quotes , though there are a few . All in all , the film is just bad , by Carrey's and the Farrelly's standards ( and all other standards , for that matter ) . I recommend it only to the biggest fans of Jim Carrey and the Farrelly brothers .
There are worse acquaintances to make	This special feature , found on the 2-Disc DVD release of X2 , the second X-Men movie , and , as the title tells you , it's all about Nightcrawler . It features a somewhat randomly inter-cut clip or two of his scenes in the film , some interviews , some sketches of figuring out the look , and finally , behind the scenes footage of rehearsal , make-up applying , make-up testing , and more . There's a fairly decent amount of information and material herein . The pacing is fine . It's ten minutes long , which fits OK . Editing is reasonable , the only real down-note in that department being the aforementioned quality of the use of film-clips . There's not really anything terribly memorable in this , but it isn't bad , and everything in the documentary does relate to the character and his appearance in the film . This makes no effort to go into the special effects of the mutant . . . make-up , movement and design are all covered , and pretty well so , but apart from a practical effect or two , nothing is dealt with , effects-wise . All in all , this is good for anyone who wants to know more about the character , as he is , in the film ( no background or comics material is presented in this ) . I recommend this to those who find themselves in aforementioned group .
Portrait of a serial killer	This movie is very strange . It's about a stock broker who's a serial killer at night . It's also about the social life of stock brokers , in the late 80's . The main character , Patrick Bateman , constantly excuses himself out of any situation that he doesn't completely control , and is , as all the other stock brokers in the movie , incredibly vain . He's cold and possesses no emotions at all . At the end of the movie , there is a weird twist , that turns everything that has happened up to that point around ; apparently , none of it actually happened , and was all a part of Bateman's overactive psychotic imagination . On the other hand , maybe it isn't . There are a lot of different theories , but it all boils down to two possibilities ; either everything happened , and no one cares , everyone is indifferent to the fact that the main character has killed an unbelievable amount of people , or none of it happened , but was just something that Bateman imagined , thought about , fantasized about . I can't decide which to believe , as there is evidence to support both theories . The movie is very weird ; I've seen it four times , and I still don't really understand it . Whether it's because I'm too ignorant to understand it , or the fault lies on the director , for making it too strange , I don't know .
Not really very good	I watched this with my father , having not heard anything about it ( positive nor negative ) . I think I payed full attention to it for less than five minutes , and then I started doing other things , while only vaguely following what went on in the film . I'm not even completely sure what it ended with , since the credits came pretty much out of nowhere , but I don't care enough to go to the scene selection menu on the DVD and watch the final scene again . The film is about some heroin-addicts , and their everyday life . That's not a bad theme for a film , not at all , but I just had the feeling that it wasn't that accurate . . . and then the question entered my mind ; What's the point of a period piece if it's not accurate ? My father didn't care too much for it either ; he felt that he has dealt too much with that stuff in his life , through family and acquaintances . So , what indeed is the point ? Is it to show how these people live ( or lived ) ? Is it just a vehicle for the great actor Al Pacino ? The whole film is supposed to be gritty , realistic and documentary-like . . . however , the director screwed that up , so instead it's poorly filmed , dull and slow . The plot is decent , but the pacing is awful . The acting is good , at least from the likes of Pacino and Raul Julia ( who has a far too small part in the film , by the way ) . The characters are somewhat well-written . The shots of junkies taking drugs were well done , especially for their time . The problem with the film is that it never really manages to capture whatever it is trying to capture . The film obviously tries to make the environment and drugs appear to be horrible , and something that ruins everyone and everything that gets near . However , me and my father couldn't help but wonder why ; why drugs ? Why not cigarettes or alcohol ? That has ruined many lives as well , and killed innumerable people . Drugs is just the thing that everyone that needs something to bitch about loves to hate . Yes , it does make addicts , and it does ruin lives . . . it even occasionally kills ( but only when someone O . D . ' s , which happens rarer than many think ) , but it is not as big an actual problem as alcohol is . Personally , I think they should legalize some forms of narcotics , or make alcohol illegal as well . This hypocrisy is ridiculous . I recommend the film only to huge fans of Pacino .
The horse fairy-tale	I like Pollack . I'm not sure there's anything that I wouldn't at least give a chance , as long as he had an important part in the making of it . This is probably the most formulaic thing I've seen of his . . . which isn't to say that it's necessarily bad . It's just that , well , if you don't see the majority of what happens in this , coming , the likeliest explanation is that you haven't seen one of the many films that follow essentially the same plot . It's not exactly unpredictable . The points of it are also made in a pretty see-through manner , with poignant speeches and the like . But with those in mind , and the fact that this isn't necessarily meant to be taken too seriously , this isn't bad . The direction is effective . Its editing and cinematography are well-done . The acting leaves little to be desired . The writing is good . The characters are at least average . The music is very fitting . That would be the original version , with Willie Nelson performing it , not the other kind . There is a limited amount of language in it , of varying degree , not a lot of which is terribly harsh . The drug / alcohol material is vague , and the sexuality tends to be tastefully done ( for being partially set in Las Vegas , this is mighty clean ) . I recommend this to any lovers of the four-legged animal , Redford , Fonda and / or anyone else who helped create this .
A cornucopia of FPS fun in the Star Wars universe	Following up to the first Jedi Knight was not going to be easy . It had it all , and it was all very accomplished . This does an amazing job , even if it doesn't reach it all the way ( what could ? ) . The plot is pretty good , if perhaps not the most original ever , and it features something of an inconsistency ( another reviewer comments on this , too ) with Star Wars canon . There are many different areas in the SW universe , all rather nicely done . Level design / LOD are great , if not quite as expertly done as that of the first , but there are definitely some marvelous things to be found . . . these include switches and such that you activate with your Force Powers , a vehicle or two ( not spoiling the surprise in this review ) , and more . Difficulty settings are fairly well-done , if parts of the game seem overly challenging regardless of which you play on . The boss enemies are fun , for one immediately obvious reason , but the explanation behind them ( and thus , how compelling a presence they are ) just doesn't measure up to that of the first . . . even if there are far , far more of them . Graphics ( the engine is a modified version of that of Quake III ) are absolutely gorgeous . Blaster fire , the levels , the Lightsabers . . . oh my . This helps make the fact that the cut-scenes are now ( as opposed to the live-action of the first ) almost entirely engine-based ( supplemented with a handful of CGI-sequences ) easier to accept , as does the reasonable cinematography and range of animations , and the flawless programming of both . AI is magnificent , enemies behave realistically throughout , if the range could have been better . Sound and music are excellent , throughout , wide range of both and the quality is top-notch all the way . The game-play is entertaining , and that is an ( but not the only one ) aspect where this really lives up to the first ( and at times surpasses it . . . although there are parts of this that are surpassed by the first ) . Both as a straight FPS and as third-person-action , the game is an enormously fun time in the SW galaxy . The Single Player portion is of adequate length , and is of high quality throughout , nothing seems tacked on . Almost everything in the game is fully developed . The Lightsaber is almost perfect . The power of it , the deflection . . . in this game , their appearance closer resemble those of the new trilogy of films , at least in part due to the release of the first of them having been to the theaters when they were making it . The swings are also far more effective and fast ( again , with the release of Episode 1 ) . I'm still not a fan of the throwing ( and it gets to be downright common , here ) , but they kind of had to have it , after it appeared in Mysteries of the Sith . This time around ( in Single Player ) , more of the game passes before you get your saber , and , well , let's just say , it wasn't by accident the demo ( which is very much worth playing , by the way , and not just to see if you'll like the full game , either ) had you starting out with it ( although the level where you get it is . . . worth fighting your way to ) . The saber duelling . . . that's a tough one . Allow me to make a deduction , based on what I've seen of it in games ( which , admittedly , is not that much , but maybe there just isn't all that much of it ) . . . fencing , sword-fighting , in games that aren't exclusively dedicated to it , has to somewhat decide between which it's going to be more of . . . freedom , fun and swift movements , or strategy , effectiveness and , to a degree , realism . The latter group is , for example , the first two Prince of Persia games , and both this and the third game ( where the focus still laid largely laid in the second of the two categories ) of that series attempt for a mix . . . in the case of both , the result is that you can hack and slash away effortlessly and , more by chance than anything else , take out boss enemies and other players . In this game , there is still an unmistakable requirement of skill , if nothing or nowhere else , then when you face multi-player foes that are superior , and possibly a boss enemy or two , as well . But it won't look like those scenes in the films . In every other case , the Lightsaber , and just about everything in the entire game , does look right , however . One or two things don't look exactly right , but that's it . The weapons are another success story . Unlike that of the first , where it was more or less of a sporadic nature which did and which didn't , here , every weapon has an alternate fire mode . Said secondary fire tends to be remarkably useful , too . Not all from the first game return , but I'm not sure there's a single FPS armory need that isn't covered . Nothing gets phoned in this . Multiplayer is . . . what can I say ? ' Addictive ' may be the word ( and bot supported ) . In addition to the main ones ( FFA , Team FFA and CTF ) , there are some interesting ( and entertaining ! ) playing modes . . . Duel , Holocron FFA and Jedi Master . The first one is self-explanatory . . . saber fights , one on one , in kind of a tournament . The second is FFA , Free For All , but with all the Force Powers in Holocrons ( cubes you can pick up ) in the level , and every player starts without any . Last , but by no means least . . . Jedi Master . There's a Lightsaber at one point in the level . Pick it up , and you're Jedi Master . Full level of every Force Power , and the saber as your only weapon . Only the Master can earn points , and killing him releases the Jedi weapon of choice for other players to pick up . The Force Powers really rival said blade in joy-bringing . . . they're awesome , well-done , well-rounded , with little to no exception . They get more powerful as the game progresses , in set order and pace , but this works well . You also get to use both sides , in SP . I recommend this to fans of Star Wars , action games and FPS .
Very entertaining and quite original	I must admit , when I sat down to watch this film , I didn't expect much ; I had seen a few trailers , maybe a TV-spot or two , but that's it . The only thing I knew about it was that it was a crime-comedy , and that Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton portrayed the leads . I didn't think it would be so funny and thoroughly entertaining . The idea is somewhat original , though slightly derivative of movies like Bonnie and Clyde . The plot is very good ; it details the various bank-robberies of two very different partners in crime . The pace is very good too , though I found parts of the last half hour of film somewhat dragging . The acting is great ; Bruce Willis is great as the aggressive and determined robber , Billy Bob Thornton does a great job as the hypochondriac and very nervous robber , and Cate Blanchett gives a great performance as the slightly neurotic hostage who eventually falls in love with both robbers . The characters are well-written and credible . The comedy , crime and drama was well-integrated , and well-done . I didn't care too much for the romance angle , though , but , for what it's worth , it's not a bad one , and definitely not the worst I've seen . The actors have great on-screen chemistry , and they are well-casted . I liked the way the story was told ; it left you thinking that you were merely following the events leading up to the end , but then , during the last few minutes , there is an excellent twist , which took me entirely by surprise , and made a great ending for a great film . Considering that the film is a PG-13 rated , two-hour long comedy which deals with crime , and has some drama integrated in it , it's really good . It's very funny , entertaining , and original . The humor is well-done , rarely falls flat , and mostly works great in the film . I liked that they mostly dodged stereotypes and cliches , instead of wallowing in them , like many other comedies nowadays do . I recommend it to fans of comedies , crime related films and dramas . To a lesser extent , it's also recommendable to fans of romance . Most general movie fans should also enjoy this , at least to some extent .
Utilizing potential	I haven't seen the play that this film is based on , though I do see how it could work as a play . The film adaptation does perhaps not particularly add something specific to the media of film , but I'm not sure the piece needed it or called for it . . . it could very well have served as nothing but a distraction . The basic setup is fairly simple . . . but simplicity is only a bad thing when the production calls for something else . The themes and characters are quite complex , and the film is compelling . The story is interesting and well-told , and it's paced right . The acting is downright impeccable in parts , and never bad . The portrayals are amazing , and the parts fleshed out and full . The writing is excellent . Deep , profound and interesting . The development , throughout this production , leaves immeasurably little to be desired . The leads are somehow appealing , and you do manage to forgive them for the obviously morally wrong activity they engage in . The costumes are also nicely done , as is the make-up , if the latter could perhaps be done better today . One thing that should be noted is that children should not watch this . The dialog , whilst magnificent , does hold some language that isn't fit for younger ears . It is a film for more mature audiences , in any case . I recommend this for anyone who isn't too young , and particularly couples .
I don't get it . . .	I rented this because I had heard great things about one of director Tom Tykwer's other films , Lola Rennt , and I couldn't find that anywhere . I certainly hope that film is better than this , because I didn't see any depth or value in this . I didn't really see anything past the nice visuals or the good score . The film starts out great , by one of the best setups for something bad to happen I've seen for a while . After that , it slows down to what is as close to a complete halt , while still moving . I'm not kidding , this is probably the most uneventful film I've seen for a few months . Nothing seems to happen . The very first scene of the film seems to be there only to have the last scene make sense . The film has the main characters running for the last portion of the film , from what must be the most ineffectual police force ever seen in a film , and the least seen . I get that it's not about the chase , that it's supposed to be a metaphor or something . . . what I don't get is what it represents . I couldn't find any hidden message in this , any moral to the story or any depth to it whatsoever . Yes , the film has a good musical score , and yes , some of the visuals are captivating and absorbing . . . but that doesn't make a great film . Without anything else than that , all you have is a shallow film that looks pretty on the surface . The ending holds some ambiguity , but apart from that , there doesn't really seem to be anything in the film to make it worth the effort . For being so short , it's a terribly poorly paced film . The plot starts out good , but doesn't keep it up . The acting is sufficiently good . There are a few good scenes of tension and / or drama . All in all , probably worth it for people into poetry and such , but us regular viewers , even those of us who are willing to dig deep in order to understand films probably shouldn't bother . I recommend this only to fans of cinema as an expression of poetry . I doubt anyone else will find any value in it .
Not necessarily bad	I haven't read the novel , but apparently it wouldn't make much of a difference ; Clancy wanted nothing to do with this after reading the first draft . This is perhaps not really a movie based on a book of his , rather more of a Ford one loosely based on an original piece of writing . That doesn't have to be a negative aspect . It's put together just fine . The plot is emotional and straightforward , especially ( although not only ) compared to The Hunt for Red October . The pacing is reasonable , it's not downright boring . The dialog is plain and unmemorable , if not poor . The acting is sufficient . The characters aren't particularly layered , and one or two could be cut with seemingly no impact on the overall thing . Has Sam Jackson ever seemed so insignificant , before or since ? This tries harder to appeal to the masses , mainly by implying sex and being crass . The violence isn't that strong . The language , however , is harsher and in greater amount than its predecessor , with no justification . The action is relatively plentiful ( albeit not enough for this to go entirely work as that , nor can it be called an all-out political thriller . . . they should have picked a direction and stuck with it , in my opinion ) in this , and it's well-done and entertaining . I recommend this to those looking for lighter fare than the preceding entry in the series , and fans of Harrison .
Typical Carrey comedy	I guess movies like this are the ones that established Jim Carrey , and secured him a good , long career . It's definitely one of the more easily remembered of his films , and one of those that made him known as the comical genius that he is . The script allows for plenty of facial expressions and sounds by Carrey , and he makes the most of every second that he's on-screen . He is the very center of most of the comedy , and that's exactly the way it should be in his movies . The plot is pretty good , it allows for many entertaining scenes , and the mystery in it is pretty good , too . The film is primarily carried by the comedy , but the plot is carried forward by the mystery , which isn't a bad idea at all . The acting is all fairly good , nothing spectacular , but not bad either . Carrey , of course , steals the show as the eccentric but smart pet detective , by the name of Ace Ventura . The characters are well-written , though admittedly not terribly deep . The film has a lot of crude jokes and gags , but they work well , as the same joke is rarely repeated , like it is in many other crude comedies ( Scary Movie 2 , various Adam Sandler films ) . The comedy is pretty good , very few jokes fall flat , and many gags will have you rolling around on the floor laughing , as well as Carrey's facial expressions and eccentric behavior throughout the film . All in all , a pretty good , typical Carrey comedy , but I guess it isn't anything special or unique . I recommend it to any fan of Jim Carrey , and fans of comedies in general .
The real story	This is the second of the featurettes on the second disc of the 2-DVD Kingdom of Heaven set that last an hour with commercials , and about 40 minutes , 44 in this particular case , without . It is far superior to the other , and a much more interesting watch . Where that went over the weapons and such - which really ought to make for entertaining television - this retells the events , and this is actually a rather good listen . It consists of interviews ( mainly with experts , though the director , Bloom and Green do get to weigh in some ) , drawings and the like , clips from the movie ( in spades ) and , finally , a little bit of real-life footage , obviously not captured during the period this is about . The editing is spot-on , almost without exception , and seldom flashy . The main complaint with it is all the reusing of material , the many images , moving or not , that are used at least twice . The pacing is relatively slow , which I'm not sure was the idea with it , going by the way it was put together . I can't quite put my finger on what keeps it from being faster . This is very fair , not taking sides . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know about medieval history , and / or those who wish to learn how accurate the film was .
Inferior to its sequel , but great entertainment nonetheless	I haven't seen the original Addams Family series , I've only seen the three movies and the cartoon series , and I have to say that this is far better than the cartoon series . Every single character is perfectly casted in this film ; Raul Julia does a great Gomez , Anjelica Huston is perfect as the dangerously slim , french-loving Morticia , Christoper Lloyd is flawless a Fester , Christina Ricci does a chillingly good Wednesday , which is quite impressive at that age ( she was 10 or 11 when they made this ) , and Jimmy Workman is also great as Pugsley . Carel Struycken and Christopher Hart also do good jobs , portraying Lurch and Thing respectively , but since one of them is a giant who never speaks , and the other is a disembodied hand , I wouldn't really classify it as acting , though they're great at what they do . The script and plot seems a little awkward and reeks of lack of good ideas . It seems like they couldn't figure out how to introduce the characters , without the age-old plot of having a new character be introduced to something that is completely different to him and the audience , while it seems perfectly normal to the characters that it's trying to introduce . It just seems tired and borderline cliché-like . I would have preferred to , at the very least , see some completely new character show up and be introduced , both to us and to the Addams family , rather than having someone who appears to be Fester show up with amnesia . Apart from that , the film is great . The plot does seem a bit tiresome , but it never really gets dull ; I guess this film is actually more eventful than the next in the series , but I'll have to compare after I see it again . It has a good pace throughout , and continues to entertain through most of the film , with good gags and jokes for every single scene . The acting was , like I mentioned earlier , pretty much flawless , at least by all of the leads and the most important supporting characters . Every single member of the Addams family was just about perfect . The one complaint is Huston as Morticia , who , as my fiancée pointed out , hasn't got the walk down . Actually , that's kind of the problem . . . she does walk . She should kind of float , with the tight dress . The characters are well-written and sufficiently bizarre and grotesque , as is the great black humor . The make-up has some flaws . . . Julia and Lloyd aren't quite pale enough , though last-mentioned goes back and forth some ( personally , I attribute that to the character . . . you'll understand once you've seen the entire film ) , and Anjelica . . . well , with the white face , the blue eyeshadow and the bright red lipstick , she looks like a clown or a mime . You kept wondering when she was going to make a balloon animal . . . or at least , my fiancée did . And on thinking back , I have to agree with her . Still , the whole film is a worthy watch for any fan of any of the actors and probably of the Addams family as well . I recommend it to fans of any of the actors ( as all of them give some of their best performances ) and fans of black comedy .
Cute , little , exciting game . . . with emphasis on " little "	I remember playing the demo to this game back when it was first released . I was pretty much hooked right from the start . When I got it a few years after , I instantly started playing it . Not too long ago , I found the game in the pile of games I haven't played for a while . I decided to give it another go , though I have beaten it once or twice before . You get into the game very quickly . . . the rich atmosphere and entertaining game-play draws you in and doesn't completely let go until you've finished the game . The plot is good . . . the part of it I could follow , that is . The lack of subtitles and the half-hearted enunciation of most of the voice actors makes it hard to follow . You play as young Andy , an all-American kid who must find and rescue his dog , Whisky , in a dark world rule by The Master of Darkness , a tall gentleman with a short temper . Along the way , he will fight shadow creatures , monsters and other sorts of creepy crawlies . The game is a platform action / adventure journey into the very heart of darkness . You move from screen to screen , usually finding one or two minor puzzles in each screen that need to be solved before you can advance to the next . Failing to solve it properly will , with few exceptions , get you killed . When you're killed , you restart from the last save point . . . every few screens double as save points , and are activated simply by reaching them in one piece . That helps keep the game-play dynamic , and the lack of manual saving helps keep the mood of the game , instead of reminding you that you are , in fact , playing a video game . The trouble with the save points comes up when you find yourself almost getting past all the screens to the next save point ( which aren't actually marked in the game . . . until you load , you don't know where it last saved ) many times in a row , but then getting stopped short ( which , since the game is entirely trial and error , can happen a lot ) . If you die many times the same place , the game will give you a hint , attempting to help you further . The game makes one of the most well-fated jumps from console to computer . . . I have only played it on the latter , but I could easily see myself grabbing a joystick and playing it on any console , as well , with no loss of features or such . The sound and music are top-notch . From the screeches of the shadow creatures when they are incinerated , to Andy's powerful electrical beam weapon , they fit perfectly and help build the mood . The music does a fair share of the work in that department , as well , with its brooding , foreboding score . The graphics are very nice . . . the game itself is in 2D , platform based , but the backgrounds are 3D rendered , and solidify the atmosphere . The cinematics are fully 3D animated , and while some of the movements are slightly clumsy ( as a result of the limitations of the technology of the time ) , it mostly looks really good . The game-play mostly consists of you maneuvering the danger-packed strange world that you find yourself in , fighting enemies and solving the puzzles . You are taken through many different versions of the whole concept of " a strange , deserted location , with danger lurking around every corner " . A large valley , underground caves , a tropical forest . . . the list goes on . The humor is somewhat silly , though it has its moments . Now , with the main story concerning a pre-teen kid and his search for his beloved pet , you might think that the game is cute , made-for-children ( what studios like to label as " family " entertainment ) . . . rest assured , once you've seen Andy disappear into a shadow creature's stomach , or either of aforementioned disappear in flames , you won't think the game terribly cute . In fact , it manages to be a surprisingly good mix between children's entertainment and something people above the age of 7 can enjoy . After all , fear is undeniably one of the most universal feelings . The length of the game isn't too impressive . . . proved by the fact that , within an hour and a half of playing this ( granted , I knew most of the solutions to the puzzles from memory , but still ) , I was half-way through the game . In fact , it took me between four and five hours to play through the entire thing . For a game with exceptionally low replay value ( once you know how to beat the puzzles , there's nothing left to try . . . there's hardly ever more than one right solution ) , that's far , far too little . What the game can pride itself on is that it's immersing , entertaining and exciting . It'll test how creative you can be , as far as the solutions go , and how good your reactions and hand-to-eye coordination is , as a number of the puzzles require many actions executed in quick succession . You'll find yourself playing on , in spite of the frequent occurrence of the kid's most untimely demise . Trying out another solution , or attempting the same one , just one more time . Just progressing a screen or two more , seeing just a little more of the breathtaking backgrounds and surroundings , facing the next challenge or foe ( or grouping of either or both ) . The style is very hard to resist ; anyone in touch with their inner child and / or possessing at least a fair amount of imagination can get into this game . The game has a remarkably simple interface . . . movement control and less than half a dozen keys , and you're set . Very easy to get into . You can basically come in from anything else and just start playing . Very refreshing . This game proves that fun things can still be done with 2D and platform gaming . All in all , an immensely entertaining game that unfortunately makes for a tad too much frustration in searching out the exact right solutions and is , quite simply , too short . I recommend this to any fan of adventure , platform and / or action gaming . Patience is required .
Few shortcomings	I was positively surprised by this . While not always pleasant , this is well-done throughout , and great for almost the entire duration . The plot is really good , and never gets boring . The pacing is solid . The acting is invariably powerful . The characters , if not as interesting or engaging as they could be , are well-written . An awful lot of the way , this is credible . The action is well-done . The FX are incredible . The editing and cinematography are excellent , no exceptions . The use of slow-motion is effective in each case . There are some beautifully cut sequences herein . There is considerable violence , gore and disturbing content . This is evidently very authentic , but it does seem to give up trying for that near the end , and adds to the list of Hollywood moments , otherwise so short that it could almost be completely ignored , and introduces a deus ex machina ( for those unaware , that's when you discover that you've written yourself into a corner , and decides to just throw in something that had not been built towards and which isn't necessarily even a little likely or plausible ) of about the same level as Saving Private Ryan . . . the difference being that I felt I got more out of watching that than this , and what it all comes down to is that I doubt I'll miss owning this , as it only aired on TV , as opposed to aforementioned title , which I'm glad to be able to borrow from my father . It should be noted that this does show the Viet Cong without particularly demonizing or dehumanizing them . It is , however , clear who the film-makers were intending to support and honor . I recommend this to fans of war movies , and / or of the people involved ( Randall Wallace ought to direct more often ) .
Pretty good , a worthy sequel to El Mariachi	This movie is pretty much what El Mariachi would have been , if Robert Rodriguez just had the money back then . The movie is very action-filled , there rarely passes more than ten minutes in a row without an action scene . Unfortunately , the movie doesn't have a good opposite of action , as there's constantly something going on ( even The Matrix , which is pretty much the very definition of coolness , has some " un-cool " scenes to contrast to the cool ones ) , so it ends up getting tedious and a bit repetitive , to constantly see guys shooting each other . Robert Rodriguez fills every scene with either action or his special brand or humor , or both , so there's never really slow time where you can exhale after seeing a breathtaking action scene . However , the first scene in the movie is probably the most cool , macho , spaghetti-western shootout ever seen ; I've seen it more than thirty times ( without seeing the entire movie afterwords ) and it hasn't gotten boring yet . The movie itself I've seen about six or seven times , and each time , it gets a little less interesting to watch . Give it a try if you're into spaghetti-westerns though , otherwise , leave it ; unless you can watch a movie like this just for the action , and you have a good ability to suspend disbelief .
Pretty good spoof	I have seen a few spoof movies , and this is definitely one of the better . It has very much the same type of humor for a spoof movie , and it delivers some great laughs if you're into this type of movie . The plot and acting is typical for this sort of movie , nothing really new there . No one has a breathtaking performance , and there isn't anywhere in the movie where you gasp at the brilliance of the script . It just is the typical spoof movie , nothing more , nothing less . I'd definitely recommend it to anyone who like spoof movies , especially if they've seen a lot of suspense / thrillers of the 80's and 90's , which the movie spoofs heavily . The movie primarily is for laughs , and many will say that it's very silly ; and they're absolutely right . This movie isn't meant to be taken seriously , it's just a fun way to spend an hour and a half . The movie is a treat to fans of the spoof genre , but most other people probably won't like it . It doesn't feature any particularly big actors , but it doesn't need to . It's just mindless fun . Nothing else .
Getting better , I guess	I doubt anyone who read my review of Spiderman is unclear on the fact that I hated it . . . primarily due to my fandom of the comics ( yes , guilty as charged , I am impossible to please in at least this area ) . So why watch this , you ask ? . . . you didn't ? Well , whatever . Because it was on TV , and just about everyone who talks about it seems to like it a lot . It was even on when I wouldn't be watching something else . There were still things I didn't care for , but this one did have its good parts ( and whether or not I personally love it , I can't claim that it's all poorly done ) . The plot is fair , they chose a good story from the source material , and give it a reasonable treatment ( right down to the live action recreation of that panel ) . Pacing's fine . The action was maybe better than it was in the first ( I . . . don't remember that one all that well ) . The CGI and effects are great , but Spidey still looks . . . not real , when swinging through the city . Molina is a good choice ( I hadn't thought of it , but I did and do see why it was him ) , and I don't exactly mind seeing Doc Ock up there on the screen . There are dramatic moments , and the ending does set up the next one decent enough . I recommend this to fans of the movie series , and to a lesser extent , the original format .
About as good as the second	While this is still not as funny as the first one , it's still worth watching . It has a load of recycled jokes from both of the earlier films , and a little too many references to the first , in my opinion . It's not entirely bad though , after a slow start it kicks off and gets very funny , very quickly . Most of the old characters return , with a few new ones too . The plot is pretty much the same old deal from the first two , still spoofing old Bond movies . The acting is still pretty good . The characters are more colorful in this one , I think . More developed , perhaps . The sexual crude humor is still there , and is better here than in the second movie , I think . The first is still the best , but if you only see one of the sequels , I recommend you see this one . I thought the twist-in-the-end was pretty lame , but it didn't entirely ruin the movie , as it didn't seem totally out of character or totally unbelievable . I'd recommend this to anyone who liked either or both of the first two movies . The humor is mostly the same , and people who enjoyed the first two will most likely also enjoy this one .
Pretty good , but not really anything special	Hollywood has made plenty of films by this one basic formula , ever since the popularity of Die Hard ; put a heroic character in a confined space , let a bunch of terrorists take the confined space over , and have the heroic character kill the terrorists , one by one . Unfortunately , no movie has ever come close to the high quality of Die Hard , and this is no exception to that rule . It is , however , pretty good , and possibly one of the better that use that formula , as long as you ignore the glaringly obvious plot holes and factual errors that the film contains . Some of the dialog is also nearly cringe-worthy to listen to , and , like many others , I agree that the special effects near the end of the film look absolutely horrendous ( though they look decent enough for the rest of the film ) . But , if you can look past all of this , you will probably enjoy the film , as it has some pretty good action scenes , and some decent one-liners . The plot is pretty good , and it does indeed present us with a rather interesting idea ( Air Force One being taken over by hostiles ) , it also takes off reasonably quickly and has a good enough pace throughout the films duration . The acting is good , definitely one of the films high points ; veterans such as Harrison Ford , Glenn Close and Gary Oldman were all great , even minor stars / characters as Xander Berkeley and William H . Macy do a good job portraying their respective characters . I also think Liesel Matthews gave a surprisingly good performance , considering her age and her acting experience . The characters are fairly well-written and interesting , Gary Oldman as a villain is always good to see ( check him out in The Fifth Element and Leon ) , and Ford is fairly believable as the president of USA . The action is fairly well-choreographed and intense . All in all , a pretty good Die Hard-like formula action film , but nothing special , really . I recommend it to fans of this sub-genre of action , and action fans in general . Also , it doesn't hurt to be a fan of one or more of the main actors , as they all give great performances that any fan of theirs should enjoy .
Not the original , but a solid 98 minutes	This has nowhere near the same level of tension as Carpenter's ( just to clear things up , for those of you who haven't read my review of that , I have not seen Rio Bravo , which I understand that both are based upon ) , but I don't get the impression that that was what they were going for . Why try to beat the man at his own game ? Instead , they went in a different direction , and it works . Some scenes and bits from the ' 76 version are redone or referenced , and it's not bad . The basic concept is also reused , but beyond that , they rewrote it almost entirely . More time is spent on characters in this one , and they are all well-written , credible and interesting . Leguizamo is ( and , it seems , has ) an awful lot of fun in this . The acting in general is great ( perhaps not for Ja , but . . . was anyone expecting more of him in this kind of thing ? ) . The dialog is almost entirely invariably ( save for a little bit of repetitive material ) excellent , with many cool and clever lines . The action is marvelous , at times breaking into being purely awesome . It's violent and graphic , and rather immensely entertaining . The tone is gritty . The plot develops nicely throughout . The pacing is good . Realism is fairly high . Richet seems to " get " the environment . Effects are exceptionally well-done . The music is fitting , and marvelous , rap and the like . Editing and cinematography are masterful and effective . The hand-held is a very positive surprise . There is a continued stream of language , much of which is strong . The DVD holds well-done featurettes going into detail about aspects such as stunts , guns and set design , deleted scenes with words by Jean-Francois , and a commentary track ( which makes for an enjoyable and informational listen ) , as well . John Carpenter's film is better , in my opinion . . . but they are certainly both well worth watching . I recommend this to fans of the genres and the people involved in making it .
Not bad , not bad at all	I really loved this movie , great " black " humor . I had heard a lot of different opinions on it , but I have to admit I watched it primarily because I had heard of Eminems hilarious cameo . I couldn't have imagined that the movie would be so funny . Dr . Dre and Snoop Dogg are great in the leads , however , George Wallace is the funniest character . He mouthes off constantly , he won't even shut up when a gun is pointed at his face . The movie was somewhat unconventional , but it wasn't bad . It was better than most mainstream comedy I've seen . It didn't try too hard to be funny . It was a great look in to the world of the ghetto ; the characters smoked weed , drank beer and cursed like hell . I recommend this to any person , black or white , who either lives in the ghetto , or know someone who does , or even if they just have a mild interest in life in the ghetto . I also think most people who are into rap will enjoy it ; it's funny , and it has a lot of cameos by popular rap stars . .
Just not as good as the first	I remember finding out about this game , and being excited to play the successor to one of my favorite gaming experiences . From the beginning , I could tell that this was different ; the first pushed the limit for what could be done at that time in games , but maintained a genuine sense of realizing that the industry was still young . This seems to forget that fact , and pushes far too hard . . . resulting in a game that has shortcomings which are more obvious than the one it follows . The first runs a lot smoother ; here , the animation is almost downright choppy , sluggish . Simply moving the prince takes more effort . I found myself playing with the traps in the first game , challenging them to get me , and generally having fun . . . with this game , too much of the time , I was just trying to finish the current level . The threshold for how much your hand-to-eye coordination has gone down some , and , I'm sorry to say , a lot of the fun factor went with it . The first game was challenging , but seldom to the point of frustration . . . in this sequel , it reaches that point within the first few levels . In fact , while it does give you a chance to get acquainted ( or re-acquainted ) with the interface and the controls , the game pretty much starts at a difficulty similar to the one the first reached by the end . I would advise anyone to play through the first game before trying their hand at this one , because this seems to go by the idea that anyone playing had played the first prior to this , and still remembers everything . The game throws you right into the action ; from the moment you start playing , you're in an intense situation . In fact , unless you react instantly and act fast ( and right ) , the Prince will meet his untimely demise within mere seconds of the game starting . This sets the standard for the more difficult game right away . Soon after , the pace slows some , and from then on , it varies , like the first , between intense situations where fast and exact actions are the difference between life and death of the fair Prince , and times where you simply have to find your way , and solve puzzles that require as much thought as good reflexes . Now , let it be known that the game still is fun . . . not as much as the first , but it certainly isn't a dull ride . There are a few new features . . . you can now crawl , both through tunnels and under one particular kind of trap , which I won't blow with a description . The rest is all environmental stuff , which , again , I won't put into words , because so much of the fun is trying out different stuff , figuring out what does what . In fact , that's one of the high points of this game ; the first had you confined to a dungeon , with two different color schemes . This has you going all over the world ( though , as one other reviewer points out , the time-limit does contradict that . . . maybe Mechner forgot why the limit and the singular setting went together so well ) . All the places you visit are nicely designed , and , while most of them retain the " ledges and traps " setup with gates to open and secret passages to discover ( which was what every level was like in the first game ) , they're still well-done . Also , pretty much each of them has something unique , be it a certain kind of gate that acts differently than the others or special enemies , so each time you visit a new type of place , there are new things to explore . The traps are pretty much all redesigned , for better or for worse . It makes the game look sufficiently different , along with the more detailed sword and clothing of the Prince himself . Something very nice that this does is tell us the Prince's background . . . in the first , he was merely a stranger who was in love with the princess , and who was her only hope of survival . Here , we get to know pretty much everything about him during the course of the game . Apart from that , though , the story is mostly the same as the first . . . the Princess is again to be killed if the time limit is reached , and the Prince is the only one who can save her . Yet again , Jaffar is behind it . . . in spite of how the first ended . The final confrontation is more about puzzle-solving than that of the first , which , I guess , is pretty fitting . I preferred the fight in the first , though . I will admit that it's pretty darned satisfying . The sound is quite good , as in the first . The music seems a tad intrusive , and doesn't always fit the situation well . Like the first , this holds some pretty exciting sword-fights , though it seemed easier ( if only a little ) to win by chance in this . In general , this is harder than the first , so anyone who thought that the first was too easy should definitely play this . While not necessarily more exciting ( I'd rate it about the same , when it's at its best ) than the first , this has some cinematic and epic moments . . . too few , in my opinion , because that is one of the things that really added to what the first was . The game makes an effort to improve on the first , and that is one of the places where it succeeds . The levels are , for the most part , longer than in the first . The longest ones , however , feature save-points , so you won't have to start all over . The saving system is improved . . . you now have eight saving slots , which you can name . Something also interesting was the way the levels didn't necessarily end with you finding the door , opening it and passing through it . More often than not , the level would end with you finding other ways of advancing to the next area . . . I won't reveal here what they are . I recommend this to fans of the first , especially those looking for a more challenging game .
The Prince's leap into 3D has a reasonably carefree landing	For the longest time , I would not hear of this game . The Prince . . . in 3D ? It seemed to be a sure recipe for disaster . I am delighted to say that I was thoroughly ( pleasantly , that is ! ) surprised by this title . The established Prince of Persia adventure / action game-play translates rather well to 3D , and this continues the overall story well . Not everything in the game works out equally well , but most of it is great . The introductory video brings you up-to-date on the story well , and after that you're in a situation by now familiar to the Prince . What was plentiful in the first two games . . . ledges , platforms , traps , puzzles requiring reflexes and skill and last but definitely not least , swordplay , is well-represented here . In addition to all that the first two games allowed you , there are now also ropes and bars to climb and swing on / from , some moving of boxes ( something that seems mandatory to include in this type of game , at least at the point this was released ) and even a little swimming . The basic game-play is very reminiscent of the first two , with the major difference being the camera ( which is now dynamic , and usually in a third-person view ) and the addition of the third dimension . This continues the tradition started by the second , of the Prince being a little heavier to move around than the first time he was saving his princess . Comparisons to Tomb Raider , the game that started the whole third-person action / adventure game thing , are pretty much inevitable . The dear Prince is hardly Lara Croft , not as agile or fast ( I say it's all that clothing , but what the hey , I guess you can't be a Prince if you haven't got some fashion sense ) . The game-play is perhaps less fast-paced than other 3D adventure games . Personally , this didn't bother me , perhaps because I enjoy and am used to the game-play of the classic Prince of Persia games . He gets to play around with more weapons than he did the first two times ; his trusty sword , the scimitar , of course returns , and they are joined by a staff and two triple-bladed ( ! ) knives . Each has advantages and downsides , in speed , range and lethality . Each , however , is also really cool to fight with . The fight system of the first two returns , though it is improved upon , requiring faster reflexes still ( ! ) , and " feinting " , meaning pretending to attack , is added . The extra dimension also makes dodging more interesting . In addition to the mêlée weapons , the Prince is now also given a bow ; while the game doesn't allow for much sniping ( by the Prince , at least . . . of him , on the other hand . . . ) , this is a good tool and an interesting new addition . What makes it even more so is the fact that there are magic arrows to fire . What these do , I won't detail here , it's simply too good and should be experienced first-hand ( or one could read the well-written descriptions of some of them in the manual ) . In fact , this has more magic available to the Prince than the first two . The first two both had magic and supernatural forces , but the poor Prince was always at their mercy , and never given the chance to wield any of this awesome force , himself . Now , I'm not saying that you're gonna get Force Powers this time around , but let's just say that the Prince will encounter magic that helps him more than once during this particular quest to save the Princess . As with the first two , the story progresses a little when ( though not every single time ) you complete a level , and this one is rather interesting and fairly well told . It's also highly dramatic . To anyone who has completed the second game ; this does not build upon the one loose thread left by the end of that . The graphics are great ( and hold up pretty well ) , with enormous detail put into everything . . . heck , just watch the opening cut-scene . You've now got a whole new kingdom ( and more , even ) to explore , too ! The loading time to get into the game is slow as a direct result , but once you're in , it loads very quickly . The video sequences are quite well-done , though the programmed ( as opposed to fully animated and rendered ) ones aren't quite as impressive as the rest ( fortunately , most of them are fully done ) . The sound varies ( levels need work ) , though the acting is mostly good . The music fits well , both in general and in combat mode ( where it changes to a more fast-paced , intense piece ) . As a new feature , you can now save anywhere you want ( provided you're standing still ) , which I'm sure many feel detract from the overall intensity and challenge ( which it arguably does ) . Personally , I thought this was a good thing , because it greatly lessens the frustration that may come with getting far and then dying from a trap that you hadn't figured out completely how to bypass . The difficulty is adequate . . . it felt like a Prince of Persia game throughout , rather than Tomb Raider in Ancient Persia . Now , that was all the good . . . I'm afraid it is my sad duty to report to any readers that there is some bad , as well . The fighting system takes the tune-up well , but the enemies aren't that good at using it ( whereas in the first two games , they did so flawlessly , undoubtedly due to the much simpler coding ) , and ( much too ) often , you can win fights just by hacking and slashing away at random ( gone are the glorious days of the reflex - and skill-requiring chess-matches ) . The AI needs serious attention . The camera works directly against you at times . There are some bugs ( most aren't too bad ) , including a few ( not very many ) " show " ( well , ' game ' ) - stoppers . The game is less free and open than the first two ( the first , in particular ) ; no forcing enemies into traps , for example . There seemed to be less gore and blood , though the tone is about as relentless as that of the first two . No time limit , except for one point . I recommend this to any fan of the first two and / or of 3D adventure .
Double-crosses and slang galore , but not a bad film	I didn't know anything about David Mamet before I saw this film . . . now I know that he's got a penchant for characters with ulterior motives and slang-heavy dialog . Going into this film , I didn't expect anything but a ( surprise surprise ) heist flick . I got just that . Not just a heist flick , but a well-acted , nicely directed and quite entertaining one , at that . The plot is pretty good , and keeps your interest throughout . There are a fair bit of double-crosses throughout , and near the end , it does get somewhat tiresome . The acting is all top-notch . Not one performance was even slightly off . It's no surprise to see such high-quality acting from Hackman , Lindo and Rockwell , but I had not expected such excellent performances from DeVito and Jay . The writing is very good , but Mamet uses too many clichés and there's just a tad too much going on in the shadows , people conspiring against each other . The dialog tries oh so hard to be clever , and occasionally succeeds , but more often than not , it just comes off as pretentiousness , with all the slang , the attempts at being clever and the ridiculously high pace it sometimes sports . The cinematography is great , not one shot was poor or out of place . The pacing is mostly good , though the film seems to go on just a bit too long . All in all , an entertaining heist film , but not one to watch much more than one time . I recommend this to all fans of heist flicks , any of the actors and David Mamet ( who seems to be all about these films ) .
Undeniably entertaining	This film can't be claimed to possess much , if any , intellectual value . It won't change the way we view anything ( well , it may have people looking up , and / or appreciating the unblocked view of the sky more than usual ) . It won't revolutionize film-making . It may not even stay in your mind for terribly long after watching it . But it is an entertaining piece while you do , and hey , it's a chance for Trekkers to see Brent Spiner outside of Star Trek . Also , it never actually claims to be more than what it is , a Summer blockbuster . The film wastes no time introducing the extra-terrestrial element . The pacing throughout the film isn't bad . The plot is decent . Emmerich makes both disaster and action aspects work well . The film apparently holds , and may very well continue to hold , the record for the most miniature model-work in any one movie . . . that says something about just how much action is packed into this . The acting is fine . The dialog is . . . not the smartest ever written . The characters aren't bad . The real draw here is definitely the explosions and action . I recommend this to fans of action - and / or disaster-flicks , as well as fans of the actors and / or the director , Roland Emmerich .
More fun in the Red Alert universe	The campiness of Red Alert 2 continues full force , and is joined by an equal amount of cheesiness . The plot isn't bad , it just isn't very original , and the basis for it is something of a deus ex machina . . . or , in laymen's terms , it screams , " We're written into a corner , and we have no good way of getting out " . This expansion has just about everybody from the game return . Their look is slightly altered , meaning , they all took a quick trip to the hair-dresser ( with somewhat varying results ) , for no readily apparent reason ( it even creates a glaring continuity error that could easily have been avoided ) . Dialog and acting are as campy as in the regular game . The cut-scenes are about the same quality they were in the game . Yuri's Revenge , as the title reveals , has Yuri return . . . as the main enemy of both campaigns . His side can also be played in multi-player . His arsenal includes some thoroughly unpleasant and highly unethical weapons , including biological war-fare . Did you like the mind-control of Red Alert 2 ? The developers of this add-on sure hope so . Not only do the Yuri clones and Yuri Prime return , the latter gets upgraded noticeably and they are joined by a building , a vehicle , heck , even a superweapon that can mind-control . The interesting thing about Yuri's side is that while what he does have is extremely useful and difficult to fight , there really isn't a lot of it . He only has one flying unit . He doesn't have a particularly powerful tank , like both Allied and Soviets do in both this and the main game . He lacks buildings that both his opponents have . As with the other two sides , use what he has right , and he can be excellent to play as . He has both a tank and a building which use a gattling cannon as their weapon , and this is a gun that I welcomed with open arms to an RTS title . It can shoot at both ground and airborne targets , and the longer it fires , the more rounds per minute , and the more powerful it gets . The campaigns are good . There are seven missions per side , and in some , you have access to the special units that the different countries get in multi-player . Both sides get a cool and interesting final level ( and for how similar the story-lines are , they're actually surprisingly different , great in their own way , and the Soviet ending cut-scene is way more satisfying than in the game ) , and the level design in general is quite good . The way the missions were selected is fairly good , with one level having you play the other side of a battle you fought during Red Alert 2 , several of them being interesting and all of them taking place , as with the main game , in real life locations . There is also much more of a definite connection between the occurrences in the intro ( which , comparatively , is considerably less action-packed and awesome than that of the game ) and the missions . The music isn't bad , but I wouldn't rate it as highly as that of the main game . The pace isn't as riveting , though some missions are really cool . There's one new bug in this expansion pack , but apart from that , most of the new things are improvements . There are some new features , mainly for multi-player , which makes it more enjoyable and makes for more customization before the matches start . The two returning sides get some more units . Soviets were somewhat in need , in particular , seeing as how Yuri getting his own side took away no less than two buildings and one unit . They get an Industrial Plant , which increases unit production ( and works as a good counter to the Allied Ore Purifier , though that , I believe , was a counter in itself ) . They also get a Battle Bunker , which allows for garrisoning a small group of Conscripts ( or other main infantry ) . As far as units go , they get a Siege Chopper , a helicopter that deploys into a cannon reminiscent of heavy artillery , and Boris , a unit that works basically like Tanya , only instead of two pistols , he uses , yep , you guessed it , an AK-47 , and instead of C4 , he calls in air-strikes , in a manner somewhat similar to using a Ghost to nuke the enemy in StarCraft . While Boris is definitely a cool and interesting addition , it doesn't make all that good sense for the Soviets to have a guerrilla style war-fare unit , what with their reliance on heavy hardware to get the job done ( much like NOD in the Tiberium universe ) , but oh well . Both he and Tanya ( who can now also use her C4 to instantly blow up vehicles ) are put to reasonably good and entertaining use in the campaigns . The Soviets also get their Spy Plane back , which had taken an unexplained leave of absence since the first Red Alert , and it was definitely good to see the return of it . The Allies get one new building . . . the Robot Control Center . It enables them to build Robot Tanks , that float ( letting them pass over water without thinking twice about it ) and are utterly immune to mind-control . They also get Guardian GI's , infantry units that are uncrushable anti-aircraft / vehicle when deployed . However , the one that grants the player the most strategic possibilities is the Battle Fortress . This is like a merging of five IFV's . Five infantry units can be stored inside , and not only are they considerably safer from enemy fire in there , they can also shoot back . It also crushes just about anything in its path , including vehicles and walls ( ! ) . All sides get the Force Shield , which really isn't all that useful . It represents an attempt at giving the players defense against super-weapons , but I can't claim I've had much experience with the thing actually being much worth the minute of low power that follows , as opposed to either disabling any enemy-controlled super-weapons , or simply taking the hit . All in all , good expansion pack . I definitely recommend it to anyone who enjoyed playing Red Alert 2 .
What makes a monster , and what makes a man	I have not read the book by Victor Hugo , but I do understand that , as the other adaptations of theirs , this has been " Disney-fied " , gotten something of a heavy dose of sugar injected , to direct its aim toward children . In spite of this , it's actually quite watchable for those of us who aren't , anymore . The tone has a lot of maturity , and the themes are universal . The plot is very good , well-written and it develops nicely throughout the entire feature . Colors are used effectively . At the same time , the visuals are rather naturalistic and realistic , all the way . The dialog is well-done . The comedy works , and a lot of it is enjoyable to the older audiences , as well . The DVD holds a cute special feature or two , and none of them are bad . The game isn't the best of these Disney DVD games . Casting surprised me , Kline and Moore both suit their parts and as with Gibson in Pocahontas , and much more so , Williams in Aladdin , first-mentioned actor gets some of his recognizable traits transferred to his animated alter ego . Alexander is a lot more tolerable than he was in The Return of Jafar , in fact , he's downright funny , herein . The music isn't bad at all . This has moments of creativity and energy like that of Aladdin , which is still my favorite Disney animated musical . The dramatic portions are effective , and the 3D elements are masterfully done . I recommend this to any fan of Disney's feature-length musical cartoons , young and old alike .
Very ' Hollywood ' , but not ( all ) bad	I watched this movie with my fiancée , an American rightly proud of their military might . I wasn't expecting much more than standard Hollywood fare , so I really wasn't let down by it . The plot is pretty good , and presents a damn good dilemma . Neither my wife-to-be nor I could truly take either side . It's too bad the movie had to take one , partly due to the fact that the choice is a bit on the banal side . This is one movie where I would definitely have preferred to be left in the dark , for the film-makers to let the audience figure out for themselves what to think and believe . I suggest they watch some Alejandro Amenábar . Oh well . . . that's Hollywood for ya . The acting is solid . I kid you not , even Zahn wasn't an embarrassment . The action is pretty good , though somewhat limited . There's intensity enough to go around , the action just didn't seem to have enough scope , at least in my opinion . The characters are reasonably well-written . The biggest problem is that the two stances on the dilemma are just not fairly presented . We've got pacifistic and appealing Washington on one side . . . and Hackman , crazy old coot , on the other . Gene blows up near the end and loses all and any sympathy he may have garnered throughout the film , as the agenda of the film-makers becomes too blatantly obvious and heavy-handed ( made worse only by the very end scene ) . Anyone looking for something intellectually stimulating ( granted , a Hollywood movie isn't exactly the brightest place to look , but still ) should look past this flick . Mindless entertainment and less-than-subtle manipulation is abound here . The one thing , however , that the film achieves nicely is the isolated , claustrophobic mood of a submarine . Now , arguably , I haven't seen enough of these films to say for sure ( since this is , oh , well , the very first one I've seen ) , but in that respect , Tony does good . Well done , Mr . Scott . But as for the movie as a whole and the plot . . . Hackman is just too far away from being any kind of a likable character , and the trigger-happy , manic Gandolfini isn't much better , nor are any other characters on their side . I know most American cinema pits good versus evil , right versus wrong . . . but couldn't wrong at least be the opposing side ( the Russians ) ? Or , even better , be more ambiguous ? Just so it didn't feel that much like a lecture and rather food for thought . Anyway , if you can ignore and / or accept the manipulation and the Hollywood factor , it's not that bad . I recommend this to fans of the film-makers and actors . Just know what you're in for .
Surreal	The short film that directly precedes The Meaning of Life by Monty Python ( meaning , it runs directly before the rest of the film starts ) , this was put together by Terry Gilliam , the masterful director among the team , and the man behind both Twelve Monkeys and the animations that the team include in the Flying Circus television series . I have to admit that this is my least favorite of all of the full production , but it can't be claimed that this is not well-done . Direction is top-notch , and the whole thing runs very smoothly . Acting fits well . Production values are all of very high quality . The music and score is great , and this even gets a Monty Python song , and a good one at that . Cinematography and editing ( save for just a few obvious cuts for effects ) are rather good . This hardly features the Monty Python people ( on-screen ) at all , save for a few cameos . It's got a run-time of 16 minutes or so , if you count the credits . The pacing is marvelous . It doesn't overstay its welcome , nor does it end before it should . It has the utter madness and bizarre humor that most things Python do , coupled with that of Gilliam himself . The ending itself is typically Monty Python , and a fitting end . I recommend this to any fan of Gilliam and Monty Python , but do give the rest of The Meaning of Life your time and attention , too . . . I personally think it's worth it .
No , the war isn't over . . . it's just gotten even cooler	This upgrade picks up after the end of Generals , its parent game . . . the war seemed won , but the GLA just barely survived . . . and a new leader has emerged among them , one who just may be able to gather their forces and become a threat . Finish the GLA off once and for all , or aid them . This upgrade adds some new units and changes some of the old ones . . . it also adds some helpful features ( though there is still something of a lack of detail , status bars and overview ) , and three " generals " per side , reminiscent of the different countries feature of the multi-player side of the Red Alert games . That's 9 generals in total , each of which has unique weapons and abilities ( of course at the cost of others , but fair's fair ) , specific to what they specialize in ( such as laser , super-weapons , stealth . . . ) , and they really make things entertaining and open up for quite a number of different strategies and exciting battles . The single-player portion , in addition to the campaigns and skirmish mode , now include something called General's Challenge , which is essentially a tournament mode ( between the generals , all of which have interesting personalities / strategies ) , which makes this expansion last longer . That's a good thing , because the campaigns are only five levels each . . . they do somewhat make up for that by having several very interesting scenarios , however , such as having to complete a mission before the international opinion of the country reaches zero , taking a large island occupied by enemy forces using guerrilla tactics and using Col . Burton ( occasionally assisted by The Black Lotus ) and a small team to infiltrate an area which holds several POW camps . All three sides get an appropriate finale , if they perhaps aren't equally good . Game-play is improved upon due to the new features ( which include on / off features , some of which are for multi-player / skirmish games ) and the added units , several of which work to remove weak points about the original games ' selection and strategy options . It should be noted , however , that the air-craft carriers and cruisers can only be used in one single-player mission ( but don't get me wrong , they are exceptionally cool to use ) , in spite of what the main menu looks like , as well as the shots of them featured in the intro ( which , this time , is surprisingly flat , and feels overlong , in spite of the well-written tag-line and the quality and excitement factor of the in-game cut-scenes ( which , again , consist of game footage ) ) . Instead of briefings , this game has brief clips of television reporters from the lines detailing the latest advances , providing background for the missions . This is an original take on it , but this sadly makes the objectives less obvious . . . there was even one mission where I found myself completely unaware of what I was to do . This was less of a problem in the original ( though it still isn't a particularly big one , to be fair ) . The music is fitting , and about as good as that of Generals . The new buildings and units add pretty much everything that could be considered to be lacking in Generals , but more features would still be highly beneficial . . . stances , formations and multi-task building ( all of which were in Age of Empires II , released years before this ) are still missed . Some of the worst bugs are covered in this , but others remain ( and , as was the case with Yuri's Revenge , this also brings about one or two new ones ) . Among the most noticeable and helpful new additions , as far as units and structures go , are an Internet Center ( which protects your hackers while they get you cash ) , an ECM Tank ( which can effectively disable the electronics of enemy vehicles ) , a Listening Outpost ( a detecting unit which cloaks itself when stationary and holds two Tank Hunters , efficient for taking out unprotected enemy artillery long before they reach your base ) and a Helix ( essentially an air-borne Overlord Tank ) transport and assault chopper for the Chinese ; a Combat Cycle ( essentially a more maneuverable version of the IFV of Red Alert 2 ) , a Battle Bus ( a transport from which infantry can attack , which becomes a bunker if it is robbed of its mobility ) , the re-introduction of the efficient diversionary Fake Structures ( now upgraded so that they can be detonated at will , not to mention upgraded into the real building , making them even more of a useful strategic tool ) , and , last but not least , an ability that allows them to create a Tunnel Network at any part of the map that they can view ( making them sneakier and even more of a pest for their opponents . . . their defensive structures can now also gain Camouflage Netting , rendering them cloaked ) for the GLA ; and finally , Avengers ( tanks that , using laser ( think Paladin ) can successfully knock out every missile launched towards them or the area beyond them , provided there are enough of them ) , a Sentry Drone ( an invisible de-cloaking unit that can be upgraded to possess a small machine gun capable of taking out infantry and weaker vehicles ) , a Microwave Tank ( which , using micro waves , can disable enemy structures , including defensive ones ) and the Fire Base ( a defensive building which can have four infantry units garrisoned inside , in addition to the artillery cannon on top , evening out the three sides ' defensive structures by providing a second one to the only of the three sides that did not have one in Generals ) for the US . New Generals abilities are added , some very interesting and unique ones among them , and more upgrades are introduced , as well . The expansion has a little bit of a silly streak to it , as seen in the video sequence in which a truck , labeled " really explosive " ( ! ) is the cause of a large explosion when it is hit , as well as in the upgrade that gives the GLA Workers " those shoes that they have been asking for " , to increase their movement rate . This is definitely worth playing for anyone who enjoyed Generals , as well as any fan of Real Time Strategy ( though I would suggest you try the earlier games ) in general ( no pun intended , honest ) . I recommend this to any fan of Generals . Tons of strategic fun and excitement .
About as good as the first , overall	After having seen Resident Evil god knows how many times , and being pretty psyched for the sequel , I finally got to see it , and on the premiere night , too . Of course , I knew that the director of the first RE , Paul W . S . Anderson , wasn't doing this , since he was busy making his dream project , Aliens Vs Predator . Luckily , I can cope with changes like that . . . as long as the change isn't devastating . For this movie , however , it's hard to tell . . . maybe the mediocre attempts at scaring the audience and providing shocks was Anderson's fault , as he wrote the script , but it may be the new director , first-timer Alexander Witt , who's responsible . Let me say this upfront ; I , as many others who enjoyed the first , really liked the ending , the whole foreshadowing thing , and , thankfully , the film picks up exactly where the first one left off . Actually , it goes a little further back , to show us exactly what happened before Alice woke up . The plot is decent , about as good as it gets when it's Paul W . S . Anderson writing it . It doesn't drag . . . heh , it doesn't drag . . . heck , it doesn't even leave the slightest chance for it to drag , as it's constantly moving . The movie never allows the audience to catch their breath ; apparently , someone ( I'm guessing Anderson or Witt ) has never heard of the danger of overdoing action sequences . For anything ( at all ) to be good , entertaining , thrilling , whatever . . . there needs to be what is commonly referred to as ' buffers ' . Without those nice little talky-talky scenes in-between , heck , maybe even a dash of good old-fashioned character development , the action just ends up being trite . And that's pretty much what happens here . They try to squeeze as much action into every single frame as possible , and it ends up annoying the audience rather than exciting . The director also has a horrible habit of blurring the image whenever there are more than five zombies on-screen , apparently to ( I guess ) cover up a bad job on makeup . . . or something to that effect . If the first had too much make up and such , this has too little . The acting is decent enough . Milla Jovovich gives the same good performance that she usually does . The rest of the cast are acceptable . The characters are mostly clichés and stereotypes . Of course , by mostly I mean almost 90 % of the cases . You got the stupid reporter who just wants to make a story out of all of this , despite her being in obvious danger ; The bad-ass cop who's suspended but still takes her duty deadly serious ; the half-witted pathetic guy who's obviously only there for comic relief . . . actually , scratch that last one , as he was actually pretty darn funny . For once the person who's supposed to be there for comic relief works , instead of just being the most ( or even worse ; least ) laughable character . The special effects were well done , but not spectacular . Definitely not the best I've seen . The action was good , but really over-the-top . The scenes with the Nemesis range between being some of the best action in the movie to being some of the most pathetic and smirk-inspiring scenes . The cinematography is nothing special . The film introduced an unnecessary amount of characters , most of whom are just fodder for the zombies or Nemesis anyway . The showdown between Alice and Nemesis was somewhat pathetically staged , and probably would have seemed out of place , hadn't the rest of the film been of the same quality ( honestly , it seemed like a video-game . . . and while I am quite a big fan of them , I'm considerably more interested in playing them than watching them ) . That big ol ' hunk o ' biologically engineered walking death was simultaneously underdeveloped ( for what they had him / it do ) and overexposed . The film is noisy and loud , but not as loud as the first film , and while the sound is often horribly overdone , it doesn't distract as much as several other big action hits . The film is also less loud when it comes to the soundtrack ; it was nice to have some change from the one-note loud heavy metal from the first film . All in all , a pretty entertaining flick , but out of your mind much faster than it got in ( and that's saying a lot , believe me ) . If you liked the first , are a big fan of one or more of the actors , or you just have nothing better to do for 90 minutes , give it a shot . It kept me watching through the end , and , despite a few disappointments , kept my interest as well . It just didn't stay fresh in my head for more than about fifteen minutes after the credits started , which is very little for a film with so much going on in it all the time . I recommend it only to big fans of the first or of Milla Jovovich . I suppose big fans of Paul W . S . Anderson ( they must exist , somewhere ) will probably enjoy it too . I will say that most who liked the first will probably like this as well , but possibly a little less due to the lesser directing .
Fire in the hole	This is one of the short featurettes on the DVD of Team America : World Police , going into a specific area of said film . In this case , it's pyro-technics , and several scenes have the secret behind their explosions revealed , and this is both interesting , and , well , fun . Come on , doesn't everybody , deep down , get some measure of joy from seeing something blow up ? Even if they don't want to admit it . This consists of interviews , behind-the-scenes footage and clips of the movie . Matt and Trey don't say a lot , but the guy behind the flames and more does , and he's entertaining , so I'm not complaining . This is not very long , and due to the cool-ness factor of the majority of what fills the screen during that time , it seems to fly by even faster . It's around 5 minutes from start to finish , of an object-smashing , explained-destruction , guided tour through the world of cinematic demolition . And give Joe Visckocil a warm welcome , will you ? No , I'm not quitting my day job . I recommend this to anyone who liked TA , especially the parts where things go boom .
Stringy , yet with a mechanical feel to it	This is another of the featurettes on the DVD of Team America : World Police , and it deals with one specific subject , like the others . In this one , it's all about the creation of the puppets , from start to finish , the amount of , and what type of , work , that goes into each and every one of them , their costumes , and how to choose the right tone for the " actors " as well as what they wear . It consists of behind-the-scenes footage , interviews and a couple of clips from the film itself . Several people who directly built or helped mold the machines get at least a little bit of screen-time , if not always more than just enough to state their particular role in said process . Several of them have interesting things to say , and Matt and Trey are funny enough to listen to , in their child-like glee and joking around . This is a must-see for anyone who wants to know how they managed to form those that would take all the roles in the movie out of metal and various other materials . I recommend this to anyone who finds themselves in aforementioned category , and really , fans of the people and TA in general .
A review from someone who isn't really a fan of Westerns	I don't know , maybe it's that I didn't grow up with them , the way others have , the fact that I'm not American , or a variety of factors , but I've never been much for the classic Westerns . As with films regarding historic events , and films further back than a few decades , Westerns are something that I just don't make it a point to watch unless there's something special about it , someone talented at the helm or a major significance to that particular production . I watched this years ago , and I must admit that I didn't pay that much attention on this most recent viewing . It's just not really my genre . Some of the situations , action and dialog are admittedly good in some of these films , though . Technically speaking , this is good . Camera , editing and sound are fine . The fights look convincing enough , it does look as if the punches connect ( though I wouldn't guess that they actually did ) . At one point in the film , an unusual and unexpected group dish out some physical violence . One fight plays a lot like a football game . The humor includes some repeated gags and jokes , and one running toilet humor joke . The dialog has its moments . I recommend this to fans of Westerns and comedies set in the Wild West .
Down the hatch	I would not suggest that anyone who hasn't seen Lost through at least the entire second season read the following , or , obviously , view the featurette . . . which makes sense , seeing as how it is located on the last disc of that DVD set . Everyone else gone ? Honest ? Good . This takes you on something of a tour of the ( in ? ) famous , newly revealed area of the year . It's well-edited , entertaining and informative . The pacing is fine , at 15 minutes it spends an appropriate amount of time on the subject . There are interviews , behind-the-scenes footage and clips from the show . They go into detail about how certain things there work , and what concepts they thought up , and what changes the design went through . However , if you are one of us fans of the series who really hope that they , as promised , have answers for everything ( yeah . . . ) that has happened , and do not want to hear the writers and the creator of the TV production admit that no , at first they didn't really know what something was gonna turn out to be , you may want to be careful with watching this , or at least turn very conveniently and selectively deaf for a brief period during it . I recommend this to anyone interested in J . J . ' s television efforts .
. . . but it's true !	This is the seventh and final ( going by the order on the DVD , well , the one I own , at least ) short featurette on the disc of Team America : World Police , each going into a specific subject of that film . Kim Jong-Il is the focus of this one , with one or two more broad details in there ( you'll never believe what caused Elliott and others a lot of problems ) . How he was thought up , the design of him and his puppet . It consists of interviews , behind-the-scenes footage , conceptual art and clips of the movie . Matt and Trey give the very best comments , and are by far the funniest to listen to in this , but all have good stuff to add . Parker's " big dream " is absolutely priceless . It's interesting to hear how much of the character is based on research , not made up . This is edited well . Pacing is good , it's hard to go too slow at the five minutes long this is , but it also doesn't move overly fast . The language isn't an issue in this , so the only censor-notable thing here is the violence ( none of which involves actual human beings ) . I recommend this to any fan of TA , and anyone who wants to know more about the villain of it .
Eyes and ears	I don't know what would make one vote quite as low as 1 on this ( as , at the time of writing this , 19 % have ) , other than having expected it to be completely different in form . This is a documentary on the X-Men 1 . 5 ( which holds rather a high quantity of extras ) DVD , going over the entire creative process of the film . It consists largely of candidly shot behind-the-scenes footage , not all of it even being on recognizable sets , and a handful of interview bits ( McKellan and Stewart both come off as wise in them , and not just because they're British ) . No movie clips , no extended sequences of " talking heads " , and any artwork that appears in this isn't inserted . . . instead they pan the camera over to show it . Basically , a Mini-DV was running during ( at least much of ) the planning , rewriting and such , and they edited it together , giving a different , organic result , similar to The Beginning : Making ' Episode 1 ' . You get to be a fly on the wall during debates , watch as they work out the kinks , and you even get to hear about stuff they were going to do . You also see the crew and cast joke around , and see or be told about their initial reactions to sets , props and the like . It is interesting , entertaining , and well-paced . I was never bored , and the hour and a couple of minutes pass smoothly . The anecdotes , the moments , it's all worth the attention of viewers of the final product who want to see what goes on as it's being put together . This isn't particularly linear in narrative , and one portion may not necessarily connect to the one following or preceding it . The quality of the recorded material varies , and obviously not all of it is going to be what one is used to , when sitting down to watch something officially released . There is some language ( more than that of the subject of this ) , and while it isn't terribly prevalent herein , it does tend to be strong . I recommend this to any fan of the series , or even a less dedicated viewer , should they be up for watching a laid-back look at a lot of what goes into doing something that goes up on the silver screen .
Pretty good , considering how old it is	This is one of Hitchcock's very first films , and his first talkie . Considering that , I think the actors do a pretty good job . . . this is probably the first time they have to act while talking at the same time , instead of just using their body language . Even though this is one of Hitchcock's first movies , you can clearly see a lot of his later famous details , such as camera angles , playing with shadows and such . The psychological terror is also terrific , though not as sophisticated as in his later films . Hitchcock took good use of what was possible at the time , concerning effects , editing tricks and the likes . The plot is pretty good , like with most of Hitchcock's films . The acting is pretty good , especially considering that it's one of the first talking movies , and the actors were not terribly experienced with that kind of acting . The movie moves along at an acceptable pace , though it isn't as exciting or psychologically terrifying as many of his later movies . However , it's interesting to see how good a director he was , even at that time in his career . I recommend this to most fans of Hitchcock , as most will find it enjoyable , if for nothing else than at least a look at how he directed movies back then .
For the first time , my hat comes off to Shyamalan	I can't be claimed to be a fan of M . Night Shyamalan . Not by any stretch of the imagination . I've only watched one of his films ( Signs ) , but what I hear about the others doesn't particularly help my view . But I must admit , this film did keep my interest throughout . The version I watched had been edited for content , and was about an hour and a half , not the two hours or so that IMDb lists . My interest in this stems solely from my being a long-time fan of comic books , and the media of them . That was the only reason I gave this a chance . I am not disappointed . Be aware that you shouldn't expect a comic book film . . . or an action piece based on comics . This is still M . Night , and from what I understand , his work is about the build-up , the atmosphere , and the twist in the end . On that , I can't help but be impressed , in fact by all three . The film has something of an undertone of comic books , without ever losing seriousness , as so often happens when the silver screen has such projected onto it . M . achieves that masterfully . Lighting , cinematography , editing , all top-notch . The acting hardly possesses any flaws . The writing is solid , though a few scenes and lines came off silly . The ambiguity and depth herein is commendable . The humor is a fitting dry wit . The film is disturbing at times . The references to both comics and comic book films are great . The twist , I found to be breathtaking . I won't claim that I got everything about this movie , but I was definitely intrigued . Pacing is deliberate . I recommend this to comic fans mature enough to appreciate a film that deals with the medium without colorful costumes or grand-scale fights . . . there are more of us than some might think .
It averages out to an entertaining and well-done , but not perfect , entry	I haven't read much of the comics , but I understand that they are much more mature and complex than the campy cartoon series they aired , starting in ' 87 . They intended to make this relatively faithful , without alienating the apparently anticipated audience , the kids . This is darker , bleaker , smarter and less insulting to those of us who are not in said group . The humor is still mainly for them , in particular the couple of bits where this almost feels like a Scooby Doo adventure , though there are also jokes that can be enjoyed by teenagers and older still , without being too " adult " . This can be taken as a sequel to the 1990 movie , and this resembles it in tone ( albeit surpassing it , and definitely adding an edge that the film franchise hasn't had before this ) . It's difficult to say if the other two are to be considered canon or not . The plot is interesting , and keeps you watching . The pacing is reasonably good . The character development is nice , and this is definitely the most consistent as far as the personalities go . The voice acting is spot-on , Evans seemed especially fitting as Casey Jones , and Stewart hands in his usual great performance . The atmosphere is well-achieved . The cinematography is marvelous , with several " different " angles . The editing is sharp . This does utilize the fact that it's animated , in such sequences as Michaelangelo skateboarding . The CGI is spectacular , and the stylized look makes this neither downright intimidating nor overly " for the whole family " . You have to be careful , with these types of productions , that the visuals don't take over , but I'd say they succeed here , and they don't become the focus . The action is well-done , choreographed well and exciting . The licensed game is a fun companion release to this , without being required to appreciate this . The music is well-done , score and some rock . This is somewhat short , at just under 80 minutes before the end credits roll . There is violence in this , although it is entirely safe for the PG crowd . The DVD has a featurette about the people doing speaking parts in this , as well as scenes that were cut or changed ( including pre-vis material ) , and a commentary track by director / writer Kevin Munroe , that is well worth listening to . I recommend this to any fan of the famed turtles .
Some of the fights really are real	One of my ( and I would guess , many others ' ) main complaints regarding the prequel trilogy , in particular parts two and three , were the heavy usage of CGI . No more sets , little of the action is " live " , heck , quite a few of the people aren't even real , but animated . I was quite happy to learn that the fight scenes in Episode III , with the obvious exclusion of one particular fighter , was actually really done . Live action . Some stunt people , yes , but at least it was actual , living people . And this will also reveal to you that certain fighters , whom you may not ( I certainly didn't , especially for one of them ) have expected to have done their own fighting , actually did . Featured are various interview snippets , with the actors and film-makers describing the process , the training , and the apparently rather talented and helpful stunt coordinator Nick Gillard . One thing that definitely earns him respect is that he prefers to do it for real , without computer enhancing . At about eleven minutes , this is a concise featurette . I recommend this to anyone who enjoyed the movie and wanted to find out how much was real , as well as any fellow fan of the light-saber duels .
Fine	I don't know anything about the real person this is about apart from what this tells . I can't claim to be particularly interested in this film ( and to put it about as nicely as possible , bio-pic is not my genre ) , or the real person , so please chalk it up to that if this review bears marks of that . The music is definitely good ( that's probably always been my reason for watching this ) , if 50's rock is your thing , I could see there being worse things to sit through to listen to such , but I can't say for sure that I've watched any others of these ( Elvis films don't count , right ? ) . The plot isn't bad and develops OK . The pacing is reasonable . The acting certainly has bright spots . . . Pantoliano is a pretty positive addition as usual , and Pena , who I've seen since earlier viewings of this in both NCIS and WaT and performed well in both ( particularly the latter ) is great . Never been a fan of Phillips , this doesn't really alter that one way or the other . Cinematography and editing are nothing special . I couldn't tell you if the people look ( or sound , in the case of the singers ) their parts , or if this follows the actual story ( at all ) , I'm afraid . I recommend this to fans of the musicians and their work .
Cute and fun little game	In the wake of the success of Home Alone , this fun little game came to be . Focusing on what is arguably the most entertaining scene in the film ( or the only entertaining one , as some cynics will undoubtedly say ; I should know , I used to be one ) , this pits you against Harry and Marv , in the role of Kevin . The plot is simple ; you have one hour ( I'm not sure if that's " real time " , the clock seems to move faster than that ) , not unlike the film ( if I remember correctly ? ) , to set up traps all over the house , before Harry and Marv start breaking in . . . by which time , you had better be prepared . If you find yourself ready before the clock is at 9 pm , there is a function that allows you ( by pressing N on your keyboard ) to fast-forward until they come . The first half of the game-play consists of you running around the house , picking up things ( mostly household items , like in the movie ) by pressing F1 , placing them as traps in select areas , scattered around the house , by walking and / or jumping up to where it should be placed ( clearly indicated , both from afar and when you're close enough to place it , there's no missing it ) and pressing F3 . You can carry three items at a time , F2 cycles through them . There are just shy of thirty traps to be set ( I believe the exact number is 27 ) , and two wild-cards ; the BB gun and the tarantula . The aforementioned is required to execute certain traps ( most just work by Harry or Marv walking into them ) and is good for one hit ( it takes ten hits for both burglars to go down , give up ) dealt to each of the thieves ( you can shoot them more than once , but that will only give them slight pause , giving you a second or less of more running time ) , both achieved by firing it , the key for which you set during setup ( to be able to use it , just make sure you have it in your inventory when the clock runs out ) . The last-mentioned is not an actual trap . . . you can set it , but don't expect it to stay still . Or get you hits . It will only give pause , though more than shots from the BB gun ( after the first one ) . The second part of the game-play , once the clock reaches 9 ( either by itself or through the player using the feature to jump in time ) has you running around the house , now with the ability to fire the BB gun ( if you picked it up and kept it ) , with the traps set ( meaning that you , yourself can also walk into them , ruining them ) and with Harry and Marv breaking into the house . Now , the clock counts up , and you are now to lure both burglars into enough traps each to secure they take the hits , and the high-score will then rank you based on damage they received ( the highest being a hundred , each hit counting , yep , you guessed it , ten points ) and the time it took you ( hence the clock ) . All the ordinary ( the ones that don't need shooting at ) traps work the same way ; there is an animation ( some have more intricate and detailed ones than others ) as Harry or Marv walk into them , they are stopped in their advancing for the while the animation takes ( never more than a second or two ) , the trap is disabled ( one use per each . . . no one said it was going to be easy ! ) and the counter at the top of the screen adds 1 hit to the scoreboard for that character . The thieves have different speeds of walking . . . the closer they are to you , and the angrier they are ( meaning , the more of a beating they've taken , trying to get you ) , the faster they walk . You can usually get them to slow down by simply running away . . . they can't " see " much more than one room in front of them . Be wary , though . . . the one way you can lose in the game is getting caught by one of them , so stay on your guard . Whether or not they've seen you , and how fast they're moving can be seen at the top two corners of the screen . . . the first by whether or not the color of the text ( red if they have , blue if they haven't ; this text also helps you find doors and passageways ) indicating which room they're in ( only by name , though , so you may want to run around the house a couple of times and note the different rooms and their names and make sure you know them , since the McCallisters have what isn't much less of a mansion for you to go wild in ) , and the second is indicated by the animation ( running or walking ) of them in their respective upper corners . The animation will also show when they run into traps out of your field of view ( which is only the room you're currently in ) and when they give up . Speaking of the animation , it's fair for a game of this time . The graphics go for a somewhat satisfying level of detail and they do the job ; you're never really confused as to what you just picked up or how a trap worked . The game-play is fairly entertaining , if somewhat limited . For such a simple game , the re-playability is pretty good ; not only is there the motivation of trying to top the high-score , there is the unpredictability of where the burglars turn up , and how they move . Also , with the many places you can set up the traps , not many people will play the exact same way ( plus , that allows you to change around the way you play , yourself , trying new things ) . The moment the second part of the game starts , where you lure Harry and Marv towards the traps , you get a counter that displays how many traps there are . . . of course , it doesn't say where any of them are , so you'd better be keeping an eye on where the two of them are , which traps they walk into . I recommend this to fans of puzzle-action games .
Definitely deserves a chance by those who enjoyed the movies and / or like the character	After three movies , all of which had , at least some , good visuals , action and dark tone , this franchise tried for a television show . I've only read one comic with the title character , so I base my evaluations on the movies and the show , and what little I know about the comics . This show only got one season , and it lasted a dozen episode , with a pilot the length of two full episodes . Personally , I think they did a pretty good job , much of the way . Rather than just try to imitate the movies ( which is not to say that they didn't take notes , in fact , almost everything , especially as far as look goes , is from the movies ) , this went for on-going plots and provided character development . Yes , some of it is similar to the movies . No , not all of it is terribly original . But most of it is entertaining , and they do some interesting things , and provided some more or less solid drama . The pilot has some self-irony over the character and introduction , and they bring in a fairly known face to explain the origin story . It's unclear where in the time-line of the movies this takes place , but it could be after the course of all three movies , and it would seem to be in the same universe , as the character of Whistler is referenced . The music is OK , it consists of score and some rock and rap . The action is reasonable , and has some really awesome moments . The sets are decent enough . The special effects aren't as spectacular as they could have been on a higher budget , but they do look quite nice . The acting varies , but is usually acceptable , sometimes great ( and once Emily Hirst appears . . . impressive performance . I urge any potential viewers to not look her up , or try to find out what she plays ) . Sticky Fingaz isn't too bad in his portrayal of Blade , and his looks , moves and fighting skills fit the part . The character of Krista was a magnificent idea ; she starts out being the viewer's introduction to this world , but she goes on to be much more . She is interesting , and she helps keep the show grounded . No matter how big it seems to get , her character makes it real . . . which makes the impact of the events much stronger . The dialog ranges , some of it is lines from the first movie , occasionally bastardized . The production values are high , to an extent . The cinematography and editing are standard at times , and even less than that does occur , but there are some noticeable exceptions , where it is a lot better than that . The look and tone is done right . The show is funny , very much so , at points . It does try too hard sometimes , but other times , it really works . Blade is still a bad-ass , though he has more trouble than he did in the films . Now , I'm told that that's actually close to the comics . He isn't stronger and faster than vampires , he's as strong and fast . That comes across clearly , here , and makes the fact that he hasn't already won the war more credible . The mythology is intriguing . The racial diversity is commendable ; in the pilot alone , there are African-American , Asian , Native American and of course white , characters . You can tell that it's Spike . . . there is sex ( the sensual nature of vampires of either gender is not lost on the crew behind this ) , violence ( they manage the bloody and gory nature of them , as well ) and mild swearing , and they aren't difficult to come by . The show is at times uneven , and some corners are cut . Still , they put some noteworthy visuals on the small screen , some cool action sequences ( shootouts and fights alike , both tend to be nicely done , and plentiful ) , and the episodes are all worth watching . I agree that it isn't without flaws , but it's certainly not without its merit , either . If you like the movies , and / or the character , and this comes on TV , I suggest you give at least the pilot a chance . The finale is not bad , and I would tune in for a second season , if this ever gets another chance . I recommend this to even casual fans of Blade , those also interested in the character , and , as have been said by others , maybe give it some time .
A bloody , gory black comedy in the form of a slasher movie	This movie is your everyday slasher , with a twist ; the killing is all done by a hand that has possessed by a demon . This makes for some truly hilarious scenes , as the boy the possessed hand is attached to struggles with the murdering hand . Unfortunately , somewhere they ran out of ideas , and it soon gets a bit stale and boring . Fortunately , it picks up again near the end , and it has a satisfying ending . This has some pitch black comedy in it , and is definitely not for all tastes . I wasn't offended by it , as I try to keep an open mind , but I think the movie could have done without all the pot-smoking . The blood and gore are also quite extreme in some scenes , but not really anything new , in this genre anyway . Overall , I guess mostly fans of the slasher genre will enjoy it , and unfortunately not many others . If you can stand the violence , the humor and the drugs , however , I would definitely advise you to give it a try ; most people will find some of the main characters struggling with his right hand hilarious . I'd recommend it to anyone who likes black humor as well .
Pretty good add-on , worth getting for any fan of Red Alert	This is the first of the two add-ons made for Command & Conquer : Red Alert , and it seems to take place either during or right after the war of said title . There are 16 new missions . . . eight per side . It also adds no less than 100 new multi-player maps . Much like with Covert Ops , the add-on made for the original Command & Conquer game , this reuses cut-scenes . . . and still in a manner similar to that mission pack , some of them are stretched somewhat to fit where they're used . Several of the levels have new units . . . a few of these are rather powerful , somewhat messing up the fairness , but they do make things interesting ( also , it should be noted that they only appear in single player , and most only for a single level ) , forcing players to rethink strategies and fight as well as defend themselves against new forms of attacks . The real strength of this , however , are the interesting and memorable new levels ; chasing an enemy officer through a facility as he Chrono-Shifts ( teleports , for those not yet initiated into the world of Red Alert ) around , and run , hide and fight your way through a level the pace of which can only be described as extremely intense , just to name two that especially stand out . The difficulty more or less picks up where the original game left off , providing further challenge for anyone who's completed the game itself . There are times when it is somewhat uneven , though . At least once , one difficult level would be followed by an easy one , and not all of the tough ones were at the end of the list of the missions of both sides . As with other mission packs , this allows the player to try any mission in any order . The Allied missions consist of three campaigns , clearly listed , but apart from that , there is no real consistent story , so there is no harm in skipping any mission that one isn't interested in completing ( I can't really think of any that I wish I had skipped , though , they were all good , some downright great ) . Several of the new units use the Atomic Bomb of Red Alert , so more than once , you'll be able to fight using that . . . as well as have to defend against such . Most of the units are slightly redressed or reconfigured ones from the original , in particular in one level ( where it's explained away with a vague sci-fi-esquire plot point that's right out of a Z-level zombie flick ) , leading me to believe that a lot of these unit additions were not so much planned as just stumbled upon , which is fine , if you're a fan and making a free contribution . . . less fine when it's a product made by a company who are , in fact , charging people . I'm sure I'm not the only person to prefer professionalism to " hey look at what we can do ! " This is not to say that I did not enjoy this add-on , or regret acquiring it . . . not in the least . Several of the units do make for fun levels . More than a few of the levels make good use of features and units found in the original Red Alert , as well . One thing that bothered me about the level where it appeared was how the explanation for putting a time-limit on a level in the Soviet campaign was that " the sub-zero temperatures surprised us ( the Russians ) , but not the Allies " . Excuse me . . . ? One thing is historical inaccuracies , heck , nobody knows everything , but getting it completely and utterly backwards is a little more taxing to ignore . During World War II , one of the reasons the Nazis were unable to capture Moscow was that the Winter was stronger than they were used to . . . whereas the Russians had grown up with Russian , Siberian weather , wore warmer clothes and for those two reasons , their being used to the cold and them having uniforms that better resisted the temperature , they were able to defend themselves and their country . The silly thing about this is that the mission could easily have been an Allied one ( one of the campaigns , which spans over three missions , takes place in Siberia ) and it would have made perfect sense . Anyway , history class over . One of the good things is that several levels allow the player to use and produce units and structures that were just getting to be available for use at the end of the regular game . Some levels force the player to think up new strategies to defeat the enemy ( or even defend their own base ) by disallowing the purchase of certain units and structures . The level design is very good , with no two levels looking or feeling like the same old thing , like we've done it before . A few take place inside facilities , and while these aren't as superbly crafted as those of the original game ( one in particular seemed awfully random ) , they're basically always fun to play . Time limits and special objectives make things more interesting and exciting , and the fact that not every single level is the old stand-by for Real Time Strategy titles of " destroy all enemy units and buildings " helps , as well . The return of Tanya ( possibly making an appearance in more than one side's campaign , too . . . ) , as well as one or two other known characters that we remember from the original game aren't exactly bad additions , either . All in all , this is definitely worth owning for any fan of the regular Red Alert game , though I wouldn't quite claim the quality of this to be as high and beyond reproach as that of the game that this is an add-on to . If you're looking for more Red Alert game-play , and / or you find you've played your way through every single multi-player map , those that came with the game and those that you , your friends or some anonymous person on the ' net have made with the tools included in the release of the game , this will definitely do the trick . I recommend this to any fan of Red Alert . Solid entertainment .
Before the Flying Circus , there was this . . . and I think we can all agree that John Cleese knows how to be irritating	Before the Flying Circus , before the movies , before the Python team was complete , they put together this . . . well , half or so of them , did , anyway . This is a series of sketches ( more than one of which were later re-done on the show ) all based around the concept that the title describes . Cleese has Chapman and Palin with him , and they manage to put a lot of good skits on the screen . It's not as refined and well-done as the show and the movies , but it's a good look at the Pythons roots ( and what admirable roots , at that ) . It runs for an hour and less than ten minutes , and it does so quite smoothly . The jokes are never far away , and some of them are utterly hilarious . The pacing is pretty much spot-on , if some skits perhaps go on for longer than they ought to . The material never feels tired or bland ( if some of it is overused ) . The performances are energetic , enthusiastic and just plain work . It's not as far-out and bizarre as the show and the movies are , but it's still satisfying and entertaining . The bits are all different , and this has the first appearance by ( and the spoken definition of , coining that as their name ) " pepperpots " , who would be seen countless times on the Circus . The whole production is presented as a documentary with Cleese as the host , introducing each segment and occasionally making jokes in-between them . For any fan of the team , I would say that this is worth the hour . I recommend this to any fan of the Pythons , Cleese and British comedy in general .
Not bad	Having never actually read the original , seen any other film adaptation or even watched it performed ( due to a general lack of interest in the world of theater ) , I didn't know much about this before watching . What I did know has all been explained enthusiastically by a friend of mine who loves musicals and plays . As me and the rest of Philosophy class sat down to watch this , I quickly noticed several promising names in the opening credits - including that of Anthony Perkins - and I found myself even more interested in watching it . Though it is arguably less visually impressive than it could have been ( and , I'm presuming , than the 1998 version ) , it's got fairly good direction and it goes into the themes of crime and punishment , dealing with what can cause crime . . . and what punishment may cause . It was interesting and involving throughout . Running at two and a half hours , it never loses neither momentum nor the audience's attention . The class-room was not always silent as the film's plot played out before us , but I didn't see anyone disinterested or not paying attention . The acting is quite good , though there are a few exceptions . I was surprised by , given that his name was in the credits and how skilled an actor he is , how small a part Ian Holm had . The man can't have been on-screen for more than a few minutes . Perkins is perfect as Javert , the embodiment of law , of order by discipline and punishment for misdeeds . His personal vendetta carries some of the film , alongside the good-hearted acts of Valjean . For anyone who knows the story , knows how the chase ends , I will say that I found the execution of it somewhat under-dramatized herein . My earlier mentioned friend , the theater aficionado , described how he had seen it achieved in a live performance , and I would choose that over the budgeted version we see here . Some of the cinematography also leaves a bit to be desired . However , all in all , I'd recommend this film to anyone interested in the themes it involves and / or a depiction of France leading up to the revolution . I recommend this to any fan of the original story and anyone interested in its well-delivered points about the traditional view on crime and punishment .
Contains much wisdom , cleverly disguised as black comedy	I originally paid special attention to this film because I am a fan of Christina Ricci and black comedy . . . today , when I finally got to see it , and I was very surprised by how direct and clever it was . The film has a distinct feeling of " You know how so-and-so is cute ? Well , there's nothing even remotely like that here " ( it's mentioned on several occasions throughout the film ) , and it's really refreshing to see a film that makes such an effort not to take itself seriously . All through the film it tries to be gutsy and offensive , and it will have even the most open-minded individuals frowning once or twice . Do what I did , laugh . That's what it's there for , and you can't change it no matter what . However , near the end it grows a conscience , and dwells on the nice pictures it started out mocking . It's as if the film grows up as Dede does it , taking the audience with it . I can't see anyone watching this and not being even slightly enriched by the experience . I would guess that such people just don't look past the offensive and provocative nature of most of the film . The plot is interesting and , as far as I know , original . The pace is great , you're never bored and it takes off right away . The acting is pretty good all-round , with Lyle Lovett as a possible exception . The characters are all well-written , credible and interesting . Not one single character feels clichéd . The dialog is well-written and well-delivered . The humor is black as coal , with just a hint of immaturity here and there . The film is very good , but the ideas in it are even better , and are hurt a little by the execution . Letting a bratty 16 year old girl narrate the story was a gamble that paid off , but the film loses some credibility due to it . It also limits the audience a bit , due to the fact that most people will disagree with our lead character's actions and opinions , and this is the kind of film that should really try to get out to as many people as possibly . It holds a lot of wisdom about sexuality and relationships , nicely covered in black comedy and a provocative , offensive attitude . . . and this attitude will deter many viewers . A shame , really . I recommend this film to fans of the actors and / or black comedy . Actually , I think just about everyone who considers them-self to be open-minded should see it . . . but be prepared for a very direct and uncompromising film that you may not like , even a little . But please give it a chance . It may challenge your views , and for that , it should be respected .
A little too much drama and a too little horror , but pretty good nonetheless	I'm normally not a big fan of Sam Raimi's work ; I enjoyed Darkman to a certain extent , but hated Spiderman . Most of his other films , I've only heard about , never seen . This movie proves that he has a lot of talent ; there are a lot of very psychologically horrifying sequences . The plot is very interesting , through most of the film it keeps your interest quite well . The characters are interesting and well-developed . The acting is all great , every single actor does a very good job . The atmosphere of the film is fantastic , the horror scenes were all well-made ; I jumped several point throughout the scenes . The psychological terror was almost unbearable ; every single sequence involving psychological terror is very disturbing . Whoever did the editing for this film obviously knows a great deal about how to affect the subconscious . The films supernatural side is very well-handled , and seems quite believable . I'd recommend this to any fan of supernatural horror , or any fan of Sam Raimi and his style . A pretty good horror movie , could have been better , but definitely worth watching for fans of the genre .
Somewhat good spy action film	This movie does have some good action sequences , though I found the car chases to be slow and boring . It is thoroughly exciting , though I was annoyed by the amount of anticlimactic twists . Near the end , the entirety of the movie changes meaning drastically . You should be able to make a good suspenseful ending without that amount of twists . Jean Reno and Robert De Niro both play their roles to perfection , and most of the other actors play convincingly too . The script is interesting , and not too confusing . I think pretty much every big fan of spy action films should watch it at least once . It is pretty good , at least action wise . It contains some nice , non-Hollywood like shootouts . Nothing that rivals the likes of Heat , but pretty good nonetheless . This is a movie that can be viewed by most action fans , and it will be very enjoyable to De Niro fans . Spy action fans will most likely enjoy at least some parts of the movie , though I don't think this is the best the genre has to offer .
Surprisingly enough , this is actually pretty good	I saw this movie because my father told me of a horror movie which scared the heck out of him and his friends when he was 16 years old . . . that movie turned out to be a Vincent Price movie . . . this one . After much searching , we finally found the film , and so we sat down to see the movie . He saw it in order to find out if he would still be scared by it , after all these years . . . I saw it in order to find out if it was really that good . My father tends to have great taste in movies , but occasionally he just gets drawn in by a theme or plot that he loves , and forget to think about the quality of the film . I must admit , I hadn't expected that much from the film . . . I was surprised by how effective and exciting it was . I haven't seen too many movies featuring Vincent Price , but now I may just have to . His acting was the best in the movie and he stole the show for every scene he was in . The plot is pretty good , though the story is pretty much just a reworking of Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde ( gentleman by day , monster by night ) with a wax museum curator instead of a doctor . The pacing is very good . I was hardly bored for a second during the whole movie , which is surprising for such an old film . The acting is decent , with Price being the only actor to truly transcend above mediocrity with his performance . The characters are well-written and credible , with a few glaringly obvious exceptions ( you'll know them when you see them ) . The dialog is fairly well-written and interesting , not long-winded and dull as one might expect from a slightly unknown horror film from that time period . I can't help but compare much of the dialog to the dialog of more modern films , and immediately see that this film ( among others ) has had an impact on film-making that is still clearly visible today . That's quite impressive , I think . Only a few other films can claim that . The horror and suspense in the film is quite good , and there are plenty of genuine ( unforced ) scares in the film . . . Vincent Price really brings the character alive , and few have managed to startle me as much as him . The makeup work was quite impressive as well , considering the time it was made . The film has a few nods to Hitchcock , but they might have been coincidental . For such an old horror film , it's really good . It's rarely dull , has some good scares and the story is pretty good too . And if for nothing else , watch the film for Price's great performance . I recommend it to most fans of horror movies , as long as you keep in mind when the film was made . Don't expect too many intense cuts or a particularly original story . The base of the story is basically the story of Jekyll and Hyde . Keep that in mind , and you'll probably enjoy the film immensely , as I did .
Is it worth it ?	That's really the question that comes up in regards to this , if one should bother with it . For anyone not aware , this is an expansion pack for Half-Life , one that came after Opposing Force ( and this brings new things to the multi-player of that , new content , including maps . . . and this doesn't feature any MP , only the single-player campaign , and it does not allow for mod use , for that matter ) . This has ups and downs . It is a stand-alone , meaning you don't need any other product to try it , although one has to wonder if that really helps it . . . why would anyone want this without the others ? On its own , it's not much of anything . Have you ever had an experience where you read an excellent , classic novel , loved it , then later found notes from the author of something that could be a chapter in it , or something to support the reading , that , while genuinely a complete story with a start and finish , doesn't work at all by itself ? Well , regardless , this is the VG version of that . The plot is good , develops nicely and is told in the same successful way . Instead of cut-scenes , you overhear conversations , are talked directly to , and witness occurrences , with you choosing with reasonable freedom where to look and to stand as it happens , and being responsible for peering in the right direction at the time it happens , if you don't want to miss the nice visuals . This puts you in the last possible perspective on what happened , apart from the aliens ( which may be doomed as a concept , I suppose . . . oh well . . . fan fiction ? ) , a security guard . This raises the credibility of the universe , and makes it less superficial than it admittedly , by comparison ( keeping in mind that , at the time , what they did , in this area , as with several other things , was new and fresh and has changed the way it was done ) , by allowing you to view scientists casually dressed , and them , as well as your colleagues , off duty , relaxing ( hey , they take breaks at their job , too ) . It even opens outside the facility , showing you one entrance to it , albeit you are still on the well-known tram . It ends quite different from the previous ones , and it pulls this off well . Thus , traveling down new roads , whilst delivering what we're used to . . . again . . . becomes a theme this time around . Complain about it not having grown all that much away from the previous ones if you must , but that doesn't change the fact that the game-play is still fun and satisfying , and that something prolonging the stay in this world for many is very welcome . The puzzles are a mixed bag . This is in the greatest hurry to get going of them ( and was putting a pistol in your hands , in spite of it making decent sense , necessary ? ) , and it is unevenly paced at points , as a result of trying to slow down and challenge your task-solving skills some . The AI is rather varied , but at its best , the enemies team up against you , and use tactics in their efforts to kill you . There is no new training , they just changed the Hazard Course ( trimming away ) . The levels are relatively well-done , and in general design isn't half bad . It seems like they knew and accepted their limitations ( . . . well , there must have been some ) , and didn't try to do more than they could . There are no Boss fights in this . This does , however , arguably awkwardly shoe-horn in stuff to meet the expectations that players surely ( OK , I won't call you Shirley ) by this time anticipated of something related to HL . There are three difficulties , and this is harder than the earlier ones . The foes can be tougher , and several seem to have better reaction times . There are no new weapons , and not all of the original ones - and don't even think about any from OF - ( or , for that matter , creatures or other opponents ) return . This does perhaps , to an extent , grant you less ammo than the first two , potentially making things more exciting . Something else interesting , this actually has an NPC who remains in it , and is a big part of it . If you have heard mere rumors , let me assure you . . . yes . . . this is outright criminally short . You can probably be through it in about 3 hours . That's less than a third of either of the Max Paynes ( yes , he does have numerous pains . . . in the entire duration of the 2001 release , he never got over the smell of New York , judging from his facial expression ) . Since they are , at least , reasonably enjoyable , the issue becomes the price . This should not retail for the same as a full title . It's an add-on . Now , probably the aspect of this that really makes the sale : The High Definition Pack . It applies to all of these ( well , I wouldn't know about Decay , never tried it ) , and it upgrades the graphics , as far as physical models and skins go , meaning , bodies and guns . The latter also changes what a couple of them are , I can confirm that the Glock is now a Beretta ( sweet ! ) and the Heckler & Koch MP5 is now an M4 ( also awesome ) , and I cannot bring myself to say anything negative about either , which is not to say that they weren't cool , before , too . The sound effects may have been altered for some of them , but I'm not certain . They are good , as is the audio in general , with well-done voice acting and well-composed score . There are bugs in this , though they fixed notable ones of the preceding ones , and the stability is clearly improved . If there is language in this , it's rare . The violence is still plentiful , and this contains a fair amount of strong gore . So is this something you should get ? You tell me , I've tried to make this review an aid in figuring that out , it's up to the individual . I recommend this to those who wish to get all of the experience , surrounding the Black Mesa Incident .
Pretty good neo-noir anti-hero action film	It's fairly rare to see an action film where the main character is an anti-hero . It's refreshing to see a movie where the main character isn't a flawless , lovable hero who always does what's right . That's just not real . Everybody makes mistakes , and it's nice to see this depicted fairly believably in a film like this . The narration gives it a nice feel of neo-noir to it , and the dark humor and metaphors make for great ( if ever-so-slightly hard to watch ) entertainment . The action is somewhat limited , but it's not really an action movie ( plus , what there is is bad-ass ) . It's more a story of revenge ; Porter feels he's been wronged , and he won't quit until he's gotten the revenge that he wants ( including the exact amount of money stolen from him ) . The plot is pretty good , and moves along at a nice pace , once it takes off , which it unfortunately doesn't really do for the first half hour or so ( though I wouldn't call what happens up to that boring ) . The acting is all pretty good . The characters are all well-written and fairly diverse in their actions ; most of them are credible . The dark , cynical mood , helped along nicely with the blue tinting and the brutality of the events fits perfectly . The production design is excellent , with its non-retro approach to a 70's look . I think what I enjoyed most about the movie was Porter's ( Mel Gibson ) dry wit , in every possible situation , he'd crack jokes , and handle the situation in a perfectly calm manner . I recommend this to anyone who enjoys a good anti-hero action flick , and fans of the neo-noir film genre .
It's all there , all it takes to make a spectacular show	It would appear that a lot of people think little of this . Ah , granted , there are at times holes in the plot . . . including some gaping ones . It is relatively simple . It isn't uncalled for to call this , on the whole , mindless fun . But it is tough to claim that it isn't entertaining ( at times quite a bit ) , and it did actually last for no less than eight years . It doesn't always reach a high level , but it doesn't always aspire to . The quality can vary from one season to the next , or even episodes . The last definitely went downhill . . . there were unnecessary and unpopular changes made , and an unbelievably obvious attention-grab . Meanwhile , the finale . . . excellent , it could really not have been much better . The writing can be great . The acting is at times powerful . The guest stars were sometimes really good ( Michael Bailey Smith and Brian Thompson never disappointed , in my opinion ) . The characters were fairly consistent , and well-developed , in particular the main and recurring ones . The cast is well-chosen , for the most part . The sense of humor , while not always steering clear of the overly silly , is rather well-done , and very clever much of the time . The music has marvelous moments . There is magnificent irony and some very effective aspects herein . Some scripts are clearly done to let the writer or director put something they love on the TV screen ( and / or push an agenda ) , but what's the harm ( and some were pretty cool ) ? This tends to be moral , instead of moralizing . I find the respectful yet lighthearted approach to the supernatural material was the perfect way to go , it's a balance between offending anyone , and being heavy-handed , and it's achieved reasonably spot-on throughout . This revolves around three sisters , their relationships and their shared heritage of witchcraft . Pieces of mythology and the like are used for story lines at points , as well . All in all . . . this is funny , cute , charming ( I know , I know , but I just had to ) , dramatic ( in fact , not shy to reach epic heights ) , it's got action , special effects ( that got considerably better over the years , as a general rule ) and extraordinary occurrences ( and more often than not , they're well-thought out and executed right ) . I recommend this to fans of the actors , and / or of fantasy , and the other genres that apply to this .
A good buddy movie	Even though this movie might be a bit conventional , it's thoroughly entertaining , with nice action scenes , cool martial arts fighting & a good sense of humor . I didn't find any of it boring . It's a good concept , to combine the humor of Chris Tucker with the martial arts of Jackie Chan . This movie is for anyone who's into action , martial arts & humor .
Well , what'd you expect ?	I'm baffled at why people have high expectations for movies based on video games . No matter how good the source material is , you can't expect a video game to do good as a movie . I imagine that's where a lot of heat towards this movie is coming from ; hordes of Resident Evil game fans who hate the film because it has got very little to do with the games . I agree , it doesn't have a lot to do with the games ; there are a few references to various of the video game titles , and there are the zombies , and it does try to build the atmosphere of the games . But it just doesn't work too good in the end . The film is billed as an action / thriller / science fiction / horror film ; unfortunately , not too many of those aspects of the film work very good . The action is pretty good , but action sequences are few and far between . The thriller parts are decent enough ; I really enjoyed the very last scene . The science fiction portions of the film are not very well thought out or particularly professionally executed ; I kind of liked the basic idea of the film , but it just didn't seem to work too well . The horror consists of director Paul W . S . Anderson's personal brand of loud noise , sudden scares / shocks ( or attempts at such ) and intense rock music . It does have some good scares , and some of the zombie scenes are quite intense . But a big problem with the zombies is the fact that they don't even turn up in the movie for a solid 45 minutes . That's almost half of the film . And there passes many scenes that don't involve any zombies at all . I suppose the film was supposed to be tense during those scenes , as in , the tension of knowing that the zombies are out there , but I was never really afraid of them . The plot is nonsensical and pretty badly put together . The acting is decent , but not at all great . The character development is nearly non-existent . The special effects are great ; well , mostly great . There are a few times where the CGI is obvious , and quite a few where it's badly used . Worth noting is the amount of details that are taken from various of the games . Something that annoyed me was the lack of realism in the film ; these zombies / walking corpses are supposed to be a few hours old , right ? Then how come their teeth are so decayed , half of their faces rotten , and various of their body parts so screwed up ? I know it was done for effect , but it was fairly ridiculous . Also , the action and stunts that Milla Jovovich's character pull off is not the least bit realistic , and mainly looks like a direct rip-off of The Matrix . All in all , I suppose it's decent enough . For such a just-above-average-film , I'm surprised at how many times I've managed to sit through it . Maybe that explains my rating . Who knows . I recommend it to fans of the various aforementioned genres . Just watch it with low expectations , and don't try too hard to make sense of the plot .
Stylish , clever and cool heist flick , but in the end , it's just an empty film with a pretty cover	I finally got to see this , after hearing so much positive stuff about it . People were raving about how it was the definition of cool . I believe someone even told me that it rivaled the likes of a Tarantino film . Well , having seen it , I can say that it's definitely got a lot less style than a Tarantino film , and none of the associated substance . It's basically an empty shell , albeit a pretty-looking one . The film has plenty of acting talent , but not even half of it is put to any use . There are just far too many characters , so many of them spend the better part of the film , following their initial introduction , sitting around , not really doing anything at all . Maybe the film should have been Ocean's Five instead . . . so we actually got some semi-interesting and well-developed characters instead of these cardboard cutouts spouting hip lines every chance they get . The dialog is witty and at times clever , but it's almost entirely superficial . The plot is decent . Another thing is that there's not really anyone to root for ; it's a film about dishonest criminals stealing from other dishonest criminals . The pacing is OK . I found the film to be far too long and drawn-out . It could easily have been cut by at least half an hour . Once again , we don't care about these people . Submit any viewer of this movie to a lie detector test and ask if they saw this for the heist or for the characters . If anything less than 90 % prove to have seen it entirely for the heist , I'll be very surprised . Then there's all the unneeded scenes , probably done to establish relationships ( between the characters that we don't care about ) . Add to that , the plot holes and completely random actions of some of the characters . This film reminded me of a Danish produced film . . . Klatretøsen , or Catch That Girl , as it's international title is . It's a children's film , and I found it far more interesting , involving and plausible than this . Note that I didn't claim it was more entertaining . That's what this film is ; entertaining . Nothing else . As a matter of fact , you should probably either see the Danish film , or the American remake ( which I haven't seen . . . yet ) as you'll probably find more substance in either of them than this film . If you insist on seeing this , just prepare yourself to be underwhelmed and possibly disappointed . I recommend this only to the biggest fans of the stars and people who look for an attractive film rather than a meaningful one .
Not as good as Desperado , but decent enough	I am a little disappointed that this isn't as good as Desperado , in fact , it seems like a fairly inferior sequel . Oddly , I still can't bring myself to rate it lower than 7 . I guess it just has the Rodriguez feeling to it , and that just saves pretty much anything from being bad . This has about the same amount of style to it that the first two ( especially Desperado ) had , but far too many surprises and twists . I don't know , I guess Rodriguez was nervous the audience might lose interest if someone important didn't get killed every five minutes . I could barely keep track of who was working for who , but it didn't matter much , as they were usually killed off when they've done what they were there to do in the film . Another thing is that you don't really feel with any of the characters , most of the main characters are cool , most of them are bad , and the few that remain are either good or neutral . You know the motivation for a few of the characters , but you don't really feel anything for or against any of them . There's just far too much action , constantly something going on , and far too little character development . Now , don't get me wrong , I love Rodriguez ' films , especially the Mariachi series , but when he doesn't give us anything to really like or dislike about any of the characters , he can't expect us to care when he kills them off . But , then again , maybe that's just it ; he just wants to kill them off , maybe just because he can , he doesn't want any loose ends , whatever . That's OK , I just think he did better with making the deaths dramatic in Desperado ( either they go out in a blaze of glory or they get killed in a dramatic / important fashion ) , whereas in this , it just seemed like he was getting bored of them and decided to kill them so the audience wouldn't be disappointed that one or more of the bad guys lived . The action also seems a little less intense than it was in Desperado , which is disappointing , since it should be better , since it is a sequel . The dialog and acting is about as good as it was in Desperado , and I guess the overall quality is almost as good as Desperado . The film has the same unrealistic ' flying far backwards or upwards when shot'-effect that Desperado had , it's just used far more , which I can't really decide on whether I think it was a good or a bad decision ; it looks cool in some instances , definitely , but some times , it just looks a little corny and takes the focus off the action . All in all , the film is definitely worth watching for fans of Desperado and / or El Mariachi , especially since it does a pretty good job of continuing the same story of those films . The film is probably the last we'll see in this series , considering how it ends ; when I saw El Mariachi , I already knew that Desperado existed , but even if I didn't know it , I would have figured it out after seeing the ending . When I saw Desperado , I could also figure out from the very ending that Rodriguez was going to treat us to Mariachi at least one more time . This time around , it seems like he's shown us everything he wanted to show us with this character . I doubt that he's going to make more movies about him . I recommend this to any fans of Rodriguez ' style , humor and other films , and fans of the previous Mariachi films . It's definitely worth watching if you're into the other two films or just Rodriguez ' films in general .
Not bad . . .	I am not a fan of Bill Murray . In fact , I mostly don't like his films at all . There are very few exceptions . . . this is one of them . The basic idea of the film is somewhat original . . . I haven't heard about any other film with the same premise . The plot is pretty good , and develops nicely . The pacing is mostly good , most of the film is entertaining and interesting . The acting is good , pretty much all the way . Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss have a surprisingly good chemistry and compliment each other quite well . The characters are somewhat well-written and reasonably credible . One thing I didn't care too much for was the fact that there wasn't really anyone to relate to . . . everyone is an extreme . Murray is an exaggerated mental patient , who suffers from just about anything you can think of . And he's the main character . . . apparently , we're supposed to feel for him , despite the fact that he's more annoying than any other character . Dreyfuss is apparently supposed to be the villain , as he is the only person in the film that hates Murray ( who is ' our hero ' ) . Everyone else loves Murray and has different amounts of dislike for Dreyfuss . . . including his family . I know that that's the point , that the film is supposed to be like that , but when you don't like the main character , every character besides him is paper-thin and empty and the villain is the only slightly understandable character , the film loses a chunk of its audience . Murray has proved that he can be himself , his usual annoying self , and yet make the audience like him in films like Ghostbusters and Groundhog Day . Why couldn't he be like that in this one ? The film almost fails as it has little to no memorable parts and none of the characters are particularly likable . However , the humor does work , most of the time , and this saves the film , together with Dreyfuss ' and Murray's on-screen chemistry . I recommend this film to fans of Bill Murray and his type of humor . Just don't expect to be very impressed or even able to remember this a day or two after seeing it .
Spy light	Featuring a quite talented cast , this entertains and keeps you interested throughout . The plot is fairly easy to follow . The acting is good for all the parts ( in spite of Kingsley's inexplicable and seemingly random occasional change of accent ) and the characters are good ( Aykroyd amuses with his portrayal of a conspiracy nut , though he's never over the top ) . The main characters make an effective team , and each member contributes , just about equally , too . The editing and cinematography don't go anywhere you don't expect them to , but they don't really need to . The comedy is never forced , just clever and well-delivered . The pacing is great , the movie neither stands still nor rushes through . It's a fun ride through the entire thing , not to be taken too seriously ( and it never claims to be more than that ) . Yes , the political agenda is impossible to miss ( and the very end is almost insulting ) , but that is not surprising , given Redford's involvement . The film works well as a light spy film ( without becoming farcical ) , delivering , as the title suggests , sneaking , as well as conspiracies . As my fiancée pointed out while we watched it , fans of J . J . Abrams ' hit series Alias will appreciate the elaborate planning and execution of the " sneaks " ( though it is not as stylized ) , and there is some gadgetry . Enjoyable from start to finish . I recommend this to any fan of spy flicks ( though I'm not sure people expecting action or mystery in this will find themselves satisfied . . . and as a thriller , it's light at best ) .
Not my kind of film , but I can't claim this to be without merit	Apart from the work of Sergio Leone , I don't particularly care for Westerns . They're just not my glass of water ( I don't drink tea ) . This is the story of a man who could become a legend , and a young man who wants him to be . . . " people need someone to believe in " , he says . Some scenes are good , and the major showdown that is hinted at , described in words , throughout the film , is quite impressive ( and if nothing else , a good planning job ) . The music varies , some of it is good . I didn't like the bastardized Ride of the Valkyries . . . and yes , I did know that that was the piece that was used for inspiration in composing , before reading the Trivia page . . . and reading said page reveals that Morricone intentionally spoofed his earlier work ( his scores from the Man With No Name series , the Dollars Trilogy , no less ) . The acting has its moments , Fonda is good . The editing is good at points , as well . It's well shot . I suppose fans of Westerns will enjoy it . As best as I can tell , this is spaghetti-Western . The point to the story Hill's character tells is also good . I recommend this to fans of Westerns and / or the people involved in making it .
Possibly not the best film about The Three Musketeers . . . but one of the most entertaining and powerful ones	After watching this a few years ago , I had little recollection of it . . . the general perception and memory I had was favorable , so I decided to make it a point to watch , when it aired on TV . I must say , I had forgotten how exciting , dramatic and intriguing it was ( and is ) . The plot is very captivating , and it develops nicely with a few twists that hold up rather well . They are neither obvious nor illogical . The pacing is very good , it never seemed to move neither too slow nor too fast . The acting is one of the highest points of the film . . . DiCaprio , Irons , Malkovich , Depardieu and Byrne . . . all hand in excellent performances ( though , obviously , some of them are more seasoned and / or talented than the others ) . It was great fun to see Hugh Laurie in a role , albeit a small one , after seeing all of the BlackAdder series ( in which he plays a considerably big role ; or , should I say , number of big roles ) , the genius British comedy franchise of the mid-to late 80's with Rowan Atkinson . I was probably most fascinated by the fairly young DiCaprio , who has the job or portraying two rather different characters . . . everyone who's seen the film knows what I mean , but for the sake of anyone reading this who hasn't , I won't say more . Don't worry . . . . No , wait ! I , I meant about the characters , not about the movie ! Anyway . . . the characters are all quite credible and well-written . Dumas knew his stuff when he wrote the novel ( s ? ) , and Randall Wallace did a good job ( as far as I can tell ; anyone who's read the work of Dumas , feel free , in fact , even encouraged to correct me here ) of compiling it into a two-hour Hollywood movie . It's very credible and convincing all-round , and for a Hollywood drama , there is , surprisingly enough , little to no actual sap or sentimentality . Mr Wallace doesn't try to manipulate us or con us into feeling sorry for these characters . . . he instead manages to evoke genuine emotions , something not many of this kind of films manages to do . The dialog is fairly smart and interesting , and always well-delivered . The swordplay is entertaining , if a bit limited in scope and amount , clearly due to the seniority of most of the main cast . All in all , a very entertaining tale of The Three Musketeers , based on an interesting idea , and brought nicely to life by talented actors . A good film , but not a great one . I recommend this to fans of the film-makers and possibly of the legend and Dumas , as well .
Pretty much just a rehash of the first	As this movie started , it reminded me a lot of the first . Various scenes were reenacted , only a little wackier , sort of like it was trying to be a shade more funny than the first ; I guess that is the usual stuff for this type of sequels , but I think it failed at that . Apart from that , the movie pretty much succeeds in being a good sequel to the first . The story is also somewhat reminiscent of the first one . All the same actors return as well , and they are pretty much the same , just a shade more wacky . The story is also told by Steve Martins character , George Banks , like in the first . Pretty much everything in the movie is a takeoff of the first ; this doesn't make it bad though , if you liked the first , liked the characters , you'll want to see this too , if nothing else , to see the characters again . It is about as funny and as sentimental as the first was , and as enjoyable . Fans of the first one , or of Steve Martin will most likely enjoy at least some part of it , as this is the typical for both the first movie and Steve Martin .
Too much of a parody of the character , but surprisingly good	I can't say I've ever really been a fan of Zorro . As a child , I was fascinated by fencing , but never Zorro himself , as a character or a legend . However , my love for fencing kept growing , and that is the main reason that I sat down to watch this movie , as it came on TV ; to see some good , well-choreographed swordplay . However , despite my sincerest efforts , I couldn't manage to sit through the entire thing . Maybe it's because the film takes the legend of Zorro and tries to make fun of it ; maybe it's because the film was overlong and poorly paced ; or maybe I just care too little about the whole Zorro thing to sit through a movie about him . . . I've never seen any of the other Zorro films ( as far as I can remember , at least ) , so I can't really say if this is as good or better than any other version . The plot is decent enough , but it drags too much and the film is too long . It lasts about 2 hours and 15 minutes ; I think I looked at the film for a collective 30-45 minutes . The rest seemed dull and the film quickly lost my interest and attention . The acting is good ; the three leads , Hopkins , Bandera and Zeta-Jones all give great performances . . . or , at least they did , for most of what little of the film I payed attention to . The characters are somewhat one-dimensional , especially Banderas ' Zorro . Very goofy and humorous , but that's about as deep he gets . Hopkins really shines , though , as always , and Zeta-Jones really lights up the screen for every second she's on-screen . The sword-fights are well-choreographed and intense , but most of the rest of the action is a bit of a let-down . I don't know if it was the direction , the writing or just the overall kiddie-like PG tone of the whole film , but something just seemed to be dragging the film down . It is saved by entertaining dialog between Hopkins and Banderas , as well as the beauty and talent of Zeta-Jones and the exciting and well-choreographed sword-fights . That's about it , though . Not much else worth watching in this film . I recommend it only to big fans of Zorro ( or , maybe they are the ones who should avoid it most of all , seeing as how it's almost a parody on the character ) or any of the main actors . Big fans of fencing might also want to check it out , provided that they can do so for free . I once considered renting this movie , and now I'm thanking myself I didn't . If you can watch it for free , consider it . If not , just don't watch it . It's mildly entertaining but hardly memorable . I gave it a , purely for entertainment value and acting talent .
Doesn't entirely reach the top	Don't get me wrong . . . I by no means hated this . It's fairly well-done . The plot is good and interesting , and it had my attention from start to finish . Granted , it isn't always completely credible , however , it tends to be . It is a tad predictable in one or two places . The production value is quite admirable . The cinematography is nice , save for the occasional odd angle ( including the dreaded shin-shot ) . The cutting has moments that stick out like sore thumbs ( somebody , take the hammers away from the people in the editing room ) , beyond that , it's at least adequate . The pacing is fitting , this never lost me . The acting varies , but almost all of it is great , the names and unknowns alike . Plummer , as my fiancée points out , got better as it went along at hiding his accent . The character development is relatively strong , though not all the progression is believable . The political opinion behind this is obvious . The reasoning is a bit simplified , which hurts their case . The language is mild in amount , and moderate in tone , with a couple of harsher words . Now . . . was the Brit with the colorful descriptions meant to put that country in a positive or negative light ? I recommend this to any fan of drama-thriller , the actors and / or anyone else involved in putting this mini-series together and onto the small screen .
It's not about the film , it's about the real troops	This is a special feature found on the DVD ( please don't ask which one , I . . . can't tell from the cover ) for Saving Private Ryan , and it's not really about the title in question at all , but rather the soldiers on the American side in the second World War . That should be noted by anyone considering watching this ( well , it's less than half an hour , it's not that much time spent even if you don't care about it ) . It's not too bad paced . It's got considerably more non-Hollywood , " real " people interviewed , and time spent on such , than the actors and film-folk , and has several recollections from those who were actually there , their families / relatives and the like . It's about 25 minutes long . Spielberg does say a thing or two about his childhood and inspirations . In addition to the talking , there is also footage from documentaries shot at the locations during the conflict . It's all edited fine . The actors do say a thing or two , some of them . This is the only viewable extra on the DVD I have , apart from two trailers . Whether you're looking for , or trying to avoid , this , you may want to keep the title of this in mind when you look at the back of the DVD cover of any prospective purchase of . . . said item . I recommend this to those who want authentic tales from WWII .
The horrors of a desk-job and working with Windows 95	I'm not a big fan of Mike Judge , seeing as the characters he's created , Beavis and Butthead , have inspired a lot of teenage slackers , and I can't claim that I've really seen one single joke or gag with them ( the two characters , not the teenage slackers ) that has made me laugh . Granted , I haven't seen that much of them , but that's not the point . I'm not a big fan of him , but I must admit , he made a pretty funny film here . From what I understand , this is pretty much the only real movie he's done ( everything else he's done is animated ) , and considering that , he does a pretty good job . However , too often the humor goes too low , and Judge reveals what I suppose is his strong hatred against certain typical types of people ( high-level executives , popular cafeteria workers , etc . ) by overusing them to the extreme . There's a scene where one such character appears out of nowhere and does something out of character for no actual reason . Maybe it's Judge trying to get a cheap laugh out of the audience , but more likely , it's him expressing how much he hates these people . I guess he worked places like that when he was younger , and wanted to lash back . Then there's there occasional out-of-the-blue low-brow joke and / or reference to Beavis and Butthead . . . it just takes away from the otherwise great film , and it's a damn shame . The plot is very good . A disillusioned and worn out office desk-job worker gets tired of his work , and decides to stop putting any effort into it . What happens surprises him . . . he gets promoted . His two best friends and co-workers get fired , though . So they decide to get back at the company , through a carefully designed virus that will steal so little money at a time from the company that it won't get picked up on . The pacing is pretty good , but some jokes and gags drag along . . . the very first joke of the film lasts about three minutes of the film ( that's what it felt like , anyway ) . The film lacks the feeling of progression of the plot that most films have ( and need ) . The pacing is all laid-back and slow , which has you feeling that nothing really happens in the film , leaving you just waiting ( and hoping ) for the next good joke or gag . The acting is good . The characters are for the most part well-written and credible , but some are like aforementioned lashes at certain people by director / writer Mike Judge . The humor is often very good ( the many stabs at Windows 95 are great , and often accurate ) but there are many things that just seem thrown in . Several characters have one or two lines but no actual effect on the plot , and could easily have been written out . Many of the characters are clichés and stereotypes , but in some cases they are accurate representations of the real thing , so it's acceptable . Two of the best examples of this are Lumbergh , the executive , and Milton , the paranoid psychotic worker . I really want to believe that there doesn't exist people like that out there , but I can't claim that to be true . Something I was a little disappointed in was the almost criminal under-use of John C . McGinley . . . he was great for every second he was on-screen , as always . Part of the reason for watching the film was that he's in it , actually . Same thing goes for Diedrich Bader . . . this guy is hilarious in the " Drew Carey " series , but here he only gets a few good lines . The cinematography isn't great , but it has its moments . One thing that is brilliant is the way the " virus-installing " scene plays out almost like a professional bank-robbery ; in constant slow-motion , the guys looking around , checking for witnesses , giving each other a few knowing looks and the attempted slickness of them passing the disk . . . pure genius . Definitely worth watching , but not necessarily one you want to go out of your way to see or own . Unless you love Mike Judge and / or Beavis and Butthead-humor . If that's the case , you wouldn't want to miss this for the world . A good attempt by Judge , but his inexperience shows . I recommend this film to anyone who enjoys Mike Judge's brand of humor , or anyone who's ever worked a desk-job and / or worked with Windows 95 .
90 minutes of pure fun	As others have said , this is a movie of two halves . Quentin's and Robert's . There's no doubt about which they are . From the very beginning of them both . The shift between is immediately recognizable as well . I doubt even a little effort was made on anyone's part to cover any of this up . Why should they ? They aren't kidding anyone , nor attempting to do so . This is clearly , from start to finish , meant to be enjoyable , and guess what ? It is . Whether that makes it their weakest piece is up for debate . . . I personally don't believe so . It's no secret that Rodriguez does his best work when the writing is done for him . . . just take Sin City . . . and he actually emulates Tarantino's directorial style well , keeping his own , highly energetic and cartoon-inspired , under wraps save for his portion . Aforementioned , however , is a more skillful script author ( and herein , actually a pretty decent actor ) . So with them each filling the respective role they fit better , we're set for solid entertainment . And they certainly deliver . So do the effects crew . The music never leaves anything to be desired . The action is awesome . There is quite a bit of blood , gore and violence in this . Straight , single males also have plenty to look at . Clooney is bad-ass , with credit to QT for putting the words in his mouth , literally . The acting varies , but it's never downright poor . Savini isn't bad . The humor is twisted . The tone is cheesy . The pacing is about spot-on . The plot remains interesting throughout . Characters are relatively developed , certainly sufficiently . If you'll allow me to briefly digress . . . those viewing this and subsequently wanting a similar gaming experience , I would advise against going for the licensed release , of 2001 . . . I did only play the demo , but I was rather underwhelmed . I instead suggest Vampire Slayer , the free and legally so modification for Half-Life , as it is very obviously inspired by this . Turning my attention back to the film . . . go for this , those who are into Quentin Tarantino's dialog and story-lines , and / or Robert Rodriguez ' action and visuals . There's a DVD of this available with featurettes , music videos , the full-length documentary Full Tilt Boogie and alternate footage . There is also an informative commentary with the two who came together to make this , and it's definitely worth a listen if you like this . I recommend this flick to any fans of the people who helped create it , the ones who belong in one or more of the aforementioned groups in particular .
Good	This is a documentary regarding the infamous " Manos " . It does a fine job of both telling the viewer what it is , in case they haven't seen it ( I have the feeling it's something you don't forget once you have , though I suppose it's a little early for me to say ) , and examining why it was and got to be the way it was . I'm not sure I'd claim that this left me with a lot of answers , but the process wasn't bad , and it never lost my interest . It's nicely paced , moves at basically the speed it should . This consists of clips of the flick itself , it even holds a brief spoof of it ( some of which relate to the subject or such , and all of them aiding in informing those in doubt of the sheer awfulness of the quality of it ) and a few interviews , including one with the person that worked on the piece that they could find , and another with what appears to be a historian on it , both of whom are well worth listening to , and have good things to say . Bernie's got a mouth on him , though , which is really the only language in this , but in spite of the amount being fairly low , it gets pretty rough ( apart from strong words , there are a few detailing . . . male anatomy ) . He reveals a great many things about the production as well as the crew and cast . This also has footage of the filming locations , and comparisons between how they look , now and then . I recommend this to anyone wondering how the thing got made , and those that are curious about it , in general .
Kind of a disappointment for being done by Kevin Smith , but not bad	For a long time , I put off watching this movie again and reviewing it . I thought about it might be better to see the other films of the series first . . . I don't know why , but I haven't been able to get a hold of any other View Askewniverse ( to the uninitiated , those that feature the characters of Jay and Silent Bob ) films , so the only two I've seen are this and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back . So , I can't really say if this is good compared to the previous films in the series . I've seen the film a few times now . . . don't know how many exactly , since I've just put it on " play " a few times while doing other stuff and not paying too much attention to it . So , I've lost track of how many times I've seen it . . . but I doubt that it's been ( attentively ) more than three times , this one included . That doesn't sound like much , no ? Definitely not too much . . . so why did I fall asleep during the last fifteen minutes ? To make matters worse , I didn't even pay that much attention to it this time , either . . . so what happened ? Well , personally I think the problem is the uneventful script . . . whenever a situation seems to start , a new character is introduced instead of anything actually happening . The viewer has barely picked up who everyone is by the time the film is over . . . and you know what the problem is ? By then , you've stopped caring . Like another reviewer said , there's just too many characters , and as a result , none of them are properly developed or interesting enough to keep you watching . Yes , there is conflict , but it's only introduced once Smith's done pushing every joke or gag that he could possibly come up with for that scene . Now don't get me wrong , I think he has a good sense of humor . . . maybe even great . Just about any guy can laugh at Jay and Silent Bob . I don't mean to enrage or annoy any fans of Smith here , but I just think he could have done a better job on this . Come on , Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was an instantly re-watchable laugh-a-minute film that had no slow moments . . . why did this one not seem to move at all ? The plot is pretty good , but the pacing seemed off . The acting is all good . The characters are well-written but underdeveloped . The humor is very good , at times great . I didn't laugh as much during this movie as I did during " Strike Back " , but I did laugh . . . well , the first time I saw it , anyway . The basic idea is pretty good , as well . I might have found it more funny if I wasn't an atheist . . . but you can't please everybody . A few quick notes on the various actors ; both Matt Damon and Ben Affleck were good as angels . Linda Fiorentino does an OK job of carrying the movie . Alan Rickman is good as the highest ranking angel . Chris Rock is funny . . . not just in the movie , he's funny period . Salma Hayek is beautiful as always and gives a pretty good performance , though her character here is pretty much the same type of character that she always does . Jason Lee is cool . . . both in his character and just about every other movie he's done . Of course , Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith are awesome in their respective roles of Jay and Silent Bob . . . but that goes without saying for anyone who's seen them in any of the movies . All in all , probably the least entertaining of the Jay and Silent Bob movies , but not bad . Hey , it's Kevin Smith ; he's usually funny . . . right ? I recommend this to fans of Kevin Smith and of the other films in the View Askewniverse , and everyone else who is into this kind of humor . Just be prepared that you might find it boring .
Concise	In case anyone isn't sure , this is an episode of a TV show of interviews with film personalities , by Elvis Mitchell . I'm honestly not sure I knew him , or had even heard of him , before watching this . His guest in this is Tarantino , and he has a lot to say . Some of it is relatively obscure , and if you don't have a reasonable basic knowledge of classic motion pictures , at least a little of this may go over your head . This is intended for the viewer who wants to know more about him as a cinephile and as someone who creates features , himself . The talk is very professional in tone ( without it being in a way that completely alienates those less into it , though I could imagine various people calling it pseudo-intellectual ) , with no gossip and not a single personal anecdote that is just for the sake of the story itself . He goes into fearless directors , names his top three favorite comedic performances , and melodrama . There are relevant clips of movies inter-cut , as well as a still photo or a few , and apart from that , this is kept in a nice , simple setup , and doesn't feel edited . A lot of this is fast , partially on account of the speed at which Quentin speaks . I recommend this mainly to critics and fans , of the guy as well as the medium as a whole .
Good thriller with a message	This film is about violation of privacy , about use and misuse of surveillance . It's primarily against it , and it shows throughout how such can be used to invade people's privacy and unlawfully be used against the common man . The film's depiction of misuse of surveillance certainly gives a disturbing insight to how it can ruin a regular Joe's life in no time , but I can't really say if said depiction is accurate or powerfully unrealistic . My knowledge of satellites and GPS isn't sufficient to determine that . The plot is very good . It moves at a good pace all the way through the film , there isn't really any point where it slows down . It's relatively easy to follow , as long as you pay attention , without being overly simplistic . The acting is decent enough , there aren't really any fantastic performances , though . The story is told with an appropriate ( never too much ) amount of humor that lightens an otherwise bleak and unsettling look at a world of limited privacy . The thriller parts are well-executed and exciting . The action , though there isn't much of it , is pretty good too . The ending is a pretty good climax to the film , but early in the film , I expected something very different , and , even though I've seen the film three times now , I can't really decide if I like this better than what I would have expected . The ending scene , as it is , is fairly climactic and fast-paced , but it doesn't really contain any real thriller elements . In fact , very little in the last consists of thriller material , which disappointed me , as everything up to that point was all thriller , and little to no action . I don't know if director Tony Scott felt that the film needed a surprise ending , if he felt that the film lacked action , or if he simply lost track of the film's style . But the last part of the movie is too action-based and contains far too few thriller elements , considering everything in the film that led up to that point , in my opinion . All in all , a good thriller with a good message that is fairly well-executed and sufficiently well-presented . I recommend it to fans of Will Smith , thrillers , and Tony Scott . Also , people who are interested in the subject might want to check it out , too .
Not my thing , but not bad	I have my share of reasons to not like , or even enjoy , this . . . and with that in mind , I actually found it pretty watchable . I guess this is as good a time as any to say that I have not read the book . This is well-made . I haven't seen too many of Ron's directorial efforts , but that is a situation that I am taking measures to correct . This seems to provide a very realistic image of at least some aspects of the old West , not leaving many a sordid detail ( yet managing to not be gratuitous ) . The acting is great , with no real exception . There is reasonable tension at points . What action there is , is well-done enough . Production values are commendable . Cinematography and editing are fine without taking the viewer by storm . Dialog is another positive , for the most part . Characters are well-done , credible and consistent . Effects are never less than decent . Music is OK , I'm honestly not sure I noticed it all that much , whether that's good or bad is , I guess , up to any viewer ( or potential such ) to decide . There is violence in this , and also a thing or two of a mature nature , and while the vast majority of these are subtle , I would advise children or impressionable people to watch this . I recommend this to fans of the people who created it .
Typical action-comedy , delivers exactly what it promises	From the very first scene of this film , I was aware that it would be a typical 90's action / comedy . It's clear from the very first frame . However , once you start to watch it , you'll realize that it's one of the few that actually deliver ; plenty of one-liners , action scenes , a bad-ass hero and villain , plenty of explosions and nifty guns . It has everything you could want in an action movie , and pretty much everything you could want in a funny movie , as well . Actually , the action and the comedy in the film are equally big parts of the film . The film benefits highly from having two action icons in the leads ( much like Dolph and Van Damme in Universal Soldier ) , Sylvester Stallone and Wesley Snipes . Stallone is well-known and credible in the ass-kicking hero part , and Snipes definitely seems to enjoy playing the cool , one-liner spouting villain . The plot is surprisingly good ; it has a good pace , and is rarely boring , though on multiple viewings it can get a little bland , and it will not keep your attention ( at least not through the plot ) , though it may keep you watching just to catch the next one-liner or action scene . The acting is fairly good . I didn't find any of the characters to be terribly badly acted , anyway . The characters are well-written and credible , not to mention ( mostly ) very entertaining . Snipes and Stallone have a good on-screen chemistry which makes their rivalry on screen believable . The action scenes are entertaining , well-choreographed and just plain fun . The jokes and one-liners are great ; the overall humor and comedy in the film is probably the most valuable asset , as the action is somewhat outdated by now . The characters are all well-cast . The science fiction elements are well-integrated and entertaining , though rarely likely ( but , of course , that is the whole purpose of the film ) . All in all , just a very entertaining typical action-comedy , that most likely will have the generic film-fan laughing and cheering . Most people can probably find something entertaining in this film . I recommend it to any fan of any of the actors , action films and comedies in general , and just plain action movie buffs .
Doesn't get where it's going without stumbling along the way	I base this on the release for the PC . I'm not ruling out that some of the problems have to do with that , that this was geared towards consoles . Hey , I won't claim that this is all negatives , it isn't . This does recreate many favorite scenes , almost all they could ( albeit hardly any flying ) . It does , of course , expand on them , otherwise this would be even shorter than it is , and not all of this is bad . There are also new levels , the quality of which varies , but , honestly , there are several ( not all of them ) nice ideas , and done well , to be found in them . At any time , you can replay an earlier one , and twice , you're given a Mission Selector , and can choose the order of the next handful of them . The story-telling is OK , the worst part of it is the hideously , and oddly , cut up and stitched together Frankenstein's Monster of the trilogy that is the series of clips they use ( a couple of times , it even seems like they just thought " well , this was funny , let's put that in there " ) . Don't get me started on the crappy music they put to it . The sound is well-done , though the acting can be awful , and the voices do not always fit . Link , for example , and can someone tell me when The Merovingian became German ? The new plot has good to it . The acrobatics , shooting and fighting are probably the biggest attractions to this . They are a mixed bag . There are cool moves , but it is truly sad that they had to be taught how to make a VG taking place in this universe by the new Prince of Persia ones ( of 2003 , ' 04 and ' 05 ) , and incredible that they still managed to screw it up . And the guns are fine , if often useless ( and why so few ? ) . Aiming , well , it can be done , they actually put a cross-hair in this time , though the mouse doesn't move right . Now , the martial arts system , when you get past how clumsy it can be , as well as how sluggish and either too fast or overly slow ( that's a theme with this one , it hits the extremes , and goes back and forth between them ) it often reacts to your commands , it can be entertaining . There are a lot of combos , if you can activate them , with how similar they are to do , and on account of them making up most of the powerful attacks , the Free Form thing didn't entirely work , and you wind up typically taking them on one at a time . There are not enough buttons devoted to it . Meleé weapons range , but tend to be a positive in this . The Bosses . . . do not . Defending by striking could be fantastic , but it wasn't really , here . The camera is free , with zoom and 360 degree turning . The abilities are decent enough , the main thing here is that each you get is helpful a little , and that's it . The adventure portions are nothing but a method of prolonging this . They were happy to make it possible for characters to be tossed about , and objects ( as well as walls ) around you to break , so it's happening all over the place , and it quite frankly looks preposterous . This makes the astounding occurrences in the three commonplace , and they lose their impact . The bugs and glitches are all over this , and stability could be better . The graphics are great , with fluid animation , if at least one of the faces ( Smith ) come out looking ridiculous . Cut-scenes are , with one exception ( which is CGI , and gorgeous ) , in-engine , and fair . This does manage to put a lot of you-know-who's in one place , up against you , lets you squeeze the trigger in the chopper , and features aerial combat . This is either too easy , or annoying , depending on what specific portion you're playing . Replayability is essentially nonexistent . There is bonus stuff , including an extraordinarily unfunny outtake reel . Saving is still automatic , and offering only four slots . The puns are gag-inducing . The altered continuity is reasonable . This takes some of the best moments in the original film and makes gimmicks out of them . Why all the silliness ? The changed ending ( cheap attempt at getting audiences to purchase this , contact me and I'll let you know what it is ) , which I actually don't consider to be a poor concept , it's merely wrong for this ? My guess would be that the brothers saw the reception the sequels got , and got scared , gave up trying , or perhaps both . Thus they almost invariably ( there is philosophy in this , and situations that could really be impeccable ) didn't try to make this serious . I would hate to think that they belong in the group of people who refuse to believe that games can be complex and innovative , after what they did to the action flick genre , and reinvigorating the science fiction cinema . A tremendous lot can be achieved in this medium , and the only cause for alarm at these being less than stellar is the sheer fact that done right , an effort of this kind , inside the Matrix universe could be excellent . This , however , is downright stupid . Superficial and empty aren't off the wall as words to describe it . Not to mention ammo for those who claim that the 1999 movie was nothing but a stroke of luck . It's a terrible waste of potential . In case you weren't sure , I've been comparing this to Enter the Matrix ( so much that I didn't write where I did so ) . All in all , I'm sorry , I find that to be the superior title . Less frustration , comes closer to you being able to count on it to deliver , and while both overreach , the result here is at times painful . This has , well , not direct sexuality , but adult material , as well as language , relatively strong , not in copious amounts . I recommend this to fans of the franchise , if you prefer the visuals and battles to the exploration and the food for thought ( perfectly acceptable , I simply feel that what the Wachowski's made deserves more ) .
Action with a twist in a game that's sadly much too short	Pretty much from the get-go , this grabbed me . Control is quite easy to get into , the interface is very quickly gotten used to and anyone who's tried a shooter before can pretty much sit down with this right away . The plot isn't poor , it's merely not awfully new or original , either . It's told well , if almost entirely in hints , and the epic scope falls surprisingly flat . The audio is fairly good , though there are some bugs . . . the sound seems to cut off for some of the weapons , if too many are firing at the same time . The music is marvelous and fitting , a healthy mix of techno-like tunes and film-like score . Animation is great , with all movements looking natural . Graphics are rather well-done , sharp and reasonably detailed . . . lighting is somewhat limited , but by no means bad . Where this really wins you over , however , is the game-play . . . thoroughly intense , with the enemies posing a serious threat , and skill and tactics being necessary . This introduces something entirely new ; the offensive cover system . Since Splinter Cell hit stores in 2002 ( and became hugely popular ) , many action titles have added wall-hugging to their repertoire . However , this game takes it to a new level , adding multiple ways of firing from behind cover , and making it the main focus of the game and play . In any level , you are massively outnumbered . Being that just about all your enemies have received military training ( and they only get tougher the further you get in the game ) and all being armed to the same degree as you , there's no way you're going to make it out alive if you rush in . Instead , you must use your surroundings , taking cover behind just about any solid object , and fire at them from behind cover ( and they , in turn , will do the same , which is where the tactics enter ) . Taking cover is easy as it gets , and you even get a brief training mission , in which that , along with the usual shooting game basics are covered . Don't bother trying stealth . . . in fact , this does not give you anything but this one way of going about it . The arms selection is limited . There are about a dozen ones to choose from , and that is easy to keep track of , and none of them are useless ( though I found relatively little use for the shotgun ) . The guns are all military-brand , well-known and thoroughly effective ones . The majority are assault rifles and SMGs , but one shotgun and a sniper are also available . Some of the assault rifles are equipped with a grenade launcher , as well . And you get to play with grenades , too : Mini-grenades , regular " pineapple " type , " sticky " grenades ( which , unsurprisingly , stick ( to the surface that they land on . . . and that includes people ) ) and flash-bangs . When behind cover , you can use the targeting reticle to direct your fire . . . you may lean out to aim properly , or you can send " blindfire " ( something I don't recall seeing in any other game , like the cover-system itself ) . The grenades can be directed in this manner , as well ; simply point the reticle at what you want to go boom and hold down the throwing button for either a brief or a slightly longer time , depending on if you want to lob it a few feet or throw it a distance . When firing , you'll also be able to activate a scope , for everything in your arsenal in the game but the grenade launcher has one . The level design is fairly simple , point A to point B . The difficulty is appropriate ; your surroundings are extremely seldom so open that you are forced into cover-less combat ( since it will often result in near-immediate death ) , and the enemies keep you on your toes , applying military tactics to get you . The AI is magnificent ; the enemies actions are unpredictable , well-thought out and swiftly carried out . They do occasionally mess up . The whole thing is nicely stylized to the point of pure awesomeness . From the bloodless deaths of the enemy combatants to the exceedingly well-animated , beautifully rendered cinematics , providing back-story ( which starts out vague , but gets solid soon enough . . . sort of ) . However , at times , the game feels like it's trying just a little too hard to be hip , to grab the attention of the MTV generation . Voice acting is often exaggerated , with the actors trying to come off tough and bad-ass . Lines are too superficial and empty . And the countless references to " the game " . . . it's as if the makers wanted to remind the player constantly that he was , in fact , playing a VG . And when they do that , why not utilize that to explain the loading feature , one of the things that takes the player the most out of the experience of being someone else ? The console game In Cold Blood had a terrific explanation for loading , in the very concept of the game . While the tone is dark and bleak , there is still strong color in this . . . they are merely from the gloomier end of the palette . The camera was also a bother . . . often when diving ( typically employed to get the heck out of dodge when there's a grenade nearby ) , your perspective would be lost , often getting you killed , as it takes time to regain . The main problem , however , is how short this is . When I read that there would be 15 scenarios , I didn't expect each to take 5-15 minutes to beat . The game took me only a few hours . It doesn't hold much risk of getting boring or overstaying its welcome . With a pretty low re-playability value ( there are no points , so no high-scores to beat , and most of the missions and levels are linear in their design ) , and only two difficulty settings , that's just not at all enough . Apart from a satisfying boss fight and a nice cut-scene , beating the game doesn't beget you anything but a mission selector . All in all , a thoroughly entertaining , cool , but far too brief , arcade type third-person shooter that's different . I recommend this to fans of action , particularly those who aren't keen on rushing in , blindly firing .
From long before " Et tu , Brute ? "	The Roman Empire , and The Rise of . . . uh , It . What a subject for an expansion pack to AOE , yes , indeed , so good and so grand that they decided to center it entirely around it . There are four campaigns , just like in its source . However , they are considerably shorter . They cover a great deal of the history , and include Hannibal and his elephants , Spartacus and his gladiator rebellion ( and care to take a guess as to what their Wonder is ? Come on , you can do it , it starts with a C , and ends with - um ) , and Caesar , who gets to veni , vidi and vici ( yeah , I know the grammar is messed up , I technically speaking can't use them like that ) , and who you get to control multiple times , on horseback . While it isn't as long , and less connected and concentrated , this can certainly still make for a lot of time spent on it . Some of the missions are unique and memorable , like the one that Archimedes is in , and his inventions ( dread those towers ) , and the one where you cross the Alps . The objectives are also sometimes very different from typical ones . The level design in general is rather nice , no complaints there . This picks up right after the end of the first in difficulty , though the five possible settings are there from before , and you can tell from the very beginning . The " look " is changed to fit , and more music is added , some of which is less tranquil ( but doesn't ruin the easy-going mood ) than the ones that still remain from the game itself . The sound is just about invariably a positive aspect , meanwhile , most of it is reused from . . . yeah . The LOD is still impressive . I didn't see any cut-scenes in this beyond the opening logos , that are exactly the same as last time around , although to be fair , there could be one right after them , it refuses to show that on my machine . That brings me to the fact that you can actually run this , and it's predecessor , on a relatively recently purchased computer , and it , at least for me , doesn't lag except for during loading , saving , and starting up the next track . There are new units in this , such as the immensely fitting , and tactically useful , Slinger , trained at the Barracks , who uses . . . that one should be obvious , to hurl rocks ( and for that reason , of course , costs a little Stone ) at enemies , and with his speed and range , he is useful against missile-firing opponents . On account of being able to get them so very early , before even constructing an Archery Range , the overall strategy is changed , if possibly only slightly ( honestly , perhaps there are no real changes to that , on a larger scale , from what was put in this , in that area ) . Added are the Camel , that moves fast and carries a rider armed with a sword , and the Fire Galley , the accuracy and authenticity of which I can't quite confirm . . . how exactly would they keep the boat , itself , from catching the blaze and burn to the . . . uh , surface of the sea ( yes , that would be as opposed to " the ground " ) ? And did they have anything resembling a flamethrower that far back ? Ah , I appear to have digressed . There are Upgrades and Research in this that hasn't seen the light of day until this , either . Under the aforementioned is , for example , the Tower Shield , improving the armor of the men , and the latter holds , for example , Martyrdom , instant Conversion , at the cost of the life of the Priest ( and requiring something that was lazily implemented and comes off as being a last-minute thought ) . There are improvements made over the prior title , that this follows . Let me highlight two . The queue system , allowing you to have one building produce the same thing continually , so you don't have to manually tell it each and every time , letting it be somewhat automated and less in need of the awful and pervasive hand-holding that is among the worst , and limited amount of negative , things about these . The other is the arguably equally helpful double click feature , that simply put means that you can select all immediately visible , within the screen's range , military of a specific kind , or Villagers , by pressing twice on any of them in succession . Unfortunately , many things are not addressed , and if not watched closely , your people will get lost ( if not as often as before ) , and not realize that no , they can not , as a matter of fact , cross the sea on foot , sail across where there , oh I don't know , isn't water , walk directly up or down mountains , or walk directly through objects . And catapults , even on your own side , are far too big a problem , as they have remarkably poor judgment ( then again , who exactly is manning them , how much brain power can you expect from mere wood ? Now , if anything should happen to me soon after I've submitted this review , please don't rule out that my furniture attacked me in a fit of revenge . . . thus effectively disproving my theory about their smarts ) , and mercilessly slaughter their allies , and I swear to you , if it were physically possible , they would manage to destroy even themselves with the ( and the occasional . . . not ) all-too-well-aimed shots . Oh , they'd find a way . The historically inspired . . . everything , is also present here . The multi-player is worth a lot , and may be the best this has to offer , albeit hardly enough to justify getting this beyond just the one that set off the franchise , or , for the critical who want it polished further , skipping them both and going straight to the sequel ( some might go all the way to III . . . I am not one of them ) . The civilizations have abilities to help make them all interesting , and it won't be precisely the same if you play as another one , and plentiful hours can pass in entertainment in this , as well . I recommend this mainly to those who enjoyed the original enormously , and who want every incarnation of the series . Everyone else , consider if this is a must-have .
Ahead of its time , but not always funny	Thirteen episodes . . . one season ( well , half of one , by typical American airing standards ) . That's how long this lasted . Over the past three months and one week , a Danish network has aired one episode every Friday night , and I haven't missed a single one . I don't have any particular attachment to Ben Stiller . . . he can be very funny , yes , but he also did make Zoolander . That , alone , costs many points . I gave this show a chance , and found myself enjoying it more than I usually enjoy sketch-shows . When this show was good , it was really good . Unfortunately , it could also be somewhat average , and while the form was definitely interesting , it also felt loose . . . in search of a voice . Sadly , it was cut short , and never found it . The team is magnificent . . . Andy , Ben , Janeane , Bob and John are all fine comedians , and they work together well . The acting on the show ranges some . The material can be quite good , but some gags go on for too long , and more often than not , the crew would keep using the same characters or setting for several jokes , where only the first one worked well ( one example being Stiller as the " Latin lover " singer ) . I would have to say that the movie parodies were the shows high point ; with faux trailers , current ( at that time ) Hollywood productions were made fun of . Ben's Bruce Willis is spot-on , and his Tom Cruise isn't bad at all . The commercial spoofs tend to be fun . Some of the repeated gags also work remarkably well ; the prime example being the " Cops " bit , where they set the well-known show in various older times . The guest stars were occasionally fun , but often ( as much of the material of early episodes ) simply helped to convey Stiller's brand of self-irony ( bordering on self-deprecation ) . This show wasn't always funny , but it was seldom annoying , and usually watchable . One final thought ; Dennis Miller appeared in one of the last episodes , and he ( as he does tend to be difficult to silence ) spoke his mind on what would help the show . . . half-way through it , it cuts away , and he doesn't appear again on the show . The irony of this notwithstanding , several of the points he brings up are valid . One would wonder if ( given that all the material is scripted , in spite of the way in which it is presented would lead one to assume that it was not ) this was Stiller ( or the team ) ' s way of acknowledging the show's shortcomings , as well as completely and utterly disregard them . A sort of semi-silent protest . . . sadly , the show was axed mere episodes later . I recommend this to any fan of sketch and spoof comedy , as well as any fan of one or more of the comedians .
Pretty intense thriller	The idea of this movie is actually pretty good ; two teenagers do a prank call on a CB radio , but the prank turns on them . Most teenagers have probably been in a situation where they themselves made a prank call . At the very least , everyone knows about it . The film has some excellent shocks throughout the movie , and all of the ' thrilling ' sequences are very intense , sometimes bordering on the extreme . The plot is pretty good , even pretty original , as far as I know . The acting is good enough . The characters are believable and their actions are understandable , most of the time . The movie has some very good cinematography and some pretty good cinematic effects . The ending , though a bit far-fetched , was the perfect way to end it , in my opinion . I couldn't have imagined a better way to end it . I recommend this to pretty much any teen who enjoys thrillers , especially the ones who like to relate to the theme and plot . Nearly every teenager in the world can in some way relate to at least one of the main characters in this film .
Comic book horror that captures the style	Having never read a single of the E . C . comics that this anthology film is inspired by , I can't really comment on whether or not this hits the mark . The stylized presentation fits very well . The editing does nothing to hide that these stories come straight from comic books . . . in fact , it rather seems to dwell on it , indulge in it . This effect isn't overdone ( as was the case in Hulk ) , but rather serves the film well . The plots are fairly well-written ( though I felt the fourth tale to be overlong ) , if never really deep or insightful . The character writing is quite good , though ; I didn't really find one single character to be anything less than credible ( though there were times I couldn't figure out what they were trying to do , until it was shown or they said it out loud ) . The pacing is fairly good , most of the stories aren't too long ( apart from aforementioned fourth one , The Crate , which takes about twice as long as the others , at around 40 minutes running time , whereas most of them are just about 20 minutes ) . The basic idea of each segment seems to be to set up some unappealing characters , have them do awful things to equally ' bad ' people and then get what's coming to them . Secluded areas and a low count of characters seem to be common traits , as well . I guess the reason these work is that many people would like to see things like the stuff that takes place in the novellas to these people ( and their kinds do exist , which is presumably why we so easily accept not only them but their fates in the stories ) in real life , to the same types . The acting ranges , but most is pretty good . Whoever thought Leslie Nielsen could act ? The special effects are fair , though more often than not , you see too little to make out what's going on . Mostly , they work well , though . The lighting is pretty good , if over-dramatic at times , and too limited at other times , again making it difficult to tell what happens on-screen . The cinematography varies , but most of it is on the good side . For some reason , much of the film felt low-budget to me . . . it were as if the budget was enough for one full story , maybe a few of them , but not all five , and instead of scrapping the ones they couldn't afford , they made all of them and just took the money they needed from the rest , at the expense of the overall quality of , well , all of them . The production values and shooting style seem to reflect this . . . surely Romero , of Trilogy of the Dead ( or The Dead series ) fame knows how to make the most of a small budget ? This looks so much cheaper than anything I've seen him do . Maybe he took on too much work by directing all five segments ? In any case , the result is still worth watching . Apart from possibly The Crate , I enjoyed all the stories to some extent . I recommend this to all fans of horror , George A . Romero and / or Stephen King .
About as good as a Kevin Kline film gets , I suppose	Having not seen more than 4-5 Kevin Kline films , I can't say if this is the way all his films play out , but it certainly seems like it . As usual ( ? ) , he plays two different characters , and manages to keep their personalities separate . The plot is good , and somewhat original ( though I guess there are plenty of older comedies with basically the same idea ) . The pacing is good , you're rarely bored , even on repeated viewings . The acting is all good , there wasn't really any of the performances that seemed off to me . The characters are well-written , credible and well-cast . Kline is great as the ordinary guy asked to play President as well as the actual President , Sigourney Weaver is good as the bitter First Lady and Ving Rhames is perfect as the hard-core tough guy Secret Service agent . The humor is pretty good , rarely going below the belt and generally keeping it ' real ' whilst still maintaining a good level of entertainment and hilarity . The dialog is well-written and there are several quotable lines . There are plenty of memorable scenes in there as well . I'm impressed that the filmmakers actually managed to talk so many real senators and important people into appearing briefly in the film , especially since so many of them talk about the quality of this fictional president . All in all , a pretty typical Kevin Kline comedy , not his best , and definitely not that special . Good for a few viewings , if you enjoy Kline-humor . I recommend this to fans of Kevin Kline and / or director Ivan Reitman .
In a word : cool	As far as spoof movies go , this is one of the best out there . It's an action film making fun of action films . The first few minutes of it are so intense , exciting and entertaining that it's really a pity that the film moves so slowly for most of the film , whenever there's not an actual action scene . Not long after said first scene , the film slows down to a very slow pace . . . it gets worse around the middle point , at which almost all interest is lost , all humor and entertainment fades and becomes a far too distant memory . Luckily , not long after , for the last half of the film , it picks up in pace , and there's barely one dull second after the long period of slow pace . The plot is somewhat original , though it's full of typical action-movie clichés ( undoubtedly intentionally ) . The pacing is off for a fourth of the movie , around the middle , but apart from that , it's right on , all the time . The acting is quite good , I didn't find one single performance to be objectionable . The characters are all caricatures , which is obviously the point . The humor almost always works , mainly because it's making fun of generic action films , which have definitely had it coming for at least a few decades . The timing is spot-on , and the delivery has the sense of irony that is necessary for a film spoofing films of its kind . This is the Scream of action films , people . The action is grand ; the stunts , the shots , the style . . . very impressive . The writing is great , Ben Ramsey really has a sense of irony , humor and good story . I suggest you also check out his other movie , Love and a Bullet , which he himself directed . It's almost as good as this . The direction is superb ; apart from the pacing around the middle , it's perfect for this kind of film . All in all , a very entertaining flick ( but just that , a flick . . . nothing more , nothing less ) with a few shortcomings . Well worth watching . I recommend this to fans of action movies as well as people who can't stand them , pretty much for the same reason .
Definitely the most accurate version of the story I've seen . . .	. . . but I don't know what that says more about , how few I've seen or how accurate this is . Running just under three full hours , this covers most of the famous and well-known poem by Homer . . . well , so I think , I haven't read it , and this contained many things I hadn't heard of before , but my father who've read it several times confirms that most of it is quite accurate . One thing that disappointed me was the way the Sirens were completely left out . Also , the Greek gods ( with the exception of Poseidon and Athena ) were barely in the film at all ( contrary to most other versions I've seen ) . The plot is good , it covers most aspects of the original myth , with only minor details changed that shouldn't bother anyone other than the occasional scholar and / or perfectionist in the audience . The pacing is pretty good , you're rarely bored . The acting and casting is very good , with a few arguable exceptions . I partly agree with the general consensus on Armand Assante as Odysseus . . . he definitely brought more braun than brain to the role . Rossellini as Athena is simply a great choice . Williams as Calypso worked , though she is by no means a great actress . Lee had far too little to work with , and far too little screen-time . The writing has its moments , but rarely reaches a higher level than the usual expected for a TV-movie . The action is quite well-done , and the few battle scenes are nicely filmed and set up . The special effects are good for the time it was made and the budget it was made on . The final scene of action is such a great relief and payoff that it makes every single scene of pain and suffering for Odysseus worth it . The film has some stunning visuals , among them some very nice panning shots of locations . . . we don't get enough of that today . Too much CGI in visuals . One thing I just need to mention is how disappointed I was with how the ' my name is Nobody ' joke was wasted . . . it's nicely set up , but the punchline is a bit of a dud . All in all , a pretty good and quite accurate film-version of Homer's famous story . . . but of course it'll never be the same as reading the poem itself . I recommend this to anyone who wants the story but don't want to read it and anyone who wants a faithful adaptation .
Not bad , for a TV-movie	I don't know much about Cleopatra . . . well , to tell you the truth , before watching this , I didn't know anything at all . The name ringed a bell , and that's about it . I bought this along with the 1997 TV version of The Odyssey partly because my father expressed interest in seeing them , and partly out of my own interest in the epics . While , according to my father , this film gets many details right , it still throws some stuff in that makes little to no sense and which is hardly historically accurate ; some parts were obviously doctored to make for more drama or Hollywood-like scenes ( at one point , Cleopatra picks up a sword to fight several Roman legionnaires with ease ) . The sets and costumes are gorgeous , no argument there . Most of the effects were see-through , but that's no wonder for a TV-movie with a TV-movie budget . The costume people are all in my cool book , though , if for nothing else , putting Leonor Varela in so many sheer , thin and / or tight dresses throughout the film . The plot is mostly accurate . The pacing is fair . Much of the film was clearly based on the real events , the real clothes worn and the real places . They must have done extensive research , and it definitely shows . Bit of a pity they throw away some credibility with aforementioned Hollywood scenes . The acting is fairly good ; Zane , as usual , does not disappoint . Dalton proved to me that he had talent , something I never would have believed about him before . Varela is decent . The visual side of the film is fine , but nothing innovative or impressive is to be found here . Same goes for the depth of the film . I enjoyed the somewhat erotic , though at times nearly soap-opera-like relationships Cleopatra had , but I can see why some wouldn't . All in all , it tells the story ( most of it ) and looks ' real ' enough . Nothing mighty impressive , but most of us have come to expect much , much less of the typical TV-movie . I recommend this to people who want a retelling of the story and want drama more than accuracy .
Very good romantic teen-comedy	This is one of the relatively few romantic comedies that are actually based on a good premise , and , as such , it's watchable for guys too . It's very funny , the humor is well-placed and perfectly timed . The romantic scenes aren't sappy or boring . The chemistry works out pretty well between the actors ; you actually believe that these characters would get together , realistically . I read that it's based on Shakespeare's " the taming of the shrew " ; now , since I haven't read that , I can't comment on how good the movie is compared to it , but as far as I know , the basic idea and theme is the same , as is most of the plot , and , considering that , it's a very good modernization of the story . The plot is good and involving , you are interested in what happens to these characters . The acting is all good . The script is well-written , and allows for the characters to be in some very funny scenes . The humor is directed at teens , but it isn't crude or offending , except for a few scenes , and even then , it's not too bad . I found it interesting how the focus completely shifted , in the last part of the film . . . the lead characters became supporting ones , whilst ones that were supporting before are now leads . I leave answering the question of whether or not this is true to Shakespeare's original text ( or at least in the general spirit of him ) up to those who have read his work . A good comedy for teens to watch , probably good for teen couples too . I recommend this to most people who enjoy teen comedies .
It's not too bad . . . considering it's put together by a ton of writers , that it's overlong , and so forth	Before Hitchcock started making great films , he had some titles where he honed his skills . . . Notorious seems to have been one , and this is , as well . The problem in both cases , I'm afraid , is that he had already done better . . . Blackmail had been out for ten years before he made this , and that was a fine thriller . Spellbound was released a year before Notorious , and , whilst it presented a somewhat simplified view on psycho-analysis , it was a fairly well-done piece . And in the case of this film , Hitchcock had released Rebecca , one of my personal all-time favorite Hitchcock films , in the very same year ! So why the lesser quality of this ? I do not know . Regardless , I will try to be fair in my evaluation on the good and bad points herein . When Hitchcock had a good script , he'd usually make the best of it , so I'd say that some of the problem here is that this was stitched together by several writers ( and , as noted in the trivia , the very last scene was tacked on ) . With that in mind , the plot isn't too bad . . . apart from a few scenes that suffer from Deus Ex Machina ( or , in laymen's terms , the writer had written himself into a corner and had something implausible happen to solve the hopeless situation ) . It develops throughout , though it could have moved a bit faster . . . in fact , the movie seems to slow down terribly for the last half hour or so . The acting ranges . . . I found Sanders to be the best of the lot ( though Bassermann did rather good , for someone who doesn't understand the language he is speaking ) . The romantic sub-plot really doesn't work . . . there is no chemistry between the two leads , and hardly any reason for the romance is given . An interesting thing is how little mention is made of who the bad guys are . . . I don't think it was ever said that they were German , and I don't believe the word " Nazi " was spoken a single time in the film . Some of Hitchcock's skill is evident . . . some scenes do have tension , and the locations weren't too bad . The effects are hardly worth mentioning , apart from one near the very end of the film . Parts meant to be effective seem a little flat , at least by today's standards . The film feels like it could have been cut down some without losing the effect . All in all , it has its good parts , but I doubt I'll ever watch it again . It's been said that this , along with Charlie Chaplin's The Great Dictator , inspired the US to enter the war . . . that definitely validates its existence , but I'm not sure I can claim an awful lot else does . I recommend this to the biggest fans of Hitchcock , and anyone interested in watching films relating to World War 2 . If you're unsure if you belong in either category . . . this is not something you need to watch .
Look no further for quality	I must admit , I have not read the novel . I would like to , I like Mark Twain . Thus , I cannot comment on how much justice this adaptation does to his written original . What I can say is that I did not expect this to be as good as it turned out when I saw it in the television listings , but it really got my attention , and I never grew tired of it . The story is good , well-told and at the same time manages notable focus and many well-done sub-plots . The themes explored are interesting , and in addition to history and perspective , they can be applied to today's world . The costumes are immensely well-done . The music is great . The action is well-done , shot well and always fun and exciting . The acting is spot-on , throughout , including the children . Hyde is astonishing . The humor does have some juvenile material , however , the vast majority of it is safe for kids , yet not insulting to adults . This can be watched by anyone , of any age , and one could , if so inclined , sit down with their family and enjoy it together . I recommend this to any fan of the tale , the author of the book that was the source of this , and / or anyone involved in making this film .
Interesting re-imagined version of Cinderella , with good acting and reasonable writing	As this came on TV , I decided to grant it a chance , in spite of not being a great fan of fairy tales . I found it quite entertaining , even if there are maybe a few lapses in writing . The plot is quite good , and progresses nicely throughout . The pacing is fair . The dialog is well-written and equally delivered . The acting is all pretty good . . . it was a pleasant surprise to see Melanie Lynskey ( whom I so far have only seen one other place . . . as Rose on Two and a Half Men , a role that doesn't require all that much talent ) play a much more grounded character , and do so very well . Dougray Scott was good . Anjelica Huston portrayed the evil stepmother of the story really good . Barrymore was well-chosen for the tom-boyish lead who is not stripped of feminine traits . The humor is decent . . . personally , I didn't laugh much , though several of Drew's character's actions had me cheering for her . The cinematography and editing was quite good throughout . The prelude and prologue are both well-written and fit in well with the tone and direction of the film . The mood isn't too sweet and while this is a fairy tale , it still managed to entertain me ( and I have never found works in that genre to be of any interest to me ) . The only thing I truly didn't like about this was the line near the beginning which tried to place one definite meaning upon the smile of the Mona Lisa . I refer to the marvelously talented director Stanley Kubrick , who quite eloquently and perfectly expressed why such a thing should never be done . I recommend this to fans of fairy tales and / or the actors involved .
An OK sequel	Considering how great the first one was , I'm a little disappointed over this movie . It just seemed like they pretty much remade the first , just taking it a little further , making it more gross and more extreme , which may work for some fans of the first , but I honestly enjoyed the realness and laid-back feeling of the first far more than the gross scenes and stereotypes . Now , the stereotypes and the gross scenes are multiplied , to a point where it just gets a little tiresome . The apparent lack of any real original ideas , rather than just rehashes of the first , was a bit annoying too . But , all in all , it's an OK sequel , and a reasonably good teen comedy . The plot is OK , but it just seems too much like it was made up just in order to make a sequel to the first . The characters are a little too stereotypical , and not as well-written and real as they were the in first one . The humor is more or less the same , too much the same , in fact , as many of the jokes are just reused from the same formula as the first , like several of the scenes . Overall , the movie is not as good as the first , but it's OK . It's worth watching , if you want to see the characters again . I recommend this to fans of the first , and fans of teen comedies in general .
Good , but not great	As far as courtroom dramas go , this is by no means great . I've seen plenty of them , as American law system interests me . The greatest would arguably be A Few Good Men . . . this is pretty much in the order end of the spectrum , being a fairly slight courtroom drama . It has just enough good points to it to keep it above average , but only just enough . I think the way the story was told was fairly standard , but good anyway . I liked Travolta's voice-overs , and liked the fact that it's not the typical cliché-like ending , where , against all odds , the case is won . I won't tell you exactly how it ends , but the ending is pretty good , and not as predictable as many of the courtroom dramas are . The plot is good , and develops , at least in the beginning , pretty good , and with a good pace . However , somewhere in the last half , the pace drops and you find yourself being bored with the film . Too bad , since it started out so promising . The acting is very good ; Duvall and Travolta are obviously good , but Macy and Lithgow were surprisingly good ( not that they're typically bad , though ) . The supporting cast also do their jobs well . The characters are well-written , credible , and well-casted . The humor , though rare in the film , is mostly good . All in all , a pretty good courtroom drama , based on a true story , and a basic story of inexperienced against experienced , as they say in the featurette on the DVD . I recommend it to fans of courtroom dramas , and fans of any of the actors .
The ( more ) realistic approach	For better or for worse , this doesn't feature any of the gods of the myth . In fact , it apparently takes steps to eliminate the mythical aspects from Homer's epic poem . . . again , not everyone is going to like that . So this is a realistic ( somewhat . . . it is Hollywood ) retelling of the much-disputed story . Technically speaking , the film is good . The production values are rather high . The cinematography and editing are both quite skillful , and the epic shots covering the mass armies and locales are well-done . The acting is great , all-round . The story is played around with , details changed around , to fit the film they wanted to make . This tells both the story of the fall of Troy , and the stories of the people ( though perhaps more the men than the women ) on both sides of the conflict . The film will appeal to both genders , us men can look at all the war scenes , and the women can look at Pitt and Bloom bare-chested . The action is fairly accomplished . . . the camera-work , editing and choreography are all reasonably well-done . There is intensity in the fights and war scenes . There is some sexuality in the film . There is also violence , which I thought was the right choice , to not water down scenes of war ( ones that may have actually been fought , no less ) . I don't know that it was ever gratuitous or over the line . I suppose this is a good watch for those who don't want the gods and other mythical elements ( I won't say " the story " , because I don't know that this is particularly accurate , in fact , all I've heard indicates the opposite to be far closer to the truth ) , and / or those who want to watch action set during that period . I recommend this to those who fall into the aforementioned groups , but any historians may want to steer clear , as well as anyone else looking for an account that sticks to the known facts closely .
Undeniably well-done	I'm honestly not sure I " got " this film . It would be far from the truth to claim that I'm much of a fan of the genre of fantasy . I watched this because of the people behind the camera . . . more specifically , the work of Ridley Scott , who may have not won me over to the point of fan-dom , but continues to interest me , and Rob Bottin , whose work ( within the field of special effects ) I've been more interested in as of seeing him in the feature-length behind the scenes retrospect production on The Thing , entitled Terror Takes Shape . The pacing is reasonable . The lighting has moments of excellence , and plenty enough to spare . The acting is quite good , Tim Curry in particular , as the Lord of Darkness ( and the make-up and such are fantastic ) . The effects and such in general are magnificent , and not even necessarily just " for their time " , either . There are plenty of colorful and creative beings to be found in the film . Production design tends to be great , throughout . Editing is mostly good , but for the few awkward cuts . I watched the regular version , of about an hour and a half , not the Director's Cut . Cinematography varies , there were times where I couldn't tell what was going on . The dialog is . . . well , usually grandiose , but some words used seem terribly out of place , and take you out of the film , some . The version I saw was about an hour and a half long . There are some themes and such that are perhaps too adult for children to watch this . The film , as a whole , is well-done . I recommend this to fans of fantasy , though I'm not sure kids should watch it .
A story about four green dudes	Released a few years after the cartoon series started airing , this follows the tone , and that take on this concept . I have read very little in the way of comic books about it , and I don't know how close that is to the original version . But yes , this is silly and goofy , and very much directed at children ( don't say " family film " , we all know that's just code for " you don't have to keep the kids from watching this one " ) , especially evident in the humor , a lot of which can be annoying to those not inclined to enjoy stuff a 7-year-old might , and the characters . Thus , the TMNT's start out flat and ( save for the different color on each ) not standing out from the other three , however that changes , and they get personality , and gain what at least casual fans know as their individual traits . The crew must have been happy with the costumes , because they waste no time showing us the mutant guys who use surfer-lingo . I can't blame them , because they're not half bad . The puppets and the like have a decent enough range of motion , both for when this was made , and how much it was put together for ( especially if you compare what it cost to what it made ) . The Shredder , who gets to be a dark and menacing presence ( hey , that's more than they granted him in the TV show ) has his armor translated to the silver screen rather well . The turtle-on-ninja-action is very well-done ( get your mind out of the gutter , this is rated PG ) . The fights have fine choreography and are entertaining , if you're into martial arts . The music and sound effects fit . The DVD holds both a wide-screen and a normal copy of the flick , in addition to a brief biography ( T Files ) on each of the six lead creatures , previews for similarly geared efforts , a theatrical trailer for this and a mini-game , which is nice . There is mild violence and a disturbing aspect or two , beyond that , nothing objectionable in this . I recommend this to any fan of the teenagers , though be aware of the intended audience for this .
Typical slasher	This is pretty much just an average slasher ; it has all the elements and all in all , it's a worthy addition to the genre . The plot is pretty good , though it isn't really anything special , for a slasher . The acting is very standard for a typical slasher like this . The death scenes are not anything special for a new slasher , but they're not bad ; they're pretty standard , like the rest of the movie is . Not bad , but not very good either . The movie is driven by the idea of the killer apparently only killing virgins , and all the virgins in town try to have sex , in hope that they won't get killed . I personally found the plot twist to be pretty good , and not too obvious . Overall , a pretty standard slasher , that delivers the thrills it has to , together with the suspense , the chills , and , of course , the slashing . I recommend this to pretty much anyone who enjoys any of the newer slashers , as it's definitely one of the enjoyable ones , even though it isn't particularly significantly different from the rest . Worth a watch , if you're into slashers .
In space , no one can see you be weird	Being that this is one of the first of Carpenter's works , and that it had O'Bannon's involvement ( more the former than the latter ) , I made it a point to get to watch it . I noticed that , for being listed a comedy , there aren't that many laughs in it . . . which is not at all to say that it isn't funny , portions of it certainly are , with several kinds of humor blended together well . . . some is clever , there's a remarkably well-done absurdity bit ( and more than one thing herein is bizarre ) , and there are black parts , as well . Not every gag or joke works , and with how far there can be between them , I should think that someone just going into this expecting only that will leave disappointed . Meanwhile , if you dig John and the other two genres , you're likely to have a great time . There is genuine tension ( he managed to do that skillfully even then ) , and among the technology and such are interesting aspects to be found ( according to the Trivia , a little of it was even inspired by two marvelous writers in the field ) . Music , as usual on one of his films , is done by John Carpenter himself , and also to be expected , is really good ( if not necessarily his best or most memorable ) . Cinematography , editing and effects all show promise of things to come , from both men . Acting could be better . Writing varies , but there is the occasional nugget of pure gold . I recommend this to any fan of Mr . Carpenter and / or Dan , as well as those who are into sci-fi .
Pretty entertaining , if you're into " dumb " humor	This is another movie that takes the " dumb blond " stereotype and builds on it , just like , for example , Legally Blond ( e ) . The difference is that this film actually accomplishes it pretty well , and comes up with far more great humor , something that is probably mostly due to the R-rating ( Legally Blond has a different rating , a PG-13 , I believe ) . That doesn't mean that the film is packed with nudity or profanity , though . It does have its share of F-words , and the two main characters ( among others ) do show a little skin , but nothing serious . Most teens should be able to see this as well , and laugh at it . About the " laugh at it " , though , I will say that the film requires you to be able to laugh at fairly simple humor . It's not going to make anyone form philosophical ideas about it , nor is it going to impress you in any way , it only tries to entertain , and it succeeds , depending on , of course , whether or not you can laugh at dumb humor . It mostly consists of stereotypes ( main stereotype being the " dumb blond " one ) , but as long as you can accept that , you should be able to find it fairly amusing . I definitely laughed out loud at a few occasions , and was chuckling at many more . The plot is pretty good , it's about Romy and Michele ( as you probably guessed from the title ) , who , 10 years after high school haven't really gotten anywhere with their lives , and are told about a high school reunion . Fearing they may not impress their former schoolmates , they try to improve their lives . Hilarity ensues . The film has a pretty good , slow , unhurried pace throughout , very much like another teen comedy , American Pie . It doesn't hurry from one scene to the next , but it doesn't bore you either . The acting is pretty good , especially by the two leads , Mira Sorvino and Lisa Kudrow . The supporting cast is also pretty good , especially Janeane Garofalo and Alan Cumming . I very much enjoyed Garofalo's sarcastic character , and her acting was great . The main characters also have great on-screen chemistry , I think . The characters were sufficiently well-written and credible , for a bunch of stereotypes . The soundtrack for this film was also pretty good . The films climax , that takes place at the actual reunion , is packed with pretty much every single reunion-cliche that you can think of , but still manages to entertain . All in all , a good comedy if you can enjoy the fairly simple-minded comedy of it . I recommend it to fans of " dumb " humor comedies , like Dumb and Dumber , and various other Jim Carrey comedies . Also , fans of dumb-blond jokes might also finds this amusing .
Good game for its time , if surpassed by later sequels	This is the game that started it all , for the Commander Keen games . The first of six games ( and at least one game which takes place outside of the main story-line , entitled Keen Dreams ) , two full trilogies , done by id Software and the director Tom Hall , together telling the tale of Billy Blaze , the eight-year-old boy who , once he puts on his older brother's football helmet , becomes Commander Keen , the defender of the Earth ( entirely unbeknownst to his parents , of course ) . This first entry takes you across Mars , which is considerably more inhabited than scientists would have us think ; who knew that all those science fiction writers who used martians as the requisite space-alien were entirely spot-on ? However , while there are vicious , aggressive martians , the Gargs , there are also friendly ones , known as Yorps . The latter ones were slaves to the former ones . . . that is , until the Viking landed square on the leader of the Gargs . The Gargs , understandably upset , created robots to do the labor , as well as guard the planet from intruders . They are among the many enemies that Keen will have to face in this adventure ( which is of course not to say that only the living , moving creatures are dangerous to the good Commander ) . Whilst exploring the planet , the Gargs stole four necessary parts of his inter-planetary space-ship , the Bean-and-Bacon Rocket . They hid them all over the planet , and the Commander will have to search his way high and low to find them and be able to return home ( in time for dinner , and before the baby-sitter wakes up ) . By no means the most captivating story , granted , but it does the job , and Keen's quest is entertaining . Since this is the very first of the games , it is somewhat low on features , but creative level and creature design help to make up for it . Plus , the Pogo Stick and Ray Gun are already there . The former will allow you to jump higher , since finding your way through the levels is a large part of this series of platform , action , adventure games with the dynamic camera centered on the title character . The latter , well , it'll fry much of what you point it at , since these games also have something of a quantity of creatures who aren't all there to give you a big , warm welcome to the planet that your current adventure takes place on . This game has two-button shooting , which can definitely be something of a pain , but I don't know that they could make it differently back when this was created . The game is a lot of fun to play , if somewhat easy ( difficulty settings would have been a welcome addition ) , and relatively short . The game definitely doesn't overstay its welcome , but it isn't too short , either . Replayability is achieved through the high score list , which tells anyone consulting it both the amount of points accumulated ( through collecting candy , toys and whatnot . . . the points also grant you extra lives , which , with the nature of the save feature , can come in rather handy ) and the items for the Rocket that were re-acquired . The sense of humor is good , if mostly directed towards children . . . however , it doesn't strike the player as childish , and can definitely , if not enjoyed , be ignored . The game has you walking , jumping and shooting your way through the many obstacles that lie ahead . . . and not everything will react the way you think it will . Some ledges can be jumped onto from straight below , for example . Not all enemies can be killed , either ( apparently , Billy managed to upgrade his Ray Gun after he realized that it was somewhat inferior ) . The sound is reasonable , though obviously limited by today's standards . The animation is nice , and the game runs relatively smoothly for being almost twenty years old by now . The color palette is one of many bright , appealing colors , and the game is quite easy on the eyes ( though obviously the graphics improve in the later games ) . The Ray gun is red and fires what seems to be a purple , electric charge . The game takes you through nicely varied environments ( all confined to Mars , however . . . yup , those who claim that it's little more than a barren , desolate wasteland , not to mention those who insist that human beings cannot walk on its surface due to heat ( never-mind atmosphere or breathing equipment ) have got it all wrong , as well ) , including ice-ridden areas . The level of detail is not bad for a game from this time , and even Keen's " cute " demises are already introduced this early on in the franchise . The Alien Language appears already , as well , ripe for being deciphered by anyone who desires to do so . Even the secret areas and hidden paths show up in this game , remaining throughout the two trilogies released in the early nineties . Saving and loading are limited to between levels , but it's easier to use than other contemporary systems . The background info for the game can be read straight from the main menu , and in general , the game is very accessible . The low difficulty setting ensures that most gamers , even the very casual ones , will be able to complete it , and it certainly does make for some fun ( and nostalgic , today ) gaming . The movement is a little laggy , at times almost clumsy , in particular compared to other titles . . . even one or two contemporary ones . The programming and game-play is greatly improved in the second trilogy , but if you want to go back to the series ' roots . . . besides , there are worse classic games out there . It should run fine , even on new computers . Heck , you can even play it with a joystick ( though I can't speak for how good that is , or how much fun it will be , seeing as how I've never tried it ) . The second game raises the difficulty bar , as does the third ( too far , some , including yours truly , would say ) , if you've completed this and are looking for more of a challenge . I recommend this to any fan of platform games , and anyone who has a soft spot for classic games .
In some ways , better than the first game	Yet again , Earth needs the help of heroic young boy Billy Blaze , aka ( once he's wearing his brother's football helmet ) Commander Keen . As he returns to Earth , he sees a huge spacecraft hovering over the planet . . . the Vorticon mother-ship . They had attempted to keep him from returning to Earth , as they realized that he was the only one who could stop their evil schemes . . . but Keen won that time , and with your help , he will , this time , too . The entire game takes place on the mother-ship . The Vorticons are intending to blow up the planet ( as the title alludes to ) , through targeting eight of the largest cities , and Keen must single-handedly destroy all of the laser cannons ( or Tantalus Rays , as they are known in the game ) aimed at the cities in order to stop them and ensure that the world is safe . The story is more epic and exciting than that of the first . . . whilst it certainly was fun to collect the parts of the Bean-and-Bacon Megarocket to enable the Commander to fly back to his home planet , saving said planet is somewhat more interesting . I would say that the first game works well as an introduction to the universe , character and series , and this raises the stakes and is a solid sequel . A few new features are added , one of which can be recognized from the later games , such as the two in Goodbye Galaxy ! , namely , moving platforms . Light switches are also added , but I will leave it up to the players to find out what they are good for ( though I will say that they are extremely helpful ) . The general surroundings are considerably more hostile towards Keen . . . where the first game took place on a planet inhabited by both friendly , agreeable aliens and . . . less friendly ones , this has you inside the mother-ship of some aliens that are dead-set on destroying your home-planet ( though you do find out something interesting in the game , regarding that . . . all may not be what it seems ) . As such , the Vorticons themselves are not your only concern , since the ship is full of complicated technology powering and running it , quite a bit of which is lethal to eight-year-old human boys . The robots aren't exactly the most forgiving type , either , in particular the variety that fly back and forth , occasionally firing three quick blasts of energy . However , the small ones who merely push you ( which , in itself , with such dangerous surroundings , can be enough to kill Keen ) may prove useful more often than not . The colors are somewhat more grey in this , though not exactly bleak ( it definitely is still a children's game ) . Between the end of the last game , and the start of this , Keen has gained a new ray gun , one belonging to an elite warrior of the Vorticon race . . . this proves to be more powerful than his own from the first game , so he keeps it throughout the entire game . Essentially , this means that you can now shoot those pesky wolf-like things , which were invincible in the first game . The controls remain the same , " heavy " , laggy , bordering on ( and occasionally crossing that line to ) clumsy , and with the trial of two-button shooting , which causes problems when trying to fight enemies , one in particular , who takes three rounds to go down , is able to shoot back ( and only one shot is necessary to take Keen out of the equation ) , jumps high and moves fast . In-game saving is missed , though I will admit that I only got to play this and the other two parts of the trilogy after having completed Goodbye Galaxy ! ( or , more accurately , the first part of it , Secret of the Oracle , the fourth entry into the series ) and Keen Dreams , so I was perhaps spoiled . There is still no difficulty setting , either , though the game does pose a reasonable challenge . Wikipedia even lists this as the most difficult of the trilogy , though I would say that the third is , each game in Invasion of the Vorticons ( the first three games ) gets more difficult than the last . The game takes a little longer to complete , not to mention more skill and perseverance . The game-play is about the same as that of the first . There are a few puzzles to solve , and some time is spent locating key-cards and generally finding your way through the levels . You get to choose the order of the levels again , well , within reason , that is . Level design is quite good . The humor is the same cartoony brand as the first , directed mainly towards but by no means exclusively appealing to , children ( and like with the first , there really isn't so much of it that you can't simply ignore it if it downright bothers you ) . The platform gaming remains fun , and the additions make things more interesting . It's also quite entertaining to play . Once again , extra lives are gained through amassing enough points , which will also ultimately count towards your ranking on the high score list which is still the main incentive in the series towards replaying the game , and this list will also say how many of the eight cities you managed to save from laser-induced annihilation before the game ended . The sound is still somewhat simple , but it's good for what it is . The graphics aren't marvelous , and they are 2D , all the way , but they aren't bad . While I'm not sure I'd say that the series has achieved the greatness that started in the " interlude " , the lost episode , Keen Dreams , which was made between the trilogy and the later three official Commander Keen Games ( the Goodbye Galaxy ! series and Aliens Ate My Babysitter ! ) and continued through the last three games ( I have yet to play the Game Boy Color version , and from what I've read of descriptions , I doubt I will make much , if any , effort towards doing so ) , this is about as good as the first game , and surpasses it in a few areas . I recommend this fun little game to fans of the Commander Keen series , and to fans of DOS games and / or platform games .
Tries to do too much at once . . . but not without its moments or merit	Even in the greatest stories , there are chapters that aren't quite as strong as the rest . The Olsen Gang series is no exception . After three extraordinarily ingenious films in a row ( and before that , " . . . Runs Amok " , which marked the start of the period of perfection for the franchise . . . I suppose this could be argued to mark the end of said period , but if my memory serves me right , the next film pulls the level up again ) , and one particularly amazing coup in the previous film , it was to be expected that the quality would fade somewhat . After a quite funny opening scene ending in a very memorable line , followed by a very unusual " release scene " , with some playful music and editing , the film never begets few laughs . And the bigger issue ; the writing . Too many new things are thrown somewhat carelessly into the mix , and few of them work or are used properly . Børge is sorely missed . Did we really need a new opposing gang ? Or Bøffen made into a right-hand man with homemaker tendencies ? The role of the ever-so-slightly dim hit-man with brutal methods fitted perfectly , for Ove Verner Hansen and the films . Let's face it , with the ineffective police force displayed in the series , we need a proper adversary for Egon . He is a criminal mastermind , after all . Bringing back Holm Hansen was good , but the man hardly had anything to do at all . Hallandsen was a joke and a far too easy victim . Federspiel's small character is quite good . Arthur Jensen's similar-sized role provides some of the greatest laughs . The idea of Kjeld having to do house-work seems mostly like a half-hearted attempt at playing with the briefing sequence , something that they did better in one of the previous films ( I believe it was the seventh , " . . . on the Track " , but don't hold me to that ) . While some fun does come from it , the addition of Paul Hagen's character Mester Hansen could easily be done without . He's not used for anything , much like most other new characters . Claus Ryskjær does garner some laughs as the neurotic computer-expert constantly on the verge of a nervous breakdown , but he hardly adds anything . Some funny scenes and a memorable plan or two , including the one involving the Danish section of The World Bank ( containing bits and machinery reminiscent of the works of the Dane Storm P . ) , but overall one that you can skip without missing too much . The car-chase reminds one of the earliest of the films of this series , and that's not what you want to be thinking of while enjoying these ( later , better ) films . I recommend this only to the biggest fans of the franchise , those who insist on watching all of the films .
Perhaps a film with an obvious message , but a good piece nonetheless	This was Douglas Trumbull's first film as director . Rather impressive . Not just with that in mind , either . I will definitely have to look for other films by this man . Two of the actors featured , I knew beforehand ; Dern and Rifkin . Both I have seen in recent productions , filmed beyond the beginning of the new millennium , and both clearly had talent way back when . The environmentalism is fairly obvious in this film , but I would not classify this as a film that demands or even asks us to take better care of forests and nature , in particular ; it promotes life , warmth , vitality . I found it interesting to note who were the more humane and caring creatures on the ship in this film , apart from , of course , the lead . The story is quite good , and well told . The pacing is magnificent , I was not bored for a single second . The imagery is very appealing , that of nature as well as the spacecrafts . The acting is very good . The special effects look great , and hold up well . The length of the picture is just about perfect . . . it neither overstays its welcome nor ends too soon or too abruptly . The editing and cinematography are both nice , I can't think of a single visual in the film that should have been done differently . The two songs by Baez aren't bad , and they fit fairly well where they are used . I recommend this to any fan of science fiction , especially as far as predicting what the future may hold and provoking thought and debate go .
A " marvelous " comic book film . . . and the Director's Cut makes it even better	After the utter failure of the fourth Batman film , at the hands of the effective , if not awfully talented , director Joel Schumacher , Hollywood took a break from the sub-genre of superhero movies . The last two films of that franchise had been too silly and " comical " for the fans , and . . . well , yeah , too silly for everyone else , as well . When Bryan Singer made X-Men in 2000 , all of us fans rejoiced . . . a new chance for our favorite characters to be treated to the time they deserve on the silver screen . Two years later , Sam Raimi released Spider-Man . . . personally , I did not care for that movie ( as my scathing review of said film reveals immediately ) , and this film was subsequently widely overlooked . People claimed this to be a rip-off and an inferior film . I disagree . There may be similarities , but I found this to be the better film . This didn't feel glossy or flashy . . . this felt serious , real . This is a superhero who gets hurt , who doesn't always win . I haven't read too many of the Daredevil comic books , but from what I can tell , this film is fairly accurate . Sure , they changed back-story . . . but some artistic license is necessary to make it work ( and yes , I realize that I complain about this very aspect of Spiderman in that review ) ; Catwoman has , after all , yet to be depicted as a cat burglar . The key elements are present herein , as best as I can tell . The choice of villains is rather good , I think , as well as the other characters . The special effects are great ( with a couple of evident exceptions ) , with almost perfectly smooth CGI that blends well with the live action elements . The action is nicely choreographed , filmed and edited , and the film is definitely intense when it needs to be . There is style to it ( sometimes a little too much ) , and the editing is rather good throughout . The writing varies , but much of it is clever and just about all of it works . The casting is mostly spot-on ; Garner has the femininity coupled with the ability to pull off cool action moves believably ( the latter presumably partially gathered during her time on Alias ) , Duncan has the stature and the presence ( as for him being black . . . how many white actors has a matching physique and those acting capabilities ? ) , Farell comes off as the psychopath that he should , and Pantoliano has the determination to be Urich . Affleck may not have been the best choice for the title role . . . he simply does not seem to be a terribly credible action star , as my fiancée also pointed out after having watched Paycheck . However , he does fit quite well as Matt Murdock . Favreau is a good Foggy , if different from the comics ( still providing comic relief . . . pun intended , courtesy of my fiancée ) , and he plays off Affleck pretty well . Garner and Affleck have playful chemistry together on-screen . The acting ranges , but is mostly very good . The pacing is nearly perfect , especially in the DC . In fact , just about everything about the film is improved upon in it , and I urge anyone who enjoys the theatrical to get it ( though do note that it is rated R . . . for anyone bothered by the added language , sexuality ( what little there is ) and violence ) . . . and anyone who thought it could have been better after watching the original version to give it another chance . Coolio , added in this , also does well , and has funny moments ( just as Favreau , Affleck and Garner ) . The tone is darker than other superhero / comic book films ( The Punisher being the exception to that rule ) , and it fits . All in all , a comic book / superhero flick of very high ( though not perfect ) quality . The DVD holds a featurette about the changes , which isn't bad at all , and a commentary track with Avi Arad and Mark Steven Johnson , that is definitely worth listening to , informational and entertaining ( be aware that it's relatively . . . unrestrained in the use of cussing , for at least a handful or so of occasions ) . I recommend this to any fan of superheroes , movies about them and / or the source material .
A pretty good virus thriller	This movie is thoroughly exciting , if not much else , and it has a good sense of humor . It was tense throughout it's entire run time . Pretty much none of the actors are big names , but they give believable performances , pretty much every one of them . I honestly didn't expect much from this movie , but it surprised me , as it was actually pretty good . I haven't seen a lot of the other virus thrillers , so the genre is new to me ; however , I think this was a pretty good movie of that genre . The whole plot was pretty good , apart from the somewhat anticlimactic ending , that just seemed pretty far fetched , but hey , not all movies end the way you want them to . I liked most of the main characters , the wisecracking president , the intelligent doctor , both of the terrorists , all were interesting characters , and they were all pretty well developed . I think most people who enjoy thrillers , and especially fans of virus thrillers , will enjoy this . While not featuring big famous actors , it's pretty good nonetheless .
Fine for what it is . . . namely the same as countless other " catch the killer " flicks	Let me start by saying that I haven't read the novel . Eastwood's been cast as and playing the " too old and worn out to do what he needs to , or supposed to be " for years , so that's no surprise . Clint's done better both directing and acting , before and since this , so nothing particularly new there , either . This does have that fast-talking weird guy from Jake in Progress , which might help set it apart from the rest . The plot isn't bad , and the mystery is OK ( though near the end , once you get one specific hint , you're likely to figure it out before the lead does , and I'm not sure that was the intent ) . The pacing is fine , the film doesn't lose you before it's over . The acting is sufficient , and both Daniels and the director / star do good ( the latter doing his " gruff exterior " typical thing , anyone looking / hoping for such , just as yours truly , should be pleased ) . There is some violence , and also language , and children should probably not watch this . There is a more or less insignificant amount of action , and it is reasonably well-done . There is tension in this , if there could be more . Editing and cinematography are average ( and one brief part not only goes on for far too long , but is also pretty lazily done , not to mention the reek of " someone who just figured out how to apply simple effects in editing " ) . I recommend this to fans of those involved in making it , as well as of the kind of movie it is .
A pretty good romantic comedy	I have never really liked romantic comedies , I think there's too much crying and sentimental sap . I mostly think of romantic comedies as the kind of movie single women sit down and watch , and cry their eyes out , which is a concept I've never understood . But this movie is definitely one of the better of the genre . I saw it again after having seen it a lot of years ago , and I remembered it as having one single good scene . This is , of course , the famous restaurant scene . But seeing it again , I laughed almost at the very beginning , and kept laughing throughout the next twenty minutes . After that , the hilarity of the characters faded , and it settled by being interesting and capturing . I wanted to know what was going to happen to these characters . Unfortunately , it didn't last , and I lost interest for a few minutes , and then I saw a funny scene again , and regained interest . The same thing happened a few more times , I lost and regained interest with brief pauses . The movie is worth seeing if you like this sort of movie , or if you like debates about male / female friendship . I found the ongoing debate in the movie very interesting and thought-provoking , and most of the movie is pretty funny as well . Some of it is laugh-out-loud funny , and some of it is more like recognize-the-situation funny . If it had kept my interest a little better , I would have given it an 8 , but as it is , I give it .
Too much Hollywood , but a rather enjoyable thriller nonetheless	I remember watching the trailer for this . . . I've seen it more times than I've bothered to count , since it's on several films I have on VHS from that period ( and I love trailers , I rarely surpass any chance to watch them ) . So the trailer for this film was in my mind for a long time before I realized what it was about or even what the title was . To this day , I can pretty much remember the entire trailer , despite the fact that I haven't seen it in at least three to five years . I believe this was the first place I ever saw Gere , and I know it was the first place I saw Bai . I don't know when I first saw this film , or if I did , really , before tonight . I had a feeling of deja-vu through some scenes , but if I have indeed seen this film before , it certainly can't have made much of a lasting impression on me . Whether that is the fault of the film or merely a sign of me having a quite low interest in political matters in my younger days , I leave up to debate . The plot is quite well-written , and mostly realistic and plausible , if a bit aimed at the Chinese legal system and the people in general ( I realize that they and their system is a Communist one , but this does seem a tad over the top , exaggerated ) . The film also contains a bit too much Hollywood for an otherwise quite realistic depiction of another country's court and legal system , one that is in stark contrast to that of the American system . Some forced ( granted , the chemistry is most definitely there ) , not to mention quite unlikely , romance , a chase scene , etc . The pacing is solid . The acting is top-notch . The writing and direction are marred by obvious sinophobia - hate and fear of China - and a lack of objectivity when dealing with this subject . The writer obviously did extensive research into the culture and court system for this film , but unfortunately , these truths are mixed with preconceptions and prejudice of said system ( and possibly of the culture as well ) , making for a skewed perspective of the reality of the Chinese courts and prisons . The cinematography and editing are quite impressive , not too flashy but intense and effective when the occasion calls for them to be . All in all , a pretty good court-room thriller with all the elements , but the anti-Communism just seems a tad too extreme . I recommend this to fans of thrillers , Richard Gere and politically themed dramas . . . just watch out , or you might get caught in the maelstrom of blind hatred towards China .
Utterly bizarre , but strangely involving	I've never read the book , and I knew nothing about the writer William S . Burroughs going in . . . neither his life nor his work . I purchased this movie out of an interest I've taken in the films of David Cronenberg . The film grabbed me from very early on , and refused to let go . Through all the absurd occurrences , I never found myself bored . Often confused , but never bored . The plot , if intangible , is good . The pacing is great . Never moving too fast , never losing momentum . The production values are incredible . . . the sets and props are of a very high quality . The effects are excellent . The acting is just about flawless . Having seen a few of Cronenberg's other films , I have to wonder how many of the bizarre notions and visuals in this where taken from Burroughs ' book ( s ; both Naked Lunch itself and his other works , as this apparently references several of the man's writings ) , and how many Cronenberg thought up and added ( and I doubt that he would require any drug to make them up ) . On that note , this does include Cronenberg's typical level of messed-up stuff ( they don't call him " Depraved " for nothing ' ! ) . . . perverted sexuality ( though much of it is merely implied ) and drug abuse . . . there is also some violence , but it's by no means as graphic or frequent as it usually is in his films . One thing to note is the conscious under-direction of many of the absurd scenes . . . these things just happen . . . no special emphasis . In this universe , they are simply natural occurrences . An amazing film that will have you thinking , guessing at the outcome . Some analysis and thought post-viewing is required ( and a debate never hurts ) . I recommend this to any fan of Cronenberg , and I presume readers who enjoy the writings of Burroughs may very well like it , as well .
Really good mission-pack . . . though note that this does not add anything other than more levels	I regret to inform anyone reading this that yet again , a game-review finds yours truly having to comment on the product without having completed the whole thing , due to a bug . I apologize sincerely to anyone who follows my reviews ( yes , both of you . . . oh ? Well , just you , then , and I thank you for sticking it out ) , and I hope that this will be the last review that necessitates this notification . The bugs in this left me completing no more than a third of the levels ( and , on that , do take into consideration that the mission selector that came with the installation of the pack that held the original Command & Conquer , as well as this add-on , let me choose each level individually , so I tried every single one of them , meaning , two thirds were bugged ; be forewarned ) , but I did try each of them , so I would say that I am still able to review this . First off , I should make absolutely clear that this has nothing new to add apart from the missions . All the briefings are now text-based , no actors in fitting locations telling you what the situation is . I realize that Kane is listed as appearing in this , but I can't claim that I spotted him anywhere ( though that may be due to the numerous game-freezing bugs , that I hope ( but can't say for sure ) are exclusive to my copy ) . Just about all of the cinematics are either ones we saw in the original game , a few are reused footage with minor alterations , such as setting , but hardly any new ( if any at all ) . This is not a negative aspect I am pointing out , I am merely informing anyone interested that if they had hoped for any additions other than more levels , they are out of luck . Unlike some later installations , such as Tiberium Sun : Firestorm , no new units or features are added , just to bring this to the attention of anyone reading . There are 15 new missions . . . 7 GDI and 8 NOD . As this is the only new thing found within this game add-on , the quality of these levels are what I shall concentrate on within this review . The general idea seems to be that these take place around the same time as the main game , presumably simultaneously with it ( as the first Tiberium War is over by the end of the main game , Command & Conquer . . . with whichever side you chose to play having emerged victorious , as is the case with the later games in the franchise ) , and , going by the title , I would further speculate that these are supposed to be the missions you didn't hear about during the game itself . The scenarios are quite good , some rather creative ideas in several of them . The objectives have about the same range as the main game . . . destroy the enemy's presence in the area , locate something , locate and destroy something , locate and retrieve / rescue something or someone . The level design is really good throughout the production . There wasn't a single mission that was not fulfilling to explore the operational area of , or where the logic in the construction and design of said area was lacking or faulty . As in the game itself , some of these levels take you past inhabitable areas , complete with civilians , who aren't always completely helpless , as well as buildings , some of which may contain bonuses . The difficulty follows the end of the original , meaning , the levels start out being about as hard as they were at the very end of the game , and go from there . Anyone who completed the game itself and are looking for more challenge , this is what you want . For just over half a dozen levels on either side , this gets more taxing as it goes along , starting right at where the last one left off at the end . This also means that the units , buildings and weapons that were available to you at the end of the first game are now with you from the start here , though of course you aren't just given a legion of Commandos , or the capacity to produce Mammoth Tanks right away ; the difficulty goes in the same upward arc that the Tech Tree does , so for each new cool unit or super-weapon you are granted , the enemy gets or has ( read : has ) something of equal or greater efficiency and strength , the usual being greater . That's part of what creates the challenge , after all . Something that makes things interesting is the way some things that are seen in the game itself are played around with a little ; in at least one level , the well-known NOD Flamethrower unit is modified to be a " Chem Warrior " , with the first word being a very obvious abbrev . for " chemical " . . . especially evident once you see his form of attack : An acid-y looking green cloud of poisonous material , akin to the flame of the original unit , having a dramatically nasty effect on its human victims . . . this is the time to either make very good friends with The Brotherhood of NOD or find yourself a darned good hiding place . The Commando is also used well and plenty , without the game ever going to the well one too many times . In fact , it all seemed very nicely put together ; all the production efforts were spent on the missions , and I'd definitely say that it shows , in that the levels are all really , really good , and they manage to make this an interesting add-on ( considering it's only new missions it has to offer the player . . . and this is coming from someone who've been spoiled with new features and additions galore in many add-ons of the late 90's and a few of the early years of the new millennium ) . Not one mission is dull or feels as if we've done it before . This is a great add-on , one that I hope any fan of the regular game gets to play ( and , by now , has gotten to play , as this is more than a decade old ) . I recommend this to RTS gamers .
Cute little short , must-see for any fan of Rodriguez ' style	I don't believe I knew of this short film before I got El Mariachi on DVD and found it among the special features . Rodriguez did it all by himself , with the cast consisting entirely of his siblings . The plot is simple and silly , but you find yourself watching it all , never particularly wanting it to end , and when it does , it hardly feels like any time has passed at all . Granted , not an awful lot of time has passed , but still . The pacing is perfect . The cinematography is great . The story-telling is relatively simple , but it works very well . Instead of giving up on having sound , or limiting it , on account of not having a camera that could record sound ( I'm going to assume he did , as he describes having and using one such camera in making his feature debut , El Mariachi , which was made not long after this ) , Rodriguez creates all of the sound in post-production , and gives it a rather cartoon-y feel , one that is present in every facet of this production . The difficulty of dialog ( as it must all be recorded separate from filming ) is a problem he solves by making the dialog off-screen , and , whilst it is arguably a story-telling crutch , the narration works wonderfully well , and helps tell a story that could easily have taken far longer than 8 short minutes , ensuring a tight little short that does not overstay its welcome . The acting varies , but always works . The lead enunciates reasonably well , and good enough for all she says to be understood . The score , editing and camera angles create drama , and cheap effects sell the supernatural idea . There is some gross-out comedy , but very little . There is also some violence , and it is shown without the realistic outcome ( not unlike , say , a Tom & Jerry cartoon ) . This short is undoubtedly created mainly for children , but adults can enjoy it too . You'll find the minutes flying by , and you may very well enjoy Rodriguez doing what he does best . I recommend this to any fan of Rodriguez , as well as children who have the sense of humor for it .
Good horror-drama by De Palma	Once again , I have not read the original Stephen King novel on which this film is based on , so I can't draw comparisons there . I have heard , though , that it's a fairly faithful adaption . I don't have too much faith in neither De Palma or the idea of novel adaption , but this one looked somewhat interesting , so I decided to give it a try . I'm glad I did ; it's definitely one of De Palma's better , and one of the better horror movies of that period . The climax is great , some of the best use of split-screen and instant zooming I've ever seen . The use of slow-motion also adds a lot . The plot is good ; it deals with Carrie , a teenage girl who's constantly bullied by her classmates and just about everyone else , for that matter . Her mother is a dominating and very extreme Christian believer , so Carrie also suffers under that . The film has a pretty good pace ; there wasn't really more than five minutes in total out of the 90 minutes the movie takes where I was bored . The film has a few light-hearted and humorous scenes , which are probably there to keep the viewer interested , and intensify the climax , which comes as a huge shock , like a crack of thunder . Some would say that it has too many humorous scenes , considering the theme , but I think it was a good idea ; though I guess the film is a little hurt by the unintentional comedy , mostly brought on by the slightly overacting performances of Nancy Allen , John Travolta and Piper Laurie . This is evidenced by the trivia section indicating that they did , in fact , think they were there for comic relief , which did ruin some scenes ( mainly those involving Laurie , as she was the psychotic mother , who provided a little too much comic relief , rather than instill fear in some instances ) , though it's easily ignored , and doesn't ruin the movie as a whole , nor does it lessen the value of the point . The acting is mostly good . Sissy Spacek was great as the mousy Carrie . The characters were well-written , though I guess many of them , especially the teens , were cliches and stereotypes . The score was good . The music almost always fitted with the scene . The special effects are great , and the atmosphere and shocks were chilling . All in all , a very good horror-drama , that could possibly have been better , but De Palma makes good use of various cinematic tricks and editing finesses , which takes the film to a fairly high level . I recommend it to fans of horror and teenage dramas , possibly fans of King , and fans of Brian De Palma .
" Now . . . you do realize that Star Wars is make-believe . . . right ? "	Whether or not this strives more to inform anyone out there , who still aren't sure of it , that Star Wars is science fiction , or ride the wave of the popularity of the films , and through that educate about actual science , is unclear . This feature basically goes through a number of the technologies found in the famous universe , and has clips of scientists say exactly why that does / may or doesn't / wouldn't work in real life . It manages to be quite informational and not without entertainment value ( I must admit , the part I found myself enjoying the most was hearing some of the people who worked on the films describing how Lucas would talk about the tech and such , two third or so in ) , and it isn't paced too bad . It takes about three quarters of an hour , and it is reasonably rich in the amount of details and info . You'll find out about Darth Vader's suit , the Death Star and even Lightsabers . However , the first-mentioned of those does lead to some rather unnecessary ( and , to me , unwanted ) speculation that borders on gross-out comedy , by these well-educated folk ( what's that about a genius having the mind of a four-year old child ? ) . And one has to question the point of this . . . a huge part of the appeal of the Star Wars universe is the magic , and the films are arguably as much adventure as science-fiction , if not even more the former than the latter . Perhaps it shouldn't really be compared to science , or our understanding of such . While I can put forth such points of criticism towards the basis of this existing , I still cannot claim that this is poorly made . I recommend this for those genuinely interested in applying actual science to the movies , and for people looking for ways to teach science to those who aren't the type to sit down and bury their face in a book , or watching a documentary that doesn't use a piece of popular entertainment to relate the facts to .
I realize more or less why it's loved , yet I cannot seem to get into this	Why , you ask ? At least that's the question I assume is on your mind , since you decided to read this , instead of skipping it . I'm not entirely certain . Let me assure you , I am a fan of the creature . The same goes for Arnie ( no , I wasn't calling him a . . . never mind ) . In fact , claiming that I am one of the director , as well , wouldn't be stretching it even a little . And I dig tension , horror and thrillers ( not to mention the genre The Governator commonly stars in , and science fiction ) . So by all means , I should be of the same opinion about this as the majority seems to . Maybe I was spoiled by the first AvP game , and / or seeing the sequel to this . Perhaps I just don't buy McTiernan's attempts at suspense . It isn't impossible that it's how the first couple of scenes of this set it up to be the typical Schwarzenegger flick to such an extent that if it had been cut immediately after , it would simply be known as the shortest of such ever , with a few brief things that have nothing to do with the rest ( you'll know them if you ever do view it , or have ) . In the end , I don't really know . Could be all , maybe only one , heck , doesn't have to be any of ' em . With that said . . . there are good things herein . Hall did very nice ( R . I . P . ) . The acting is mostly great ( with only a handful of exceptions ) , and the characters are cool . The special effects hold up fairly well , and there are some nice moments in them . Cinematography and editing tend to be quality stuff . Like Alien , this works well to introduce the title being . I recommend this to fans of the people involved in making it .
Good extra , helps explain how Rodriguez can work so quickly and cheaply	Showing up the efficiency of a professional studio is not something done every day , but Robert Rodriguez pulls it off and makes it look effortless to do so in this short . Clearly ( as is his usual and preferred method of working ) cutting the whole thing in his mind as he goes along ( look and listen when he first enters the house and see if you agree with me ) , he shows us his own home studio , which is his garage , and which holds all of his sound mixing setups , an area reserved for special effects work and an editing computer . He takes us through the sound programs and equipment in a manner that is very informational yet not boring for a second . . . he even goes on to show in great detail how he did the music . This is interesting throughout , and there is not a dull moment to be found . Rodriguez ' drive and energy keeps any project that he has done all the work on himself ( look at The Faculty for an example of something . . . less than all the way Rodriguez ) fast-paced and interesting to watch , including these extras . I recommend this to anyone interested in finding out how Robert's post-production work is done , and any hopefuls ( with the money to afford such ) who wish to own their own production facilities , just like he .
In a word : random	To paraphrase what has been said about the ( in ) famous Danish Dogme film made by Lars von Trier , this is a film about drug users , made by drug users , for drug users . The nutty nature of this is acknowledged in the opening credits , and hey , this never claims to be anything else . It is fun to watch , and entertaining . The production is somewhat uneven , with most everything varying in quality . The plot ( in fact , the written material in general ) constantly comes off as " made up as they went along " . Acting isn't bad , often over the top ( but that seems to be what they strived for ) , with every role performed by Andrew Isaac , who is probably the funniest actor on the AMF team , and almost the entire short is him doing his thing . Cinematography and editing tend to be decent . . . they've put together more technically accomplished releases , at least since , after this . Sound is good , though some of the editing could have been smoother , particularly in music . . . choices aren't bad , though . This is perhaps most enjoyable to those who have watched Scarface , for reasons that , if they are not obvious prior to seeing this , will become it almost immediately in viewing . A basic knowledge of pop culture is preferable , as well . In not terribly long , they manage to insult the people of several countries , as well as a sub-culture group or two . Effects are usually a high note . I recommend this to fans of non-sensical spoof-y comedy and AMF .
Different	I expected other things of this , but I'm not sure I met it with disappointment , merely surprise . With Bertocci helming it , I thought it was going to be funny , in the quirky , slightly " off " way he is . And with it being a documentary , one would naturally presume that it would hold interviews , descriptions and the like . Neither are true of this , or at the very least , not to any wide extent . It's all very spartan , with little to no other information than what time of day it is from . The entire thing is , crassly put , footage , cut together . It's well-chosen , and somehow , it's never actually boring . It's a fly-on-the-wall perspective of the making of a student film . . . or at least a scene . . . to be perfectly honest , some of it . I can say from my own experience ( the tad I do have ) , that this is a pretty accurate depiction of working on a piece of this media , the shooting process of such . This doesn't really glorify it . . . it's basically up to the viewer to decide . I recommend this to those interested in the creative efforts that go into putting together a movie .
This time . . . it's personal . Well , not as much as before , but , uh , still . . . nevermind	Special Collector's Edition review . I haven't read the novel . The first Ford attempt came off as more his movie than a properly done one based on a book by a solid writer . This gets closer to a healthy mix of the two . There is still action , and it's well-done , but it doesn't feel like it's struggling with the political thriller aspects for the spotlight ( not only because of the considerably lesser amount ) . The pacing is pretty good , this is never boring . The plot is interesting , and I'd say the Clancy feel is a stronger presence in this than in its immediate predecessor ( hey , you can go elsewhere for a straight Harrison flick , no ? ) . The acting is relatively solid all the way . The characters are well-written and credible , for the most part . The editing and cinematography tend to be nice in this . The special effects leave little to be desired . The dialog has memorable lines , like the first in the series . The language does have some harsh words , but fewer ( not to be confused with milder ) than in the previous effort . The DVD holds a theatrical trailer . I recommend this to fans of the franchise , Tom Clancy and / or Harrison Ford .
Not the best teen comedy , but a very good one	The R-rated teen comedies is a fairly new genre , that has created numerous films of varying quality over the past few years . The best of them is arguably American Pie , and while this one comes close , it just doesn't reach the same high level of quality . It is , however , very close . The plot is very good ; it's based on a mix-up ( an uncommon mix-up , but not an entirely unbelievable one , I suppose ) , and on various situations that most teen guys could definitely relate to . The acting is good , all of the leads give pretty good performances , as well as most of the supporting characters . Of course , a somewhat well-known teen-movie actor Seann William Scott is expected to be good , but Amy Smart , Paulo Costanzo , DJ Qualls and Breckin Meyer impressed me , partly because I hadn't seen them in any other movies . The characters are well-written , credible and you can mostly relate to them . The humor is great ; it's typical R-rated teen comedy humor , and it's really done great . It's hardly ever overplayed , and there aren't really any of the gags or jokes that fall flat . What puts this slightly below American Pie on the overall entertainment scale is the way this seems to be in a rush to get done with many scenes , and just squeeze as many jokes and gags out in as short time as possible , in order to get to the next scene ; American Pie mastered the art that is pacing . It was laid-back , calm and easy to get used to . This has so much stuff crammed into it in such a short amount of time that if you don't pay attention you might miss something . It also has fewer situations that you can relate to than American Pie . One thing that this film has a great amount of is re-watch value ; I've seen it no less than ten times now , and I'm not the slightest bit tired of it , which is more than what I can say about American Pie . All in all , a pretty good R-rated teen comedy , but not the best . I recommend it to any fan of teen comedies .
Pure Carpenter	Do you like John Carpenter , and / or his work ? If the answer is yes to at least one of those , I'd say that you're pretty darn assured enjoying this . Of course , I'm not going to cut this short at that . . . that would make for a somewhat unsatisfactory review . The plot is very good , and develops well throughout . Acting and casting range , but nothing is below average , and there are some really creepy performances among them . Pleasance is his usual charismatic , talented self . Characters are well-written , credible and consistent . The pacing is spot-on . John instills fear , builds tension and keeps you interested with skill matched by few . There is excellent atmosphere herein . There is some humor , as well , and none of it is forced . There are pure , and rather enormous , nuggets of gold within the script , and none of it is bad . The effects are nicely done . The score , of course by the director / writer and so on and so forth , himself , is magnificent . . . it's about what we are used to hearing from him and his features , the synthesized sound that he masters . Not his best , perhaps , but it certainly is effective and awesome . . . in fact , that basically goes for the entire film . Now , granted , I have only watched this once , but I am definitely going to do so again . This is classic John , him at his most impressive . This had me in a tight grip every time it attempted to gain such , and sure managed to scare me . There is some violence , and while it isn't the most gory , it is pretty disturbing at times . I recommend this to fans of the people who made this , John Carpenter in particular .
Overlooked ?	Yes , we all know about the usual quality level of licensed releases . No , this does not particularly raise the bar . But it is definitely an entirely reasonable effort , and I would say that if you like the movie , you may enjoy this . I will start with my personal favorite thing about all of Star Wars . . . the light-sabers . The use of them can be entertaining enough in this , and the way they did them in this ( I will keep it vague intentionally so as to not spoil it for those who have not seen the Prequel Trilogy , it is awesome beyond the point that it should be blown ) definitely fits ( and , lest we forget , this is the only time it has been done this way in this medium , to the best of my knowledge ) with the recent silver screen depiction . . . but for one thing . The speed . They move rather slowly in this , both the sword itself and when they move as they attack with it . There is also not exactly an abundance of different moves . They look real nice , however , in fact , the graphics of this in general are quite well-done . The engine somewhat supports an enormous scope , if you aren't allowed to go everywhere , which helps the feeling of being in the galaxy far , far away . The architecture can be . . . blocky , I guess is the word , by which I mean that a lot of . . . big , square . . . " things " are found . " Eye-sore " and " distracting " spring to mind . The way they kept you out of areas that you shouldn't have access to can also be clumsy . The level design on the whole isn't bad , though . . . and you get to visit and to some extent explore locations ( unless I'm terribly mistaken , all of them ) seen in the film . The voice acting varies a bit , and there are points where there is too much dialog . The overall writing is pretty decent . . . the story is told relatively well , and a little expanding is done . In spite of that , this isn't that long . . . I can imagine it could be beat in a weekend . Add to that that the re-playability value is limited to only one single-player campaign , no difficulty settings , and with no more than a sparse breakdown of your performance and time following its completion . There is good stuff in this , though . You get Force Push , and even , at certain points , Mind Trick . The former is especially fun to use , to effects similar to those we've seen at the cinema . This is an action adventure game , if anyone was not aware , and both aspects are fairly nicely done . The first-mentioned runs well , letting you fire half a dozen guns or so , and features throw-ables , as well ( the method for aiming . . . don't even think you're gonna use a mouse for this . . . can be a tad trying ) . The latter portion is fine . . . the puzzles are arguably easy and tend to be both few and far between , as well . This is seen in the third person , or a mix of that and bird's-eye-view , and the camera is usually helpful ( with a couple of glaringly obvious exceptions ) , in spite of you not having much sway over it . . . much at all , and there are some great tricks done with it . This isn't always perfectly smooth . You get to control multiple different characters ( anyone's who's watched The Phantom Menace could probably guess who all four of them are , and I'd be happy to tell anyone who asks ) , each with skills and / or weapons that the others do not , and for my money , all are useful ( really , every piece of your arsenal and every ability in this comes in handy herein ) . I realize it's not popular , but I do care for the Stunner , if it can be a trial . . . the concept and execution may be unique , and in spite of a measure of unpredictability to it , it makes for magnificent dispatching of adversaries . The AI can be . . . well , is , erratic , but there are interesting and noteworthy details to it . . . for example , I've seen foes step out of the line of fire of a projectile headed at them , successfully , as well as move if they are being hit and either can't see you or don't appear to be able to shoot straight at you . Sometimes annoying , perhaps , but you gotta admire the technology and effort behind it . The internal logic of this is , more often than not , broken . . . you may find yourself trying a lot of things that seem like they could be the solution , and it turns out it was something else entirely . The low level of interactivity with your environment doesn't outright aid you . The game-play is very cool when at its best . This was seemingly rushed , to get them out at the same time , and there is some feel of it being an unfinished project . And if I , or anyone else , really , for that matter , said " buggy " in reference to this , you can be almost 100 percent sure that they do not mean the mode of transportation . This has several cut-scenes , in-game ( scripted without errors , more or less ) and fully rendered alike , and the last-mentioned are purdy . All are directed just fine . I don't believe there are any clips of TPM itself in this , I , myself , did not miss them with what we had instead ( bearing in mind that I like it more than the other two PT entries ) . The score is marvelous , save for the remarkably abrupt shifts that there can be . The sound is done well almost invariably , including in the menus , which are concise . The boss fights vary , not all are imaginative , but none are downright poor . The enemies are somewhat well-done and diverse . All in all . . . I'd conclude that if you dig the flick , you are set for having a solid playing experience , with hours of running around the SW universe with this , provided you can accept blemishes . This is not a flawless masterpiece , but it by no means deserves being branded an utter failure . I recommend this to fans of Episode 1 , and the franchise in general .
Ain't no wonderland	This is pretty dark . In the very literal sense , as in , the lighting can hardly be described as being overpowering , and figuratively , since it's not exactly a Disney-fied fairy tale . It may require , if not necessarily multiple viewings , then at least attention paid . The plot is well-written , and takes some serious turns . It should throw most viewers for a loop , and it manages to retain a level of believability that not all recent twist-flicks can boast . The cinematography and editing are of high quality throughout , with no exceptions . The acting is spot-on almost invariably , everyone turns in a solid performance . . . Kidman , Baldwin , Pullman , Scott , Bancroft , not a disappointment to be found among them . The supporting players , as well . The writing leaves rather little ( if not nothing ) to be desired , and remains excellent for the duration . The pacing is appropriate . The three attempts at doing a proper accent are appreciated , and this is by no means the only film to lack in that department . There is a bit of sex in this , if not that much nudity , considering . There is a moderate amount of language , and it can be fairly harsh . The DVD holds cast biographies ( yes , yippie ) as well as a trailer , which I would not suggest you watch before the movie itself , as it could give stuff away . I recommend this to any fans of the people involved in making it , as well as the genres of crime , thriller , and / or mystery .
OK Jim Carrey comedy	Jim Carrey hasn't been in a comedy for a couple of years ; in fact , he hasn't done anything but some not-too-good dramas , so naturally , his fans were expecting a lot from the film that would mark his " return " to comedy . I believe that a lot of people , especially Christians , are offended by this , because of the somewhat comic portrayal of God , among other things . I didn't find said things offensive , though I can understand how some might find them offending . However , if we forget about the immediate offense some will take from the very theme of this film , and look further , we'll find an okay attempt at explaining faith and God , without simplifying or mocking . Yes , the attempt is hidden behind a lot of ( so-so ) comedy , but if you look closer , there are a lot of references to Christianity and perhaps even a few metaphors . It's not a particularly funny or effective comedy , in spite of director Tom Shadyac's track record with working with Carrey , but it's not awful . The jokes are found more in special effects , and situations we accept because of the power harnessed ( and given that , one might have expected more interesting things to happen ) by the title character . . . rather than Carrey's performance , the dialog or other material . I'd recommend this to any fan of Jim Carrey . Just don't expect it to be as funny as his best work ( I maintain that Steve Oedekerk is unfunny and ought to stay away from Jim ) .
Better than I expected	This movie surprised me a bit ; after reading the plot outline , I didn't think the movie would be very good , but I was wrong . It's actually pretty good , the plot is interesting and develops nicely , the acting is very good , especially the actors portraying the main characters . The main characters are entertaining , as they have wit , intelligence and the useful ability to effectively manipulate anyone into doing what they want . As a result of that , a lot of people might hate them , but everyone gets pretty much what's coming to them at the end of the movie , so you don't leave after watching the movie unsatisfied . The humor of the movie is very typical teen , but no extreme stuff ( like , for example , American Pie ) . It's all very down-to-earth , and it's entertaining and interesting to watch . The movie is good for the first two thirds , but then it starts to fall off a little , especially since the director suddenly decides to give the audience a moment of typical romance movie happy-ending near the end , but fortunately , it doesn't last , and the end is just as it's supposed to be ; not mushy and ridiculous , but rather satisfying . If you like teen dramas , give it a try .
Definitely my favorite Bond movie . . .	Bond . James Bond . The eternal gentleman , the perfect secret agent . Everyone knows him . Most people like him , or at the very least respect him . I've seen virtually all of the old Bond movies , I saw them on TV just a few years ago . I haven't liked any of the newer ones , so I haven't bothered to watch any Bond movies made later than Goldeneye , as I think that was so much below average for Bond that it could get . But anyway ; after not having seen them in a long time , the only Bond movie that stands out in my memory is this one . You only live twice . Why , you ask ? Maybe it's better than most of the other old ones ; or maybe , it's the very definition of Bond . Who could portray a witty gentleman agent better than Sean Connery ? The movie has the perfect match of in-jokes , typical Bond gadgets , Bond girls , cool locations & action . It also has noticably fewer unrealistic scenes ( shootings , for example ) than most of the later films ( even of the old ones ) . It's about as action packed as most of the other old Bond movies , and all of the action scenes are exciting . The plot is pretty good , though it seems a bit dated now . I recommend this to any fan of the old Bond movies , as this is definitely one of the best .
Good acting , but poor script and dull plot	When dealing with fiction , it's mostly easy to make it entertaining . When dealing with non-fiction , true , historically correct stories , you have to make an effort to keep it true to facts ; however , you still have to make it entertaining , otherwise , everyone but the historians and story-loving audiences will find it less than worth their time ; and that is exactly what went wrong here . As far as I know , this film is fairly historically accurate ( apart from the main plot-line , which I'm not entirely sure about ) . It's also well-acted and the locations and costumes are authentic . Thing is , that's all it is ; authentic , historically accurate ( to a certain extent , at least ) and well-acted . The film has little to no entertainment value . I realize that a war film shouldn't be a hilarious or something to cheer at ( like an action flick , for example ) , but it can at least show it's audience the courtesy of being slightly interesting , apart from the plot ( which , I think , to some extent deviates from what really happened , in a typical Hollywood fashion ) which seems predictable and is easily figured out from the very beginning , simply due to it obviously trying hard to be historically accurate , which negates the tension that the last scenes are trying to build . Even in the very end , which contains a twist ( obviously designed to build tension ) is predictable and almost immediately figured out . The plot is somewhat good , it's just too predictable and virtually everyone will figure out how it's going to end , save for the historically ignorant ( who probably won't see the movie anyway ) . The pacing is bad , unless , once again , you're interested in seeing this for the historical accuracy . The film never really seemed to take off , until the last half hour or so , when you've stopped caring about the plot . The acting is very good ; pretty much the only thing worthwhile in this movie . The characters are well-written ( I guess , but they are based on real people , so there's not much room to go wrong there ) and mostly credible . The cinematography is nothing memorable . The costumes and locations are very authentic and well done . All in all , not a particularly good film , but worth watching for fans of ( fairly ) historically accurate war films , and fans of the various actors , since they all give great performances . Anyone else should avoid this . There are far better war movies out there .
Sit back , put a clip in the good old . 45 and dish out some punishment in one of the most creative games ever made	This game is great . You get to be The Punisher , something I know many , many comic book fans and aggressive people alike have wanted to for years . Naturally , when a game is finally made after so many years of fans adoring the comics , you have to work very hard to make sure it doesn't disappoint . Well , for my money , I think they did a damn good job . Everything about The Punisher is here , and most of it is spot-on ; the dark atmosphere , Frank Castle's bleak narrative , the punishment , the violence and the guns . Oh yes , the guns . You know those games where they promise tons of weapons , and when you get to try them , they're just four or five basic weapon types and three or four of each of those types ? Not here . Not this game . Oh no . Here , it's short and oh so sweet . Naturally , we get Castle's well-known . 45's , but we also get the one-hand pump-action shotgun ( as seen in the movie ) , a Desert Eagle , several SMG's , various other handguns , some nice rifles including an AK-47 and a . 50 caliber sniper . There's more , but I will leave the rest to be discovered when ( not ' if ' . . . come on , you know you want this game ) you play it . Then there's the violence and the excellent bullet dynamics of the game , coupled with the rag-doll physics engine . . . put those three things together , and what you get is mayhem and chaos , Punisher-style . I'm not kidding , you can blow a body part ( arm , leg or head ) clean off , if you aim it right and use a weapon powerful enough . Any bullet you put into your enemy stays there . . . you can see the blood and the hole it leaves . Whenever you hit someone , you can tell . Their body will react realistically to the impact . Now , the weapons you can carry are limited . . . actually , you can only carry one handgun and one rifle at any given time . You know what ? You won't need anymore . And you can throw away your weapons for a weapon of the same group at any time you find it . But the fun doesn't stop there ; we all know Punisher is strong , right ? He should be able to carry more than one weapon at a time , not to mention use both simultaneously . . . right ? Well . . . brace yourself . . . he can . He can . He can , and by god , it is good . Ever wanted to blow away enemies with two assault rifles ? Or a pump-action shotgun in each hand ? Now you can . If you're carrying a rifle and you come across one of the same kind , pick it up . Punisher will take it with the other hand , and he can now fire both , even at the same time . What's even more awesome is that this is almost completely unlimited . I think the sniper is the only weapon you can not carry two of . The graphics of the game are excellent , and they aren't that ' heavy ' on computer specs either . The sound is of great quality . That brings me to one of the lesser points about the game , though . I know it's standard policy to have enemies taunt you and generally comment on everything the player does , but I think they overdid it slightly . Or maybe it's just because half of the generic ones rarely fit the situation . Much of it is filled with juvenile humor , some of which is overly crude . Then there's the story-line . . . I like how they filled the game with ' celebrity cameos ' , with superheroes and characters appearing here and there , but the way they tried to fit half of Punishers major enemies in it seemed very forced . About half-way through the game , there was one boss per level . I would have liked it better if they had done several separate story lines , possibly having them all be playable from the very beginning , but at least separated the game into chapters , instead of trying to make it seem like the whole thing was , in the end , run by one man . Particularly because I was sorely disappointed when I found out who he was . . . I won't tell you , hate to spoil it , but I didn't think it made even a little sense . I know why they did it , but it seemed like a cop-out , and a dull way of connecting the game to the movie . Speaking of connecting the two , I liked how they had Thomas Jane do the Punisher voice . That made it even more authentic . I'm glad , however , that they chose to make Castle appear like the comic book version , instead of Jane's . Another cool feature that deserves mention is that you can take any enemy as a human shield . . . or even quick kill them , no matter how strong they are ( apart from , obviously , boss enemies ) . Finally , I just have to mention the interrogations . They're endlessly entertaining . You get to force criminals to spill the beans . . . or their guts . There are many different versions of interrogations in the game , and four basic ones . The non-basic ones can only be performed at special places , but they're far more entertaining . You can hold someone over a very fatal fall , with their head down . You can half-drown someone in a toilet bowl . You can even run someone over . . . repeatedly . . . until they talk . It's a somewhat tricky art to master , but it's well worth it . OK , just a tad more negative stuff and then I'm done . The game is a tad repetitive , and the whole shooting thing does get tiresome when you've done it for as long as you need to in order to beat the game , and there's relatively little in the game to return to . There's tons of extra stuff to unlock , but it's very hard to get . There are ' challenges ' . . . but they really should have been named ' impossible feats ' . That describes them better . The levels are very closed-off and there's not much freedom in the game . I recommend this to anyone who's a fan of The Punisher or in need of a good way to relieve aggressions .
Entertaining , if a tad short on material	I've always liked Thomas Hartmann . Much like Anders Matthesen , he has a cynical , aggressive kind of humor ( albeit less sexual , violent and graphic / shocking ) , if less intense and " angry " . In a talk about various stand-up comedians that I had with a friend , we agreed that he writes good material . . . but , my friend commented , he's not terribly good at performing his own . Having written episodes for Jul på Vesterbro and in general often collaborating with aforementioned fellow comedian Anden , it was clear that the man is funny . . . that he has a skill for turning the bad stuff , the negatives into laughs and applause from an audience in the form of humorous observation . But with the many punchlines that garner limited response , the too many repeated jokes and references to earlier jokes ( for a show that's no longer than an hour and a half ) and occasional lack of energy ( he's very , very far from the ticking bomb of intensity that is Anders ' Anden ' Matthesen , who as anyone ( who's seen him perform even once , no matter where ) knows , can explode from one moment to another with no warning or preview ) , I can't help but wonder . . . is my friend right ? Does Hartmann belong on the credits for " written material " on comedy shows instead of on the stage ? Perhaps . He fares better there , in my personal opinion . That , however , does not mean that this show is not worth watching . Taking a page from the book of live performances as written by Anden , he first appears on-stage portraying a character . I don't know if it were Matthesen who did that first , but I think it's fairly safe to say no one ever did it bigger than him . Lest we forget , one of the tag-lines for his show of 2001 ( " Hva ' snakker du om ? " , or , in English , " What are you talking about ? " ) was " a one-man show with guest stars " . As he afterwards performs as himself , the jokes come many and quick . . . and I and my father were often laughing nothing short of hysterically at the many fine ( and often quite surprising ) points . Although not always sophisticated , his jokes are usually sharp and smart , and in spite of the at times less than lightning-fast pace , I was never really bored . I never felt like it dragged on . Hartmann has some really good material and his performance , though less than that of other comedians , is fairly good . According to the credits and this very site , Anden does the warm-up . . . I only watched this on DVD , and I'm afraid there was no trace of said comedian performing . Finally , for all you other rap / hip-hop fans out there ; you're in for a treat . Not only are the intro / outro mixes a nifty little dark beat , but Hartmann himself raps over the end credits . . . for several minutes . As he raps in English , it suffers a little from the common affliction of " We can tell you are not talking in your native tongue " , but it's still good for a listen , and worth staying the extra few minutes for ( after the credits have run their course , as the rap continues . . . one-man shows tend to have somewhat short credits ) . The lyrics are quite good , though his flow could use a little work . He's not the rapper Anden is , but he does well . I recommend this show to any fan of Danish stand-up and / or the aggressive comedy stylings of Anden and Thomas Hartmann .
I remain underwhelmed , I'm afraid	This film is quite popular , at least judging from it's rating ( as I'm writing this , it's placed # 50 on the top 250 list ) . I realize that this was probably a benchmark for special effects when it was made , but now the effects seem incredibly dated ( which they don't , at the very least to the same extent , in pieces from the same period , best example being Star Wars ) , and many scenes seem clichéd today , even though I suppose they were fresh when it was made . I guess the main problem with the thing is that it doesn't age well , but I also think it lacks too much in both character development and humor . . . just a little comic relief would have made the nearly two hours go by so much easier ( for me , this merely gets slower and less watchable with each repeated viewing ) . Attempts at making you laugh fall flat on their faces . There are far more unintentional laughs to be had , at various corny and odd things ( why does this have so much weird stuff in it , and why do the people who love it just accept that ? ) . More often than not , to me ( and one person I know who loves these movies ) , this just ends up being too hard to take seriously . I'm willing to entertain the theory that Ridley Scott's stuff just isn't for me , I've yet to be amazed by him . For how much sheer , unsynthesized acting talent this has , the players have next to nothing to work with ( they do turn in fine performances ) . Nonetheless , the film does manage to scare me and provide some shocks , even though I've seen this and the other films at least three times before . The film manages to establish a pretty nicely done , spooky atmosphere that lasts for most of the film , despite its shortcomings and the very formulaic ending . The plot isn't bad , and it takes off almost immediately , keeping you fairly interested . The characters are so-so , though there aren't any really startlingly poorly written ones . The creature effects are decent enough , and they do not fail to impress at least a little . The editing has moments that are just strange , the cinematography has reasonably little to offer . Props to whoever ensured that the realism was kept at such a high level . The sets , and in general the production design , is all well-done ( some is nothing short of breathtaking ) . I've read one suggestion that stories set where this is and similar are more straining on the audience , and they are more likely to be bored , in spite of the potential talent possessed by those who put it together . . . I'm inclined to agree . There is some language , and violence as well as gore is also featured herein . I have to admit , I see this as valuable more as an introduction to the world of the title creature , and find , for example , Cameron's expansion of , and further adventure within , it considerably more worthwhile . Don't expect a masterpiece , and prepare to test your patience , especially if you've seen many of these films . The " Director's Cut " ( though he feels the original fits that bill better . . . hey , at least it's not as bad as the alternate name , " Extended Version " , which is even a misnomer as it shortens the overall length ) adds a few things , which you may find worth a look , if you like it ( not that there are that many , I count five chapters with additions in the DVD's own breakdown ) . The commentary track is an OK enough listen , some of the stuff said is cool to hear . I recommend it to fans of alien-type science fiction , and fans of sci-fi horror films ( as such , it's good enough ) in general . I suggest any possible Alien-fans to-be to start with this film , rather than any of the other films . The series works best in correct order .
Diary	This is a documentary on the Ultimate 10-Disc ( with # 9 entirely dedicated to this , and titled after it ) Set . It consists almost solely of behind the scenes footage , with relatively few actual interviews , instead going for something of a fly-on-the-wall perspective , with us witnessing and overhearing . We get a good idea of the mood , before as well as during production . This shows filming and other work on countless of the major scenes of Reloaded and Revolutions , and it does include the game as well , all three of which this follows the entire making of . This is well-edited , and doesn't lose your interest . Thus , it is also paced well . . . at 95 minutes , and sans talking heads or movie clips ( I personally like the approach this took ) , it never gets boring . If one chooses to watch all of the " White Rabbit " featurettes on the same DVD , and potentially activated throughout the viewing of this , about 81 minutes are added , for a complete length of just short of three hours . These give profiles of a lot of crew people . There is harsh language , if relatively little of it , and mature material as seen in both sequels . Now , the important topic here . . . where can I get my hands on one of those Smith masks ? I recommend this to any fan of the Matrix universe , and / or those who want to gain more of a " feel " for how they put the last two thirds of the trilogy .
Not sure what to make of it . . .	The Coen brothers continually astound me . . . and I'm not sure if that is a good thing . Every time I think I've figured them or their films out , they pull one over on me . The Hudsucker Proxy had some great humor , but was mostly a homage to old comedies . Fargo was somewhat weird and oddly repetitive , but had plenty of great humor . The Man Who Wasn't There is an excellent noir film . Intolerable Cruelty was very funny . All of them had great writing and dialog . Then , around comes this . . . what is it , anyway ? A fresh interpretation of The Odyssey ? The film revolves around Everett , a man on the run from the law with the other two thirds of his chain gang . He goes through many trials and tribulations throughout the just over 90 minutes the film lasts , until the conflict is finally resolved . The plot is fine , but there seems to be a nearly unlimited number of characters that just show up , serve their purpose and disappear . The pacing is daft . The characters are fairly well-written and credible . The dialog and script is well-written , as is expected from the Coen's . The acting is very good all-round . The humor works some of the time . The quirkiness of some characters makes for some good laughs , but that's about it . All in all , a fairly forgettable Coen brothers ' film . I recommend this to fans of the Coen brothers and the actors involved . Fine for a single viewing .
Not Carpenter's best , but pretty good	Let me make this clear right away : I haven't read the book , nor do I intend to . You won't find any comparisons between the book and the film in this review . This film combines two of the biggest names in horror from two different medias ; Stephen King is pretty much legendary for his written horror work . John Carpenter is also a pretty well-known name , but as a horror director rather than writer . Having not read the book , I have no idea how true Carpenter stayed to the source material , but I can understand from various sources that he changed a lot , and the changes were very big , so fans of the book might not like the movie . Whenever I hear about a film being made that is based on a King novel my response is usually that of someone who lacks any interest in it whatsoever . When I hear that it's directed by John Carpenter , one of my favorite directors , particularly within the horror genre , I develop an interest . Carpenter does a great job of turning something as potentially lame and goofy as a possessed car into something that you really fear . I was at the edge of my seat for a lot of the scenes , and I jumped at several shocking moments . The story revolves around a nerd buying a car , and the car significantly changing his personality . He changes enormously throughout the film , and I must say , the actor does a great job of capturing the emotion of the character . The plot is great , it doesn't move along very fast , but rather deliberately slow , building up atmosphere , building to a climax that is every bit as exciting as the build-up promises . The acting is great , especially by Keith Gordon , who portrays the nerd-like Arnie , who buys the demonic car . The film has pretty much the same sense of humor that Carpenter's films usually have , albeit slightly less of it is present than in several of his others , less serious films . The special effects are very good , they are almost impossible to tell . Had I not known better , I could have sworn that they were real . They probably could be more well-made had they been done today , but I still think it's amazing how real they look . They don't look the least bit dated . All in all , a good Carpenter film that probably won't be to everyones liking . I recommend it to fans of Carpenter , and fans of atmospheric horror films in general .
A visually impressive disaster flick with a moral	I'm not usually into disaster films , but when one deals with the end of the world and the results of the greenhouse effect , I just had to check it out . I'm glad I did . This is definitely the most enjoyable , least Hollywood-like film I've seen from Roland Emmerich , at least to the best of my recollection . He deals out great humor , amazing state-of-the-art special effects , great shocks whilst dodging at least some of the most obvious cliches often seen in this type of film . The film deals with the greenhouse effect , and while I don't know that much about the subject , I think a lot of it is pretty true to life and realistic . The time period is of course ridiculous , but , hey , suspension of disbelief is almost always required in action / thrill-based films , especially disaster films . The plot is very good , starts out pretty standard , and keeps on being fairly standard , but has some pretty good surprises and does deliver shocks . It also keeps a pretty intense high pace throughout the entire film , with just a few minutes pause between the sequences of disaster-based action . The acting is good enough , nothing great but good enough for this type of film . The characters are well-written , credible and fairly far from the usual cliches you'd typically see in a movie like this . The humor is great ; you don't just have one pathetic character that only serves as comic relief , you have many characters who crack jokes , which is far more entertaining , in my opinion , and definitely more realistic . The special effects are astounding , the CGI is hardly noticeable , there were only very few occasions where I could tell that it was CGI , and I'm sure that most people won't be able to tell the difference either , unless they really want to find it , and really look hard . I think Emmerich did a pretty good job of avoiding the obvious cliches commonly associated with this type of films ; the characters are mostly credible and don't just suddenly burst into moments of comic book-type heroism , the situations are sufficiently different , etc . Overall , he did a great job on making a new , updated disaster flick with humor and a good moral , that most people can relate to . It's not overly cliched , it's not overly sentimental . . . it's pretty much adequate in every way . I recommend this to fans of Roland Emmerich's previous work , and fans of disaster flicks in general . Also , people who are interested in the subject may want to give it a try ; just don't expect it to be entirely true to life or realistic ; this is , after all , a work of fiction .
Pretty good teen-horror-comedy about witchcraft	I haven't seen too many films about witchcraft ( technically , this is the only one , since Charmed is a series ) , but I do think that this is pretty good , and probably one of the better , films about the subject . It's about a teenage girl , who moves to a new town , and is made an outcast almost the moment she sets foot in the new high school . She quickly meets three other girls who are outcasts , and who are very much into witchcraft and magic . They need her as a fourth witch , and the moment she joins , they start attempting magic . But not long after , something goes wrong , and the magic seems to take over . The film has a great cast , all four leads are great , the supporting characters are also well-cast and well-acted . In my opinion , Fairuza Balk is great in the lead villain type role . Robin Dunne and Neve Campbell are great in their respective roles . The film has a multitude of teen stars , and it benefits from the many talents . Breckin Meyer , Skeet Ulrich , and several more whose names I can't remember for the life of me right now . The horror portions of the film are pretty well-done , with great shocks and scares , and pretty good atmosphere . The special effects are mostly well-done , except for some of the CGI , which looks horribly dated now , 8 years later . The soundtrack is good , most of the songs fit well with the scenes they accompany . The plot is very good , interesting and involving . It also manages to put in a shade of drama into the film , which further helps the film become interesting . The acting is all good , with a few of the performances being great . The characters are all well-written and credible , and most of them are interesting . The film isn't very cliched , though it may be derivative of other films of the genre ; like I said , I haven't seen any other movies about witchcraft , so I don't know for sure . The comedy parts of the film are also well-done , and really lift an otherwise fairly dark and somewhat mildly depressing film to a more enjoyable level . The humor is very well-integrated , it never feels out of place . The film , much like Charmed , offers the witchcraft theme a good balance between respect for the subject and humor , having fun with witchcraft ( granted , it's more about the witchcraft than the humor , but it works well , I think ) . All in all , a pretty good horror-comedy , with some solid lead characters and a thoroughly entertaining film experience . I recommend it to fans of teen-horror , teen-comedy , and mixes of the two genres . Fans of the various teen-actors in the film might also enjoy it .
Intense , with a healthy dose of satire	I wouldn't give anyone a hard time for choosing to watch this just based on casting choices . . . c'mon , it's got DeNiro and renowned ( well , maybe not , but he darn well should be ) bad-ass black guy , Brooks , both playing cops , and the film has action . However , there's definitely more of worth to be found here ; this has a moral , even if it isn't necessarily the most subtle presentation of such a thing , ever . It's also has plenty of tension . . . I was on the edge of my seat for an awful lot of it ( and I wasn't exactly bored , the rest of the time ) . The plot is very good and develops nicely throughout . The humor is reasonable , and this can be pretty entertaining . The acting is mostly spot-on . Direction and editing are remarkably effective , and the latter incredibly tight . Cinematography is great . The satire , while arguably at least occasionally heavy-handed ( near the end , it does get kinda . . . overbearing ) , can be quite clever , and has an interesting point ( and hey , it never gets as bad as S1m0ne was before last-mentioned ended ) . Take note of this title , ye who wish to watch productions about the media . Violence is plentiful , and not exactly mild , language is not graced with the latter quality , either , and there is also sexuality herein . I recommend this movie to any fan of the people involved in making it , as well as those who are into action , thriller and / or satire .
Might as well have been called Battlefield : Star Wars . . . but not bad	I'm getting increasingly tired of major franchises making games based on other games . Not long ago , in a video game store quite near . . . sorry , couldn't resist . Anyway , another Star Wars game was recently released . It was a real time strategy game . It didn't take more than one quick glance to tell that it was basically a SW version of Age of Empires II . Same case with this game . . . it's just the Battlefield games covered in a thin coating of Star Wars . They hardly put anything new in the game , well , as far as I can tell . . . I haven't actually played the Battlefield games , only occasionally and briefly watched as other played , due to my strong , venomous hatred for the typical war game ( mainly fed by the lack of realism and intensity . . . come on , people , they're basically just class-based multi-player games in levels that are so large that you're far more likely to get lost in them than actually find an enemy ) . However , the game isn't bad , and now that I've gotten that out of my system , here comes the review itself . The game-play is pretty good , though far too repetitive for my tastes . I would have preferred if you had some kind of goal , other than to just win the mission . . . because you can do that just by making sure your team kills more than the opposing team . How about some perks for every tenth enemy killed without getting killed yourself , or something along that general line of thought ? Maybe some more goals ? Granted , capture the flag probably wouldn't fly here ( though Jedi Knight II : Jedi Outcast and Jedi Academy pulled it off quite nicely ) , but still . What's there is far too limited , leaving the game-play as basically team-based death-match with a Star Wars theme , and that , alone , is just not enough for an entire game . Also , whose idea was it to only make the Jedi ( and various other units , including Ewoks and Geonosians , but those don't really matter as much , for obvious reasons ) heroes that your team gets as bots ? No fun in watching Darth Vader and Luke Skywalker run around fighting your enemies when you can't actually use light-saber and force powers yourself . And exactly why are they made invincible ? No fun in an enemy that you can't fight by any means . Lastly on that , who programmed them ? They fight . . . not well . The AI programming is reasonably good , apart from that ; I mostly play solo with the rest of both teams filled up by " bots " , and I get fairly decent opposition and support , from the enemy combatants and my team-mates , respectively , both groups entirely controlled by the computer . The different units are pretty cool , and you get to use most army units shown in the movies , including a few made and thrown in to balance the game . But then there's the issue of some units being far stronger than others . . . the Destroyer Droids , for instance . Fast , heavy , shoot fast and do a lot of damage . . . how exactly are you supposed to fight them ? The only downsides to them are the somewhat poor aim and the lack of the ability to commandeer vehicles . Sure , it's darned cool to control one yourself , but when you're up against one you're gonna curse them until long after you've been blasted to tiny little bits . The weapons are cool , and they work pretty much how they seem to work in the movies , and there are even a few additions that we haven't seen in any of the six ( though only five , at the time this was released ) films . The vehicles are a pretty good touch . . . but too many of them are overly hard to control and more often than not , they're useless if you're not at least two inside of it , rendering the single player part somewhat dull and pointless ( well , the vehicles in them , at least , and the control of them ) . But yes , all the vehicles from the films are there . The main things that annoys me about this game is the fact that it's entirely made to be multi-player . . . as if single player was unimportant . The single player consists of the multi-player levels put in particular order . They half-heartedly try to disguise this by making several ' campaigns ' and a portion called ' galaxy conquest ' . This is made worse by the fact that there are hardly more than two dozen or so levels , that get boring too fast . Most of them are based on famous battles from the films , though , which partly makes up for this . Fight in the epic battle of Endor alongside Ewoks or take part in the first battle of the Clone Wars . The fact that it does manage to span over both trilogies , and incorporate a rather voluminous amount different units , vehicles and weapons helps make it entertaining , too . Not only can you fight your favorite battle , you also more or less ( with some limitations , as described earlier in this review ) get to play as the battle unit ( robot , creature or human ) , using your favorite gun and / or vehicle in all the mayhem . As far as unplayable characters go , in the defense of the game ( and its makers ) , it should be mentioned that the majority of them are self-explanatory as far as why they weren't made available ; some wouldn't fit in with the game-play ( team and weapons-based fighting ) , some wouldn't be much fun to play as , as they'd be more limited in abilities than the other units , etc . The graphics are quite good , and the demands are reasonable for how much they provide . The levels are relatively faithful in recreating the huge scenes from the movies , and remain highly entertaining to fight in . All in all , the game is pretty good , and I suppose if you enjoy multi-player gaming and you can borrow it from a friend , it's worth it . Only buy this if you're a huge fan of the franchise and / or this type of game . Fun for a while , but more goals would have helped . I recommend this to fans of Star Wars , war games and multi-player game-play .
I'm on my way . . . even if people do walk out of the theater	I have never read a The Spirit comic book . In fact , I'm not sure I knew he existed until I watched the trailers for it , and what caught my attention first was Miller's name attached to it . I went to the theater looking mainly for his personal touch on this , and I would say I spotted it . This whole thing seems like his take on the source material , and I don't know if the fans are going to approve . This is not going to be for everyone . In fact , I'm not sure whom it is for . I don't know if he made it for anyone in particular , or he , quite simply , went ahead and put it together . This is a first for him , attempting a sit in the director's chair . Unfortunately , it shows , and there are definitely those who would prefer he was told to stand , from now on . You probably already know that this utilizes basically the same style as Sin City ( I understand that this was at the request of Michael E . Uslan , which is worth noting ) . However , in that , it was fresh , and it worked . This feels a little too much like a retread in the visuals ( don't get me wrong , there are some fantastic sights , in there , and it can be fun to feast your eyes upon , in particular when involving Jackson ) . The quirk is present here , and plenty of it . There is a lot of comic relief , maybe more than there should be . The performances tend to be overacted , and this appears to have been intentional . There are many one-liners . The writing isn't necessarily bad , it just , like almost everything else in this , doesn't fit that well in the medium ( I could imagine a graphic novel with the same content , by the man , would have been the better choice ) . There's frankly not enough plot , and the back-story and psychology is where all the goods are at , and that's not sufficient for a major motion picture . The pacing is uneven . This doesn't evoke emotion often , though I would say the central . . . relationship , let's call it that , was perfectly clear , and it came across stronger than a similar one in SC . Character development varies , but tends to be pretty credible . Growth , on the other hand , is nearly-to-completely nonexistent . Vulnerability is lacking , and to a lesser degree , relatability . Consistency may go with those , as well . This has nihilism , cynicism and a twisted sense of humor , on account of whom helmed it . Something else you certainly are likely to be aware of before I comment on it is that there is a lot of eye-candy for young males in this , although there is next to no nudity . It's gratuitous , and I don't presume you-know-who intends to make any excuses for it . There is language , also not excessive in amount , if it can be about as harsh as allowed . One has to wonder why they didn't take the full step and go for R-rating . I recommend this to fans of Frank and the others who helped create this . If you want justice done to TS , or abhor stylization , consider skipping this ( I'm not sure who'd hate it with the most intensity . . . and hey , maybe those in the former group won't , at all , I couldn't say ) .
Arguably somewhat anticlimactic , but a pretty good Danish film	Usually , when I watch Danish films , old ones in particular , I have to lower my expectations , compared to when I watch American or other countries where the films have a budget that isn't as low and / or the film-makers are more talented . This film is , sadly , no exception . The story is based on a novel by a Danish author whom I know nothing about , so I can't say whether or not it's accurate . The basic idea is good enough , but it just seems somewhat poorly executed , since this idea has been seen before ( A Kiss Before Dying , and probably others as well ) and the film doesn't really take the premise anywhere you don't expect it to , nor does it transcend the quality of the typical movie with this theme . The plot is pretty good ; it has a somewhat good pace , and , despite never really surprising you , it manages to keep your interest and keep you entertained . The acting varies from good to very far below average . Fortunately , the latter is only seldom seen in the film . The characters are credible and interesting , but few are well-developed . To be frank , I didn't really think any of them were very well-developed . That's too bad , really . It might have lifted the film above its current rating . The humor is pretty good , never sinking very low , and mostly being in the form of witty remarks that don't seem out of place or character . The " twist " , if you can call it that , is easily figured out very early in the movie , and serves no real purpose . The climax is fairly dull , despite being introduced as the direct opposite . The special effects are mostly bad , with one or two exceptions , which , again , can be attributed to the low level of expertise involved in Danish film productions ( older films , in particular ) and the low budget . All in all , a ( slightly ) above average crime film , with enough interesting parts to keep you watching the whole film . I recommend it to fans of Danish films , the various actors in the film , and possibly crime films in general .
Insight	The 27-minute version of this is on the second DVD on the 2-Disc release of The Matrix Revolutions , and is what I base this review on . I do not know where the extended cut is . This is a making-of documentary , dealing with the entirety of the film . It consists of storyboards , artwork , pre-vis , behind-the-scenes footage , interviews and clips of the movie . It goes over all of the big scenes , and provides accounts of those involved , details on how they did it and , where applicable ( yes , that is a joke ) , what technologies they used , or similar . The people who speak have stuff to say , be it enlightening or just giving you a description of what it ( the entire feature or the specific part ) was like to do , or to be part of it . This provides you with an idea of just how huge the Siege sequence was . It's informative and entertaining . It's well-edited , and doesn't overstay its welcome . The pacing is fitting , the half hour is well-spent . This goes over the replacement of a certain actor , for a good reason , that those who have already seen these sequels already know . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know more about the creation of the third of the series .
A visual feast , definitely a worthy addition to the franchise	I dig Hellraiser . I dig Pinhead . And I dig Douglas Bradley . Fortunately , those three are in all of the Hellraiser films ( unless I'm mistaken ) . Since this also has Kirsty , one of my favorite parts of the first two films , I wanted to watch this as soon as possible . It finally appeared at the local Blockbuster , and I made sure to watch it as soon as I could . Hellraiser is such an interesting idea , and I think there is so much room for excellent stories in the universe . So far , I've seen the first , the second , the fifth and this one . The first was a good introduction , but the story was a tad . . . shall we say ' dull ' . The second really wasn't all that good ( sorry , fan community , I know many people love it , but it just seemed poorly directed to me ) , and the fifth , while having a quite good idea , was poorly executed . This is my second favorite of the bunch , after the original film . By far the greatest story . Certainly the most impressive visuals , apart from , arguably , the first . The somewhat Luke-warm direction and less-than-stellar acting brings my final rating down a few notches , sadly , but don't let that fool you . . . it's a film that should be seen by any fan , big or small , of Hellraiser . The plot is very , very good and the way it's told , the way it evolves is great . The twists and pieces of the puzzle will keep you guessing to the final outcome , and I doubt anyone will be able to figure it out prematurely . The effects are some of the best of the franchise ( well , what I've seen of it so far , at least ) . This contains some of the most disturbing visuals and ideas of the films I've seen in the franchise . I recommend this to any fan of Hellraiser or Douglas Bradley . A great film , one to make sure to watch for even the least elitist of Hellraiser fans .
Good , but hardly great	I'm not saying that this movie isn't funny . . . quite the contrary . But so many claim that it's great , almost a masterpiece . . . why ? It starts out very good , with Bill Murray being his typical , sarcastic , at times deadpan self , and continue being so for a good while . . . but somewhere , about halfway through the movie , the films pace suddenly slows ridiculously down and we're suddenly not watching a comedy with Murray's sharp wit and excellent delivery , but rather a typical early 90's romantic comedy . Why couldn't this film break that damn barrier ? Why does there always have to be romance ? I know , I know , us humans have quite an insatiable lust and longing for love , but can't we think of something more original and constructive to put in movies ? The film gets better a little later , with Murray doing more fun stuff again . . . and the plot is now turned around . The first half of the film is Murray doing what he feels like , pleasing himself , the latter half if him serving other people , pleasing others . This works well , and there are some funny moments in both parts ( though there are far more in the first ) . But the whole romance subplot . . . I don't know , maybe it's because it's Andie MacDowell , the queen ( well , one of them . . . another good example would be Julia Roberts , but she's done more versatile roles ) of annoying romantic comedies . Why , oh why must there always romance in movies like this ? Hell , the movie could have gotten an 8 from me , or possibly even a perfect 10 , if it had kept up the great entertainment of the first half . Some of the movie also seems to drag a bit , since we're basically just watching the same thing over and over again . . . but with tiny alterations every once in a while . The plot is good , but the romance subplot sucks . The pacing is OK . The acting is somewhat good . . . but the only actor that impressed me was Bill Murray . . . and even he was portraying the exact same character that he always does . The characters are well-written . . . to a extent . The humor is good . All in all , the movie is worth watching and good , but it's by no means great . I recommend it to fans of Bill Murray and shudder romantic comedies .
A good start	I've never cared much for Superman . He gets all the attention , while ( in my opinion underrated ) heroes like Spiderman are widely ignored . He's just too strong . Superstrength , invulnerability . . . and there's only one thing that can hurt him at all , and it's not even of this world . The main reason I watched this was to get the background that I presumably need to fully understand and appreciate Superman Returns . . . the latest directorial effort by Bryan Singer in the field of superheroes . From a man who's brought us two of the best comic book films of all time and recent years , who names something his dream-project . . . it's no choice at all . I acquired all four Superman films , and intend to watch the next three after Returns . The first thing that struck me with this was the marvelous production values , and the visually stunning production design . The plot is quite good and well told . The pacing seemed a tad off to me . . . somehow , the time spent on various situations and subplots just didn't seem to fit . Maybe I'm too used to newer films . The acting was mostly good . Reeves fills the boots well . The humor ( though some of it is very funny , such as Lois Lane's slip of the tongue during the interview with the title character ) is silly , much of the time . . . personally , I didn't like that . The bad guys , with the exception of Luthor ( and even he , in some areas . . . come on , guys . . . wigs ? Though , admittedly , the final reveal was pretty cool ) are just too daft . I realize that Americans don't want anyone to view villains as anything but criminals , evil people , but give them just a little character . Give Superman a worthy opponent . That's what makes a hero . . . overcoming adversity and impossible odds for the good of mankind . The whole fish-out-of-water thing they did with Clark and his colorful and caped alter-ego was perhaps a tad overdone . The effects , I must say , are good , if dated . They did a good job of making us believe that a man can fly . And I must say , the film is definitely a comic book movie . . . the characterizations , locations and situations are clear indications of that . All in all , a fine introduction to the character , and the references and in-jokes are kind of cute , but I didn't find it out-of-this-world amazing . And can someone explain to me why Lex's assistant must show cleavage in just about every shot she's in ? Talk about gratuitous . I recommend this to fans of the character and / or superhero movies in general .
Not original , but pretty good for a made-for-TV sci-fi thriller	This film concerns a science experiment gone horribly wrong ; it makes a newborn little girl grow uncontrollably fast , and the film revolves around the two main characters , who are science students , trying to stop it , to stun her growth , or at least bring it down to a more sensible rate . The plot is pretty good ; it starts off a little slow , but then it picks up in pace for the rest of the film . You never lose interest , even though it is not an original idea , and it is a tad predictable , especially the ending . The acting is good , especially for a TV movie . I was very impressed with the child actors , how well they performed . The characters are well-written and credible , especially the character of the constantly growing girl . There wasn't a scene where I couldn't understand her actions . The effects , even though there aren't many of them , are well-made , considering the budget the film must have had . The editing and cinematography is mostly nothing special , but there are a few exceptions which are fairly impressive , at least for a made-for-TV movie . All in all , a pretty good movie built from a very good basic idea . I recommend it to most fans of sci-fi thrillers and anyone who finds the subject interesting .
Well-done	I watched this mainly with the hope and intent of being entertained . . . and on that , this did just fine . If you're looking for a review that evaluates the historical , religious and so on and so forth , aspects , I'd advise reading someone else's ( but hey , if you want , by all means , stick around . . . I've got a deck of cards around here somewhere ) . The plot isn't bad . The acting is very good , with both powerful and underplayed performances herein . The action is very , very cool , immensely intense ( even if there are points where it's . . . kind of obvious that it's staged ) and with good use of time and camera work . This is quite epic at parts . The music is great , a grand score . The choreography is commendable . The cinematography and editing are both impressive . There is a considerable amount of violence in this . Effects are nicely done ( apart from those things I alluded to in the . . . other parenthesis ) . This should most definitely not be watched by children . . . and it may very well offend some adults . Casting was done well . I recommend this to those interested in the story and the period , and while there is a reasonable amount of it , those looking more for fight scenes and such may want to look elsewhere . . . from the Trivia , I gather that this was not meant to be that .
It gets around , to an extent	This covers just about every area of the creative process , and goes through the three stages chronologically , with the main focus squarely placed on the production . There are documentaries that go into more detail , and cover the other two groups better . This consists of artwork , behind-the-scenes footage , clips of the movie , and many interviews . With a running time that comes in at just over two hours the audience is entitled to a lot of information , given that this is nearly the same length that the film itself is . It could be argued that a lot of the time is spent on the people , with the craft and the result of their collaborative efforts coming in second . This is well-done , with tight editing . It gets into the technology some , and reveals how certain effects were achieved . This spends a lot of time on the physical training , in preparation for the fighting and such . You do get nice candid shots of the people , crew and actors alike . The Ultimate Matrix 10-Disc Set of this also holds nearly three hours of music , in a simple system , with individual track selection and a Play All function , about 38 minutes worth of BTS material in addition to the title itself , in various featurettes . The original release , however , has several very brief extras , including clips of the making of the sequels , a preview of The Animatrix and Yuen Wo Ping's Blocking Tapes ( a complete run-through of a couple of the biggest martial arts sequences , with stunt performers and almost the exact cinematography , with the same shots and angles of those bits in the finished silver screen effort ) . The language is quite strong , but rather infrequent , nearly non-existent . I recommend either version of this to anyone who enjoys the concept , and / or wants to know about how they put the first one together .
Just when you thought twist-movies had improved . . . minor spoilers	I picked this movie up at Blockbuster after having been recommended it a long time ago . The beginning looked somewhat promising , and I enjoyed the use of a non-linear time-line . The way the many characters were brought together was even kind of clever ( even though it's basically just a bunch of people driving in cars at the same place at the same time ) . Most of the accidents in the beginning was kind of dumb and even a tad staged ; most of them seemed to have been easily avoided if the drivers would just pay attention to the road instead of doing everything else at once . Don't consider that a spoiler ; it all happens within the first five minutes or so . The plot quickly turns into a regular ' Who Done It ' , with even the least attentive viewers being able to figure out the order in which order the people get whacked . The pacing tries to be intense , but fails to be so past the first ten minutes . I could barely keep paying attention to it . Up to the very end , this seemed to be a well-done and pretty but ultimately very pedestrian mystery-thriller , with no real surprises . Then came the twist . And it got so much worse . Not only was the twist easy to figure out and a horrible cop-out , it ruined everything the movie had built up ( as little as there was ) to that point . It kicked down every brick of the foundation of the film . Even worse , the film goes on for about fifteen minutes past that . And here's the real kicker ; there's another twist . Even more painful , and even more predictable . You have been warned . If you still have any wish to see this movie at any point , I will objectively review what I haven't reviewed already . The characters are diverse and interesting , and they have a fair amount of development each . The cast does contain some very talented people , unfortunately , too few of them are given anything to do . Jake Busey and John C . McGinley are criminally underused . The film contains a few genuine scares and some decent enough guessing of the killer's identity . I recommend it to fans of the actors and people who enjoy the genres . Just be prepared for a pitifully bad twist ending .
Better than the typical Danish production , but not without flaws	After having seen this at the cinema , I can't help but wonder . . . what exactly was the point ? Two hours spent , and the only message I could find in the film was that Hans Christian Andersen just really didn't want to do anything other than , well , what he wanted to do , not even if it meant becoming the great talent he wanted to be ( and famous , apparently , according to the film ) . Now don't get me wrong ; the film isn't bad . Not at all . It has surprisingly good production values for a mini-series ( and a Danish one at that ) . There are some very impressive effective cinematographic effects , like zooming in at an intense pace on people's faces , tiny details to show us Andersen's insecurity and make us feel it with him . The script is reasonably good , though most of it is fiction , slightly based on truth ( which makes the film a bit redundant , because it diminishes it from a great piece of film about one of Denmarks greatest authors of all time to a typical film with some historical truth in it ) . The plot is pretty good , and the pacing is good enough . Only one of the five people I saw the film with thought it was too long , and that was mainly because she , like I , thought it was somewhat pointless . The dialog is mostly well-written , though there are downright embarrassing exceptions . I think the main problem with the film lies in the execution , particularly the way Andersen is presented . Let me cut right to the chase ; he's whiny . He moans and whines constantly about his life , his imagination , everything . . . and the thing is , if someone saw this mini-series without knowing his past ( which this doesn't deal with , this only revolves around his teen years , just before he first became successful ) , they might think that's what he was . If one didn't know the tragic truth about him before seeing this , they certainly wouldn't know after , either . The invention of the character of Tuk removes the point , the very strength of the story of Andersen's popularity ; by putting in a friend , someone who supported him and helped him . The thing is , he was alone . For his whole life . And that's what makes his stories so strong . He never belonged . And that's what many of his stories are about . Too few authors write about that , and the fact that this film missed that is an eternal testament to mainstream films and possibly Danish cinema in general . It's not supposed to be cookie-cut , clean and dry . Life isn't like that . Most of the acting is good . Henning Jensen makes Mr . Meisling come to life , and Simon Dahl Thaulow looks and acts the role of Andersen well . Puk Scharbau is good as Meisling's wife , but I suspect she was mainly put in to please the young males in the audience ( which she certainly succeeds in doing ) and fill one particular scene with the smutty , crude humor Danish films are ( in ? ) famous ( and hated by me ) for . A good film , but in the end , it's just the typical formulaic one-man-rises type film , made in an attempt ( yet another one ) to cash in on the poor man's popularity ( ' incidentally ' , the release of this coincides with Andersen's 200 year birthday ) . To make it a tad better , there are a few good references to his poetry and his fairy tales , as well as a few bits of historical truth to make it easier to swallow . I recommend this to fans of Danish cinema and possibly fans of Andersen , though they should definitely make sure they know that this has very little to do with the true story .
An exploration of the character of Anakin Skywalker	This features a fairly efficient and concise depiction of the transformation and characteristics of Darth Vader . Brief interview bits , clips from the movies and behind the scenes footage is cut tightly to aid in this , and Christensen kindly details every single emotion his character felt in the second movie of the prequel trilogy , oddly inter-cut with Yoda from Episode I , who has now been digitized . . . poor Frank Oz . This also shows us Lucas directing Hayden , which , if nothing else , proves that he actually does that , tells his actors what they're feeling and supplies them with motivation . Lucas says that the movies should be watched in the order they take place ( maybe the decline in the sharpness of the effects in such a viewing order will be outweighed by the considerable increase in the overall quality of the films ? ) , as well as saying ( again ) that Anakin is the main character in the whole shebang , and that he is , in fact , the chosen one . I don't know if that will actually settle all the debates regarding that , but oh well . The guy who did the physical effects for the last few scenes of the film briefly describes his work , and we see it some . All in all , a good little featurette . Well paced and definitely not too long , informative and interesting . I recommend this to any fans of the movies , and especially anyone who likes the character of Vader . Yup , that's a whole lotta people .
A new perspective on The Children of the Corn	This is pretty different from the first two ( and possibly the third , haven't seen that yet ) , but that's not necessarily a bad thing . I liked the fact that there was no mention whatsoever of " He who walks behind the rows " . That was the most annoying thing in the first two movies for me , especially when it turns out it is in fact a god of the corn . . . that's just too far out . Instead , we here have a preacher child , who controls the children . I think that's a very good twist , since now the enemy is personified . No black clouds , no lightning and no moving corn . Much better . It does still have some of the corny ( no pun intended ) stuff , especially in some of the death scenes . It does have a better plot than both the first movies in my opinion , but it's somewhat ruined by a few things ; bad acting by some of the actors , a few ridiculous death scenes , and at some points it is slow . I personally think the whole influenza thing was better than the lightning from the first two movies , but some fans of the original might hate it .
Interesting concept , clever writing and all-round pretty entertaining	I think what makes this film work is the chemistry between the three main characters . You like these characters , feel with them and believe that they would get along in real life like they do in the movie . The concept is clearly quite controversial , and I guess that's why it's so unpopular . I like the way it isn't really all resolved in the end . . . there is always a tiny degree of imperfection . The plot at times appears to have been written with the primary intention of being controversial rather than entirely realistic , emotionally or otherwise . I'm not sure if that's true , or it just seems that way . The pacing is pretty good . You're rarely bored . The clever dialog and script keeps your interest as well as consistently making you laugh . The film somehow makes you care about these characters , despite their many shortcomings and flaws . Maybe it's because they're human . . . we can identify with them , more than usually with American films ( that are often shallow ) . The direction is pretty good . The film pretty much belongs in the ' good , but not entirely sure why ' category . You like what you see , but you can't pin-point exactly why . All in all , a pretty good romance-comedy that should be seen by anyone open-minded enough to enjoy it . I recommend this to anyone who isn't offended by the topic ( and not easily offended in general ) but particularly to those who are fans of one or more of the main actors .
Well , if you take it for what it is , you'll definitely be entertained	There are more than enough reasons this movie should suck : it's directed by a music video director , whose done no other movies so far , not even for TV or direct-to-video . It's based on a comic book , and from the looks of it , only vaguely based on it ( despite the original comic being at least seemingly highly popular ) . It's got religious undertones , making it seem heavy-handed and / or ridiculous to many viewers . Yes , there are an awful lot of very good reasons this movie should suck . . . but it doesn't . It just requires you to suspend disbelief and take the movie for what it is . . . the story of an anti-hero battling demons and keeping the balance between good and evil . Nothing more . A fairly by-the-numbers save-the-world scenario with Keanu Reeves playing off his Neo role , killing evil creatures , usually with ease . The plot is pretty good , though at times , it's unnecessarily confusing . The pacing is pretty good , the film isn't too long for it's own good and you're fairly rarely bored . The effects are the definite high point in the film , looking exceptionally well . The action is somewhat seldom in the film , and it's mostly very quickly over with . . . but it looks damn good , and it's usually intense and involving . The biggest problem with the action is that Constantine says he has fought the half-breeds all his life . . . yet he has an easy time of killing the actual demons as well . The acting is pretty good , with few exceptions . The dialog is well-written at times , and there are some great one-liners . The great thing about the tone is that there's all these undead and demonic creatures he has to fight . . . so he uses holy weaponry . A Holy Shotgun , holy brass knuckles . . . good stuff . One of my biggest problems is the entire motivation of the ' bad guys ' though . We never understand why these people ( uh , creatures ) do as they do . Apart from the few shortcomings , the film is quite entertaining , and surely worth the rental . I recommend this to any fan of this kind of movie ( bloody action with there ' hero ' saving the world ) and possibly some fans of the original comic as well ( just be prepared for a lot of unwanted changes from the source material ) .
What is it with Mann and endings ?	I saw this film tonight , at the theater . It started out pretty good , with some good dialog , some nice-looking cinematography , some good acting and some surprisingly good character development for a film directed by Michael Mann ( who did Heat , which is probably the slowest moving action film that I have seen and didn't hate ) . Then it slowly degenerated into a typical pointless Hollywood action flick , and by the time the ending came , I was almost sure it couldn't really sink lower whilst still being so stylish . . . then the ending came , and it did . What is it with Mann and endings ? Heat had a really anticlimactic ending as well . The film just lost any point , apart from its theme / morale , which I suppose is good enough . The plot is decent , but riddled with holes and clichés ( the cop who just " knows that something else is happening here . . . " , the stupidity of the FBI / cops ) and is often poorly paced . There were also quite a few scenes that didn't seem to make any sense , but were there to show L . A . at night ( which Mann seems to love ) and take up time . The acting is good enough , with a few exceptions that were great . . . Cruise makes a great villain , Foxx a less great hero . The character are pretty much clichés and stereotypes . The villain had no redeeming qualities , but was just easy to hate . The film is stylish , and I kind of like how it ( at least early on ) dodges the usual ways of setting up major action scenes , and instead lets the viewer relax , sets up a scene that allows some for some nice comic relief and character development , and then let things go to hell suddenly . The humor is ( apart from just surprising , considering that it's a Mann film ) pretty good , natural , and not forced . Cruise and Foxx have a pretty good chemistry , and some good exchanges of dialog . Not much else to say . . . a fairly good film that could have been much better . I recommend it to fans of the actors and of Mann's directing style .
Entertaining throughout . . . and yes , Sly , you probably did know I was going to say that	I've never actually read the comic book . . . prior to watching this , I just knew about the " universe " of Judge Dredd , the gist , the basic idea . This is a fun ride from start to finish . From the opening moments , with a brief introduction to the world presented herein , by the booming , powerful voice of none other than James Earl Jones , to the very end , it's entertaining . The pacing is fast and good , the film neither overwhelms nor lulls the viewer to sleep . The plot is actually pretty good , well thought-out , though I guess it may not be the most original . Stallone does well , and the relationship between him and Schneider ( who , well , he does well , as well . . . well ) is quite funny ( in general , the humor is nicely done and tends to work ) . Assante makes up for whatever acting talent he may lack by bringing a lot of energy and passion to his performance , with great results . Prochnow proves here that The House of The Dead was more Uwe Boll's fault than his . Max von Sydow is marvelous as always , and if anyone's wondering what he's doing in this , hey , it's not the only role he's done in a film that isn't all serious ( and this never intends , or claims , to be ) . . . the man was in a Bond flick , for crying out loud . Keep your eyes open for Balthazar Getty in a fairly small role . The film has its share of one-liners . The action is cool and well-done . As others have said , the effects hold up well , and production design is quite well-done . It's a sure way to spend an hour and a half being entertained . It is set in a dystopian future , but I've heard that it's not as dark as the comics are . I recommend this to any fan of comic books , action and / or science fiction .
I enjoyed it	This is a documentary found on the DVD release of , well , it's part of the title , so it really shouldn't be a mystery . It's done in a style similar to the feature itself . It has some clips of it , and also consists of storyboards , interviews and footage from behind the scenes ( shooting and otherwise ) . This really made it seem like it was fun to make the movie . It's well-done and interesting . The mix of the goofing off between takes and the more serious , informational stuff , is great . The pacing is spot-on , in spite of frantic bits , it never overwhelms , nor does it bore . The cast-members and crew have good things to say ( both meaning positive and that what comes out when they're speaking is , in fact , well worth listening to ) , and Sylvain White seems like a really cool guy and a professional and talented director all in one . This is edited well , and the material is almost invariably well-chosen and utilized equally well . I'd say this is entirely likely to inspire viewers ( perhaps not each of them ) to either pursue film-making or watch the production that this is about . . . and hey , with some luck , and in the right situation , I can vouch for them being satisfying . I recommend this to fans of the I Know series and the people in this particular entry .
The key that really let itself go	I didn't particularly know anything about this going in . Kruger having written it . . . while Scream 3 may not necessarily be something to brag about , The Ring definitely is , at least in my eyes . Apart from Hurt , I don't have much of an opinion on the cast . The plot is interesting , develops fine , and the twist worked for me . I didn't see where this was going . I'm not sure if it's an unusual story , I don't watch enough of this kind of film to be able to tell . The writing contains what may be an obvious take-off , but at least they immediately acknowledge that . The acting isn't bad . There is some humor in this . A little of the music seemed to contain . . . odd choices , to me , but I'm not really criticizing any of them . The editing and cinematography have inspired portions , and it's all , at the very least , good . There is some stylization , but it's reasonably restrained , it doesn't take over the whole thing . There is some disturbing material , but beyond that , not a lot to be wary of for those who seek to avoid the things censors tend to cut , more or less gracefully . I recommend this to fans of mystery and horror , and / or those who helped make the movie .
It's entertaining , and it definitely delivers what we expect from this series , and Anderson . . . for better or for worse	When a man continually writes scenes in which his fiancée appears naked ( if not seen fully nude , save for glimpses which many a teen boy have undoubtedly paused and gone frame by frame to . . . admire ; ah , the wonders of the DVD format ) , is he " sharing the wealth " , or is he being a pompous jerk , rubbing her looks in our faces ? Mind you , even if that particular fact does not make Anderson a jerk , there can easily be found other reasons to thrust that title of dubious honor upon him . . . in fact , I'm quite sure there are plenty who use far more explicit and visually descriptive phrases to describe the man . I don't know that I dislike him ; it's actually almost funny , what he does . He writes horror that takes place in tight spaces , claustrophobic areas , he has gratuitous gore , he fills his work with loud , noisy rock music , he does action and horror with little respect for proper pacing or character development , his scripts are thin as , ironically , paper , and holed like Swiss cheese that's been attacked with a machine-gun , and last but not least , he insists on surprising his audience , pulling the rug out from underneath them , even though these surprises are at the expense of sense and logic . In spite of all of this , he manages to keep getting work . It's impressive , in an odd kind of way . And people do keep watching his stuff , in spite of how he treats the source material ( before this franchise , there was Mortal Kombat , and he's also done Alien Versus Predator , managing to mess up two franchises that had good movies between them , well-done games made about them , and , so I hear , comics of , yet again , notably high quality ) . But I digress . Fear not , patient reader ( as I'm sure you must be , for still reading this review ) , the introduction is over , and I will comment on the title itself , now . First off , Jill and Angie are gone , without even a mention of them . It's not even stated if they're dead or not . However , the very ending of the second film , for any who have watched it , is followed up on . The plot starts some time ( every time I hear how long , it's a different amount of years ) after Apocalypse . There's a different feel to some of it , with the characters much more mobile than in the first two . The script is about as bad as that of the usual Anderson film , but this still manages to be more entertaining and effective ( if still not powerful , involving or engaging ) because of one thing . . . the direction . With Witt of the second not in charge , and Anderson only writing , having not directed one of these since the first , it actually manages to rise . . . above the material ? Possibly . It comes off as less obviously flawed than the second , though that may be more a matter of presentation than of content . With Valentine gone , another female known from the games is brought in . . . namely Claire Redfield . She's portrayed by Ali Larter , who does fine . Jovovich does fine again , albeit being less of a bad-ass than she was when we last saw Alice . She does still kick ass , and she's not the only one . The action varies , but some of it is definitely cool . The camera and editing , with the few exceptions where it confuses the viewer as to what's going on ( which really doesn't extend beyond an early and utterly useless scene ) , really does a good job . Some of the action is really , really cool . In addition to Claire , other characters are brought in , though few do anything . Spencer Locke spends most of her on-screen time screaming or crying , with one of her only lines regaling the tale of how she gained her silly name . Epps stopped being funny at some point in-between the second movie and this one . The violence and gore is surprisingly tame ( and there's less nudity and such ) , both for an R , and for an entry in this series . The make-up , however , is back , helping us viewers put behind us the pitiful excuse for not doing such , that was the presentation of the zombies in Apocalypse . The effects , in general , are quite good . The story borrows a bunch . . . from the first , in fact . Some bits are almost too close . The film is in a rush , as the others , and wouldn't have been bad off were it longer . The pace is intense . Near the ending , the movie gets too busy setting up a sequel ( what comes after extinction ? Although , one could have posed the same question just years ago , with " apocalypse " being the word ) , when it should be trying to properly finish of this one . The new monster , for my money , is great . The frights vary , some are jump-scares . All in all , the film isn't bad , and definitely delivers , if you liked the first two . The score has some hints to the main theme of the first , which I personally thought was excellent . I recommend this to any fan of the first two and of Anderson in general , as well as the actors . If you liked either of the first two , I'd say give this one a chance .
Delivers	What I've seen of Wolfgang Petersen's films has been pretty good . He knows how to direct action , create suspense and get you interested . Eastwood tends to be great , sometimes excellent . This goes for both his acting and his directing . They both hand in solid work here . The concept isn't bad , and the cat-and-mouse game works well . Malkovich performs rather well , and his and Eastwood's playing off each other adds to the film . I suppose this won't introduce anything new , really . . . but it never really claims to , nor needs to . It's two great actors , each playing a basic type of role that they have proved at other points in their careers that they can manage remarkably well , and with a magnificent director at the helm . Really , it's entertaining , well-done , and it just plain delivers . Editing and cinematography are good . Acting and character writing is , as well . The film manages to be suspenseful and intense , and if you let yourself , you will probably be entertained and engaged , even if there are superior films out there . The pacing is pretty much spot-on . I recommend this to any fan of the principal actors , the director and / or this type of film .
Pretty good court drama	Being a huge fan of court room dramas , a fairly big one of Raul Julia , and a faithful supporter of Brian Dennehy and Harrison Ford , I decided to watch this film , as it came on TV . I had just seen an exceptional episode of " JAG " , so I was very much in the mood for more court room drama . This film quite definitely delivers . Whoever cast Raul as an attorney knows his stuff . It's a quite unusual role for him , but he pulls it off perfectly . Dennehy is solid as always , and Ford is quite good as well . The plot is pretty good , interesting , and with some nice twists ( though the last one is a tad hard to swallow ) . The pacing is good , you're rarely bored watching this film . The dialog and back-and-forth arguing in court wasn't as good as it could have been ( the episode of " JAG " was better in that area , definitely ) , but it was still pretty good . I haven't read the original novel by Scott Turow , but from what I understand , this is a fairly satisfying adaptation . The story is quite interesting , and there are a fair bit of red herrings , but the final explanation seems implausible . Not the best court drama , but a pretty good one . I recommend this to fans of the actors and of court room dramas .
One of the exceptionally few romantic comedies that are worth watching	This is one of the very few romantic comedies that work ; first of all , it has likable , non-stereotypical characters . Second , the theme and basic idea is pretty good , original and interesting . Third , the humor rarely seems forced , but rather comes naturally . The basic idea that the film is based on is a prostitute meeting a business man , and them discovering how much they actually have in common , and how easy and obvious choice it is to be together , despite their differences , mainly in career choices . That theme is pretty original , and it works great in the film . The actors have great on-screen chemistry , and are , for the most part , well casted . The plot is good , and has a pretty good pace ; you're rarely bored , even on when re-watching the movie for the fourth and fifth time . The acting is good . Roberts and Gere obviously understand their characters ; Roberts perfectly captures the hooker " mentality " , and Gere portrays his character believably . I also found various of the supporting characters to be very credible , well-acted and interesting . I actually would have liked if Laura San Giacomo's character , Kit De Luca , would have had more screen-time than she did , as I found her to be one of the better and more interesting members of the supporting cast . The film , of course , has its share of romance , and " romantic " scenes and such , but don't let this discourage you , the male viewer who could care less about romance in movies , from watching it ; the film has more comedy and humor than it has romance , and the comedy is usually entertaining . The humor is pretty good , though I guess the whole " main character experiences a totally new world for him / her " scenario is kind of worn out , by now . It doesn't feel too " been there , done that " here , though . The film made it sufficiently interesting and entertaining to watch Roberts experience how it is to be rich , or , at least , be with someone who is rich . Not much else to say . . . the soundtrack is pretty good too . All in all , a quite entertaining and worthwhile romantic comedy , that is worth watching , even for people who usually loathe romance in movies ( like me ) . I recommend it to pretty much anyone who enjoys romantic comedies , comedies in general and fans of any of the actors . This is probably also a good movie to get for guys whose girlfriends demand to see a romantic comedy , and they want to be able to sit through it too .
Cool trailer , but certainly not flawless	Batman and Superman . Iconic . The better part of a century old . Who doesn't know of these two ? There must be countless of fans who would die to make a film about them . Sandy Collora went ahead and put together a trailer for such a film ( which does not exist , and is not being created , much less by this team ) . Perhaps what this has most going for it is how polished it is . Throughout , the cinematography is solid . The editing is spot-on . The production values , even with the costumes looking more like their comic counterparts than the ones of the feature films featuring these character , are quite high . It looks quite " Hollywood " , this trailer . The physical types fit for , as far as I can tell , every single character . The lines are reasonably written . The shots are well-thought up , nicely achieved and fairly effective . However , this does have problems , and in spite of looking good , it doesn't quite match the energy and skill of Grayson ( which only had the problem of teeter-tottering too much back and forth between a short and a trailer , as well as unbridled passion leading to the inclusion of too many characters and ideas ) . The acting is perhaps the most evident . It's . . . not good . Even some of those who only have one line and / or hardly appear on-screen at all manage to fail at delivering a good performance . The actors cast in the parts seem to have been chosen more for how much they look like the characters they're playing than their talent . Then there is the writing . Really , the plot , well , what minuscule amount there is ( this and this character team up , something about some evil plot . . . ) is fine . There is a problem in the characterization . While most characters seem to fit , Two-Face is , well , about as much as a cackling lunatic ( which is quite simply , as far as I've understood , not what the character is ) as he was in Batman Forever ( and having your work on portraying any element of the Batman universe compared to Joel Schumacher's efforts can be considered the greatest insult to a fan ) . Also , putting that character in this is going to cause comparisons between this trailer and that film ( honestly , Collora is practically begging for it with such a similar initial reveal ) to be made , and , let's face it , this loses in every respect . Michael Antonik most definitely does not possess the screen presence that Tommy Lee Jones does , and the make-up ( which , in aforementioned reveal , is essential ) isn't as strong as that of the film ( whether or not it was good in the film is another matter ) . The sad thing is that while Fiorella ( John , who created Grayson ) seems to be far more into the comics , and get them , the depth of them , better ( not to mention possessing more of an ability to come up with compelling plot . . . Grayson had enough material for half a dozen feature films , or more ) , Collora seems to be the one with access to funds and the one who's more likely to have contacts ( on account of having non-indie credits on his filmography ) to actually have a shot at making an actual feature out of his trailer . I intend to watch other of Collora's work . But Fiorella is the one of the two whose work I will most definitely be most interested in . I recommend this to fans of the characters .
A mixed bag	As nice as it is to see a reunion of the entire cast of the Blackadder franchise , this is only so-so entertainment . It was nice to see Blackadder as produced as something other than a regular sit-com , with nice cinematography , special effects and editing . The plot is pretty good , but it drives this more than it should . . . the series rarely had much as far as plots go , but they kept your interest and had you laughing most of the time . This one leaves little room for laughs . The pacing is solid . Production values are quite high . Everything looks nice and we believe that we are in the time periods and areas that we are told to be visiting . The acting is all good . I could have done without Rik Mayall , but he seems to be quite popular , and I won't claim that he in any way ruined this for me , since his part was near minimal . Atkinson is marvelous as always as the cynical , greedy and self-righteous Blackadder . The humor is fair . Too much reliance on sight gags , and silly ( occasionally violent ) humor ( even some of the gross-out humor of the latest season , what gives ? ) , though , and too little ( though there is still a good bit ) of the verbal comedy that we know and love this franchise for . As we are by now used to from Blackadder's side , the shortcomings throughout history , the mistakes of the different time periods is poked fun at through matter-of-factly stating in a satirical manner . This has some of the clever wit of previous productions , but not as much as we're used to . On the plus side , the excellent theme song of the first ( by far the best of all the themes , in my anything but humble opinion ) with a new , fitting text . . . performed by someone who sounds very much like the original singer . That was a wonderful surprise from an otherwise only slightly above average last episode to a mostly exceptional franchise . The DVD extra , a ' making of ' featurette , is fair . All in all , a fair reunion show and final goodbye to a character we've come to know and love , but could have been rather a bit better . I recommend this to all fans of Blackadder . Just don't expect the same amount of greatness as we've become used to from their side .
I don't get it . . .	Just after seeing this film , I didn't understand it , or know what to make of it . Not being a huge fan of ignorance , I went ahead and read a few different analysis's , and I think I've pretty much figured out what the film means now . I'd probably have to watch it at least once more to understand it , though . I get what it's about and several of the interpretations of it make nearly perfect sense . . . but I'm left still not understanding large parts of the movie . Therefore , this review will be entirely based on the film as entertainment , and as a piece of art that wasn't understood by the author of the review ( yours truly ) . First off , like most other Polanski films ( at least to my recollection ) , this features some great dialog , an involving story and a likable lead character . The plot is very good , and it evolves nicely throughout the film . The pacing is very good , I was rarely bored . It seems to go out the window near the end , though . The final few scenes seemed tacked on as a result . The acting is all top notch . . . there wasn't one single character who I found poorly acted . The cinematography is exceptional , though I have come to expect nothing less from Polanski . Roman reuses Emmanuelle Seigner , the young French beauty he earlier used in Frantic . She does an equally good job in this film . She's mysterious , hypnotizing and alluring . Though I don't understand her native tongue , I believe I'll have to find some of her other films , just to see more of her . Polanski certainly knew what he was doing when he chose her for the part . All in all , a very good horror-mystery-thriller , which should entertain even the most critical fan of any of those three genres . Unless you're into western religion , however , you will probably have the same reaction as me ( not understanding it ) . I recommend this to any fan of Polanski , Seigner and films with supernatural undertones .
Definitely one of the best independent films ever made	This movie was made on a shoe-string budget . No , actually less than a shoe-string budget . It cost about 7 , 000 dollars to make , and unless you know that when you sit down to watch it , you won't be able to tell . It doesn't look like a low budget movie at all ; it's better than several big several million dollar budgeted movies . It's fairly good as an action movie , and the humor is pretty good too , very typical Rodriguez ( you can see plenty of examples of his humor in his short movie " Bedhead " ) , but the plot just seems to consist mainly of mix-ups between the characters , which feels a little like a cheap way to entertain . The action isn't extraordinary , but it's very good considering how cheap it was to make , and truly shows the great talent of Robert Rodriguez . In fact the whole film is primarily the product of the many big talents of Robert Rodriguez , who filmed , edited , recorded the sound , made special effects , wrote the script and directed ; the only thing he didn't do , was act , as he had to film the whole thing himself . This is good to watch if you're a fan of independent films , or a fan of other films made by Rodriguez . Maybe try not to watch this expecting an incredible action movie ; watch it expecting to see an independent action movie . There's a good chance you'll like it if your expectations aren't too high .
Good , but could have been better	Adam Bertocci has a knack for satire and quirky writing . His work is full of humor and odd angles on situations . And yet , this seems to fall short , somehow . . . the idea just isn't explored as much as it could and should be . While commenting on love by comparing it to creating a film is original and does make for some good scenes , there is simply not enough done with this concept . The plot could possibly have improved through following romantic comedy formula more , and more could have been done to build upon the fact that we're watching a movie-within-a-movie . . . we're seeing the film being made . It should also be noted that the short is probably most entertaining to film-makers . . . though I believe anyone with a base understanding of film and knowledge of other movies about love ( and the emotion itself , for that matter ) will enjoy it . Also , the running time is a little misleading . . . though it does last for the 9 minutes advertised , about a third of that is pure credits . Featuring a good ending and being altogether entertaining , this could have been excellent , had it done more than scratch the surface of its subject matter . Worth watching , but not too memorable . I recommend this to fans of Bertocci . The behind-the-scenes is also worth a viewing or two .
Takes some liberties with history , but a very good idea , and a necessary film	Why this film is so seldom mentioned and so often put down is surprising , when you consider how well-made it actually is . . . but I suppose the explanation lies in the controversy of it , and peoples ' inability to accept an idea so unheard of as true . The idea in this case is that Adolf Hitler was not born the Antichrist , but shaped by the world around him . As several other reviewers mention , this film and the ideas it presents as well as the character study of a young Hitler is long overdue . The film revolves around Hitler , who recently returned from war ( WWI ) and his relationship with Max Rothman , a Jewish art dealer . Rothman senses much talent and promise in Hitler , and encourages him to follow up on painting . Hitler , frustrated with an inability to create anything , and a talent for public speaking leans more towards a political career . I guess we all know how it ends . . . but the story itself is still interesting , even though we basically know the ending . I don't know how authentic this film is , but I do know that it takes some liberties with history . That doesn't bother me . The important thing is the core of it , and whether or not it has some interesting ideas to offer . And I think it does . Most definitely . All the well-known ( and some lesser known ) traits of Hitler's personality are there . One could argue that the Jews in the film are somewhat stereotypically presented , but it's about the environment as well as the characters . The reason Hitler had such ease with blaming the Jews for Germany's problems , the reason he could turn an entire nation against them was that was how people saw them . If we didn't understand that , if we didn't get a clear image of that , the film would be worthless . The acting was very good ; Noah Taylor pretty much becomes Adolf Hitler . I don't care what you say , I felt his frustration and outrage ; he made me feel for this man , recognize him as a fellow human being , despite how much time so many people have spent trying to make him appear as some inhumane monster . He was a terrible man , yes . . . but he was a man . A despicable human being . . . but still a human being . John Cusack brings a fire to his character that pretty much carries the film . The direction was quite impressive for a first time effort ; the writer / director showed great promise , and I hope he will make more films like this . We definitely need them . I recommend this to anyone interested in the subject who isn't put off by a fairly loose approach to history .
A fine game for any Alias / action gaming fan	Something that just about anyone who's seen any of J . J . Abrams ' great spy action show Alias , particularly those that are fans of video-games ( yours truly included ) has thought is that the show would make a great game . Whether ABC approached J . J . or if it was the other way around , the decision to make a video-game was made . The plot starts at around the end of the second season of the show , and could almost be canon . There are only a few things about the game that means it couldn't have been part of the overall continuity of the show . The plot is fairly good , too . . . there are some things in it that don't make perfect sense , but it does work in the characters that we really want to see ( except for maybe Kendall ) , and keep you interested throughout . The game fits in basically everything we know and love from the show . . . the wit , the music , the action , the gadgets , martial arts , the exotic locations , using everyday objects as weapons , the plot-twists . . . heck , there's even a brush pass ( if it's not as coordinated as those on the show ) at one point ( a little of it does feel " put in " , though . . . it's not perfectly integrated , or entirely up ( if close ) to the level of the show ) . The one thing that is big on the show that isn't in the game is Sydney's personal life . It plays as several episodes immediately after each other , complete with briefings in-between missions , featuring Marshall presenting the gadgetry with lines and cuts that run almost as well as those on the show . The main cast ( save for the actress who portrays Anna ) all reprise their roles . . . with varying success . Not everyone is as good a voice actor as they are an on-screen actor ; Garner is the only one who is sub par , and most everyone else is decent . Weisman ( Marshall ) was remarkably good . The rest of the voice acting . . . the word " random " comes to mind . The guards , almost irrespective of where in the world the mission takes place , sound the same ( and have a fairly low number of lines ) . The voice of Anna , based on what she sounds like on the show , is way off . It didn't sound like a Russian ; it sounded like someone who's grown up watching TV shows and Bond movies doing a half-hearted impression of a Russian . The game takes an unexpected route as far as guns go ; whereas in the show , there's about as much gun-play as there is martial arts , the game only has one type of gun . . . and if Sydney wants one , she'll have to grab it from a guard , after killing him . And there's no reloading for you , either . Clearly , the game-makers wanted to deter the player from grabbing a gun and just shooting their way through the entire game , but they may have gone too far in the other direction . An interesting thing is that it takes about the same amount of bullets to bring Syd down as any of the opponents . Be aware that if you play this game , there is fairly little shooting involved . Particularly by the player ( you're shot at every so often ) . The game mostly ( with a few key exceptions ) lets you sneak or fight your way through much of the levels , with the only real difference being whether or not you fight everyone , or only the ones you have to . There are , to my knowledge , no points awarded for being quiet , so it's up to the player to decide . The missions have you completing objectives quite similar to what you'd see on the show . . . infiltration , gathering intelligence , capturing technology and so forth . Several of the tasks do get tedious , though the majority of the game is fun and exciting . The level design is reasonable , with believable " look " . The fighting is quite good ; the system is much like that of Enter the Matrix , only the controls are slightly more complicated ( than they have to be ) . I had more trouble making Syd perform the special martial arts moves than I did whilst playing aforementioned fellow action / fighting title . The animations are nice , and some of the moves are as bad-ass as the choreography on the show . The gadgets are pretty cool ; they're usually self-explanatory ( or explained ) and easy to use , and they're basically the most fun thing about the game . The graphics are good , without the requirements being ridiculous . The level of detail is fine , and animations mostly look nice . An nifty little feature is the split-screens . . . these come up when you are trying to sneak , and help you keep an eye on the people you're hiding from . This may not be the first game to have them , but they work pretty well here , most of the time . You can't turn them off , though , and it does limit what you can see with Syd's own view . And on that . . . the camera could be better . It seems to utterly refuse to let you turn it vertically ( at least out of first-person mode , which you're only in when using gadgets ) , and its limitations , when compared to slightly more recent ( or even contemporary ) titles , are much too evident . The re-playability is decent , for a game with no points or rating system . The controls / interface are sometimes a little choppy . It doesn't run as smoothly as it should and could , and much of it bears unfortunate marks of being geared more towards consoles than computers ( rather than be equal to all the formats it was released in ) . You need to use the map a lot . . . though the game doesn't tell you this , and the PC version seems to have a messed up one , that constantly tries to zoom ( in both directions simultaneously . . . no , seriously ) . The game is obviously rushed ; there are some glitches ( though nowhere near as many as Enter the Matrix ) , several shortcuts were evidently taken in development , and parts of the game are drawn out to last longer . All in all , a fair third person action game . I recommend this to any fan of both the show and the media of video-games . Fun , exciting and cool .
A comedy by Weird Al Yankovic , in his style directed towards his fans	This is a comedy by Weird Al Yankovic , in his style directed towards his fans . . . for better or for worse . His particular brand of hilarity makes for a real treat for any fan of his . . . however , unless you submerge yourself entirely into the mind-state of it , you'll find yourself moaning almost as often as laughing . . . and for some people , the moaning will be constant , probably followed by simply turning the film off . This is not a film for everyone ; despite my having been a fan of Al for about a third of my life , I was bored watching this film more often than not . There are some of the best moments of movie parodying in this . . . unlike many spoof flicks , they are not marred by the implication of low-brow humor and overdone gags . Most of the humor works perfectly . Only few jokes and gags are overplayed or don't work . Of course , again , it requires that you enjoy Al's humor , so many won't like this film at all . The plot is pretty standard stuff . . . underdog fights to make something of himself . The plot develops like you'd expect it to , no real surprises . Of course , neither director nor writers are veterans at this . . . since they are basically Al himself and his manager . That ensures that the film is full of one thing . . . Al . There is so much Al in this film that it's bursting with Al . It's an Al-bomb . There is plenty of Al for everyone . Anyone who likes Al should get this movie for that very reason . I dare any fan of him to watch this and not laugh . No matter how bad of a mood you're in . The acting is pretty good . The characters are well-written , though most of them are essentially stereotypes . The comedy is mostly very good . The many tiny Al-moments , many of them barely involved in the actual plot keeps you viewing . Sometimes just to see what he comes up with next . This is one to watch for every fan of Al . Put it on , sit back , laugh , cry , find yourself wondering how he ever got allowed to make such a movie . I recommend this to any fan of Al , great or small . Go watch it right now .
Great , though the film-making could use some work	As I sat down to watch this with a group of young adults ( yours truly belongs in said group , as well ) one of the two people in the room who were our senior said , as the ' director ' title card came up in the opening credits , " Peter Brook ? He's a big name in theater ! " Well , I'd be lying if I claimed that I didn't , throughout watching this film , often thought to myself " Mr . Brook , I do believe you should have stayed in your own field . " I do now , though , acknowledge his talent . The film opens with a bold and unusual ( as far as I know ; I haven't seen too many films of this period , so it may , in actuality be common practice of the era ) choice of narrating events , which I found refreshing and surprisingly effective ( though if the less-than-pleased grunts I heard from around are any indication , I was in the minority ) . The film has an interesting plot , though that may be more indicative of William Golding's insight than that of Brook . . . I'd have to read the novel itself to determine . Before I proceed ; I've heard that there is a colorized and re-cut version of this film . . . the version I saw is the original , black and white ( and apparently , less expertly cut , judging from the opinions of those who have seen both ; I wouldn't exactly claim that those are terribly educated opinions , though ) . The pacing is all over the place . In some instances , the film is intense ( at times , without really ' moving ' . . . an impressive effect that is not easily achieved ) , and at others , it doesn't move , well , at all , really . The acting is , as could be expected by a cast of teenage boys , not all stellar . I would suggest that at least some of the roles were cast with more focus on the actor looking like the character described in the book than actual acting talent . The cinematography is at times magnificent , with some breathtaking visuals . . . and at times dreary and dull , with lazily composed shots to cover the action . I found myself marveling at how many angles seemed to be " missing " . . . scenes where one would expect the camera to cut to a reaction shot or a closeup , and it instead stays . . . and stays . Not moving from it's current motif . The editing seems as if there was too little time or enthusiasm to do it properly . Several shots are cut into before the action starts and out of too long after it's over . Also , I found myself looking at the screen all too often , not being able to make out what on Earth was going on or what I was supposed to be looking at . I recognized the same in my fellow viewers . It may be supposed to build atmosphere and create mood , but all it achieves is confusing the viewer . The cut I saw was no more than 76 minutes long , but it certainly felt like a lot more . Now , with all that said , all that negativity . . . the film was actually not too bad . The point it makes is excellent , and I found myself more involved in it than I thought I would be . I truly cared about these young , English lads . . . even though they did have a tendency to be a bit full of themselves . Some of them handed in far better performances than what is normally expected from such young ( and no-name ) actors . . . reminiscent of Tami Stronach of The Neverending Story . Near the end , one of the boys delivers a stare so unsettling that it's a bad bet to claim that it won't send a chill down your back the first time you see it . Though the production values and film-making qualities are somewhat dubious , this film is worth watching for any person who considers himself an open-minded individual . I urge you to read the book instead ( since I am almost certain that it's better ; to get this great work in its purest form , the way the creator intended it ) , but if you refuse to or are unable to , pick this over the colorized version ( since that apparently loses tone and important character traits ) and definitely over the ' 90 version , since , just reading some of the quotes , ruins at least one incredibly strong scene of this . I most insist that you watch without reading the plot outline or hear what it's about from anyone ( unless you have already have ) ; I did . I watched this having no real idea of what it was about , and I don't even want to consider how little an effect it would have had on me if I had preconceptions about the story . I recommend this to anyone who have the patience and emotional strength ( it requires more than you'd expect , more than I expected , at least ) to watch it .
More of the same	Yes , this is a lot like the first . So how you feel about it really depends on how you felt about that . Well , it gets more caricatured some , in areas , but apart from that . The plot isn't bad . It develops fine throughout . The martial arts , and action in general , is fairly entertaining , and those who dig Chan and his style of fighting should find those parts of this quite enjoyable . Similarly , Tucker's mouth has all the silence of an explosion in a closed space . There's plenty of both , so if you go in with at least one of them being among what you hope for getting out of your viewing of this , you can probably count on being satisfied . The music is good . The new additions are mostly positive . Lone and Zhang both fall into that category . Sanchez . . . well , at least she's not as bad as she tends to be on Without a Trace . The pacing is reasonable . The writing varies , for jokes as well as other material . Again , if Rush Hour was for you , I could imagine you'll feel the same way about this . There is language , and sexuality in this . I recommend this to any fan of Jackie and / or Chris , and the original , and the sequel following this .
Fairly good entry	When one watches romantic comedies , one knows what to expect ; we've seen enough of them over many , many years to know how they go . There's a formula , one which almost always begets movies that become popular with the genre's audience . . . not always in relation to their actual quality . How to play around with that , and create something more interesting ? This movie has a suggestion . . . and it works relatively well . Instead of simply following a lead , we follow him skillfully helping the unfortunate men , those who lack the attractive facade that would allow them to reveal the unseen good qualities that they possess to the women they are in love with . The plot follows Smith as he works on his self-proclaimed most difficult such case ; Kevin James . Alongside his aid of James , we also follow Mendes , who is fed up with men who lie to get what they want ( one particular scene that inspires great respect of Smith's character is him meeting one such jerk , and putting him in his place ) . After seeing Smith helping the disaster that is James , we see him with Mendes . . . and in spite of his talent for helping others , he messes up . . . badly . . . with her . Making a marvelous point about love , and how falling in love affects us . For a romantic comedy , this mostly avoids the pitfalls of such ( at times almost bordering on feeling like a spoof of the genre ) , though the last few scenes has the sweetness and the emotions of this type of films . Whether or not they follow the formula will not be revealed in this review . The pace is quite good , it never really slows down , and seldom moves too fast . The acting is great , as far as pretty much everyone goes . The characters are nicely developed , and come off as real people . The humor doesn't always work . . . there are occasional gags that are less than fortunately executed , and one or two jokes that seem forced . However , for the most part , the film was funny . I recommend this to anyone who likes romantic comedies and anyone who is or have been in love . Those who do not believe in love will have a difficult time with the last few scenes .
Fine , for what it is	This is essentially an interview with Robert Rodriguez , in which he deals solely with the topic of HD shooting . Occasionally , as Rodriguez is talking , scenes from the movie , Once Upon a Time in Mexico , as well as material from behind the scenes is shown , emphasizing his points about HD versus traditional film . From what he says , I would guess that his introduction to HD ( by none other than George Lucas , on the Farm ) was one of the deciding factors in Robert opting to make three Sin City comics into a movie ( and judging from his filmography here on IMDb , he's still interested in making more ) , which is arguably the best thing to come out of his discovery of the format , at least so far . Running at about thirteen minutes , this is informational more than entertaining . . . which is not to say that hearing Rob's opinion on why HD kicks film's butt any day of the week isn't interesting . Trejo is brought up by Rodriguez for half a minute or so , to allow the latter to emphasize the facial features of the former , expressing joy in being able to show the audience every line in full detail . For the last few minutes , a few questions put forth by the audience at the interview are answered . For anyone interested in hearing Robert Rodriguez speak of his experiences with shooting on HD , this is worth watching . I recommend this to anyone finding themselves in the aforementioned group , as well as any fan of Rodriguez .
He's not that particular . . . he hunts other stuff , too	I only found out about the comic book ( and have not read it ) after completing the game , but I understand that they have little to do with each other . This takes place in The Lost Land , a different dimension in which all the stuff the developers thought up and didn't want to abandon could co-exist , and you must fight your way through many enemies , to finally rescue the world . . . or something . Of course , you wouldn't know any of that unless you read it somewhere ( well , it is in the manual ) , such as on-line , because the game makes less than any attempt at telling you ( but hey , at least the story does make the whole deal with being able to resurrect ( the game lets you have extra lives , the way FPSs that went before it did ) make sense and able to be explained within the context of it ) . The Lost Land is divided up into about eight different ( even though several of them are similar to one another ) areas , and you have to find the keys to all but the very first one , searching through each but the last for them . The game is an FPS , or First Person Shooter , and is steps ( not leaps ) beyond Doom . It features elements of adventure and platform games , a 360 degree camera , and things you'd expect to be in an FPS . There are some Boss fights . Adversaries are plentiful , and there are many different kinds . The AI is fair . Among said elements of other game types are a number of jumping puzzles , and vast areas to explore ( mainly in search of the keys , of which , on average , there are three per level ) . Those two , in particular the first , coupled with the fact that the game only allows saving your progress at specific points ( which there aren't that many of ) , are likely to cause all but the most stoic of players frustration , possibly even of tremendous potency . The difficulty level is reasonable , if not always even . Sound is OK , no real major ups or downs , all in all . Graphics are rather well-done , all the way through , and the fog helps create atmosphere . There are few bugs or glitches in the game , but some " clipping " issues can be another source of irritation . Level design is pretty good , be prepared to spend a lot of time ( considering how short the game is ) running around , looking for where to go . Whether or not that's a positive or a negative thing is up to the individual player . You'll go through catacombs , a tree-top village and a forest . You will face and fight many other opponents in addition to the dinosaurs the appearance of which explain the title . Being an FPS released in the late nineties ( as opposed to the early nineties , which was when the sub-genre of action gaming started ) , the game lets you jump and swim , and there are elevators and the like , in addition to the entirely free camera . One thing this has that not too terribly many FPSs have , at the very least at the time this was released , is climbing walls . Not all walls let you do this , but some , you can scale . There are ladders , as well , and the system for going up or down either isn't half bad . Jumping , while I personally could have done without quite so much of it , tends to be supported well by its system , if the furthest jump ( which is , of course , important to master for any area that requires its use ) demands something of a combination of keys pressed ( especially for a game which doesn't fall into another sub-genre of action , fighting ) , if it could have been worse . Design is interesting and notably versatile . The weapons are nicely done , and some are really entertaining to use . None are downright boring , although an early one or two will get trumped by later finds . There are modern , old and even futuristic arms in your well-stocked arsenal . There tend to be one of each basic kind , but some are similar to one another , in fact , the whole " energy powered and energy unleashing gun " is done several times . The game-play is fun , and can be intense . One noteworthy aspect is that you can go back through earlier areas throughout the very most part of the game , if the progression through the levels , as far as I've been able to tell , remains entirely linear ( not within the levels themselves , at least not necessarily , more in the order of the eight levels ) . I didn't care for the way so many foes re-spawn , and at times soon , some even about immediately , after , that , to me , takes away the point of fighting them at all ( as opposed to just running past them ) . In addition to saving your game , you will also find checkpoints , and if you die in the game , you will resurrect at the last passed checkpoint , or the last place you did save , whichever was the more recent of the two . There are sci-fi aspects in this , including dimensional portals , but it's mostly fantasy , and decent if you want to play a game populated by the well-known pre-historic creatures who graciously lend their name to the title of this video-game ( the middle word , in case you remained outside the always pleasant state of certainty ) . This doesn't have terribly much blood or gore for the type of game it is , but some deaths are somewhat disturbing . I've read conflicting information from two separate sources , so I'm unsure of the background of the Turok character featured herein ( and in spite of my tireless prodding , the only words he ever uttered during the time I spent controlling him remained " I . . . am Turok " , which , albeit it does do a nice job of cementing his identity or title , whichever it is , or both , it in no way answers any other question the player might have ) , but what I can say is that he is a Native American ( to be PC ) , and he's in The Lost Land . I recommend this to fans of action , First Person Shooters , science fiction and fantasy . But mostly the first two .
More gory than the first , but not as good	The director obviously thought that when making a sequel , everything has to be bigger and heavier . But bigger doesn't equal better , and it definitely isn't the case here . The death scenes are unnecessary gory , and only that ; practically no build-up to the scenes , and little to no excitement . Unless you enjoy watching extremely bloody , gory death scenes , you won't like this movie . In fact , you will most likely hate it , unless you're a big fan of the genre , or of the first Final Destination . It's a huge gore fest , and probably made for ( and maybe even by ) fans of the old " body-count " movies , from the 1980's . It has very little realism ; whereas the first Final Destination had some realism in the death scenes , this had little to none at all . As many other slasher movies , it has the little " twist-in-the-end " at the very end , but it is very weak , considering what it could have been . The first movie is a lot better , but if you need to watch a gory movie where you pretty much sit around and wait for people to die , this isn't the worst you can watch . But if the choice is between this and the first , I would definitely choose the first .
An idea worthy as a sequel , an execution that almost measures up	After Scream respectfully made fun of the slasher sub-genre , this sequel was done . In addition to more satire and clever jabs at the films , from the very first scene , this also has some material on sequels in the genre . An obvious choice , yes , but why not ? Such would not have worked in the first film , for self-explanatory reasons , and while it may not all be of quite as high quality as that of the film preceding this , there are still points made . The plot is fairly good , but the reveal at the end is just not as effective as the one of the first ( which , going by the Trivia , can be attributed to the original script leaking . . . thanks , guys , now will ya just let them make the movies in peace ? ) . There are suspenseful and tense scenes in this , as well , and , as the sequel rules dictate ( and as is said out loud within the film ) , this is bigger than the first . There's more blood and gore ( though I'm not sure the death scenes are necessarily better than , or even match , the ones of the original ) . The characters are reasonably well-done , if the new ones aren't as interesting as those of the first . At least one character of the first gets more of a role . This picks up nicely from the first ( not right where it left off ) , and should definitely not be watched prior to watching the first . If you have , however , watched Scream and want more of the same , this'll do nicely . It isn't quite as good , but it is worth watching . Score , music and sound is well-done . This has some good scares , too . I recommend this to any fan of the first , horror and / or respectful parodies of said genre , specifically earlier-mentioned sub-genre .
Well done . . . but Fiorella tries to fit in too much	One of the highest points of this is that , being directed by an actual fan , it looks pretty darn close to what it should . And it actually works . Yes , the title character's costume is the yellow and red that we know from the comics ( I should perhaps take this time to point out that I'm not a particular fan of DC Comics and their works , but I enjoy the medium of comics immensely , and there are few efforts supporting it that I am not willing to take in ) , but it doesn't look silly . The darkness of the characters works . John Fiorella , the director and lead actor , clearly aimed for the comic book origins , the source material , and from my knowledge of Batman and of course Robin , it seems like he hit the mark pretty darn well . This is a mock trailer for a non-existing film of the same title , centering on Robin , following the murder of the ( in ) famous Dark Knight . The acting is pretty good , he managed to find decent enough actors ( and ones who seem to look their respective parts , at that ) . The score is excellent , I can't think of any point where the music doesn't work . The action is well-done and well-choreographed . The editing is quite effective , throughout , and the man clearly understands film-making rather well . The cinematography is top-notch throughout . The production design is of remarkably high quality . Really , the only complaint one can say about this is that he tries to fit in far too much . Really , there's plot for a whole series of films in this one trailer , which , should also be noted , runs over 5 minutes in length , which is a lot for just one trailer ( perhaps he should have put together two or three from all the footage ) , and characters all over the place . The trailer never really ceases to be entertaining , but it does perhaps try to suggest and introduce too much ( the total amount of heroes and villains almost reaches a dozen ) , and it comes too close to being a film ( which it clearly is not ) . John should have " killed his darlings " . He clearly loves this material , and I suppose he either didn't have anyone feeding him constructive criticism , or he didn't listen to it . In his urge to put all of these characters on the screen , he goes overboard . I would be quite willing to watch a feature directed by him , in fact , I would do so gladly . . . on one condition : That he makes sure to employ at least one more critically-minded individual , who can steer him away from putting together another cornucopia of material . We want it too , John , don't worry . . . but all in good time . Space it out some . Meanwhile , get this guy to do the proposed JLA movie , will ya , Hollywood ? I recommend this to any fan of comics , particularly those released by DC , and obviously especially Batman ( though if you can't stand Robin , you might not want to watch this ) . Also , the commentary / making of , that Fiorella also did , entitled Pieces of the Puzzle , is a very interesting watch of half an hour , and should be viewed by any indie film-maker / enthusiast who can at the very least stand the fact that it's based on comic books .
Great effects , but a better script could have done wonders	Not being a big fan of supernatural horror / thriller , I may be somewhat biased against any movie that has a theme like this , with haunting and ghosts and all , but I have to admit , I really enjoyed this film , despite not being able to pay attention to the whole thing and thinking that the script was somewhat poor . I have never really believed any of the supernatural / more-between-heaven-and-earth stuff , but this film actually managed to make it scary and exciting . The plot is decent , but it drags too much for too many non-effect scenes , especially just after the first hour has passed , and most of the scenes involving the clairvoyant . The pacing is decent , but as I said , the film seems too slow after about one hour or so , and I couldn't keep watching attentively . It surprised me , actually , as I had enjoyed pretty much everything leading up to that moment . The acting is decent , but nothing special . . . not a big surprise really , as most of the actors are unknowns . This didn't really hurt the film , though , as they seemed credible enough . The characters are well-written and credible , though I found the character of Dana , the teenage daughter , to be an almost entirely redundant addition to the family / group of main characters , as she really didn't do anything in the film . . . at all . The special effects are extremely well done , I didn't find a single one to be poorly executed . The direction is pretty good , but not good enough to manage to keep my attention for the just less than two hour runtime . The script is somewhat poor , and the story seems to be made up to showcase the - admittedly great - special effects . The film also seems to try a little too hard to provide comic relief , possibly to reel in a bigger audience ; not to say that it didn't work . . . I laughed at just about every piece of comic relief that the filmmakers sent my way . However , I think that they just made us , the audience , laugh a little too much for us to take it seriously , in the end . Maybe that's what brought the movie down . . . or maybe it was the so-so direction in the last half of the film . . . but most likely , it was just the script . I recommend this film to fans of supernatural horror , and possibly fans of Spielberg and Tobe Hooper , seeing as they both had quite an effect on the final cut of this film ( though , according to the rumors , Hooper did far less than Spielberg ) . I give this film a , just for entertainment value . If I hadn't found it so damn funny , intense and well done special effects-wise , I probably would have given it a lower score .
A thoroughly entertaining movie	I know a lot of people hate this , but I personally think they're missing the point ; It's not supposed to be taken seriously , it's just for fun . I almost rolled around on the floor laughing at times , due to the sheer stupidity of several scenes . It's so bad that it's good . It's so ' B-movie-like ' that you can't possibly take it serious . A lot of people are saying the story is a rip-off of Casablanca . I don't know if that's true , since I haven't seen Casablanca , but I'll take your word for it . I didn't expect it to be an original story . In fact , I didn't expect more of the movie than to see Pamela Anderson naked . That was the primary reason I bought it , no reason to deny that . But the movie was just so entertaining , in every scene there was something so ridiculous that you couldn't help laughing at it . And that's the point . Don't sit down and analyze this movie , save that for intelligent movies . I knew from the very first scene , that this wasn't going to be intelligent , or great , or whatever . But it was fun to watch , and it does have a plot , and scenes that go together to create a meaning , which is more than what could be said about several new movies ( Scary movie 2 , just to name one ) . I didn't , for one single scene , find it to be boring , slow or just the least bit intelligent . And that's exactly what it was made to be . Entertainment . Nothing more . As an added bonus , it has some great parodies on Bond and Batman movies . You should definitely watch it , if you're into B movies ( normally I'm not , but this was just too good to miss . )
Enter the mind of the professional	Right from the get-go , this sets the tone as a darker , bleaker entry . Atmospheric . Psychological . There is also strong violence and sexuality , and in larger quantities than before . Cronenberg and Fincher would probably love this . Some of these attributes remained in these , beyond this one . This is the first . . . and thus far , only . . . sequel to have a stand-out concept . Granted , it is potentially gimmicky . . . and seems to run out of steam about a third from the finish . . . but it is interesting . This also makes the most sense as far as playing missions again goes . . . though about half of the original Hit-man is remade in some of them . That would be less unimpressive if there was a higher number in this . A dozen . Also , you can't pick what to bring on your initial run through them . Now , what does make that better is the fact that , once again , this is the one released where you can always earn Silent Assassin , the greatest rating to attain . Every single one is a " hit " , and all can be executed with expertise and planning . They're all gloomy , as well . The level design leaves little to be desired , almost invariably . On doing well . . . getting SA is actually worthwhile here . Not just a handful , if that , of times , as the second one . If there is an exception to that here , I didn't see it . How , you ask ? Two words : Bonus guns . We're talking , dual and / or silenced versions of ones easily found . In general , the weapons here look and work well , and are remarkably well-chosen . Heck , they honestly went all-out on that . The firearms in this are just plain awesome . There also may be more pistols in this than at least the earlier in the series . The interface is modified somewhat , and will take a little bit of practice to get used to , for those having tried the rest of these . The plot of this is good , and can be intriguing . This is where it starts getting so confusing , in the way of overarching story , that there , among us fans , are several reasonable and credible theories as to what exactly the time-line and such is . The next one adds to that . One can't help but wonder if this was rushed , and possibly half-hearted . I have heard that this was to tide us over , until Blood Money came out . I can see why , that one definitely had rather a lot of new features that were worked , and thought , through . The loading screens , while purdy and all , tend to be nondescript . And this doesn't have that much that wasn't already there . I've heard this described as basically a polished version of HM2 . That would be the proverbial nail on the head , with bullseye precision . About all that was in that has been altered , usually for the better . Stealth is made more attractive , apart from the incentive I mentioned before , sneaking is also faster , by a considerable degree . That nifty jump from Codename : 47 makes a comeback , and is used more , if it could still be more frequent , especially considering the length of this , but nevertheless , a welcome return . Back to it not all being positive . . . a thing or two are made worse in this , or even disappear . In the latter category , there is the compass . Or , rather , there isn't . Why was it removed ? Navigating is now way harder than it ought to be , and you now have to stop moving , check the map , and go by what direction our dear agent is pointed in on there , and use that to determine which direction to turn in to , you know , be headed the right way . The different setup for the map doesn't aid in that area . It's nice that they now actually made deceased characters be reflected as such there , but for crying out loud , in a game so complex in detail , with tons of rooms and such , you need to be able to tell where , you know , the doors are and where they lead , which isn't always true in this , and all obstacles in the way would be pleasant to see , also . Yes , I realize that they're , apparently , supposedly , satellite , and that even showing the indoors is a fallacy , if we're talking about realism , but that's how it's always been , and this is not the way to change them . Thankfully , both of those were back to the way they should be in the next one . This doesn't introduce any enemies that we haven't gone up against before , group , people or type . Not particularly , anyway . As far as I could tell , at least . There are some well-written lines in this . The finale is spot-on , and a successful homage . It's all quite fun . This poses a solid challenge , as well , in part because there is almost not even one of the 12 efforts to off that hold no more than one target . Yup . Several to take out , mostly . The difficulty settings assist in ensuring that all get an experience fitting their skill . The saving system is the same as the previous one . The sophistication of this is seldom threatened , although there are a couple of crude things in it . This is where the camera begun to get less constricted , and it was taken further in BM . The graphics are magnificent , if they do hold several glitches . The lighting is improved again , rendering it excellent . The cut-scenes are incredible . Almost exclusively full animation , supplemented with a few in engine , and they're smooth , stylish , crisp and cool . They tell the majority of the goings-on , and almost sans any dialog , through the visuals , that are marvelous . They're well-directed and effective . The audio is another strength . Every sound is as it should be . The music is fantastic . . . Jesper Kyd has yet to disappoint me . Do note that it is more focused on the eerie nature of this , than the action . This retains the " open-ended " game-play of the preceding follow-up ( so yes , you can still blast everything away ) . I recommend this to anyone that all this appeals to .
Great action overshadows the lesser plot and shaky camera-movements	First of all , yes , everything you've heard about the shaky camera is true . of the entire film seems to be shot on hand-held camera , and the effect is headache inducing and hard to get used to . I don't know if they were trying to make it look more " real " ( as opposed to filmed / staged ) or to make it more intense , but it had the direct opposite effect ; it looked like it was filmed by a bunch of teenagers on a hand-held camcorder , and it was hard to make out what was going on , which made it annoying . Now that that's out of the way , let me tell you that the film is almost as good as the first ( and quite high quality for a sequel ) . The plot is less . . . yeah , less . Just . . . less . Compared to the first , it's difficult to follow and less involving and engaging . It does , however , pick up pretty much every single thread that the first left dangling , and offers a few unexpected twists . The film somewhat makes up for the lesser plot with its great action sequences and reasonable pacing . About fifteen minutes into the film , it's made clear that the film is every bit as unpredictable and relentless as the first . The pacing is a good mix of " buffer " scenes and action . The acting is about as good as it was in the first . The characters are well-written and credible . The action is great , possibly better than the first , and there is more of it . The shootouts are great , as is the hand-to-hand fighting , and the car-chases . A good sequel that raises hope that the next ( and hopefully last ) one will be worthwhile as well . I recommend it to fans of the first , fans of action-thrillers in general and fans of the various actors . Just be prepared for the jumpy editing and shaky camera .
That's some serious driving	This is a making-of type documentary , found on the second DVD of the 2-Disc release of The Matrix Reloaded , and it is entirely devoted to the section of the movie that took place on the freeway . It consists of behind the scenes footage , interviews , pre-vis and clips from the film . It's well-done , and the half hour it takes is well-spent . You get to find out how they did the several things , as well as get an idea of the experience that it was , for actors , stunt people , and various crew . The processes that went into making the scene work are detailed , and we get insights on the technology used , as well as the immense planning that was an absolute requirement . I won't give any of it away here . This is well-paced , and doesn't waste any time . The speakers all have things to say that add to this , and the entire thing is quite informative . The editing is sharp and spot-on . Devoting 30 minutes just to this one part might seem overkill to some , however , I would say that this is one case where such an action is justifiable , from the sheer epic scope of said section . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know more about the sequence in question .
Thankfully closer to a Flawless Victory than a Fatality	In case the one line summary has anyone fooled ? I'm not actually that experienced with the series . More Tekken , really . It may be more of an availability issue than one of preference . The video-game feel of this is pretty decent , if it does wind up feeling more like watching that than a film . The music and several characters , of which there is a nice amount , as far as I know , are straight out of those releases . Shou is a martial artist before an actor , but hey , which will draw in a bigger audience for this ? In fact , that seems to be the general rule here , with Wilson as a possible exception ( and some that aren't skilled at either ) . Great decision , casting the king of B flicks , Lambert . The fighting tends to be marvelous , if some could have been captured better . The slow-motion in this is seldom effective . This is very much an Anderson piece ? some of the humor really doesn't fit the otherwise reasonably well-established dark tone ( presumably it was to avoid this taking itself too seriously , but it instead winds up making parts come off silly , whilst not even accomplishing said task ) , I'm specifically referring to Ashby's remarks . The trademark " surprises " ( for the uninitiated , these are Paul's attempts to pull the carpet out from under the audience , by going in the opposite direction than what might be anticipated , but the nonsensical nature and the cheapness of them more often disappoint than impress ) are also present , and uncalled for . Lastly , there are logic problems , more considerable in their scope than their quantity . The design is not half bad . Effects vary , but some are certainly good . I recommend this to fans of Paul W . S . Anderson and / or Mortal Kombat .
Also known as " wasted potential " or " same old story with new cover "	I happened to catch this short by coincidence , knowing nothing but the fact that it was directed by Mads Kamp Thulstrup , one of this year's graduates of The National Film School of Denmark . This was his graduation film , and being the film lover that I am , I keep an eye on rising talents , so I decided to watch it . Imagine my disappointment when what I see turns out to be nothing more than a rehash of the old story of the man who discovers that his wife is cheating on him . No new ideas are explored . The film could have had an interesting take on the confrontation . It could have presented us with a psychological study of adultery , complete with a background story and the reason behind his wife's actions . Heck , it could have simply put forth a nice , simple twist on the formula . Regrettably , it does nothing of the sort . Instead , it merely follows the rules of the formula , delivering an uninteresting , uninvolving and ultimately pointless film , that contains nothing we haven't seen before . The acting is quite nice ; no complaints there . The plot is as already mentioned , derivative and unoriginal . The pace starts out fine , but gets lost near the middle point of the film , leaving the last half seeming like a muddled mess with no direction . The dialog is mostly great ; it serves as an excellent introduction to the film . Through a few simple cuts and even fewer lines , we are graciously told the main conflict of the short , without it ever being mentioned directly . The visual side is quite good , though somewhat limited . The fantasy sequences are all colored in a passionate red , which is fitting for the subject matter , but really not particularly interesting to look at in the long run . Most other scenes are tinted a blueish dark , very good choice , in my opinion , as it helps a lot with the mood . The music is limited and kept to a traditional score , with no irony or self-reference ( though I suppose that is standard for graduation films ) . It works quite well , in spite of that . What really disappointed me on this film was that within the first few moments , I had figured out not only what it would be about , but what would happen in it , as well . It held no surprises . I'm not entirely sure whether Thulstrup underestimated the importance of a good story , if he considered this a practice project or if he just decided to focus entirely on direction , but I see a lot of wasted potential here , and it's really quite sad . I will keep an eye on Thulstrup and any work he does in the future . . . but I do hope he spends more time on the story from now on , or possibly hires a better writer . As much as I enjoyed the tone and direction of this , the thought of what it could have been just really gets to me . I recommend this to fans of drama , though I doubt anyone looking for more than quality direction will find anything worth their time in this . For the very accepting and other aspiring directors mainly .
All action	I remember seeing the advertisements for this film . It looked like a good popcorn-flick , plenty of action and not much else . What can I say . . . accurate ad campaign . That's exactly what this movie is . If that's a good thing or not is up for the viewer to decide , but know that if you go to see this movie , that is what you will get , nothing more , nothing less . The plot just barely makes sense and keeps the movie . . . well , moving . The pacing is pretty solid . The acting is just about average . The soundtrack consists mostly of hard rock and rap , which is fitting , I suppose . I personally didn't mind ( I enjoy both music genres , though I wouldn't exactly say I loved the music in the film ) , but if you're one of those who would , you might want to consider another film to watch . The cinematography is fairly basic , though some of it is experimentally stylish . . . and as with most experiments , not all of it is good . Luckily , there's not too much of the bad . The martial arts choreography is pretty good , with some using of surroundings and nearby items in the fights . The action is cool . Very . It's very intense and the film has more than its share of it . Statham may not look like he can kick ass . . . but believe me , he can . I can't tell you how many fights or action scenes there are in this film ; I lost count . One complaint that I simply have to make , though . . . the girl . She's just about the worst actor in there , she's annoying and every other time she opens her mouth , a screech comes out . I read in her mini-biography that she has a ' manic ' acting style ; that's OK , there are movies where that fits , where that would be considered good comic relief . . . but here , it just causes the viewer ( maybe not all , but most definitely yours truly ) to cringe . The humor in general is pretty tame . Very " Saturday morning cartoon " . All in all , good if you're looking for a high-octane , leave-your-brains-at-the-door action film . Pointless if you're looking for anything else . I recommend this to fans of action-flicks who can accept that it's nothing but action and still enjoy them . Everyone else , avoid .
Worthy follow-up ?	I don't know if this was the first to fall into the trap . . . I would say that Commandos 2 did , as well . Sequels to difficult originals , made easier . The difference being that last-mentioned added new , truly worthwhile stuff , and is still fun as well as challenging . This comes up short in all three of those categories . Ah , this does introduce some things . . . it's just that more often than not , they're useless , at times even in the way . The pistol-whipping is the main example of the latter . The hiding in the back of trucks is fine , but it barely occurs in this at all ( and yes , I do know and remember about the jump that is in the one before this . . . meanwhile , are any people going to claim that camping in a car surpasses the coolness of that ? ) . And will someone please teach 47 how to lay down ? No , that isn't in the others , either , but I never missed it as much as I did in this . They did put in crouching . Not all the fresh material is bad . There's greater detail on certain things . Moving on . . . granted , this can be entertaining . It just doesn't really have you going back that much . And the tension is considerably less . . . if you mess up , you can almost invariably just shoot everything ( it's not punished , merely noted , and there's little to gain other than pride , from playing it all straight ) . No , I'm not denying that such can be enjoyable . . . elsewhere . Should stealth titles really have to include that ? That's not " opening the product up to a wider audience " , it's settling . You want versatility in one of these ? Look at the amount of ways that you can take out your target ( which , mind you , I don't believe has really grown between " Codename " and this one ) , or the different ways to successfully complete your tasks . The briefings ' insistence on the importance of sneaking stands in stark , and unintentionally funny , contrast . A couple of traditions from the first are continued , but they worked and seemed better , there ( how many times did this feel the need to string several missions together , so you can't pick equipment but once before them ? And then the inconsistency with the disguises . . . ) , and that's not even getting into what is done to the returning characters here . The training is fairly pointless , and it won't particularly help ( the map will , though ) unless you already " get " it , in which case all it is is " this is how you move " ( and while I get what it's there for , could they not have come up with something else , other than that weird scarecrow ? ) . This is more buggy , and among the glitches are ones that really bother . Frustration is rather likely , and while the predecessor to this also could instill that , it at least was addictive and less compromising . The people who complained that it was too hard , and you had to use 3rd person view ( is the alternative , the 1st , useful at any point in this ? Even a single one ? ) . . . are you sure it wasn't just the wrong type of game for you ? Not trying to kick anyone out of the club , but the simple fact remains that no product is for everyone , and I'd really prefer that that which is the way it should be remains so , instead of being messed with to make it mainstream . The interface and weapon selecting control is severely worsened here , costing you seconds that , guess what , quite possibly are invaluable . Slowing you down , at times forcing you to break to a halt . Why was it changed , anyway ? If it ain't broke . . . this is sillier . Cheap " laughs " are found herein . The " jokes " . . . eh . The plot comes off as something thrown together to get this made . Did they have to go . . . where they did ? Make it . . . shudder " personal " ? No , they did not . They did better with Contracts and Blood Money . After the intriguing , dark story of the previous one that had sci-fi elements , we get this popcorn flick crap . To aid you in keeping a low profile , a suspicion meter is brought on . It is one of the things that stay with the series . It is not the only of those that were , thank goodness , improved . It's nice enough to have . . . it's just tough to work with . Takes too little for it to respond , and a lot for it to go back down . OK , I'm done tearing this apart . There are positives to this . This has a rating system that tells you how well you did , and the exact stats of aspects that determine if you get Silent Assassin , and / or how close you were to it . . . that being the highest that you can get , requiring that you weren't found out , taking planning , and a near-perfect or flawless execution . The saves , limited in number ( albeit extra ones can be earned , occasionally ) , were a good idea . The stylizing remains , if it fails a couple of times , here . The graphics are excellent , through and through . The animations have gotten smoother . The cut-scenes , apparently , and possibly , all in-engine this time around , are usually well-done . The lighting is fantastic , just about entirely without exception , and this lets you impact it . With appropriate application of bullets , you can render rooms in the shroud of darkness , and that can take a considerable chunk of the risk out of your job . The level design does feature some interesting work , if the total number can deceive . . . this can take a few hours to beat . They span one or more real-life locations , and multiple countries and environments . This takes one approach to anesthetic , BM takes another one . Which is better comes down to preference . The guns are yet again pretty sweet , and from here on out , you get to keep them once you've brought them with you at the end of your objectives , as opposed to buying what you use . The sound is solid . The music , still by Jesper Kyd , is marvelous ( if not necessarily the best of the franchise ) . I recommend this to any fan , and those this appeals to .
The process of developing	After the first part told us of the struggle to get the film made , this deals with the development of it . They talk about the response to Keaton ( who is a lot more stoic than one might expect from a comedic actor ) being cast , the impact of getting Nicholson ( who talks about playing The Joker , and what he thinks of the character ) , and more . Tim's importance is also mentioned . The many interview clips include words from all three , as well as Michael Gough , who played Alfred , the faithful butler ( in all four films , no less ) . Uslan appears again , cementing the fact that he is a fan of comics . Almost all of the major actors get some interview time , if not necessarily very much ( although I don't know that they have too little ) . Some of them comment on Burton as a director ( Hingle is particularly entertaining . . . and Gough's words are interesting ) . The media and their responses are mentioned . Sean Young is mentioned , and she talks about not being in the film . The special is well-paced , coming in at just about 23 minutes , it's interesting throughout . I recommend this to any fan of the actors , the character , the film , and / or anyone who wants to know more about the creative process , in particular for this film .
Great	Featuring interviews with several people involved in the creation , and others , including the highly talented Frank Miller ( who comments on being true to the source material ) and Stan Lee ( introduced as " the man " , presumably in that , well , who knows about comics and doesn't know about him ? ) , this describes how they got to make the original Batman . This is one of the special features found on the DVD of the film , released in recent years ( around 2005 or 2006 ) . Not only is it entertaining and informational , it has Michael E . Uslan ( who , just from his first words , is clearly a fan , and an eloquent and smart one at that , hopefully helping our image some ) describing striking a powerful blow for all of us comic book fans , and it is awesome to listen to . If you're a fan of comics , even if you can't stand Batman , you should almost watch this just for hearing that , in his own words . The focus in this special is most definitely on the struggle it was to get the film made . Over a decade or so , they fought to get to make it , and do it right . This documentary is well-paced , coming in at 18 minutes , it neither wastes time nor rushes through . It's well-cut . It even has Bob Kane , himself ( who , even moreso than Uslan , is well-spoken ) , though it is of course not new footage . Fifty years , it took to do a proper film of Batman . . . five decades . At least Kane did get to see it ( though , sadly , he may have also watched Schumacher's efforts ) . I recommend this to any fan of the film , the character , and comics in general .
Better than the first , a truly hilarious black comedy	While the first Addams Family had a few problems , mainly in the script and plot , this one is almost entirely flawless . Whereas the first has a tiresome , almost cliché-like plot , this one has a far more original and interesting approach to the Addams ' . I guess it is a little lame that it , once again , mainly revolves around Fester , but that's the only thing I can think of as far as negative thoughts toward this masterpiece of black comedy goes . Nearly all of the actors who were in the first film reprise their roles in this one . All of the main characters are played by the same actors , and they do a just as good job as they did in the first . I would probably say that Christoper Lloyd as Fester even did a better job than he did in the first , but that may just be that his character is written better in this one . Anjelica Huston , Raul Julia , Christina Ricci and Jimmy Workman each give as great a performance as they did last ; Christina is even more chilling in this , and once again gives a magnificent and scary performance in this , once again proving how talented she is ( she was 12 or 13 when they made this ) . Joan Cusack is a great addition to the cast , providing some great wacky comic relief , which is a welcome view on the actress that yours truly had only experienced in the wretched series " What About Joan " . I also very much enjoyed the other new character , Pubert . He brought in a lot of good new gags and jokes . There were also some reoccurring gags and jokes more or less reused from the first film , but none of them seemed unoriginal . The film is about as eventful as the first , possibly more . The plot is great , much more original than the first one . It has a good pace , you're never bored . The acting is as flawless as it was in the first , possibly better . The characters are very well-written , better than in the first . Morticia still looked like a clown , but at least she did the walk better this time around . Gomez was still flesh-colored , but Fester achieved a consistent paleness . All in all , a great black comedy , and a very worthy sequel to the first . One of the few sequels that surpasses the first film . I recommend it to fans of the actors , as this is them at their best , fans of black comedy , and anyone who enjoyed the first film .
Not Memento , but hardly without merit	I have not watched the original behind this ( I know , I know . . . and I'm even Nordic ) , but intend to do so if I get the chance . No need to keep secret the fact that I primarily made it a point to get a viewing of this because of its director . I was not disappointed . The visuals , the editing . . . effective and utilizing a nice range of what is possible in film-making , a clear grasp on the tools , without it ever being flashy or not having a purpose . The version I saw was on TV , so it could very well have been edited from the original version , please keep that in mind if something I say seems to be in complete contrast to what you thought . The plot is very good and develops interestingly throughout ( some of them are . . . well , you'll see ) . The pace is not bad , if not all that fast . That is not to say that this doesn't hold tension . . . when it needs to , it's got it in spades . The acting is credible and skillful more or less for all the players . The cinematography and aforementioned cutting are masterful . Details captured , and the way in which the physical state is rendered . . . Christopher's career may have begun not too long ago , but I could definitely imagine that it will be worth following . It certainly has been so far . I recommend this to any fan of Nolan and / or Pacino .
A slasher film , set in the future	You could call this movie a scientific experiment ; the creators of this sat down and thought , ' where can we place Jason Voorhees to scare people , apart from the Crystal Lake campground ? Oh , of course : in the future . ' So this is Sci-fi meets slasher-horror . The first question that comes to mind is : does it work ? Yes , on some levels , it does . It makes for some more interesting death scenes , and it does seem like a notch up from the regular , down-to-earth slashers . Most of the movie takes place in a spaceship , in the year 2455 . Apart from this , and the spectacular special effects , it isn't a lot more than your everyday slasher . It does have good death scenes , but the excitement is somewhat minimal , due to most of the deaths being right after each other . There are two big scenes , where a load of people die , but they pass too fast . This movie is probably only enjoyable to Friday the 13th fans , or people who really love sci-fi . It does have some interesting effects too , for people who love that .
Stylish action in a film that sadly suffers under the misdirected intervention of its production company	I bought this film recently , as I had found myself quite attracted by the trailer . Actually , I've wanted to see it since I first heard of it , as the idea sounded interesting . Reading a few reviews here on the site , I got to expecting an awful film . . . the majority seem to hate it . However , the Trivia page states that it was taken out of Kurt Wimmer ( the writer and director ) ' s hands , so I also watched with that in mind . Apparently , his cut was deemed too " emotional " . I wouldn't exactly say that the version I saw ( which was , unfortunately , the short , theatrically released one , and not the slightly prolonged one that is said to increase its quality ) lacked emotion , though it could have been better . As others say , the idea is definitely good , it's the execution that leaves something to be desired . First , the good points ; the film has some incredibly stylized action , and a good amount of it . The visual style is amazing . The CGI , while at times cartoon-y ( early on , I thought to myself that this would make an awesome video-game ) , is marvelous . In fact , if you watch this as a comic book brought to life , or a video-game in the form of a motion picture , you may enjoy it quite a lot . . . I know I did . The question is , should this in fact have been released in either of those two mediums . . . rather than as a film ? Because the main issues ( apart from what results of the cut ( up ) version ) are ones that would not really be issues if it had been . There are " static " moments in the action , where everything stands ( perfectly ) still , which takes some intensity out of it ( which would not happen if it were a comic book ) , and the presentation of the action scenes is very stylized . . . almost too much so , for a movie . The dialog varies . . . at times , it feels too " fancy " , almost Shakespearean , but it can also be pretty cool . The acting varies , but I found little of it to be bad . Milla does well as usual in the " tough , female warrior " role , though this time with a deeper character ( not to say that Joan of Arc was not one ) than other times ( cough Resident cough Evil ) . Cameron Bright does some of his best work here , and much of it is through gesturing and body language , although he wasn't exactly asked to do all that much in the other films I've seen him in . . . ( those being Godsend and the third X-Men ) . He was quite good in The Butterfly Effect as well , though . The characters are full , if not all terribly fleshed out in the film . The heroine is one you want to succeed , the villain is one you love to hate . The humor is limited , but good . The pacing is fine , though it tends to feel like the film is rushing . Not too much , and it definitely didn't become overwhelming ( like a Paul W . S . Anderson film , for example ) , nor did it run out of steam . The writing is fairly good , though there admittedly isn't that much of a story . There are several twists . . . they're great , though at least one seemed like it could have been put to more effective use . The trailer also gives two ( maybe more ) away , which is unfortunate . The production design and look are well-crafted , and the ideas explored are fascinating . The visuals and cinematography take a little getting used to , but I certainly grew to like them , before the film was over . The action is all very cool and slick , with several completely unique sequences . The fights , unfortunately , suffer from some repetition ( one against all , cornering , etc . ) , and there is little in the way of a sense of danger towards Violet . . . she wins the fights with relatively little effort , in nearly every action sequence . Again , in a video-game or comic book , this would fly , but here , it almost leads to them becoming dull to watch . . . they didn't , for me , but I am quite a big fan of action , sword-fighting , shooting and martial arts . . . so I may not be the best to objectively judge . Wimmer's Gun Kata definitely did not disappoint me . I must admit , I am one of the people who did not watch Equilibrium ; I am a fan of The Matrix , and as such , I , too , expected imitations to follow after its release around the turn of the millennium . Wimmer's successful sci-fi action piece looked like that , to me . Now , however , having seen what he can do when he is denied final cut . . . I will be on the lookout for it , and for any of his future projects . Screen Gems , however , who edited this . . . I will be wary of , from now on . I recommend this to any fan of comic books , video-games , martial arts and action . Watch it thinking of a comic book brought to life , a video-game put on the silver screen , or both . . . and hope along with me that they'll continue the story in either or both mediums .
Research pays off	This is a special feature about Frequency , on the DVD of said movie . It details the actual , proved facts that they based the events and ideas on . I was personally surprised by just how much of the material in the film was very thoroughly looked into . This is comprised of five different areas , and they can each be viewed separately , as documentaries by themselves . It starts with Solar Science , by far the most intellectual of them , and one that hopefully won't deter people from the rest , which are all easily accessible . The second is Ham Radios , dealing with the pre-internet activity , and an interesting piece . It goes on with Time Travel and Theoretical Physics , a real treat for us sci-fi fans . Fourth we have Fighting Fires , highly informative on the job and the people . Finally , there is Creating Natural Phenomena for Film , essentially going over some of the visual effects . All are well-edited , and have interviews with experts within the fields , and these are almost invariably understandable by someone without a P . h . D . , and a regular joe can follow it . None of them are subtitled . The total length is around 36 minutes . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know more about the concepts and FX of the title .
Not bad	I haven't read the book by Robert Daley ( nor , it would seem , any of the others of his ) . If you seek comparisons to it , you are hereby kindly advised to direct your barking towards another source of wood . I've only watched one other film by this director ( Desperate Hours . . . and a quick peek at my review or my vote will let you know how little I thought of that ) , and am somewhat aware of one other ( The Deer Hunter . . . which I haven't seen all of , but I have been told by two people whose opinions on the matter I trust , that it's a piece of propaganda ) . All I can surmise about him through that is that he enjoys working with Mickey , and that he may have a tendency to make movies that in one way or another have to do with Vietnam ( not so much the country as the war ) . I must , however , admit that I find a lot more value in this than the first-mentioned other title helmed by the same man . It all seemed very realistic . The plot is good . The writing is credible , as are characters . It's well-cast , nobody really seemed chosen for their looks more than their talent . Noteworthy is among other things how much Chinese is actually spoken in this . . . rather than the old Hollywood standby of " foreign people speaking English , even to each other , with more or less of an accent that may or may not sound accurate " . Action isn't so much " cool " and " fun " , as intense and with a tendency towards being unpleasant . Rourke does well . . . there aren't really any actors in this who stand out as having poor performances . I recommend this to fans of features on Chinatown , as well as of the people involved in making it .
Better still	While Sex definitely was an accomplishment , this not only matches it , but tops it . Chad's abilities and scope have grown , and it shows . He utilizes more interesting story-telling methods and presents a grander plot . The acting is mostly good . The cinematography is great almost all the way . There are a lot of interesting twists , and this really messes with your head . The very idea of the film is intriguing , and rather original . There are of course those few scenes that were badly acted or filmed . Pretty much the entire film is very well-cut . The humor is a remarkable high point in the movie ; Chad Peter definitely has a talent for making the humor come very naturally , and not seem forced at any point in the movie ; this was also the case for the first film of this trilogy , Sex . The writing is solid , and there is more depth found herein than in Sex ( I know , I know . . . get your mind out of the gutter ) . I would recommend this for people who enjoy watching short films , especially fans of student films . It's worth watching , and is definitely memorable , and Peter continues to impress .
Pretty good , well-acted , but the ending seems flat	For a crime-drama , this is quite good , and very well-acted . The plot is pretty good , has a good pace ( I don't think I was ever bored , not even a little ) , and is told in a good way . I really liked the non-linear , pause-action way of telling the story , in particular the recaps of the various points in the story that had impact in one way or another . The acting is very good ; Freeman , Hackman , Bellucci , Jane . . . all great . The performances are all completely convincing . The characters are credible and well-written . The dialog wasn't particularly fresh , but it was somewhat humorous , and did get a smirk from me every now and then . The editing and the cinematography is very good , especially in the recap sequences . It's not unique , but it's well-used , and it adds a new dimension to the film ( especially due to the constant changing nature of the recaps ) . The film has some great acting , some great cinematography , and great use of those two features , but it just seems to lose it when it tries to deliver the ending . I don't know if they didn't have a good idea how to end it , or if they suddenly had to change the planned ending for some reason . I know that this is based on a book , so that might have something to do with it . Maybe they didn't understand the books ending , maybe they didn't know how to execute it properly , who knows ? All I know is that whatever they tried to do with it , whatever emotion they tried to convey , they failed . All in all , a good film , but not great . It's worth sitting through the nearly 110 minutes for , anyway . I recommend this to fans of crime-dramas , and fans of the various main actors .
A good film that could have been great , had it not been pushed to be mainstream	Before I go on with this review , let me share exactly why a film like this means so much to me , and why I can relate so much to it . The film is about a boy genius , a young man with exceptional intelligence and skills . I don't think it's ever clearly stated in the film , but his personality and his intelligence points to him being an autist . Now , suffering ( what a misdirecting word . . . like it's a disease or something ) from a mild case of autism myself , being diagnosed with asperger syndrome , I can relate to the kid on a very personal level . However , the film has been pushed into being a mainstream drama , instead of being , shall we say a good one ( or , at least an accurate one ) . The personality of the kid is accurate , but not all of his symptoms are . I actually saw a TV special , which involved a real person , a teenager , diagnosed with asperger syndrome . During the ten minutes that the special lasted , I learned more about being an asperger , recognized more of my own personality traits , and realized more about myself and being an asperger than I did through the 90 minutes of this film . It holds a lot of truth , but too much of it is watered down and forced into being mainstream , in which everything has to end fine and dandy , and in which everything has to make perfect sense . Maybe the film should have been longer ; maybe it should just have been less mainstream , and more deep . I don't know . The film just lacks something . Everything in the film just immediately evokes some outbursts of " Aww " " Ohh " , and doesn't really spark any further thought in the subject . I suspect that , was such a statistic made , most people who saw this film would prove to have done no further research or give no further thought into the subject of autism . And that's just the problem with the film . It evokes the emotions that it's supposed to , but that's it . Afterwords , everyone forgets about it , and gives it no further thought . Just like the audiences of mainstream dramas want ; an hour and a half of emotions and drama , and then to return to their normal , everyday lives , with no new experiences or even the notion of thinking about autism , or any other non-commercial subject . However , apart from that , the film is well done . The plot is good . The pacing is good enough . The acting is very good ; the three leads , Foster , Wiest and Hann-Byrd ( the child actor ) all do their jobs well , all give good performances . The child actor was a pleasant surprise , and truly delivered a believable performance . The characters are well-written and credible . I like that there is no definite " bad guy " ; both Foster and Wiest mistreat the child , and mistake what he wants with what they want themselves . The graphics that are done to show when the kid concentrates on something or figures something out in a particular way are good , well done , and give a pretty good image of what it's like to be gifted and figuring something out much faster than a " normal " person could . Of course they're oversimplified , but what would you expect from a mainstream film ? I suspect an independent film dealing with the subject would have been much better . All in all , if you're interested in the subject , it's decent , but I would recommend looking up the real information about it instead . If you have no knowledge of the subject , you can watch the film ; just don't expect everything in it to be true . If you don't care about the subject , you can just watch it as you would any other mainstream drama . I recommend it to fans of dramas , but I warn anyone who knows a lot on the subject to approach with caution and take the film lightly .
A great black comedy	This is a very good black comedy , with a great view on how different people have a different perception of the same situations . The three main characters each met a girl named Jewel , played by Liv Tyler , who is a different male fantasy for each of the three men . Each of the three men go through the same situations , but when they tell of them to other people , their perception of the situation is very different from what the other two say . That is a very good concept , probably not entirely original but it works very well in the movie . The plot is very good , very bizarre and extreme , which makes it a good black comedy . The acting is equally good , not one of the actors seemed out of place or out of their league . The comedy is very black , pitch black in some scenes , and a lot of people will definitely be offended by it , but fans of black comedy will probably enjoy it . Overall , this movie is not for everyone's taste , but most people who like black comedy will probably love it , as it is definitely one of the better black comedies .
Utterly event-less , but apart from that , not bad	This may make you think twice about having the local place process your photos . This was neither something I had huge expectations for nor figured would turn out a major let-down . Just know that what I write in this review is not out of bitterness . With that said , this isn't a downright poor film . The big complaint I have about it is that , for the entire duration , from beginning to end . . . nothing , and I am not using hyperbole , not anything whatsoever , actually happens . The plot is fine , and save for one line obviously done to deliver exposition early on ( apart from which , there are only a few problems with the dialog ) , it's told decently . The pacing is OK . Acting is good , though I've seen both Vartan and Williams do better elsewhere . The latter's character is fairly well-written , if there could have been considerably more on-screen development ( and he's the one who was most fleshed out ) . I don't know exactly what the ending is supposed to be . Cinematography and editing are well-done . Romanek has evidently barely directed movies apart from this . I won't go out of my way to watch his other work , but I won't actively avoid it , either . I'm not making it my life's mission to view this again , but I won't have a problem with doing so . There is a little blood , some disturbing material , some graphic sexuality / nudity and the language isn't exactly restrained ( I'm referring more to how strong it can be than its quantity ) . I recommend this to fans of Mark Romanek , thrillers and / or the other people who worked on this .
Good adaptation of Dickens ' classic Christmas story	While I do think Alastair Sim from the ' 51 version of the story , ' Scrooge ' , looked and acted the part of Ebenezer Scrooge better than Patrick Stewart does in this version , this is possibly the better film overall . I'll have to see ' Scrooge ' again to be certain . I haven't read the original novel , but I hear that this is the most faithful adaptation of it . The plot is very good , and thoroughly interesting ( even to those who know it by heart , as this is , apparently , a word-for-word film version of the novel ) . The pacing is good , I never found myself being bored with it . The acting is great . . . Patrick Stewart , while not as good for the part as Sim , does a very good job on Scrooge , and most of the supporting cast , including the child actors , give good performances as well . The characters are well-written , interesting and credible . The film isn't sappy or overly sentimental . . . I'm not too big on Christmas , especially Christmas films , but I found this to be a good film . Thoroughly interesting and entertaining . For a Christmas film , this is fairly good . I suggest you see Alastair Sim's version of Ebenezer Scrooge as well . Personally , I find his performance more accurate and impressive than Patrick Stewart's , but some might disagree . I recommend it to fans of Dickens ' and the story , A Christmas Carol . Just about any fan of Christmas movies will probably enjoy this .
Overlong , overacted and overdone . . .	This movie starts off pretty good . . . we get a few introductory scenes that are quite entertaining , and the film moves very fast . . . then , at about half an hour into the film , it drops tremendously in quality . Every single character suddenly speaks as if he / she only had a minute left to live , and wants desperately to say everything he / she can in that minute . We get a scene or two of Zucker-style 80's spoof-like scenes of background shenanigans . And then , just when you think it couldn't possibly get any less serious , any more ridiculous and lame , they throw in a romantic subplot and a bunch of fantasy stuff . The first half hour is pure genius , everything from that point just gets lower and lower . The plot is OK , but it never seems to take off . The pacing is awful , the film seems to stand perfectly still from the moment Tim Robbins ' character is made director of the firm . The acting ranges , but most of it is terribly over-the-top . The characters are somewhat well-written but they hardly have a shred of personality , are mostly clichéd and stereotypical , and none of them are particularly likable or interesting . The dialog is at times well-written , but mostly it's just as overdone as the acting . The script just has so many scenes and parts written into it that seem to be there for no reason . This film holds a few funny scenes , but most of them are during the first half hour . Want my advice ? What do you mean , no ? Well , here it is anyway : watch the first half hour . If you like it , but think it could be better , watch on . If you love it , stop the film . There's nothing like that from that point on , and you don't want to see how this ends . . . trust me . The ending is as lame as they come . However , if you find the first half hour to be anything less than great , your expectations might be low enough to tolerate what happens from that point on . I'm just surprised that the Coen's could put together a film like this . . . I mean , they made The Man Who Wasn't There and Intolerable Cruelty . I don't know , maybe I just needed to be in an entirely different state of mind to enjoy this film any more than I did . I recommend this to fans of the Coen's , as they should enjoy it . I'm not sure who else would , though .
Math does scare a lot of people	I have not read the novel ( I understand that this follows the / his style well , however ) , and all I know about the series is what I gathered from the three prior films . I suppose a good place to start is admitting that neither I , nor my fiancée whom I watched it with , particularly care for or understand the casting of Ben in action ( not that there's necessarily an awful lot of such in this ) movies . We don't see how he fits that ( and his lack of screen presence and charisma shows ) . Beyond that , this is actually quite fine , if it should maybe not have been connected to the franchise ( restarting it as it were , and do note that they are now , evidently , little more than half a decade after this , rebooting it yet again ) . Baldwin made a determined , if reluctant hero of Jack , Ford took that over well ( obviously , since that sums up most of his career ) , and this time , Affleck . . . kind of turns him into a whiny pretty boy ( although the writing of the role doesn't deviate that strongly from that of the others . . . it lies in his performance ) . Not to mention that Dafoe's Clark'd kick the ass of Schreiber's , which is not to say that the latter does poorly . The characters , in general , aren't bad . The casting is spot-on , save for the two aforementioned exceptions . The acting , as well . This has positive aspects to it , and even if you like the other entries , you could still enjoy this , as my wife-to-be suggested , merely think of those parts , Ryan and John , as not being the same , previously ( and better ) established ones . The story has well-done elements ( possibly rehashed from earlier incarnations of the universe , but not all , and not the fundamental concept ) , and has realized potential ( not the full extent of it , though ) . It is particularly sound until it all derails near the conclusion , succumbing to the agenda being pushed ( no matter the implausibilities that occur along the way . . . and creative license is taken with the technology to move this along smoothly ) . The president's advisors in this aren't terribly well defined , in specific government jobs . . . they are basically just a cacophony of voices telling him what to or not to do . The pacing is reasonable , never losing the audience . Save for the distinctly corny and / or hokey lines ( and TMI ) , the dialog is decent and serves its purpose . There is scattered language ( on that , mostly Russian and the other foreign tongues are spoken when they would be so , yet it's not difficult to follow ) of varying degrees throughout , seldom too harsh . The tone is fairly light , arguably inappropriate ( think of the subject matter . . . this almost goes entirely in the other direction , and underplays the severity of what takes place ) , and the youthfulness of this got to be downright silly , as did the excessive modernizing . The former can probably be attributed to the director , and while that worked for Sneakers ( we do consider that to be a well-produced effort , mind you ) , it should perhaps not be found in a serious , political thriller with the intention of being smart . That might have also have affected the feeling of danger , presumably inadvertently , as the first half of this really didn't have us on the edge of our seats . With few exceptions , the way this was shot and edited is rather nice . The gadgets and some of the situation resolutions seem out of place . A fight comes off as tacked on . This doesn't go as far as certain things indicated it would . The Hollywood factor ( not eternally present here ) of this ( above what the preceding pictures had ) , and the abrupt and oversimplified fix-all ending hurt the credibility and value of this . The special effects are marvelous , albeit a single sequence did inspire my better half to point out how much it looked like a video-game . The DVD contains several well-done and interesting enough featurettes , the theatrical trailer ( it does reveal important plot , as does the description on the main page here , new viewers may want to avoid them until after , if they're worried about spoilers ) and a commentary track with Robinson and the cinematographer , and a second with Clancy ( who picks it apart mercilessly , and adds his dry , biting wit and irony , as well as swearing , expertise and name-dropping ) in addition to Phil ( both are informational and worth the listen ) . I recommend this to any fan of Jack Ryan , the people who made this and / or Tom Clancy . Do bring a solid dose of salt , for all the stuff in this that is best taken with a grain of that .
Pretty darn good	This is a featurette on the second of the 2 discs of the DVD release of Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines . It is made up of interviews , behind-the-scenes footage and clips from the movie , all cut together rather well . The music is well-chosen , every single piece , and helps drive it . For thirteen minutes straight , with no real pause , this keeps to a great pace and never slows down any more than it should . It's quite likely to entertain you through the entire thing . I found this to be fun beyond what the film itself was , and it sure makes it look much better than it is . Winston and some of the actors have magnificent things to say . Mostow must not have all that massive an amount of stuff to share , and / or he didn't know when doing this or the commentary tracks that the other would also be on available to audiences , because I was hearing him say the same pieces of information or personal opinion too often . But hey , if you only watch or listen to one of the three , you'll still get a lot of what he adds ( which I'm not necessarily saying isn't worth hearing ) . I recommend this to anyone who watches BTS productions , even those that don't like the flick and / or don't intend to give it a viewing , though if you don't care for at least one of the people involved , and who , for example , thus speaks in this , you may not be that interested .
Excellent idea , good execution	This is one of several films , released just around the coming of the new millennium , that are all based on a single concept , when you compare them . The interesting thing here is the execution of the concept , and where it's taken . I haven't watched every one of the other movies , but I haven't heard of any of them going where this went . What the concept is or what the other movies are , I won't say here . . . I would hate to spoil the surprise for anyone who hasn't already seen this film ( besides , if you have , you are probably already aware of what titles I am speaking of ) . If you give it a chance , this can definitely get you thinking , provide plenty of food for thought . The pacing is quite good , and mostly even . The acting is all adequate , and the casting is as it should be . Cinematography and editing doesn't really cover any new ground , but it's fine . The plot is interesting , develops and unfolds nicely , and is well-structured . The characters are well-written and interesting , pretty much all of them . The direction is low-key , but not bad . The effects are very good without ever seeming flashy . If you are considering watching this , I urge you to not look at the cast-list , as it will give away important information best uncovered through watching . This is a rather underrated and very well done science fiction piece that ought to be seen by more people . I recommend it to any fan of science fiction .
" How'd they do that ? " Well , here's the chance to find out	This is a special feature found on the 2-Disc Special Edition DVD of Batman Returns , released in 2005 , and , as the title suggests , deals with the visual effects of the film . It consists of some interview bits with three people who worked on the creation of said FX ( Fink seems to do most of the talking herein , and he takes you through it all quite well ) , some production stills , footage from the work ( behind the scenes , as they make it , as well as more finished material ) , and , yet again , inter-cut clips of the movie . The viewer is taken through the many ( if not by today's standards . . . that's something they address , that for the time , it was considered a lot , and how today , it could all be accomplished by CGI ) effects of the film , from the very first to the very last ( you know the one . . . though you may be surprised by what the very first is ) . This is well-paced and interesting , and certainly had me marveling over how they did it all , appreciating the film even more . This comes in at about eleven and a half minutes , and is rather informational and well-edited , all entirely sharp and to the point . This is worth watching for anyone interested in visual effects , and anyone who likes the movie , and doesn't feel that their enjoyment of it would in any way be negatively impacted by knowing how the FX were done . I recommend this to anyone who finds themselves in either or both aforementioned groups .
It's all about The Penguin , baby	In spite of one half of the meaning of the title of this , it doesn't exclusively deal with the process of applying make-up on Danny DeVito , for the character of The Penguin . This is a a special feature found on the 2-Disc Special Edition release of Batman Returns , which came in 2005 , and revolves around said character in said film . It starts with Winston detailing the creation , the design of the characters look for the film , goes through the application of the make-up , and has bits here and there from the various interviewees , mainly crew , but also Burton and DeVito . I actually found parts of this to be somewhat slow , compared to the other extras on the DVD . DeVito is good to listen to , though , and both Burton and Winston have stuff to say ( if not much , but hey , this is pretty short ) . This is 8 minutes in length , and for the most part , it's well-paced . It's well-edited and does have a fair amount of information . This features interviews , clips of the film and behind the scenes footage . It ends with DeVito revealing what he feels ought to be done with the character ( outside of film ) . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know more about The Penguin of the film , and the design of him .
Fly on the wall	This is a feature-length documentary found on the 2-Disc Set of Star Wars : Episode 1 - The Phantom Menace . Coming in at just over an hour , this takes us through basically the entire film-making process on said title . I'm not sure there's really any aspect of the production not seen here . Casting , rehearsing , auditioning , shooting , special effects work , debating to solve one of the many problems that arise , and even staff meetings . The manner in which this is done is also notable . . . rather than the usual type , with interviews , " talking heads " ( thank you , Adam Bertocci ) and the like , this offers you the perspective that I allude to in my Summary . No one is really speaking to the camera , rather , they're conversing with each other , and we're " present " to experience it . We're usually only given enough information to understand the situation . This was put together from 600 hours of footage , the majority of which was shot on the sets and locations , including at ILM . It's well-edited and interesting throughout . The pacing isn't bad . There is a bit of suggestive dialog and minor language . I recommend this to fans of the movie , and / or those who want an inside look at it .
Interesting	This short , featured on the third season set of Alias , J . J . Abrams ' hit spy show , details something that may very well have happened during the course of the show . . . and it's presented in a crisp visual style , the way only something animated could look . It's more like a living comic book than the show , as noticed by both my fiancée and I . The animation is quite good , complete with fairly realistic-looking effects and possibly even 3D CGI . It seems to be , or at least to get inspiration from , Animé . The title features Jennifer Garner's voice , and both she and Terry O'Quinn appear on-screen in an introductory clip . The action is good , and the way it's done wasn't bad . The pace was a really good part of this . . . it moves as it should , pretty much all the way through . The writing varies . . . not all the lines are great , and I'm not sure the narration is necessary . Some things are too vague , others are spelled out too much . The plot unfolds fine . As far as overall writing goes , it doesn't at any point reach the level of intricacy of the show itself , but it never seems to aspire to . It's more of a story in the universe of Alias . . . maybe Abrams wanted to do something in animation ( taking a note from the Wachowski brothers ? ) , I don't know . It's not bad , and for the fans , it can be a nice enough treat . It's not a vital piece of Alias canon , but it may work as an attempt at filling a void some fans might have felt the show left at one point . I recommend it to fans of the show ( it will make no sense whatsoever if you haven't watched enough of it . . . the set on which it is located is something of a hint ) who enjoy Animé and / or want to watch all they can of Alias . . . even if it's not live action .
This inspired me to make the most well-liked of my own short films	That may be the most positive thing I can say about this short . . . but it's hardly the only one . This makes for a fun couple of minutes , and the idea and execution are well-done . The plot is simple , but sustains your interest for the duration . Pacing is good , this doesn't overstay its welcome . Acting isn't bad . Writing is probably Bertocci's strongest ( at least as far as the most immediately noticeable ) film-making talent , and this helps prove it . . . in the hands of a lesser writer , this wouldn't be anywhere near this remarkable . The cinematography is impressive , considering what the guy had to work with . The editing is spot-on . The story-telling device ( you'll know what I mean if you watch ) is put to good use . The lines are clever . This is just under five minutes long , complete with credits . Sound is fine . Not all of the comedy works , but the humor is mostly great . Bertocci makes great use of what he has at his immediate disposal , and definitely shows himself to be both creative and crafty . This should perhaps not be watched by anyone not at least a teenager , there is a mature theme or two . I recommend this to any fan of short films and quirky comedy .
Carrey at his best	I have to admit , I'm probably a little biased with this movie , as it contains two of the things I love the most in any movie ; court scenes and Jim Carrey . I'll try my best to be objective in this review , though . The plot is good , and as the film barely takes 90 minutes it's fairly fast-paced ( well , for a Jim Carrey comedy , anyway ) ; I don't think there ever passes 5 minutes without one single joke . The acting is fairly good ; Jim Carrey is in his element , so it's no surprise that he's good , but I did find both Maura Tierney and Cary Elwes pretty good too . I know that Elwes is English , not American , and after seeing another movie in which he has a strong English accent ( Robin Hood : Men in Tights ) , I was impressed at how well he does American parts as well . The characters are well-written and credible . The humor is great , partly because it's , well , Carrey , but also because unlike some of Carrey's previous roles , this is fairly " clean " , so teenagers and some kids will be able to enjoy it as well . The theme of the film is great ; I mean , we all know that we lie several times a day ( heck , it's even been scientifically proved ) , but what about if we , for one whole day , couldn't tell one single lie ? Great theme , provokes some thought and is executed fairly well in the film , though I do think it could have been done a tad better . Overall , I don't have any major complaints with the film though ; I guess it could be argued that most of what Carrey does in this film , the comedy and all , is stuff he's done before , but that's OK ; it's not any less entertaining here , regardless of the fact that we've seen it ( or something similar to it ) earlier . The dialog is great , with some very memorable and quotable lines . All in all , a typical Carrey film , which can be a good thing as well as bad ; Carrey does exactly what you expect him to , and he's very entertaining and all , but it never transcends the standard level of the typical Carrey comedy . On a final note , I think this ( as well as his other work ) proves that Tom Shadyac is the best there is at bringing out Carrey's talents ( he also directed Ace Ventura : Pet Detective and Bruce Almighty ) . I recommend it to any fan of Jim Carrey and / or Tom Shadyac .
I wouldn't go in . . . no matter how long it had been since I'd eaten	Let me not mince words . . . that's a rather silly thing to mince , anyway , why not mince meat , instead , unless you were a vegetarian , or didn't want to be asked the relatively appropriate question " have you been mincing ? " ( credit for that joke goes to " ' Allo ' Allo " ) . . . but I digress . What I wanted to get out of the way up front , as opposed to down below ( Seagal , you might wanna see a doctor about that Fire . . . ) , is that I did not set out to watch this anticipating a u-boat flick . . . the title had me thinking it'd be about sharks ( not that I'm really that much more into that , really . . . ) ; my fiancée said it made sense to think that aforementioned sea-creature would somehow be involved , which made me feel better . Anyway , me viewing this and now writing this review is basically me making lemonade . It was an enjoyable enough 90 minutes or so . The plot isn't bad and develops fine . Pacing is satisfactory . There is an OK amount of suspense . I wouldn't advise someone looking for a terribly action-packed picture to choose this . The cast boasts some good names , and the acting , all the way , is at a decent enough standard . Writing is adequate . I can't claim that this had me spellbound , but I never really felt that what was on the screen was downright poor ( and again , this is not the type of film I normally go for ) . It's a cold war piece of overall reasonable quality , so if you dig those , or cannot live without having had everything that features underwater stuff and / or submarines , hey , knock yourself out . I recommend this to anyone found in aforementioned groups . Fans of the people who helped make this may want to give it a torpedo launch , too .
High marks for ingenuity and originality . . . but the game is still disappointing	This is interesting ; Sega , the creators of countless highly entertaining games and the undisputed king of arcade gaming , who have led this series from the beginning ( from back when the first The House of the Dead was just a machine in the arcades ) either felt that they needed to add something new to the franchise . . . or had a crazy thought , and decided to run with it . In any event , this is the result . For anyone who is unaware , this game is The House of the Dead 2 , with your computer's keyboard in place of guns . That's right . Instead of firing a weapon at the zombies charging at you , you type words that appear across them . The idea sounds quite bizarre , but it works fairly well , and you quickly get into the typing . As you get further in the game , longer words , even sentences , appear on the zombies . You type every letter and symbol , and you are neither required to take care of spacing between words or capitalizing letters . You can only type on one zombie at a time , so you need to estimate which will reach you first and / or which makes the more dangerous foe to leave standing while you deal with the others , and if you start typing on the wrong one , you can simply press Escape ( which will erase all your typing on that zombie ) to switch back to being able to choose which to type on ( which you do by pressing the first letter of that enemy ) . While all that may sound appealing ( hence my acquiring the game in the first place , which I certainly don't regret ) in theory , and the concept certainly is new , unfortunately , the reality is something else . You tire of the typing much sooner than the firing your gun of the previous games . There is virtually no sense of danger for most of the game . . . most of the zombies , including several of the bosses , dance around threateningly ( not unlike faceless , nameless hand-to-hand fighting adversaries who are still waiting to get beaten up by the main character in some martial arts films ) , waiting for you to type out the words . The difficulty is wildly uneven ; taking down the zombies is typically outrageously easy , no matter how little effort you put into it , whereas saving the hostages is frustratingly hard . Also , some of the bosses are far too easy , while others are nearly impossible ( and this doesn't even always relate to how far in the game you are ) . Taking different paths in the game seems to have been removed entirely , in spite of it being the main provider of re-playability value for the last two games , along with high scores ( which are driven to the extreme here . . . I honestly don't think it's an exaggeration to say that you can hardly lift a finger in the game without it insisting on telling you how many points you scored and how high you rank compared to the last hundred players ( ! ) ) . The keyboard you use must either be British or American in nature , so all us Europeans are out of luck ( since there will be symbols that the game simply doesn't accept our way of typing in ) . Lastly , you really miss aiming while playing . Now that all that's been said , do know that the game isn't all bad . It's just that the main draw is the originality and the potentially groundbreaking feature that it adds , the new ingredient in the world of gaming . They did a good job of preserving the ability to shoot barrels and crates for items , from the two previous games . Also , the creativity reaches a new high , and not just for arcade gaming . Imagine , for example , fighting Tower ( anyone who's played the second game will know what I mean , and anyone else shouldn't know until they play either that or this ) in the vein of a trivia game . . . you are asked a question , and each head has an answer . Type the right one before time runs out , or the head with the right answer will bite you . The words or sentences will often have a humorous touch to them . . . I dare any fan of verbal comedy to play through this game and not at least crack a smile . The game also has tutorials , to help improve your typing for playing . . . you will simply be instructed on how to best type flawlessly and quickly . This game ( and those tutorials ) is where I learned to touch-type , and found out what those little raised points on the F and J keys are for . Then there are the drills , which are good for training your typing for when you play the game itself . As usual , there's arcade mode , which is the regular game , and original mode . I haven't played the latter much , but from what I can tell , you can pick up items ( like in the second game ) , only now , you use them in that same game , instead of storing them for later use . There's no point in commenting on story , voice acting , graphics or anything similar , since all of it is lifted straight from the second game . . . including the cut-scenes , though the agents ' guns are now replaced with a keyboard strapped on in front of them , and what I thought was a regular PlayStation , but on closer inspection proves to be the short-lived Sega Dreamcast on their back ( apparently with a large battery strapped on top . . . but that may simply be part of the design , I'm not that familiar with the console ) . All in all , this is really just an experiment of mixed results . The retooled version of the original game just doesn't reach the same level , though I applaud them for trying , and doing so many things right , and I hope that people continue experimenting with games . Videogaming is one of the most versatile and open medias , and it would be a shame not to utilize its full potential . I recommend this to any fan of the series and anyone to whom the idea appeals . Try it . If absolutely nothing else , you'll almost certainly improve your typing skills .
Definitely one of the better sequels , but still not the original	Considering what this film had to live up to , considering the standards set by the first , which was , and is , definitely the best slasher movie I've ever seen , this film wasn't too bad . Whereas the first had little to no gore and blood , this one has a pretty standard amount of it . Of course , that was to be expected , since there was no way that they could beat or even match the first , so instead they went for the easy way out ; continue the story and fill it up with blood and guts . This turns the film into a more standardized slasher film , but since it still keeps very much to the ways of the first film , with plenty of atmosphere and a decent amount of build-up before giving you shocks . The plot is about as good as it can be ; picking up exactly , and I do mean exactly , where the first one left off . The acting ranges from atrocious to very good . The characters are pretty much the same as the first , a lot of characters and scenes seem to have been reused in this . I didn't mind that too much though , as they worked perfectly in the first , and they're good enough in this one . I don't think they could have done a direct follow-up to the first much better than this . Overall , even though it's far more gory and bloody , it still has the great atmosphere of the first , which is something that most of the other sequels lacked . In conclusion , it's a pretty good sequel to a fantastic movie . I recommend this to fans of the first Halloween , and fans of the entire franchise . Don't miss it if you enjoy a good , moody scare .
Futuristic RPG-action in an entertaining and addictive , if not wholly original , game	I'm usually not into RPG . I don't mean running around in the woods pretending to be in medieval times , fighting with toy weapons and imagining yourself to be an elf or an orc . . . that I'm not into either , but that's not the point ( though the reasons are fairly similar ) . It is only in rare cases that I am interested in playing video-games that have you assigning points , " leveling " up and building a character . System Shock 2 had ( and still has ) atmosphere and mood enough for a whole series of games . Deus Ex had incredible freedom , a dystopic future world to explore and even philosophical undertones . Septerra Core was a lot of fun and had a great story . X-Men Legends 2 : The Rise of Apocalypse . . . well , I'm a comic book fan and I like the characters . And this game . . . it quite simply has a lot of really cool stuff . Granted , parts are borrowed . . . but it's well-integrated and few productions today can really be claimed to be terribly original , anymore . The plot is intriguing , and develops gradually throughout the game ( sadly , I was not able to finish it , due to an apparently irreparable bug in my copy , so I do not know how it ends ) . The level design is very good , with increasingly larger and more elaborate areas to clear of ill-willed outer space beasts . The sound is well-done , with each gun , enemy and item sounding right . The music is magnificent . The score , coupled with the shocks , will leave your nerves torn . It helps build the atmosphere , which is constant throughout the game , and creates a sense of paranoia . What makes that unpleasant feeling that something is going to come at you any second a very real threat is the way some of the enemies appear . You know how , in Aliens , one character in a tense scene ( and with good cause ) shouts " they're coming out of the walls ! " ? Well , in this game , they do . . . or , more appropriately , the ceiling . At more than a few points , no matter how you try to go about the game , enemies can and will jump down right in front of you . . . sometimes , enough of them to surround you . All you have to combat that ( apart from , obviously , your actual arsenal ) is a motion tracker . . . yup , Aliens , again . And the references ( or rip-offs , if you prefer that term ) don't stop there ; in fact , the aliens in the game bear a striking resemblance to the Xenomorphs of that franchise . . . right down to their biology , with reasonably few exceptions . Oh well . If you're going to steal , steal from the best . The game has you going through the levels , combating the creatures ( that slowly , as you progress through the game , grow bigger , angrier , and nastier ) and solving objectives . Often , the objectives will simply be to kill the aliens or their eggs . . . or a certain amount of either . Sometimes , there are also hostages thrown in , which you are required to save . In any level , at any time , you can access the status window , which'll give you an exact count of how many aggressors you've killed , how many hostages you've saved , and let you know what your goal is , as well as how much time you have , which is typically unlimited . There are a few levels that are timed , and they are more intense than usual , but the game is always fun and exciting to play . Inbetween missions , you find yourself in the city where the CyberMercs ( Cybernetic Mercenaries , in case you were wondering ) live , and from there , you can restock ammo , get new guns and items , repair current ones , upgrade your Merc's body ( you are automatically healed when you complete the mission , and if you upgrade your max health level , you will start the next level with that amount of health ) and get your next mission briefing . The money you earn by successfully completing objectives and eliminating baddies can be used for any of the aforementioned tasks ( though I must admit , I found most of my guns in the field . . . be careful spending too much money supplying yourself with firepower , because the majority of the guns appear in the levels ) . You can also sell anything you don't need . Where most RPGs ( I would assume ) have magic and spells , CyberMercs has items . . . such as the Hologram Copy , which presents a projected image of the player's Merc , for the opposition to fight , while you attack them from another angle or simply run away , if you're low on ammo . Others include the Invisibility Device , Sentry Gun , Mine , and Booby-Trap . . . which can be placed on doors , activated by someone opening it . The last-mentioned also comes in a gas variety . There are also more conventional items , such as grenades ( again with a gas version ) and flares . The camera is centered on the mercenary , and never moves without him moving . The large , intricate levels are made easier to find your way through by the map , which gradually fills out from its starting point of being entirely blackened out . The control is somewhat rigid . . . once you've clicked for your character to go somewhere ( and yes , mouse is the only way to control him , no keyboard use , except for some rather helpful shortcut keys ) , he'll keep walking to that point , even if you change your mind , until he's reached it . He can also only move at one speed , making dodging and tactical movement somewhat limited and difficult . Also , in spite of what the box says , the game only does let you control one Merc . . . if you want more , you'll have to team up with some friends on the nicely done multi-player feature . The game is easy to get into playing , and most everything is self-explanatory . The powerful blows that the attacking forces deal make the difficulty somewhat uneven . Fighting typically consists of keeping your distance and overpowering them before they close in on you . Still , this is a very worthwhile addition to the genre . The guns and items are cool and well-designed , and the game-play , whilst perhaps limited in scope , is highly entertaining . I recommend this to fans of RPG , action and sci-fi .
This is not what you might think	This featurette is found on the X-Men 1 . 5 DVD of 2003 , and perhaps people expecting something else from it explains the , at the time of writing this , 10 votes for 1 . It's not the overall look , colours or production design . No , this deals with the make-up and costumes , with the former of the two taking up almost all of this ( and given how elaborate it is , that makes good sense . They go over each of the mutants that had much done ( not actually every single one in the movie ) , and the transitions between them are smooth . This consists of interviews ( especially with Gordon J . Smith ; also , note that not everyone listed actually speaks in this , thought most of the actors referred to , do ) , behind-the-scenes footage and clips of the film . It's pretty thorough , going over seemingly everything there is to the subject , all of it that isn't self-explanatory . The editing is well-done , essentially invariably . This is informative and entertaining . Near the end of this , they go into one particular bit of the shooting , and a fair bit of amusement comes out of something both very simple , and , when you stop to think about it , pretty obvious . There is one or two instances of harsh language in this . I recommend this to anyone who wants to learn more about how they got the appearance down , and how they decided on it , as well .
Pretty good British romantic comedy	From the very beginning , it's clear that this is a different kind of romantic comedy . The characters are more thoroughly developed and the general tone is quite different from what one is used to from this genre . I mainly watched this because I had nothing else planned , it aired on TV , and I enjoy the work of Richard Curtis , who wrote this . I very much like the BlackAdder series and I found his directing effort ( which he also wrote ) , Love Actually to be rather well-done . The plot is fairly good . . . the idea of having a small group of friends attend several weddings , all the while meeting new people ( not to mention old " friends " ) and contemplating where their own love-life ( or lack thereof ) is headed was a great one , and it works out very well . The pacing is solid , for the very most part . Few ( but still some ) scenes seem drawn-out . Atkinson's character is basically a one-note joke , but his part is fortunately sufficiently small to not disrupt the flow . The acting is mostly magnificent , with a few exceptions . MacDowell clearly displays the lack of preparation that the top trivia entry alludes to . The humor is quite British , and almost entirely verbal . As such , I , personally , enjoyed the very majority of it . Anyone who isn't familiar with it or simply doesn't find it funny probably won't find much entertainment value in this . With quirky characters and sit-com situations / scenes , this is a somewhat unusual film for its genre . Two fun hours . I recommend this to any fan of British humor and , to a lesser degree , romantic comedies .
A look into the Python group , specifically the creation of the film	This is a rather good documentary on the making of The Meaning of Life , featured on the 2-Disc Special Edition DVD release of said production , released in 2003 . It is comprised entirely of interview bits with all six , not just the five surviving ( R . I . P . , Graham Chapman ) Python members , not all from the same year / time , occasionally inter-cut with clips , almost all of which are from the film itself ( there seems to also be one from the show ) , and a little bit of actual behind-the-scenes footage does make its way into it , as well . It's much more entertaining that that description , the sentence immediately preceding this one , makes it sound . Their description of the process , stuff that didn't make it , their differences , quite a bit of it is marvelous to listen to . It's interesting and fun , throughout . There are facts , accounts that fit more or less with each other , and genuine Python weirdness , in the bits . The anecdotes are golden . The editing is spot-on throughout , sharply cut and clever , all the way . There is some language and graphic content , as well as nudity , the first in the interviews , if not all that much , and all three in the clips . It's best to watch this after having seen the movie , so as to not spoil any of that experience . There is something at the middle point of this that can perhaps best be described with the words " pure Python " . I recommend this to any fan of the Pythons and / or The Meaning of Life , as well as anyone who wants to know more about both or either .
Scary , graphic and quite good version of the story	Let me start off stating that I've never read the original novel by Mary Shelley ( though from what I hear , this is one of the most accurate versions , as far as film goes ) . This is a very good story of how man tries to ' beat ' or fight death , and of how a lack of concern for the repercussions of your actions can come back and haunt you later . The main problem with it , however , is that it comes off heavy-handed and grand , seemingly attempting to be more than it is . The dramatic music seems overdone , as does much of the dialog . But for what it is , it's quite good . There are plenty of jump-scares , and the violence is well-done and effective . The plot is well-written and interesting . The pacing seems a tad odd , at times off , but mostly works to the film's advantage . The acting is great , in particular DeNiro as the Creature . It's an unusual role for him , but when you think of how much effort he puts into each and every performance , it makes perfect sense . The characters are well-written and credible . The film is thoroughly entertaining and well-made , though it does occasionally become too heavy-handed and Branagh is at times self-important . In the end , I would guess you'd be better off reading the novel . . . but if you feel like watching a fairly good visual presentation of it , this film would be a good choice . I recommend this to fans of anyone involved in the production of it , and possibly of the original book . Don't expect it to follow the novel word-by-word , though .
A fair effort by Hitchcock , as long as you accept that all logic goes out the window half-way through the film	I heard some pretty promising things about this film . . . about the tension in it , about the realistic and credible premise and especially about the climax at London's Royal Albert Hall . I was quite disappointed with the film I got . The film starts out fine , with Stewart and Day coming across at a perfectly credible married couple , getting into minor fights and slipping snide comments directed at each other into polite conversation with other people . Vacationing in Morocco , they're drawn into a conspiracy . Not long after , they start figuring out who's behind it . . . and this is where the problems begin . The mystery is so simple a child could figure it out . Hitchcock tries to drag it out , to make it last longer , but it only serves to make it even more obvious . The real problem here is that not only is it incredibly simplistic , it's illogical . The actions of these people don't make sense . Alfred throws out any sense of realism for the last couple of scenes and opts for some mild suspense and tension instead , sacrificing any credibility in the process . I could go into more detail , but not without not spoiling it . The plot is fair . The acting is good , for the very most part . The pacing is OK , for the first hour or so . All in all , probably the least enthralling and believable of Hitchcock's more well-known and popular thrillers , but worth a viewing or two , I suppose . I recommend this only to very big fans of Hitchcock , Stewart and / or Day .
Fire indeed hot	Another education piece by Disney . I realize that this was made and released ( well , at the very least , the latter of those two ) before the other I commented on ( " . . . having fun " ) , but the first thing that struck me was how much ( for something of such length . . . it's only eight minutes , people ) animation and audio was reused ( basically whatever they could get away with , it seems , whatever was vague enough that it fit both ) . This gives you something of a background story on the natural element in question , and even delivers some information about how it " works " ( though without going into a complete physics lesson ) . The tips aren't bad , even if at least one point is ruined by a ridiculous amount of exaggeration . The concept and execution are as close to the other I reviewed ( these are the only two I remember seeing ) as humanly possible , so these really have nothing to offer as separate entities but the safety stuff . . . apart from that , watch one and you've seen them all , even that annoying ( and way too catchy ) theme song barely changes at all , just a few of the lyrics . The mocking and not particularly funny humor remains . I recommend this to parents who in general are partial to Disney , to show their kids . . . even if they don't fear that they've been breeding a tiny pyromaniac .
Veni , vidi . . . vici ?	I have chosen to start this on a sour note , just as what I am reviewing does . After the clever and well-done opening cut-scene of the immediate predecessor to this opened that exactly as it should be , and setting the tone right , the intro of this is rather underwhelming . It's a lot of the same footage , some lengthened , in a very obvious manner , that leaves it moving too slow , and run downright choppy , a little has been added , to elaborate on what goes on , and it's not particularly pretty or all that well-done . It tries to look stylish , a bit , neglecting the fact that that does not fit with the material , indeed , with the rest of the product . Accuracy and realism are key , like with all prior entries . The wrap-around is taken out , awkwardly . The whole thing is just plain obvious , and it feels like it was thrown together without a lot of effort , and goes on for overly long , all in stark contrast to that of AOK . If you go on to play the single-player of this , and go in numerical order , you are shortly thereafter introduced to the Tarkan , which is unique to the Huns , a horse-borne man who carries something I could not tell what was at first . Then I realized it : It's a lit torch . This is a cool concept , and makes sense , but it doesn't actually look or work all that great ( and when you have to try hard to be able to tell what it is . . . ) . They didn't take the consequence and make it able to actually set buildings ( what they damage the most ) ablaze , a la Populous : The Beginning , or at least do a strongly defined flame-effect and damage model , like C & C , and it comes off odd ( meanwhile , it is a good investment ) . Why do I start on these seemingly small , in the big picture , complaints ? Simply because they were the first impressions , they may very well be for others , and I hope to deter anyone from jumping ship from this initial disappointment . You see , beyond those , this actually has a bunch to offer . . . and some of it is golden . There are touch-ups since the " parent " to this . Attempts are made to smooth game-play and such out , if not all are successful . Workers immediately begin gathering resources when they've completed a place to deposit them , automatically , and that cuts down on hand-holding . Not to mention the Reseed Queue , that lets you set Farms to automatically rebuild , so long as you've got a Mill , and the Wood upfront . The Tech Tree is now always available , a button right there at the top of the screen . Advancing through the Ages now gets a status bar , also up there , so you don't have to consult your Town Center . There are strategic opportunities that did not exist before in these . You can Garrison inside Rams , though that can be annoying as it can't be turned off , and it's relatively limited . The objectives now change during missions , and this is more open . Color is used to make it faster to distinguish and keep track of opponents ( when they message or attack you ) . There is clumsiness here and there , and the level design isn't always fantastic . There are new areas , and snow is put in , for example . There are ten real-world maps , and many new types . King of the Hill , Defend the Wonder , Last Man Standing , etc . are included . There are five civilizations brought in , including Spanish ( Conquistadors and Missionaries ! ) Vikings ( Longboats and Berserkers ! ) , Japanese ( Samurai ! ) and Korean ( Turtle Ships ! ) . You can also now build Petards , that appeared very briefly in AOE2 . The story-telling is improved upon since that , and is mighty compelling and in-depth , better than that of any release earlier in the series . It's very detailed and clearly an area they spent time on doing well . The ridiculous accents are gone from the briefings ( there are ones for units ) , and the voice acting is of higher quality , almost invariably , than earlier . The AI is changed , not always a positive here . There are now only three difficulty settings ( and there definitely was not paid equal attention to them ) , and it picks up where Kings left off . However , the campaigns do seem to start somewhat soft . The population limit goes up in them . The fourth one is not a continual arc , like all apart from it . Instead , it is a compilation of grand battles , eight in total . You aren't limited to going through them chronologically . This makes for several of the best ones , as far as being interesting goes , although when the tailoring backfires , they can get a certain kind of bad , ugly , nasty , and worse . This expansion pack gets extra upgrades and research . The Scouts feature gives you info about your enemies and / or the surroundings , is there from the beginning , and like objectives and hints , can be viewed any time . The history remains the focus , and there's more of it than in the others . This may cost it fighting . I personally enjoyed it . The Aztecs are quite different from the others . I couldn't say if it evens out , unfortunately , as much as they did change for them , it still seems like they have technology they shouldn't . There is heavy-handed criticism of their religion , values and spiritual ideas . You can select men and horses that are inside something ( like a boat , a tower , a Castle ) , now , and while I understand the argument against this , I'd say there's nothing negative to it . The authenticity is still far up on the checklist of important stuff , and it shows , in a marvelous way . OK , so El Cid's time is further back than gunpowder , at least in use in rifles , and spread beyond China , and outside of fireworks and maybe bombs . . . nevertheless , it makes for fun cavalry . The MP gets renewed vigor , not that it was lacking any . All in all , I'd surely call this a worthy purchase , if you dig Age of Empires , and like the second game of the franchise ( while this isn't flawless ) . I recommend this to any fan of RTS ( especially these ) .
Convincing	This is a documentary on the VG , and it is found on the second DVD of the 2-Disc release of The Matrix Reloaded . The biggest positive that could be said about this , I would say , is that it really makes it look appealing , and without coming off as a trailer . Being that I have played , and that I do enjoy , but at the same time realize that there are better ones out there , I would advise any viewers of this to take what they hear in it with a grain of salt . This consists of behind-the-scenes footage , interviews and clips of cut-scenes and game-play . This is well-edited , and spends the almost half an hour well . It's well-paced , and doesn't waste any time . They go over technology and what they intended to do with the product , and this introduces you to several concepts in it . They also talk a little bit about the kiss . Given that this is a piece of PR , this is a love-fest and everyone is quite excited ( hypothetically , if there were any nay-sayers caught by the camera , they took it out ) . Don't expect deep and profound answers . However , it's informative , interesting and well-done . There is a little ( less than half a dozen words ) strong language , and an adult theme or two . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know more about how they put the title together .
Rob does for the newbies in the kitchen what he's done for the newbies in the industry	While I haven't , myself , tried this dish ( never been much for Mexican food ) , it certainly sounds rather tasty , and judging from other comments as well as the boards here on the site , it is . Rodriguez , with his usual energy , takes us through a recipe that sounds very interesting and goes into the right amount of detail about each step . In about half the amount of time the title puts the short's running time at , he teaches us how to cook this food , and even takes some time to give a few general tips on cooking . With a mix of hand-held and static camera , this is a little different as far as cinematography goes than the two previous Ten Minute " schools " , but Rodriguez , who comes across as someone who was just about born with the camera in his hand , pulls it off perfectly , with nary a wrong shot or angle . The editing is crisp and smooth as always when Robert is in charge of it , and there is not a single boring moment found throughout . For anyone not terribly familiar with Rodriguez , know that he does occasionally swear , and does so a little in this , as well . On that same note , if such words offend you , you'd probably prefer not to look at the Memorable Quotes for this short . I recommend this to any fan of Rodriguez , and anyone looking for cooking tips and / or a recipe on the Mexican food that's part of the title of this .
Good concise breakdown of how some of the digital effects of the film were done , and Robert provides a few more tips	The first Ten Minute Film School was about how to make a movie out of nearly no money at all . . . explaining how Rodriguez managed to make El Mariachi work with the shoe-string budget and the lack of a crew . The second was about how he made his first studio picture work , with a lot less time and resources than most major action films . Here , it's moved a bit beyond what these started as . . . yes , it's still low-budget , but the " low " is now $29 million , not $7 , 000 . And while it is still mainly Rodriguez ' work , he now does have a crew , and professional equipment . What is nothing short of impressive is how he rises to the occasion each time ; on the first , he created an indie action film that felt much , much bigger than anything low budget . On the second , he made his first professionally backed action movie look as well-done as seasoned directors in the field such as John Woo ( who was clearly an influence ) . And here , on the third , with technology offering tons of special effects that look good , he still manages to bring it in under budget , and make a movie that is every bit as intense as the movies that cost 5-10 times what he spent . Most of what he tells us here is not as much useful for aspiring film-makers as it is a good insight into how he pulled off certain effects . However , there are still tips to be found . . . more , I'd say , than was in the former Film School , the one focusing on Desperado . He shows us how to make the best of a location , how to safely do stunts that could be incredibly dangerous , and how to make the various shootouts and such look amazing and strong . The thing is , apart from maybe the first , all of this is only available to those filming in digital , and with access to CGI / animation programs of fairly high caliber . It's still fun to watch , and time still flies by due to his expert editing . . . but I doubt it'll inspire as much indie film-making as the last two , due to the cost of the hardware ( and software ) required to pull something off that even looks remotely as impressive . This certainly isn't bad if you want to know how stuff in Once Upon a Time in Mexico was achieved . . . but if you're looking for useful tips for film-making , I suggest the second film school , and to a greater extent , the first one . Definitely worth watching , but offers less than the first two efforts . Coming in at not much less than ten minutes , this is worth it for anyone interested in these documentaries that Robert does . I recommend it to any fan of the movie , Rodriguez in general and anyone who have had their curiosity sparked from reading this review .
Silly but funny	This is definitely one of the better Mel Brooks movies , along with Spaceballs ( although I will openly admit to not having watched many others , at least yet ) . It's very silly and thoroughly funny , there are hardly more than a few minutes throughout the entire two hour run-time , where you aren't entertained . Almost all of the gags have a great comical effect , few of them fall flat . I saw this movie right after seeing and reviewing Spy Hard , and comparing these two spoof movies , I realize exactly of how high quality this movie really is . It's funny from start to finish , none of the comedy is overdone or boring . The music is marvelous , as is the choreography of both dancing and fighting . The acting is pretty much what you would normally expect from this type of movie . . . Elwes is a great comedian , and makes a good Robin . The plot is typical Robin Hood , more or less everything from the legend is fit into this movie ( and spoofed majorly ) . If you like Mel Brooks , or you're just a fan of silly humor , or you're just dying to watch a good parody of the legend of Robin Hood , this is definitely the film for you . The HBO First Look special on the film is also worth watching , and in that , you may want to keep watching throughout the credits , too . I'd recommend it to any fan of Mel Brooks movies , and to people who enjoy silly humor .
Not only that , but multilingual , too	I can tell you exactly what I thought when I first read about this : Uh-oh . . . is this Hit-man all over again ? I hate to admit it , but a case could be made for that . Both have promising trailers , you didn't know for sure what to expect from the person who helmed each ( maybe particularly in this genre ) , they got re-shoots to add more action after preview audiences didn't respond well , and they feature Thomsen . And neither fully live up to the expectations one ( well , I ) had . The plot isn't bad . It moves along reasonably well . You can follow it OK , and it holds your interest most of the way . The pacing works , and this can be intense when it tries to be . The dialog has good lines , quotable and memorable . There are fantastic moments in this - the atmosphere and sense of danger are impeccably done - and up until a certain scene , it keeps being largely magnificent . The sophistication lasts until that one . . . you'll probably know what I mean if or when you see it . The direction is marvelous , pretty much throughout , although you can tell that , let's say the added material , is not Tykwer's forte . This has some great points , however , the way in which they're made could perhaps be stronger . The music works well , and shows that simplicity can be effective . The acting is nice , and the character development is fair . In addition to a bit of violence , this has a lot of harsh language . For another meaning of that word , this holds no less than three , spoken . . . English ( duh ) , Italian and . . . Danish ! They let Ulrich speak his native tongue . Though they didn't have to , they did . I recommend this to fans of the people involved in making it , and anyone who likes drama-thrillers . The quality doesn't remain as high as it starts out , but it's still a fine piece .
A lot in little time	If the main objective of any behind the scenes production is to inform , to further the viewer's knowledge regarding the title that it concerns itself with , then this isn't bad . Irene Bedard , the voice actress behind Pocahontas ( whenever she isn't singing ) , hosts this , and does fairly well , for most of her screen-time . We are told of the creative process , for animation , voice-work , researching and more . Russell Means , the voice of Powhatan , talks about how proud he is to be part of something so accurate about Native Americans . The host portions are shot in Virginia , at the actual Jamestown . What's really impressive here , what raises this above the norm , if not that high beyond it , is the amount of ground covered , as far as telling us about the film in question . In just under half an hour , quite a bit is said , and this is by far the strongest of the DVD extras for the Disney cartoon . It's honestly well-produced , with cinematography and editing that has actual , definite thought put behind it , which , sadly , makes it stand out from most of the other special features ( which , at best , are series of interviews inter-cut with footage , with some notable exceptions ) . I recommend this to any fan of the film . This is one of the handful of things that make the DVD worth it ( more than just a VHS copy ) .
This did have a lot to live up to	This is based on the Ultimate 10-Disc Set . This one suffers from several things , noticeably . The first shares traits with the original Star Wars . . . the main one in this comparison being that they were both the beginning of a trilogy , whilst being fully able to be taken as the entire story . Lucas managed to complete his series of three to the satisfaction of viewers . . . in part because all had been set up in the initial movie , things didn't get too much more complex and difficult to understand with the following two ( don't get me wrong , I find Episodes IV and V to be excellent ) . The Wachowski brothers did not . This adds layers and facets that the one before it did not . . . quite possibly simply because it was already so packed , and it still pulled that off . Thus , the attempt here is to successfully integrate these new aspects , as well as top that one . And this entire epic tale was to be closed in less than four and a half combined hours . There was not enough time and the high expectations may not exactly have helped . Where the philosophy was smooth and neither stuck out nor came off as pretentious when this franchise began , it sadly moves in the wrong direction here . Similarly , the dialog just does not reach the same level , and there are downright poor lines herein . Some of the humor does work , other bits come off as being silly . The pacing is not spot-on , but uneven . The plot is good , and develops reasonably . The acting still tends to be in the positive end of the spectrum . The action is still mind-blowing , and it does expand the scope . . . I do not believe there has ever been anything like the freeway scene before , or that thus far , a similar one has been done . The cinematography is still stunning , and the inspiration and mix still astound . There are memorable sequences , and the choreography and execution for martial arts and shootouts alike are excellent . The music and sound are amazing . Editing is sharp . The effects are incredible . The new cast-members aren't bad at all . To anyone wondering . . . no , you do not " need " to watch The Animatrix , nor play Enter the Matrix . Yes , they tell you more , but one can appreciate and " get " all the films without those . What they do is put things in perspective and give more details on certain events and characters , nothing that is required . The ideas and food for thought of this are interesting , it is the presentation that is bothersome . There is moderately strong language , in relatively mild amounts . There is next to no nudity , but sexuality is present once , and very obviously hinted at , as well . This comes with a text introduction ( the same one as on the others ) , by the writer-directors , to the commentary tracks : One with philosophers who enjoyed these , Dr . Cornel West & Ken Wilder , and one of critics who didn't care for them , Todd McCarthy , John Powers & David Thompson . They are worth listening to . The double DVD holds well-done featurettes . I recommend this to fans of the concept and / or science fiction . Just be aware that this isn't as great .
A pretty good drama about finding your talent and figuring out what to do with it	This movie is , among other things , about finding your talent , that one thing that you can do better than most other people , and figuring out what you're going to do with that talent . This is material that nearly everyone will be able to relate to , and it's handled pretty good , with only fairly few cliches . The plot is good , and it moves along nicely throughout the movie , at a reasonably good pace . The acting is pretty good , both Sean Connery and the other male lead did good jobs , though I found that Connery overacted a bit in some of the scenes . Most of the supporting actors were pretty good . The characters are well-written and their actions are credible , though I think Connery's character was overly eccentric in some scenes . Something that continuously annoyed me was the erratic camera movements which are especially obvious in the basketball scenes . I think they were meant to emphasize on how intense it was , but I think that 8 Mile did a much better job at that than this movie . I guess some people will like this for its message , some people will like it for its good performances . . . I have to admit , even though the message is good , and the performances are pretty good , I wasn't that impressed by this movie . I've been told that it's very similar to an earlier Gus Van Sant movie , Good Will Hunting ; I'll have to check that out , to find out if it's better than this . I recommend this to fans of Sean Connery , people who find the plot appealing and / or fans of drama movies . It's pretty good , but not great .
Less driving than the others , but not bad	This one has fairly little action ( no , that's not true . . . it has no action whatsoever ) and not much driving , but the interesting cinematography , good direction , well-written plot and good acting by all actors involved make it worth watching . The direction ( and probably the cinematography as well ) can be credited to the director , Kar Wai Wong , who does a pretty good job on telling an interesting story in a fairly short period of time . The voice-overs by Clive Owen were a very nice touch , and made the sequences of him following the wife more interesting . The well-written plot can , again , be credited to the talented writer , Andrew Kevin Walker , who is probably most well-known for writing David Fincher's Se7en . As for the acting ; Clive Owen turns in yet another very good performance as The Driver , Mickey Rourke does a very good job as the husband and even Adriana Lima ( who is a model , not an actress ) gives a believable performance , as the wife ( although arguably she doesn't have to do very much in the role ) . The uncredited Forest Whitaker also gives a great performance , as always . The film is thoroughly interesting , maybe mainly because of the directors ( apparently trademark . . . I wouldn't know , I haven't seen any other films by him ) non-linear method of storytelling . All in all , less driving than the others , but not bad . . . just a little less than what it could have been . Worth watching for fans of the commercials and possibly of the director .
Not spectacular , but pretty much what one comes to expect from Lee Tamahori	After seeing The Edge and Mulholland Falls , I can't say I'm really surprised by the quality of this film . Still , I have to say that I did find this movie to be quite entertaining and thought it did what it was supposed to do , for a mystery-thriller . It takes off almost immediately , and succeeds in being thoroughly interesting . The plot is pretty good , and experiencing it unravel is pretty intriguing , possibly even more-so than that of other later and contemporary thrillers . The pacing is solid . The acting is good ; Freeman is stellar as always , and Potter gives a convincing performance . Wincott surprised me with the high quality of his acting , but maybe that's because I've only seen him in Alien : Resurrection , and that movie can make even the most impressive actor seem talentless . Boorem was pretty good for a child-actor , but I have seen better ( even at younger ages ) , so it's no massive accomplishment . The characters are fairly well-written and interesting , but I'm not sure they're entirely credible . The dialog is fairly well-written and equally well-delivered . The special effects are pretty standard stuff , except for a short car-sequence in the beginning which looked entirely convincing . I'm almost certain I know how they did it , but at the moment I saw it , I didn't think about it at all . They pulled that off quite nicely , I think . The film is , like many other recent thrillers , kept going through a number of plot twists , one more unlikely than the other . This is unfortunate , but it seems like that's the way thrillers are going these days . I will say that the twists could have been much , much worse . Overall , a standard mystery-thriller with a good cast and good for at least one attentive viewing . I recommend this to fans of one or more of the actors , the director ( if he actually has fans , that is ) and / or of the mystery and thriller genres .
Pretty good	I remember not being particularly interested in this , when it came out . My tastes have matured some , since then , and much more recently , I saw one piece of work of Pollack's ( Sydney , not Jackson ) , specifically They Shoot Horses , Don't They ? , and I've been wanting to watch more films by him since then . What sealed the deal was that this aired on TV , so a viewing would cost only time , not money . I don't regret the investment . The plot is interesting and develops nicely throughout , and is fairly well told , as well . The pacing is good . The acting is great , all the way . The characters are well-written and credible . Penn and Kidman are both commendable , and play off each other well . The cinematography is magnificent , through the entire production , as is the editing . In spite of dealing with and utilizing methods that could become gimmicky , it never does . . . it steers clear of that pitfall effortlessly . The film is consistently entertaining and engaging , and is a reasonably smart political thriller , if there are , without a shadow of a doubt , more ambiguous and stronger ones out there . . . that doesn't mean that this is bad , just not necessarily the best ever . I enjoyed it , for what that's worth . I recommend this to fans of thrillers , the actors and Sydney Pollack .
All about mythology	I went into watching this documentary thinking that it would be merely people , albeit famous ones , chatting away at how watching Star Wars as a kid changed their life . I was fortunately mistaken , as it turned out , in spite of the first couple of misleading minutes , to be an attempt at explaining the immense popularity of the saga , and a fairly successful one at that . It is suggested herein that everyone can find something to relate to , in the two trilogies , spiritually , emotionally and personality-wise . A mass of ancient mythology , as well as historical facts and religious ideas are uncovered in various scenes , characters and themes . Whether placed there with intent or not . Many of these explored connections are interesting , and several border on downright fascinating . Rather than revealing what they are here , I urge you to seek out this special for your own viewing . It is briefly touched upon that there are details in the new trilogy that could be construed as echoing that of recent US politics , specifically Bush Jr . , but the one person who comments on the existence of such denounces it as being improbable that they were intentional . The editing is nicely done , if they got perhaps a tad overexcited about the use of split-screen at times ( with that being said , the vast majority of the usage of such was effective ) . The film-makers ( and others ) who appear add more than one might expect . It's remarkably well-paced , I don't recall being bored for a second , and I don't normally go for documentaries . I recommend this to any fan of the franchise , and anyone interested in the deeper levels , whether they are fans or not .
Well-cut , interesting and concise	Along with behind-the-scenes productions ( though a couple are shared ) on each individual episode as well as audio commentary tracks for some of them , this featurette is found on the Animatrix DVD . Whether you get the release of just that or get it as part of the 10-Disc Ultimate Set does not appear to make any difference , the content of these particular entries is the same . A solid addition , this delivers a good introduction to Anime as a genre ( even if the first several minutes seem to focus mostly on The Matrix ) . There are bits throughout that compare the works of this genre to the film and mention influences , but this focuses mainly on the genre as a whole , its growth , development , and popularity in its country of origin , Japan . The Manga style is also covered somewhat . There are various clips of classic and well-respected Anime works ( and , obviously , as this was made in relation to this franchise , there are also bits of the original movie and a number of the shorts ) , and features interviews with experts and critics , and there is enough insight and commentary herein to drive a handful of features like it . The pacing is great , this is never boring to watch . The editing is superb , as well . Todd McFarlane , the creator of the Spawn character , makes an nice point about people who look down upon comic book readers . There is a little disturbing material in this , and it should perhaps not be viewed by those bothered by violence and sensuality and the likes . I recommend this to any fan of Anime and / or anyone who wants to know more about it .
A sillier and more bitter BlackAdder generation	This time around , BlackAdder is no longer royal ( or even particularly close to being any such thing ) . . . but rather a butler to the Prince Regent . He's grown bitter and the people around him have become sillier . Taking over for Tim McInnerny is Hugh Laurie , who portrays a rather daft ( but , disturbingly enough , according to the Trivia page , seemingly accurate ) Prince . Tim is sorely missed , because as well as Laurie does , we never really grow fond of him . . . we never get to like him much , because he's , well , a complete fool . McInnerny's character had an innocent charm . . . while he was a bumbling and complete moron , we can't help but care for him . Baldrick doesn't change much from last season . . . he's still rather pathetic and stupid , leading to more silly humor . There's quite a lot , this time around . . . about as much as the sarcastic , verbal wit , and possibly as much as in the first season . I'd say about half of the episodes were rather amusing and downright funny , while the other half didn't really get my interest all that much . I was disappointed in how predictable some of the plots and developments thereof were . . . I could see many of such coming a mile away . Some of the material tries way too hard to be funny and winds up coming across as incredibly forced . Luckily , there's not too much of that . BlackAdder himself , as alluded to earlier in this review , has grown bitter since the last time we saw him . Understandable , with his new job , but it gets a little too much at times . It crosses the line between being hilariously funny and kind of sad . We pity him instead of laughing ( preferably ' with ' , but sometimes ' at ' ) him . This continues with the tradition started by the second season of letting BlackAdder's plans work out occasionally . All in all , I guess this is , so far , my least favorite season , though I'd have to re-watch the first one to compare to say for sure . The second remains the absolute favorite . From what I've heard of the fourth season , I doubt that that's going to change . A fair addition to the franchise and surely worth watching for the fans , this one didn't grab me quite as much as the first ( and certainly not as much as the second ) did . I recommend it to fans of the series and of British / verbal humor in general .
An experiment , and a mostly successful one at that	This is without a hint of doubt the most sadistic film I've seen in quite some time . . . possibly in all of my life . Quite cynical , as well , if not beating the DC ending of The Butterfly Effect at that . Being an independent film that aims high ( possibly too high ? ) , it has to cut a few corners to make due . . . a chase is filmed with only two angles , to give a quick example . The plot is interesting , as is the way it develops ( if not particularly original ) . The film opens with a ' bang ' . . . not unlike Dawn of the Dead , which I saw the day before this . However , unlike aforementioned horror masterpiece , in this film , it's not particularly effective . . . I found myself not being terribly interested in it . That says a lot . . . when a film manages to lose you before it has actually begun . The main difference is that in aforementioned film , it creeps up on you , slowly drawing you into the terrifying world , creating atmosphere . . . here , it just throws you into the situation , as if pushed into a cell . I'm quite certain this was intentional , but it just shows director James Wan's ( disturbing ? ) lack of faith in renowned cinematic values , such as build-up and mood . You can't create terror just by showing a situation , you have to build up to it . And you can't expect the mood to come from seeing a person in a room in any given situation . . . you have to create that . Create . Something Wan doesn't seem too good at ( except for , of course , sadistic , cynical scenes and machines ) . The pacing is somewhat daft , the film loses momentum half-way through . The acting is half-decent , but that's easily explained . . . take one look at the Trivia page for the film : " The rehearsal takes were actual footage for the film " . So , Wan not only disregards established values of film-making , he also underestimates the importance of solid acting , which has a grounding in thorough rehearsing ? It's no secret to anyone who's ever acted that if you're unsure of your lines or how the person you act opposite will react to them , your performance is hurt by it . The special effects are solid . The cinematography is lazy , but usually works . Too few shots result in a dull pace for much of the film , and a sense of watching a movie , rather than experiencing it . The stylized tone is overdone at times , producing a noisy and visually assaulting final product . The characters are well-written and credible , and much of the psychology in the film is quite accurate , something which is definitely to Wan's credit , presumably Whannel's ( Leigh , co-writer ) too . Something not to their credit is that the film breaks quite a few of the rules it establishes . I realize that few movies manage to avoid this entirely , but this one just breaks too many to let it go . I can't point them out here , as they spoil important parts of the film . . . but I doubt anyone will miss them , even on the first viewing , even if they aren't looking . Then there's how the film seems to take place in our ' world ' , with a fair amount realism . . . but there are details that just don't work out for real , that are too cartoon-y . A blade pops out of a character's sleeve at one point . Yes . Seriously . Think Kroenen from Hellboy . Very cartoon-y . It was in that film , too , but that was a comic book movie . This ( supposedly ) isn't . The film relies heavily on twists , gaining almost all of the thrills from this . The biggest has to do with the identity of Jigsaw , and it's practically the easiest one to figure out , though I must admit I did not see the final twist coming , and there were some surprises , due to fairly good execution in that area by Wan . The twists , obviously , lose all effect on subsequent viewings ( I've only seen it once , but I have no desire to do so again , plus , a friend who highly recommended I watch it watched alongside me , and didn't seem to enjoy his second viewing in the least ) . Yes , I know , I know . . . that was the main shortcoming of several , if not most , of Hitchcock's pictures as well . . . but he did keep people guessing and entertained throughout the films . Compare this to Psycho and you'll see that it's no contest . Wan may possess some talent , but he lacks experience . Come on , James . . . prove you've got more than a somewhat perverted mind , a partiality for sadism and a truckload of cynicism . Writing is fair , with somewhat dubious plot points , too many repetitions and dialog that is almost painfully bad at times . All in all , the film is a mostly successful experiment in film-making . . . but that's the problem , only ' mostly ' . When you mess with values in film-making , you need something solid to keep it going . . . Memento had it . This film doesn't . The film is entirely based on the theme of fighting to survive , the self-preservation instinct , something I like to use a lot in my short films as well , but a theme even I realize you can't base a whole film on . You need more . Oh , and then there's the idea of nearly dying to start appreciating your life . . . again , kind of thin . The old " you don't know what you've got until it's gone " isn't enough to drive a whole feature . It should be noted that the film contains quite a lot of gore , very graphic stuff . Make sure you've got the stomach for it before watching ( nowhere near as extreme as what is seen in Dawn of the Dead , though ) . Finally . . . what can I say ? James came , he made Saw , and judging from the public reaction , he apparently conquered . But in today's world of movies , by today's quality standards . . . does that really say that much ? I recommend this only to huge fans of horror-thrillers , and I urge most true fans of horror to think hard before even considering to watch it . Go back and re-watch one of the classics instead , says I . Not to watch more than once .
Tame ending , and a less gratuitous than Tarantino's other films	Some would call this a tamer / toned down version of Pulp Fiction . . . I don't know . I guess it is , but the film is also more devoid of Tarantino's style than any of his other work . The non-linear time-line would be the prime example of this ; it's only used in a handful of scenes , rather than the one thing that keeps the film going , as is the case with one or two of his other films ( Reservoir Dogs , arguably Pulp Fiction ) . The film has much less violence , sex and drugs than any of his other films as well , which , together with the non-linear time-line , is Tarantino's trademark . However , in some ways , it lifted the film above expectations of the standard Tarantino production ; instead of sitting there , waiting for some shocking violence , I actually payed attention to the story , which is more than what I can say for Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction ( Kill Bill managed to juggle both things , Tarantino's style and a good , interesting plot perfectly , which is partly why I like it more ) . The problem with the plot , however , is that it's so damn confusing . . . if you don't pay perfect attention every single second of the way , you'll miss something . Normally , this would rate high with me , as I like films where it pays off to pay attention . . . only , this one doesn't . It doesn't pay off to pay attention , because the one reason there is to watch the movie , is to enjoy Tarantino's unique style , which , as I mentioned before , is not as present here as it is in his other movies . The ending is a anti-climax , and a powerful one , since it gives you exactly the ending you expect from the very start of the film , and you realize that you've just spent two and a half hours , watching something that ended exactly the way you knew it would end . Pulp Fiction ended unexpectedly , both in time and situation . Kill Bill had a great twist , at the end of each part / volume . Even Reservoir Dogs had a better ending than this . The plot is a pretty good , but a little too predictable , and it has almost as bad a pace as Pulp Fiction ; the thing that kept me watching was my enjoyment of Tarantino's style and the fact that I wasn't as confused by it as I was by Pulp Fiction . The predictability might have something to do with me having seen so many other Tarantino's films , but it still should have surprised me more ; all of his other films surprised me , some more than others , but all surprised me at some point or another . The characters are well-written , like with most of Tarantino's other work . The dialog is also about as good as Tarantino's other films . The soundtrack is also pretty good , but it's inferior to his other films , in my opinion . The actors are all well-cast . Hmmm . . . what else . . . I don't know , all in all , it's just a typical Tarantino film , with the twist that it's in several ways different from , uh , the typical Tarantino film . That's pretty much it . If you're into Tarantino's style , you'll enjoy it , but you have to love his films and style to really love it . I recommend it to fans of Tarantino , who are up for a slightly different film from what he usually does .
Good even if you don't like the flick	This is a featurette on the Collector's Edition of Blues Brothers 2000 , and , of course , deals with that movie . It's well-done , edited and paced nicely . It consists of interviews , behind the scenes footage and film clips , all cut together . It has so much different material and so many people that it never gets stale . No one is " the main focus " , either , so if you are looking for one specific person in this , you're likely to see them at least a little . The time difference between the " 2000 " and the original is brought up and commented on , even explained . Landis and Aykroyd both talk about the experience and how they worked to create the second one . The latter also has some more wise words on the genre of Blues . This also has the kid , and , not unlike when he acts , he's entirely tolerable ( in fact , here , he's not even a little irritating ) . The songs are great , and fit . I'd recommend this to any fan of either of the silver screen productions , the guest musicians in the latter , the band , the " Brothers " , first set and more-so the more recent , and say that if you find yourself nodding in agreement to enjoying or caring for at least one of the mentioned , this might prove a fun watch .
Influential	I do not base this on the Remastered releases . This is one of the three ( the other two being The Twilight Zone and The Outer Limits ) intelligent series in the genre of the same era , helping to prove it worthy of attention and effort by viewer and creative forces alike , after the dreaded 50's ( where the good pieces were few and far between ) . The tension , what could be called a feud , between this franchise and that of Star Wars , is obvious . It should be noted that they aspire to different goals . . . neither of which deserve being written off ( if not necessarily for all tastes ) , the relative quality of the separate entries notwithstanding . This is a " Wagon Train to the stars " . A core set of people going out on adventures . This does not particularly rely on special effects ( the ones there are vary , with several spectacular ones ) . Rather , it's about the characters . The writing of them is mostly consistent and credible , throughout . The examinations of them and the interpersonal relationships are the heart and soul of the show . The episodes are self-contained , with little to no real two-parters , references to previous ones or overarching stories . My fiancée has a theory that Gene was ( R . I . P . ) a hopeless romantic . The humor is a mixed bag . A few silly and a fair amount of clever . Occasionally it was at an inappropriate time , after otherwise serious material , and not all of it worked . There isn't always a lot of action , and the fights alternate between negative and not . This has , as my wife-to-be points out , the softest lighting on women , almost ever . This got around censorship to discuss important subjects by doing it as science fiction , " a spoonful of sugar to help the medicine go down " . The direction . . . now there's a subject that requires a wide spectrum for this . When it is bad , it can be terrible , but when it's in the positive end , it can truly be excellent . The writing , to some degree , the same . At its best , it is poignant ( a certain three-word sentence is especially well-done ) and holds plenty of food for thought . Then it can also be , as my better half puts it , ' hit you over the head obvious ' , as far as the message ( and / or how they want you to think ) is concerned . The third season brought about a precipitous drop , with , among other things , the majority ( but not the entirety ) of plots being underdeveloped and seeming rushed . The sexism is quite rampant , a sign of the decade it was made in , along with the short skirts and such . Apart from that , it's not all that dated . There are liberal ideas in this , not that that needs to stop anyone from enjoying it . This can be watched by all age groups , and each may appreciate it on a separate level . I recommend this to anyone who likes their sci-fi with a side of smart ( albeit conceived as " cowboys in space " , and one can tell ) , and / or fans of the actors as well as Roddenberry , and those who want to enter another universe . . . plenty of hours of exploration ( what with the umpteen spin-offs ) await .
An average action movie , nothing more nothing less	S . W . A . T . is pretty much by the book as far as regular action movies go , nothing really new to offer , it's just entertainment . I guess the best thing it has going for it , is all the big names ; Samuel L . Jackson , LL Cool J , Colin Farrel & Michelle Rodriguez . Pretty much each of them play their roles well , and their characters are convincing . The script is pretty good , considering it's a simple action movie , and it keeps you thoroughly entertained throughout the entire run time ( and the idea isn't bad , and it seems original enough ) . The climax is good . Most of the action scenes are well-made and exciting , and the character development ( though there wasn't a lot of it ) is pretty decent for an action movie . . . and for a movie based on a television show , this wasn't bad . Something that I was a bit annoyed at ( and some will definitely hate it ) was the amount of one-liners . Sometimes , I almost forgot I wasn't watching an Arnie movie ; every single main character has at least one one-liner , and about half of them aren't really funny , they're just annoying and misplaced . The only other thing I can complain about in this movie was the PG-13 age limit ; I think they should have made it a bit more violent and just went for an R-rating . Overall , pretty good .
A bit draggy at the end , but overall pretty good	This is a very funny movie about conning ; I loved all of the cons , the simple , subtle ways they tricked people in order to gain money or progress , one way or another . I also thought that the actors had a pretty good chemistry , and pretty much all of them pulled off their parts well . I especially like Jason Lee's character , a sarcastic , but otherwise pretty typical , nice guy . Ray Liotta also did an excellent job portraying a small time gangster type . Even Jennifer Love Hewitt , who is in no way known for her big on-screen talent , performs believably . The plot is interesting , and most of the time it develops at the right pace , but the last of the movie does drag a bit . The characters all seem pretty believable , and nearly all of them are well-played . The crude , sarcastic humor is also excellent . Some might think it's too much , but I personally found it very funny . At times there is also a bit of dark humor , which I also found to be very funny , but I would imagine it would offend some people . I recommend this movie to pretty much any fan of any of the main actors , anyone who wants to see a comedy with crude humor and a bit of morality , or just anyone who wants to see Jennifer strut around , wearing tight skirts and skimpy-looking outfits .
See ? He doesn't have to be annoying	The fourth of the Animatrix shorts , this is one of those of them that ties closely into the trilogy , specifically , the sequels . This provides the background for The Kid , seen in the second two movies , and he's genuinely not irritating in this ( no , seriously ) . The concept is highly interesting , although , for obvious reasons , this should not be seen by anyone too likely to imitate it , anyone whose behavior is that easily influenced . The animation is well-done and quite interesting , with a style of limited motion in the drawings , and the camera being responsible for a lot of the movement , in a way that feels reminiscent of regular , live-action films . The atmosphere is impeccable , and the pace is spot-on throughout . The voice acting is great , Watson does well with what few lines he has , as do Anne-Moss and Reeves . The idea and execution of this are excellent , and this is a remarkable addition to the overall universe . This has a making of , shared with Detective Story , which is well-done and informative . It's 9 and a half minutes , same as the short itself . This has one disturbing aspect , nothing objectionable beyond that . I recommend this to any fan of The Matrix franchise and / or science fiction in general .
Large	This is a set of documentaries , 9 or so total , about the three stages of production , on the 2-Disc DVD of Kingdom of Heaven . The setup allows you to view any single one of them when you want , divided into the groups of Directing , Crew and Cast , and the aforementioned phases . All added up , it has a running time of 84 minutes . It consists of interviews , behind-the-scenes footage during all of the parts of making the film and clips from the movie itself . It covers a lot of ground , and little about it should be unclear by the end of the hour and a half , if one chooses to watch all of this . Several of the main actors speak , as well as Ridley himself , and various people under him , responsible to different degrees for the many areas of creating the feature . They talk process , the freedom that Scott allows , and there is , of course , some of the obligatory love-fest . It's quite informative , thorough , and it can be entertaining , as well . I recommend it to any fan of those who helped to put the title together , and / or anyone who wants to know more about it .
Similar , yes , but still fun	This is a review of the computer edition . No , I was not referring to the movie , in case you were wondering . . . this being licensed , it is obviously going to be reminiscent of that . It changes plot details , and two characters are noticeably entirely devoid from this , nevertheless , this is a fine companion to the theatrically released effort , and neither of them are necessary to enjoy or appreciate the other one . What I am talking about , in the summary , is that this is , as is clear to anyone who's tried both , rather similar to the new Prince of Persia trilogy , by the same company , with the leading man now having been given the appearance of one of four man-sized Mutant Turtles , perhaps in an odd twist on the old and popular Western fairy tale notion . There are no puzzles , however , and the emphasis is placed on speed , and the cool maneuvering , with scaling walls ( think The Matrix ) , swinging on poles , climbing and using ledges to get around . This is much more of a platform title , with a classic arcade flavor to it . The feeling of this being the result of them just slapping a green skinned model on the heir to the throne of aforementioned franchise honestly isn't that strong , and hey , they're all entertaining . In this , you are rewarded for how fast you are , how many coins you get ( they aren't used for anything , you are merely graded on them , like the others I mention here ) , how flawlessly you fight ( all of the combat takes place in designated spots ) , and how well you work with the three brothers . It all adds up to gaining access to Challenges , of which there is one per mission ( and you may replay anything you've completed at any time , and try to improve your performance ) , as well as collecting shells , which grant unlock-ables , including artwork , videos , and other goodies . The martial arts system is simple , though it is still great . It isn't unlike that of The Sands of Time and The Two Towers . Instead of defending , you can dodge . There is a main combo that you can utilize , achieved by continuous strikes , and each member of the quartet ( who are all voiced by the same people as in the film , as the only ones of this ) have different attacks , with unique qualities , with them exceeding the others in strength , range , speed or balance , depending on which you use . Usually , you can pick which of them you control , and you can even have two engage in a powerful , combined blow , individual to each of them . . . those entail all of them being available , of course , which , in the appropriate areas ( not all allow the others , some only one , specific to that portion ) only requires you to do well in the ninja ways , and the others will join Leonardo along the way ( provided you don't slip up and set their enthusiasm back ) , in the order of most to least excited about the prospect of them as a team going out and battling crime . They also have an ability each , that add to how well they can all get around , meanwhile , these aren't used as often as they could be . This could be due to the length . This is fairly short . If one was so inclined , one could finish it the same day they started . The re-playability is reasonable , with the bonuses providing cause to go back and do better . This is also relatively easy , and without difficulty settings , this isn't going to be that complicated for experience . This does take skill , reflexes and patience , and in return it is exciting , awesome and utterly addictive . It's accessible , as well , with only few keys ( and no mouse , outside of the menus , making this ideal for consoles ) to memorize and functions that aren't hard to activate . Level design is excellent , and you are seldom , if not quite never , unaware of where you're supposed to go . You'll find yourself atop New York sky-scrapers , and down in the very depths of the city's sewers during this . The environments can also have rather particular lighting , and the time of day as well as the weather are also incorporated , and without any of it coming off as rushed or incomplete . The fire effect is really the only that is unsatisfactory as far as the sights go . I found no bugs or glitches in this . The graphics are gorgeous , and everything is kept in the style and look of the new flick , and this captures the humor and the action of it , well . This is not too mature for kids , but it isn't childish and stupid , either , so if you have the spirit , you can try this . The story-telling is well-done , almost entirely kept in comic book panels , with pans and other dynamic exploring of them . There are a few in-engine " cut-scenes " . And there are several clips from the animated feature , as well . The camera largely follows you , and while it isn't your average over-the-shoulder 3rd person view , you may still not affect it , other than proceeding forward . There are a couple of points where it works against you . The audio is top-notch , with energetic and fitting music , rock and score , and everything sounds right . The acting ranges , albeit it is never outright poor . The saving is automatic , based upon checkpoints , and whenever you complete a full segment . Six slots are dedicated to it , each its own profile . The Bosses tend to be predictable , once you know one , the rest aren't exactly mysteries , to an extent . They're still well-done ( and one is a magnificent and definitely welcome surprise ) and only the very last one would I consider using the word " tedious " about ( and that one is nice , and a worthy ending ) . There is no language , and nothing otherwise objectionable in this , the violence is in no way explicit , no blood or gore , PG or thereabouts all the way . I recommend this to any fan of fast-paced adventure video-games of recent times , the Teenage Ninjas , the concept and / or the cinema version of this , of the same year .
The short story is just better . . . but this isn't exactly bad	We watched this in English class , after having read the short story , written by Hanif Kureishi . Going by how powerful the original text is , this is somewhat unimpressive . I think the real problem is that the short story was so compact , so rich in detail yet so brief , and it was thoroughly well-told . There are always problems when one lengthens a short story , and that fact is very evident here . There just isn't enough good material . There are attempts made at drama that fall flat , often due to the lack of proper build-up to them . Film requires more drama , stronger feelings . Maybe the story just wasn't suited for the medium . The original had the lead character's son filled with hatred , one instilled from an invisible enemy , leading to much frustration in the father . The ending was almost sublime in its pure emotion , the release experienced . Here , this enemy has gotten a face and a body , the hatred in the son isn't as credible ( partially due to the son's occasional weakness , which stands in stark contrast to the strength of his convictions , both herein and in the original ) , and the ending is . . . just not anywhere near as strong as that of the book ( it even messes up the original ending , by including the same scene , deprived of its powerful emotion , near the conclusion of the story here ) . Characters are added , some for little reason . Breaks of comedic relief are inserted , presumably to ease the heavy message , themes and story of the film . I suppose this could have been a good addition , but it just takes away from the serious nature of it . The plot is good , if some of the new material seems of little interest . The focus has shifted some ; the film is entirely about Parvez , and how he relates to those around him . The pacing is decent enough , it doesn't drag too noticeably . The cinematography and editing is fine . It would be difficult to claim that it tries too hard , since it hardly tries at all . In spite of all the negatives , I'm glad to have seen this film , and I wish Kureishi more luck with feature films in the future . . . and I certainly will keep my eyes open for his other films . He's a quite gifted writer , I think the main problem here was that this story did not fit the medium and length of feature film . I recommend this to any fan of stories that deal with the cultures , in particular conflicts between them .
Highly entertaining , but occasionally frustrating	I haven't really tried the first two Crash Bandicoot games ( nor any of the other games that feature the characters therein ) , except for a demo of the second , but after playing the demo ( both demos letting you play through one whole level of their respective games ) to the third game , I knew I had to have the full game . Precious few demos have that effect on me . Once I did get it , I quickly beat it . . . but I found myself returning to it , in order to collect the various bonuses . . . it's rather addictive , that I must admit , and most of the time , it's also a lot of fun to play . And here I am , several years after , having just beaten it again , though this time mainly in order to review it . The first thing I want to mention in this review is the humor ; it's so cartoon-y and far out that I can't see any kid playing through it without laughing . Even most adults playing or watching the game will find themselves chuckling and smiling . Most of the jokes are fine for all ages , as they are entirely inoffensive and even Crash's deaths are colorful and cute , though there is maybe one or two sexual jokes , as well . On the plus side , I don't believe there's any gross-out material . Control is simple enough , anyone used to playing on a PlayStation should be able to assume full control of Crash , the Bandicoot , within minutes . I don't really know much about the story and game-play as compared to the other games , but I rather liked both in this game . The time-traveling may not be the most original way to go , but it works very well and it lets Crash go to quite a few interesting places and time periods . The typical level has Crash running and jumping , though in some he will swim , and occasionally , the female character ( whose name eludes me at the moment ) will come in to ride atop a young animal for the duration of the level . The game consists of 25 levels and 5 boss enemies , one for every 5 regular levels . The difficulty slowly rises throughout the game , meaning that completely new players who don't even know the series will be able to get into it without problems ( and since one of those players are yours truly , I know that very much from my own experience ) . However , this also means that the last few levels are , at times , incredibly hard . . . and they will provide about as much frustration as earlier levels provided fun and entertainment . Which brings me back to the bonus stuff ; it can be darned hard to get , in some cases , and will , again , at times provide more frustration than entertainment . The vehicle control is particularly a source of the former , more than the latter . . . in fact , in general , levels that differ from the main ones ( with the exception proving the rule being when an animal assists you ) , tend to be a bother ( putting it lightly ) . It just , for my tastes , seems much too dominated by random things , especially in the boss fights . The game-play is fairly fresh and entertaining , but at times you really miss more attacks , particularly ranged ones ( apart from the bazooka , which is only unlocked once you've beat the fourth boss , meaning you can use it for the last five levels , and go back and beat earlier levels with it , but that's it ) . Crash's main attack is spinning , and he can also jump onto some enemies ( a la Super Mario , a title I believe more or less any gamer knows ) , and a few more are added throughout the game , but apart from aforementioned gun , they're all close-range . In addition to what you can collect for bonuses , you can also complete the levels in a timed mode . Among the stuff to unlock are several bonus levels , and the game's status window tells you how much of the game you have successfully completed . The level design is fair , though I guess most levels are reasonably simple . Visually , they're quite a treat , though , with detailed and animated backgrounds and very high LOD ( Level of Detail ) on all foreground elements , as well . The boss enemies are cool to fight , and nicely diverse , there aren't really any two that can be claimed to be exactly the same , if they do get really difficult to beat pretty quickly ( at least each defeated one grants you a new ability , most of which are attacks , and in games where such are so sparse , getting more is a very , very good thing ) . The camera dynamically follows Crash as he runs , spins and jumps his way through the levels , and this works really well . The graphics are great , no doubt about that . The game is basically a 3D platform action game , with a 3rd person camera , and as such , it's a pretty good game . The sound is nice and sufficiently varied . The music is marvelous . . . each unique setting ( in time and on Earth ) has its own unique score , and they're all rather nicely done . The enemies are imaginative and diverse . Few actually follow you or actively attack you , and a number of them aren't even intending to hurt you . The creativity and imagination is a rather admirable quality of this . . . every world you visit , every new time , every foe , intentional or otherwise , and last but not least every untimely demise of the title character , all are well-thought out and vivid . The whole feel of the game is cartoon-y , colorful , cute and it's all fairly easily accessible , and I would guess that the game is primarily aimed at kids . . . but that doesn't mean adults can't enjoy it , too . All in all , highly entertaining and addictive game , but a tad too frustratingly hard in the latter part . I recommend it to kids and gamers alike , especially if they're into the comedy and the style , and I would assume that fans of the franchise will find great enjoyment in playing through this , as well . Sense of humor advised . Patience and high tolerance for annoyance required .
Pretty good semi-autobiographical drama , but could have been better	Being that this is his first big role in a feature film , I was excited to see how well Eminem could act . I'm happy to say that he pulls it off perfectly . I didn't even think about that it was Eminem in the lead role , as he portrays his character perfectly . Even though it's similar to his real personality , it must have been hard for him . The rest of the actors mostly perform well too , actually pretty much everybody except Kim Basinger is completely believable . Unfortunately , she seems a bit out of place in this film , and she didn't portray her character too believably , in my opinion . The plot is interesting and keeps your attention , for the duration of the film . The characters are all believable . The cinematography is excellent ; it really makes you feel that you're there , in every single scene , in every battle . Being a rap fan , I really enjoyed the rap music aspect of the film too , though I guess people who aren't into rap will dislike big parts of the film . I also felt that the ex-girlfriend subplot was a bit underdeveloped ; it could have been take a bit further . Apart from that , and the acting of Kim Basinger , this couldn't have been much better . I really liked that it wasn't entirely autobiographical , that would have been predictable and probably boring , especially for us fans of Eminem who know his background well . I like what they did with the theme , and where they took the plot . Overall , a pretty good drama that could have been better . I'd recommend this to most fans of dramas , and fans of hip-hop / rap / Eminem .
It's fine	This is a feature-length documentary . It's found on the third disc of The Blues Brothers Collection . This is mainly directed at those interested in the band and their work . The film is barely mentioned at all . It's partially made up of interview bits that contain what I gather are meant to be jokes . . . I can't claim I thought of a single one of them as funny . There's a gimmick to it that I won't reveal here , and that some will enjoy , others won't . The rest of this is footage of them playing , most of them the entire song , start to finish . The aforementioned . . . long-running scene , I suppose , does have a lot of information and background . It does also serve occasionally as just setting up for the next inter-cut performance , and a time or two , this gets painfully obvious , utterly devoid of subtlety . That also goes for the " integrated " promotion ( granted , there's not that much of that ) . I guess this was considered OK to do , since people watching are already fans . . . but guys , seriously , make a commercial , instead . The acting , cinematography and editing is invariably uninspired and unengaging . One can wonder why they added the fictitious parts to this , instead of simply putting out everything else in this , possibly even in two separate productions . The DVD also holds a trivia game , info about the various people who helped make the tunes , a discography and the like . I recommend this to fans of the music , the phenomenon and possibly of Aykroyd .
Columbus hits it but good	I had heard from several people that this was worth watching , so when it aired on television , I did that very thing . Williams is marvelous , the references , the voices , the whole thing , and he delivers on the pathos , as well . The plot is great , and develops nicely . There are pretty predictable parts , but this did surprise me at times . The humor is very good , some childish material , and a part or two are gross-out comedy , but the majority is hilarious , especially if you're into Robin ( the actor , not the bird nor the mercilessly slain , if he was hardly the only thing , character of the two Schumacher Batman movies ) . There are several jokes that are sexual ( one certain part seems to have about every alluding phrase that they could get away with in a family film in it ) , and not all kids should watch it . The drama of this is well-done as well , and the ending was a heckuva lot better than it could have been ( in particular with Chris in the director's chair ) . The music is magnificent . The acting varies , the young ' uns aren't all credible , but that only serves a minor distraction . I recommend this to any fan of the Robin Williams and / or Chris Columbus .
A mature animated Disney feature , and a beautiful film	This is somewhat unique , for a number of reasons . Perhaps most importantly , it is , as my summary states , mature . Gone are the talking animals , the show-stopping musical number ( as were a staple of the Disney cartoons of the time ) , and the themes , the tone , is more serious . This is the only Disney animated feature actually based on a true event . There is still humor that the children can laugh at , and it's still much more simple and easy to take in than a lot of entertainment , but this has things for the grown-ups , as well . This seems to have lead to it being somewhat overlooked and less popular with kids . Another difference is how realistic the look is . The characters , the movements , faces , everything , it all looks far more real than other animated pieces . The animation is magnificent . The colors are used well , and quite subtly , in key sequences . The acting is good , and Bedard and Kuhn , the speaking and singing voice of the title character , respectively , are both excellent . Gibson isn't a bad singer , and he fits the character of Smith , both in attitude and voice . The majority of the actors lending their voices to the Indian characters are actual Native Americans , which is definitely an impressive and note-worthy detail . The music is great . Characterization is nicely done . For a film that's about an hour and fifteen minutes , sans credits , we know more about these people , and understand them better , than you'd expect . The plot is well-written , but of course it is a fictional recounting of the actual story ( this is Disney , after all ) . The pacing is marvelous , it never really drags . The DVD extras are a mixed bag . . . not all are well-produced or aesthetically appealing ( or even introduced properly ) . The multi-language reel , though , is well-cut and well-done , both idea and execution get high marks . . . although as much as I dislike Danish dubbing , I'm not sure that I was as relieved as I was insulted that the Danish voice was not part of it ; the Swedish and Norwegian were ! Also , the interactive adventure can amuse , and may inform . I recommend this to anyone willing to watch Disney , especially the more mature audiences .
Watch it for the entertainment value , and you may very well enjoy yourself	No , this isn't on the level that has previously dominated the two franchises , nor was the first AvP . . . but hey , the Alien franchise hasn't had a stellar film since the second movie ( the Predator , since the first . . . ouch ) , and honestly , if you go see this purely to be entertained , and bring a fairly generous amount of suspension of the ol ' disbelief , well , it just might be worth it . We don't particularly care about the characters ( in spite of at least some attempts by the filmmakers ) , but we are watching the movie to watch the two races duke it out . The plot is fairly thin , and the ending is perhaps something of a deus ex machina ( basically . . . they wrote themselves into a corner , and then got themselves out in a way that does perhaps not entirely work ) , although some of it , somehow , actually does work to place this as a prequel ( well , somewhat ) to the other films , the original Alien and Predator films ( maybe more the former , in fact , maybe entirely the former ) . The film picks up exactly where AvP left off . . . if you liked the way that ended , and want to see where it goes from there , this does just that . It starts nice , fast , and immediately , and keeps to a reasonably high pace , partially by cutting back and forth between various characters and situations , keeping things in motion . Personally , I'm not sure I would have minded less plot and more action , but oh well . The action does definitely have its moments of awesomeness ( this Predator may command more respect than the ones of AvP ) , if more often than not , perhaps too many times , it's difficult to tell what's going on . This is directed by two guys who've done more effects work than directing ( and their direction tends to be of music videos ) , and it shows . . . the movie looks good and has great effects , but I could find rocks that held , evoked and expressed more emotion . The acting is downright atrocious at times , no question ( one actor seems cast purely based on the fact that she can look a lot like Sigourney Weaver , I guess hearkening back to the good days of the franchise . . . then who is supposed to be Arnie , or , I guess even Glover ? ) . The dialog ? Just . . . bad . But again , that's not what we're here for . We're here to see the races of Aliens and Predators fighting and killing in an actual community on Earth , and that's just what we get . And yes , there is some eye candy for the young males , as well . I recommend this to fans of the two " characters " , albeit not your huge fan ( you know who you are ) , the ones who enjoy what Scott , McTiernan and possibly Cameron did , more than wanting to see the two races duke it out . . . you have my respect , but this movie isn't for you , nor was it intended for you , so if you do watch it , know what to expect . Anyone just looking for a good time , watching the creatures cause mayhem and death . . . have at it .
A very entertaining sci-fi action thriller by John Carpenter	After hearing what one of my friends said about this movie , I was looking forward to seeing it , to see , as he described it , " major alien ass-kicking " . And yes , that is definitely what I got . The film of course starts off by introducing us to the main character , the theme of the film and ideas behind the story . The first half hour or so passes before any actual alien ass-kicking took place , but I was not bored at all . The idea behind the film is also pretty good ; I understand that the script was written using a short story as basis . I have not read this story , but I will definitely look for it , just to see where exactly the ideas in the film originated . The basic idea is , without revealing too much , that we humans are in a form of hibernation , we don't see what's really going on , as we are sedated by constant advertisements and messages that manipulate our subconscious . This can pretty much be directly linked to what the author of the original short story thinks about our day and age , and he's probably not the only one who thinks it . The film presents all these ideas in a great and very entertaining way . The film has very entertaining action scenes , and very exciting thriller scenes . It has some great ' Duke Nukem'-like humor , and both the thriller and the action scenes are packed with intensity . John Carpenter is and was a very talented director ; he does action , thriller , horror and sci-fi great . The plot is great , it starts out a little slow , but once it gains in pace it never really drops , and the pacing is never actually off . The film also constantly develops the story , and surprises you nearly every time you think you've figured out what's gonna happen next . It elegantly avoids all of the clichés , even in the ending . The acting is pretty much all good ; there were definitely no performances that were very bad . The characters are very well-written , every single character has it's own personality , and they all react realistically and credibly to the different situations . The special effects look a little dated today , but they still look OK , and they were well-made back in the late 80's . The score is also great , as it usually is in Carpenter's films . All in all , a very entertaining sci-fi action thriller , that should be enjoyable to pretty much any Carpenter fan . I recommend it to fans of John Carpenter , people who the subject / theme of the film appeals to and fans of sci-fi / action-thrillers in general .
Somehow , this works even if you don't really like the humor	I've never really liked Steve Oedekerk . I want to give his movies a chance , but I'm not very happy with the fate and state of the second Ace Ventura film and I just am not into his humor . I've never really understood why physical violence , repetition and " silly " / stupid humor was funny . I remember watching this some years back , and , heck , I don't know , something in me just wanted to watch it again . I could remember the plot ( well , the basics of it ) and the majority of the jokes I could either remember in detail or they didn't seem familiar at all ( meaning , I most likely didn't find them funny the first time I watched it ) . I believe the number of times I laughed while watching this could be counted on the hand of an overeager and careless teenager right after he's celebrated New Year's Eve or the 4th of July . And that might even be both viewings put together . But somehow . . . I never really wanted the movie to end . I never felt remotely like turning it off and I would be lying if I claimed to have been bored by it . The plot , sure , it's simple . . . but it works . It develops nicely , too , and , as stereotypical and ludicrous as these characters were . . . I kid you not , I felt for them . Oedekerk treads the fine line between melodrama and discreet character development masterfully . The dialog has moments of grandeur . The acting is credible . As lame as the following may sound . . . it is a pleasure to watch Oedekerk himself , in his little role , just getting wacky and zany . The man is clearly enjoying himself , and it's hard not to smile at , and not in a cruel way ( though that may be what he intended ) . And could the movie possibly feature a better soundtrack ? I don't think there was a single song that I didn't care for or thought didn't fit ( and they all do seem to be songs . . . complete with lyrics . . . unusual , but it works , and it works great ) . To anyone not into the genre , I must warn you . . . some of it is , indeed , rap . It's not really dominating , though , and it's not that much of the music , anyway . Lawrence and Robbins have pretty good chemistry together . . . as buddy-comedy pairings go , this is one of the luckier ones . And to anyone else out there who have noticed John C . McGinley's name on the cast list and are hoping that he plays something similar to Dr . Cox . . . I can assure you , while he doesn't have an awful lot of screen-time , he does , in fact , portray a character possessing many of the same characteristics ( well , let's be honest , he hardly ever plays something in the other end of the spectrum , anyhow . . . not that I mind , mind . . . you ) . All in all . . . I cannot , for the life of me , explain why , but this movie entertained me . I didn't laugh , but I never felt like I was wasting my time , either . Somehow , this just works , even if you don't care for the humor contained within . Oedekerk , you've shown a new side of yourself . I shall seek out more of your work to see if this was a lucky coincidence . . . or if you truly have that talent . I recommend this film . . . I don't know , I guess mainly to fans of Mr . Oedekerk , and possibly the actors Robbins , Lawrence and McGinley .
Good to watch if you liked the movie	At nearly nineteen minutes , this behind the scenes production is a fine production . Costumes , choreography ( ! ) , the camaraderie on set and to a degree , casting , are all covered herein . It's well-paced and neither overstays its welcome nor ends prematurely . This may be best to watch after you've seen the movie , as it could spoil some plot points . There are interviews with cast and crew , and if it didn't come through in the film that Jennifer Garner loved just being her girly self in front of the cameras , this special will confirm that . All of the main cast are interviewed , and the director is , as well . This feature covers about everything about the making of the film , and it becomes clear that they had a lot of fun making this . The only thing that this doesn't seem to cover is the music . . . neither score nor the songs used are really mentioned or talked about , but they don't particularly need to be . This is well-done and worth watching . I recommend this to fans of the movie and / or those who want to know more about it .
Reflections on Returns	This is the fourth part of the Shadows of the Bat series of documentaries on the Batman series , this time focusing on Batman Returns ( and it is featured on the recently-released DVD of that film ) . This talks about coming back to do a sequel , and reveals ( though neither of them are actually seen saying it , we hear this from those who worked with them ) that neither Burton nor Keaton were entirely certain about doing another one . Burton talks about working with new people , and seeing what more he can do in the universe of these films . Keaton talks about how he approached playing the same character again ( which he tells us that he never had done before ) , and seeing Pfeiffer and DeVito going through what he went through a few years earlier . Tim also mentions how diametrically opposite the reactions were to , well , each other , how some would say that it was lighter , and others would say it was darker , than the first . This is half an hour long , and the length and pacing are fine . It's interesting throughout , and the anecdotes are good to hear ( Sean Young has not had luck with these films . . . one wonders if she and Robin Williams curse this franchise into the ground , though she does appear in these to talk about it ) . Burton talks about how he created the back-story for The Penguin , how he developed a psychological profile for the character . Listening to him is always fun . The screen-writers , Waters and Hamm , both have interesting things to share . Pfeiffer and DeVito also add in their interview bits . There is also talk about the memorable final shot of the movie , and just how late that was added ( and that they came close to the release date before being done with the film ) . Burton describes when he realized that the studio did not want him to helm any more Batman films ? it's difficult to say what would have happened with the franchise if they had let him , but we all know how it did go ) . I recommend this to any fan of the film and the people working on it .
Great acting and a great film	Having seen neither this nor the Kubrick version of Lolita , a few weeks ago , I started to wonder , if the films are really as great as they are made out to be ; so , after reading as much as I could about both films , I finally bought this film on DVD . After having watched it , I was very impressed , both by the acting and the overall film quality . The theme is based on the well-known novel of the same name , by Russian author , Vladimir Nabokov . I found it very well-presented ; unlike what you might expect , you don't loathe or despise Irons ' character . You may find some of his actions disturbing , perhaps even disgusting . But you understand him , and you sympathize with him . The plot is great , it evolves at a very good pace , rarely standing still at any point . I don't think there was any point during the film where I was bored . The acting is great ; Jeremy Irons gives a stellar performance , as do Melanie Griffith , Frank Langella and Dominique Swain . Of all those , I think it was actually Swain who impressed me the most ; maybe it's because this was her first film , and she didn't have any acting experience . Or maybe it's because , well , despite knowing that she was very young when she made this film , I was , just like Irons ' character , Humbert , attracted to her . Her performance as Lolita is amazing . The cinematography is very good , at times great . The dialog is well-written and well-delivered . The characters are well-written and credible . The amount of humor in the film , however little it may be , was good . It helped the viewer ease into the somewhat uncomfortable subject of the film . The climax of the film is great ; despite being hinted at , throughout the film , it came as a surprise , and truly sent a chill down my spine . Now , as I mentioned early on in this review , I have not seen Stanley Kubrick's version of Lolita ; I have not read the book , either . Therefore , I can't really say if this is an accurate depiction of the story or not . But I found it to be a very good piece of cinema , and I suspect most people interested in the subject would too . I recommend this to fans of any of the actors , possibly Nabokov's novel , and / or people who are interested in the subject matter . I will advise anyone who sees it , though , to be prepared ; the film is quite explicit , and some will definitely take very much offense from it . If you can sit through the film , though , you probably should . It really is great .
Good film-noir action game , but way too hard and too repetitive game-play	The two things that stand out most about this game is that it's in the genre of " noir " , which exceptionally few games are , and that it's the very first game to involve bullet-time . The film-noir works very well in the game , and the story is pretty typically noir ( revenge is the main theme ) , and all in all , I'd say the game has a very good noir feel to it , especially due to the narration . The bullet-time has ( which was surely to come in some game , after the massive success of The Matrix , in which the photography technique was invented and used quite well ) , since this game was made , been done a few times more , most of them better than in this , so that's not as special anymore , but they did marvelous in programming and animating it , and while it isn't as nicely explained as it was in aforementioned philosophical sci-fi action film , it's very well-integrated . The game has you controlling Max Payne , an ex-cop with good cause to seek revenge . I won't reveal here what happens to the man to provide him with said cause , as the in-game reveal is quite simply so effective as to rival the emotional impact of a masterfully directed motion picture . The story develops throughout , with clues being provided and Max slowly figuring out who's behind it all . The voice acting is very good , and the diverse character gallery is credible and well-written . I'm not sure which of the two games , this or the sequel , had the better story ( though perhaps this had too much technology by comparison ) , though I remember more of this . . . perhaps simply because I played it for longer , more times . This had the more concise amount of characters , and at least one character went through a change in the second game that I didn't care too much for . The game seems far too hard to beat ; the enemies seem to have far superior aim , or maybe their weapons just several times as much damage as the player does . . . anyway , I often found myself emptying entire clips ( ! ) at my enemy , only to be killed by a single shot , when Max stopped shooting to reload . The game-play is also incredibly repetitive . The only thing you do is run around and shoot . Of course , the slow-motion running makes for more intense fire-fights , and the dives help give you the feel of being in a John Woo film ( giving the game a feel of , I suppose , being in a noir film directed by the Chinese master of action movies ) . Oh , actually , there are also a few jumping puzzles ( yes , jumping ) in the game , which really mostly serve as more frustration as you also have far too little ( read : hardly any at all ) control over how long or how high your character jumps . The weapon selection is very good , with a Beretta ( and dual use available , fitting right in with the John Woo feel ) , an assault rifle ( from the looks of it , probably an M4 ) , two shotguns , one of which is a sawed-off , a sniper and more . Last-mentioned ranged weapon has a very nice slow-motion camera effect that I won't describe in detail , activated simply by shooting at an enemy with the rifle , using the scope to aim . The sound is very good , everything sounds as it should , with marvelous ambient sounds to make you feel like you really are in New York . The graphics are very good , but the graphic engine requires far too much , and the game will sometimes lag on computers that can run newer games with better graphics flawlessly . It especially lagged for me in the cinematics , bringing several of them so far out of sync that most of the enjoyment of watching them was severely negatively affected . The game has a great atmosphere , they've managed to capture the whole experience of a noir film almost perfectly , with the mood , the music , the story and the plot-twists . Had the game only been better game-play-wise , it would have been very short of a masterpiece . Unfortunately , the creators were too busy improving the graphics and inserting in-jokes to do anything about it . They put more effort into the atmosphere , graphics and bullet-time , and the game-play , re-playability and length suffered . The level design of the game is very good , but it still doesn't save it . Overall , the game is good , but it could have been great . If you are going to play it , I urge you to try it with mods , instead of the regular game . . . heck , actually , with how many marvelous mods that are available , for free for download off the ' net , I urge anyone who enjoys action games and can run this to get it just to be able to play the mods ( in fact , for any creative folk who double as gamers out there , I can say as one such person myself that modding for this game is a lot of fun . . . if you can use the tools . You can make new levels ( and program cinematics for them , tons of fun ) , mess around with coding , put in new weapons and change just about everything to fit what you want to achieve . It may not be the most easy to figure out how to do , but there are a ton of tutorials , and these two are quite probably the games that let you change the most . . . at the very , very least among them ) . If you do intend to play the game through , do it because of the excellent story and the noir-like mood , and don't expect a very diverse experience to be gotten out of the main game-play . Also , if you insist on beating it , prepare to use cheat codes , unless you're very , very stubborn ( like me ) or very , very patient . The game takes about ten hours to beat , give or take , and after that there is somewhat little chance that you'll play it again . It's just far too hard , to the point of being frustrating at times . I recommend this to people who dig noir and / or third-person shooters . If you have the patience .
Your everyday run-of-the-mill standard 90's thriller	The movie starts off being regular , and ends with no real surprises . This doesn't necessarily mean that it's bad ; it's good if you just want to see that typical type of 90's thriller , in fact it's pretty much the very definition of regular . Nothing out of the ordinary , it even has it's share of clichés ; the psycho , the stereotypically ( and unrealistically ) perfect family , etc . The ending itself is so rigged with clichés that it will definitely bring back memories ( if they are of superior films or not , I leave up to them to reveal . . . I've only been following the genre much , much more recently ) for some old fans of the slasher genre , and may or may not cause them to laugh at the sheer stupidity of the scene . That still isn't necessarily a bad thing ; you can always have some fun playing Count The Clichés , especially around the last 30 minutes . Apart from the corny scenes , it's pretty entertaining , it's well-paced , there isn't really any point in the movie when it's boring , or slow ; the plot moves along nicely , every scene has some point , either in bringing the story a little further or in developing one or more of the characters . The acting is pretty good , mostly very believable . Not very good , but not really bad either ; pretty entertaining , worth a watch for fans of the genre .
The world of Flux	This is a featurette on Æon Flux , featured , obviously , on said film's DVD . It's comprised of film-clips , interviews , behind-the-scenes footage and we are even treated to some clips from the original show . Even the creator of the show is animated ( I understand that he wasn't particularly pleased with the end result of the movie being created . . . and he does talk about how little he had to do with it , while David Gale , one of the producers , seems to feel that he , Chung , the creator , did gain something from the experience ) . The director has some decent enough things to say , though her definition of sci-fi as a genre seems off . . . what she says seems to apply more to fantasy . Hurd , another of the producers , on the other hand , gets it and explains it perfectly . Talked about is the way the world of the film is done ( at at least one point , it seems like the two writers didn't agree fully , I could be wrong , I suppose ) , and how different a take on the genre it is ( as well as what they feel the core is . . . revealing it could be considered a spoiler ) . Outright ridiculous it only really gets when it is claimed that the piece " reinvents " the genre ( come on , Hurd , you're smarter than this , you worked on both Terminator films . . . ! Yes , in my mind , T3 never actually happened , and I'm not sure ( as far as what I accept to be true goes ) there are any plans to make more , either ) . This is well-edited and has fine pacing . It has some good inside stuff , and if you can keep from giggling at all the people talking about how much better their movie is than the science fiction masterpieces , it's not bad . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know more about the film .
At least they weren't werewolves	Credit for the summary goes to my fiancée . This is a featurette found on the DVD of 13 Going On 30 . At least the Special Edition ( you know , the one that doesn't smell like bubble-gum . . . that line was thought up by my significant other , as well ) , that's what we're going by , we wouldn't know about the Fun and Flirty one . It is perhaps best watched if you are very comfortable with your teenage years , or if hearing about the awkwardness of others is at least not too painful . It has several members of the cast talking about , well , said period of time , fortunately found in their respective pasts ( yes , including alternate dimensions ) . It , thusly , consists partially ( in fact , maybe mostly ) of interviews . It's produced fine . Intercut with the speaking are whatever fitting pieces of photographic record that were dug up in research . The tone is light . I recommend this to anyone who liked the film itself , fans of the various actors involved in it , and / or those who want to see Jen when she was younger . . . and yes , I'm afraid she was cute ( if shy and embarrassed ) .
Pusher Light	With this film coming out several years after Pusher , giving Nicolas Winding Refn plenty of time to work on it , with basically the same cast as Pusher and apparently a bigger budget , I guess I expected more than this . While Pusher was an impressive and gritty look at the underground of Copenhagen , this is just a slightly unrealistic psychological profile of a loser who finds his wife having a baby to be the final straw . The film is about Leo , who hates almost everything about his life . When he finds himself pushed in the background for the baby his wife is to give birth to soon , he flips out and sets a load of bad stuff coming his way in motion . The plot is pretty good , I guess , but it just didn't seem as good as the plot of Pusher . The pacing is fair , but the film too often seems to stand still . The acting was mostly great . The characters are somewhat interesting and credible , but they were too underdeveloped ( even more so than those of Pusher ) , so we rarely understand why they do what they do . The score is great , though it is overly noisy and annoying at times , most of the time it fits in well with the character were watching and his or her state of mind . The cinematography is less interesting and involving than that of Pusher . Less movement , and when there finally is movement , it seems off . The directorial style of Pusher is still there , and this is what makes the film enjoyable and watchable . However , too much time is spent wondering why him or her is doing this and that , and in the end I found that even with a fair bit of analyzing , I can't make heads or tails of the film . I don't know . . . maybe my expectations were too high . I recommend this to very big fans of director Nicolas W . Refn and / or Pusher .
Pretty good black comedy spoofing teen beauty contests	When I first sat down to watch this , I was quick to judge it as a dud . About ten or twenty minutes into it , I suddenly started to love pretty much every second of it . It doesn't last every single second of the movie , but most of it is really funny . If you're into black humor you should definitely check it out . All of the main characters have a very distinct dialect for the entire movie , which at first seems annoying , but eventually you grow to love it , and laugh at it . The acting is mostly acceptable , as most the characters are laughable stereotypes . The movie is very black , one of the most pitch black I've ever seen , so if you don't think you can stand extreme black humor , or you're easily offended , you should definitely avoid this film . It isn't for everybody's taste , and most people probably won't like it . It's gold for any fan of black humor though , if you like a movie like One night at McCools , you'll probably like this one too . It's made in the style of a documentary , I think the genre is called " mockumentary " . Once again , not for everyones taste , but worth watching for fans of black humor .
Little left of the silliness of the first two films . . . moving more towards the grandeur of the later films	After the first two films , which mainly consisted of silly humor with little plot , this one improves the formula some , and adds more of the trademarks that all us fans know and love . Taking the Gang to Jutland was a marvelous idea , and it simultaneously exploits and reveals many of the prejudices us Zealanders have against the Judes . . . and utilizing the left-over Nazi bunkers on the shores of Jutland ( from the occupation ) , complete with the intricate weapon-systems that they mastered is one among countless examples of the extensive research and excellent use of facts by Bahs and Balling . The plot is fairly well-written , if a few of the developments are perhaps too random ( and using an opposing gang of criminals again seems a tad unoriginal ) . The pacing is quite good . . . the film is never really dull . The acting is great , with top-notch performances by the leads , as usual . The supporting players contain some magnificent and well-known contemporary Danish actors . . . Helle Virkner , Preben Kaas ( in a role quite different from Dynamite-Harry ) and Karl Stegger as a greedy Jude . . . which he portrays with great skill . Peter Steen returns to portray another uptight , overplayed semi-highly-ranked ( but without any real seniority , professionalism or expertise . . . making fun of the Danish authorities ) authority figure . The writing mostly works out , and the actions and plot is mostly credible ( though a new skill of Benny's , revealed near the end , was clearly a deus ex machina ; Bahs and Balling had written themselves into a corner and their workaround is neither subtle nor masterful ) . The humor is mostly more sophisticated than that of the previous two efforts , though there is still a trace of the silly humor ( some relating to Steen's character ) . Much of it , however , as is the case with the later , better films , is derived from humane errors and the likes . This marks the first utterance by Egon of " I am tired to death " , as well as the first appearance of the Franz Jäger safes ( and this film holds what is most likely the very reason behind them being chosen ; a German safe that still exists ( or at least did when these were produced ) and was around during the second World War ) , as well as the first use by Benny of the " doohickey " ( as Egon later calls it , in a clever reference to the fact that it was never properly named ) . We are coming closer still to the excellence of the later films . . . reaching the height of this series , the height of Danish comedy . I recommend this film to any fan of Danish films , comedy and / or The Olsen Gang . . . this holds some of the truly great moments of the franchise , and shouldn't be missed by anyone interested in the characters or series .
The easiest to tolerate ?	" I can't watch anymore " . I understand you , but that really refers more to the entire Prequel Trilogy . When you put a line like that in . . . I mean , just look at the title of Intolerable Cruelty , and the tag of The Matrix Revolutions . But yes , my summary refers to the most recent three . And it does , indeed , not take into account how frenetic this can be . There's a healthy dose of action , and some of it does work . . . but much is overdone . The light-saber stuff varies , but some bits , with how casual its participants are , while the intent surely was to make it look cool , it just takes away the sense of danger , and the thrill and excitement go with it . At times , the fights are done in medium shots , which doesn't help any . The battle scenes , for really the only time in any of these movies , lack any kind of sense of progression , you can never tell who's winning , and it renders them little more than visual spectacles . The effects are amazing , I do give them that . Do the cameos add , or merely detract ? The dialog ( though it does have moments ) and acting ( come on , Hayden , you're better elsewhere . . . so's essentially everyone else ) still need work . More holes in the overall canon exist from what is seen and heard in this . This does try to , and to some extent , succeeds in , bridging the gap . The efforts do range between abruptly sudden and too slow , but the middle is reached at least for portions . It's dark in tone , and this is fairly well-achieved . My conclusion after having viewed the entire PT in succession is that Lucas started where it would have been fine to end . . . Phantom Menace feels classic , and to me , it scores the highest marks as far as being entertaining goes . After that , it just went further and further , and the emotion and how memorable they were declined at the same rate . I imagine few will argue that George has too many yes-men around him , or for that matter that he clearly did not have the entire series in his mind whilst working on any one of the individual films . I would like to point out that I am neither a disgruntled fan nor someone who grew up with the OT and / or experienced a lot of hype for these . The DVD has over a dozen featurettes ( of varying length ) , trailers , TV-spots , cut out material and a commentary track . I recommend this to those who wish to take in all of the canon cinema releases .
A mixed bag , but the positive does outweigh the negative	Obviously , this is not Cloverfield . Its form is not as smooth and thought-through , the dialog isn't as memorable , and information isn't revealed in the same manner . . . in short , the J . J . ( well , when the man is at his best , anyway ) that was evident in aforementioned , is not here . That's fine , not everything has to be done by him ( there certainly are people who'd petition against that ) . Also , they realize this , and do the smart thing : They don't try to copy him , but rather go in a different direction , albeit using the same basic tool . The POV-film is incredible , specifically for horror , if done right . And they sure knew what they were doing , here . How to use the camera , and they particularly worked on the sound , too , which comes off completely natural . The execution was quite good . This doesn't take off immediately , however , once it does , it does not let up . The pacing is fitting . The tone is spot-on and consistent , more or less throughout . The characters are credible and well-written , and their on-screen development does not come off as forced . This can be very effective , the most well-done of the shocks ought to have you jumping in your seat . The least of them tend to not be too bad . This is genuinely suspenseful , instead of just bombarding the audience with gore . The realism is high in this . It has irony , bordering on satire , as well , mainly of the genre and its many clichés . The cinematography and planning are almost invariably great , with a couple of downright golden moments . There is harsh language in all of this , as well as some strong violence ( including a few gruesome bits ) and / or disturbing content . It was refreshing to see so little ( next to no ) nudity , much less sexuality , in a new release of this kind . I recommend this to fans of this type of movie , and I'd say that if you go in for an atmospheric , scary flick , and don't expect this to redefine your view of the world , you're likely to largely enjoy the heck out of those 90 minutes ( I would advise only watching trailers and , to a lesser extent , looking at the cover if you can forget or at least not think about one particular popularly used image , lest it spoil a surprise ) .
Weird , but very funny stuff	When I borrowed this , as well as the other Blackadder series ( or , uh , seasons , I suppose ) , it was presented as the ' weird but good start ; weird , because it hadn't found its true form yet ' . I can't comment on the rest of Blackadder in relation ( since I haven't seen any of it , yet , but I will as soon as possible ; reviews to come ) , but I will definitely good . I've never been much for Rowan Atkinson . . . I consider his creation , Mr . Bean to be the ultimate in simple humor ( which is something I do not hold in high regard ) . While he does many of the same facial expressions and some of the same humor here , this is of far higher comedic value and quality . The plots are far-out and highly unlikely . . . highly amusing . The acting is great , although occasionally overdone for effect . The characters are well-written and credible . The humor , while at times quite simplistic , is mostly laugh-out-loud funny . Not to mention British . Very , very British . Very verbal . Read any of the ' memorable quotes ' and you'll see . If you find it funny , you should , nay , must see this . It's incredibly funny and entertaining . The theme is excellent ; I found myself humming along to it , and what I picked up of the lyrics was quite humorous . The DVD I borrowed even has a sing-along . I'll have to try it . The production value is somewhat unimpressive ; several gags are ruined by poor angles and less-than-credible props . The form is somewhat sitcom-like , but not quite . . . this is the reason why it's ' weird ' . If you can get over said weirdness , you will most likely find this series / season a nearly unending line of laughs . I loved most all of this . Incredibly funny show . I recommend this to fans of Atkinson ( even of his Bean character , since he does retain a bit of it here ) , British humor and sitcoms . Very , very entertaining and at times hilarious . You'll laugh , you'll cry ( with laughter ) , you'll wish there were more episodes .
Be quiet	I haven't watched very many silent films , so I really can't draw many comparisons . I watched this because of Brooks , and I was not disappointed with it . Making a " non-talky " this long after that died out was an impressive feat , whether or not you like that genre or the result . What's interesting here is what he did beyond simply doing such a piece decades after the time of their grandeur ( he's hardly the only person who's ever thought of , or accomplished , something like that . . . the Coen brothers did , as well , though I'm not sure it was as many years ) , mainly in the high self-awareness evident throughout , and one specific bit that works on several levels , which I will not wreck by putting it here . The comedy is what you'd expect from Mel . A lot of silly material , some downright childish and / or sexual in nature . There are references and spoofs , as well . This may have more slapstick than the other movies helmed by the man , for obvious reasons . The physical gags and humor in general varies , and a little of it does fall flat , at times landing hard . It's the right people doing the stuff , though , Feldman ( whom I don't believe I've seen before ) and DeLuise , in addition to the lead himself , do great . The music fits perfectly , and sound is used extensively and to good to magnificent effect . The cameos are cool . There isn't a whole lot of plot , the focus is on getting laughs , and there are portions that could be cut without the overall feature losing much beyond jokes and running time . I can't promise this is necessarily one that stays with the viewer , and while that is a matter of taste , I would imagine that plenty of fans of the old pre-sound-recording releases remain fresh in their minds . . . and since there are still copies available for purchase , at least here and there , it would seem that they do still have an audience . I recommend this to fans of the director / star , and / or , to a lesser degree , the others involved in making it . Those who love the type of silver screen production that this is about I would say will be divided in opinion of it .
They pull it off	This is mainly noteworthy on account of how little they had to work with , and how impressive the result is . They had little time and limited set , and what they put together actually does work . The plot isn't bad , and there is enough of it to keep this going for the duration of it . This is a sit-com , with the very unusually chosen back-drop of a dictator state , with the typical characters , types and line of jokes . The camera-work and tone emulate the sub-genre of television-based comedy , and save for perhaps one visual gag ( which does become apparent when the punch-line is reached , but if a joke hasn't been realized by the audience before that point . . . ) , there's very little to criticize in this department . It is somewhat uneven , and , possibly partially due to how short it is , characterization isn't a strong suit of this . The material varies in quality , but it tends to be consistent in style ( if not always terribly logical , there's at least one point . . . ) , but the players aren't bad , they embrace it for the very most part . Sound is fine . Editing is more or less spot-on . I recommend this to fans of shorts , indies , Sanderson and / or sitcoms .
Notable for what it brings to the table , overlooked due to bugs . . . and Firestorm is a reasonable add-on	The following review will cover both Tiberian Sun and Firestorm . With how negative many people seem towards this game , one must assume that they forgot the many new things that it introduced to Westwood's on-going Command & Conquer series . . . or maybe they just got tired of waiting . I believe this game was in development for no less than four years . . . and it admittedly still feels less than fully complete . There are several bugs , and the AI still needs work ( and more hand-holding is required than earlier games , due to some of the new features ) . Firestorm did not fix any of these issues , and it did bring about one or two new ones . But instead , let's look at all the things that this game did do , rather than the fairly few things that it did not . It introduced several new major things , some of which are really good , including hills , cities ( instead of the endless " villages " of the last two games ) , tunnels , more elaborate terrain , turning power on and off , it made bridges repairable , etc . It tried something new with the cut-scenes ( characters no longer talk at you , you play a character seen on screen ) . Firestorm brought back the familiar method of having the characters brief you , talk into the camera as if they were speaking directly to you ( this brings about some slightly awkward editing in a few parts of the briefings , but those are relatively easy to ignore ) . How you feel about these changes and additions is obviously subjective , but the creativity and courage required should be commended . The whole game has a very slick , stylish look to it . Firestorm maintains this look . The graphics are improved , with much more detailed and realistic effects on explosions and such . The story-telling is adequate . Firestorm has about the same quality of that , though the story is somewhat less . . . well , less ( both sides pretty much follow the same story-line , and while the idea expressed in the plot was originally an interesting one within the realm of science fiction , it is now something of a cliché within that genre ) . The animated portions of the cut-scenes look stunning . The casting is good , with James Earl Jones and Michael Biehn both given lines and roles that fit them ( the former being an authoritative type , the latter being the determined soldier ) . Firestorm , apart from the character of Slavik , has hardly any of the characters from Tiberian Sun return , though the new ones certainly aren't bad ( and at least CABAL comes back , and he's awesome ( not that Slavik isn't , too ) ) . The acting and writing vary . As with the first Command & Conquer , there are plenty of highly powerful units , but this game also presents you with ways of dealing with them all . Even the super-weapons are both powerful and possible to stop ( well , not the Ion Cannon , but it can do enough damage to be useful , and too little to be devastating on its own ) . Firestorm adds a few units and changes around some of the ones that were already there , to further increase the level of fairness ( as well as making things more interesting and intense , with the new Mobile War Factory that both sides get , the Mobile EMP Cannon and the Mobile Stealth Generator ) , though the addition of an artillery unit for GDI ( whilst definitely a cool addition and very , very helpful ) seems completely out of character ) . Firestorm's new units are implemented in the single player portion reasonably well ( and they're helpful , in general , to boot ) . Both sides have some really cool technology to play around with , and they both have a rather . . . interesting APC , neither of which I will describe here . Firestorm's difficulty picks up where Tiberian Sun left off , making for a good challenge . The sound is somewhat limited , and the music , whilst still sounding good , doesn't really have the whole adrenaline-pumpin ' thing that we've seen in the other games . It does create a solid mood , though . Firestorm has quite a few in-level characters get downright chatty , compared to earlier games , maybe to make up for the limited sound of Tiberian Sun . The level design is fairly good , and both sides definitely get a satisfying finale . Firestorm scores reasonably high marks on that , as well . . . while there are only nine new levels per side , they're all good , connected ( unlike those of every add-on in this franchise preceding it ) and are often quite interesting . . . such as the level where you , fighting as NOD , battle using the Tiberium creatures to fight for you and the GDI mission where you must stop a civilian riot ; both sides again get a great finale each , though the last level of both campaigns is basically the same . Firestorm , in general , offered far more ( well , earlier add-ons had more single player levels , but apart from that ) than the expansion packs to the Command & Conquer games prior to it ; it had an actual story ( if perhaps not the best one ) , there were new cinematics to brief you on the missions , the new units in no way felt recycled , several new buildings and such were added instead of only ( which both Firestorm and Tiberian Sun admittedly does ) reusing ones we've seen before . . . as Tiberian Sun is a landmark in RTS games , Firestorm is one for C & C add-ons . The multi-player is also quite good , with a few dozen playable levels ( Firestorm added more levels , as well as the World Domination mode ) , a solid randomizing generator which you can set values for a number of properties , to ensure more , and several features that can be turned on or off before you start playing , including the old favorite of RTS games ( which had not been seen in the C & C games before this point ) , Fog of War , as well as whether or not bridges can be destroyed , whether or not the players will be allowed bases , etc . I recommend Tiberian Sun to any fan of RTS games , in particular those who want more of the ( rightfully ) popular Command & Conquer universe . I recommend Firestorm for anyone who enjoyed Tiberian Sun and wanted more of that , because for that , it definitely doesn't disappoint .
Funny enough	The idea behind this seems simple enough . . . almost obvious . Have Billy Crystal do his fast-talking , neurotic and repressed thing , cast him as a psychiatrist , and have this psychiatrist have to work with a patient that he would not at all want to work with , yet make it " an offer he can't refuse " . Put de Niro in the role of an emotional mob boss . We all know he can do both that part and comedic roles in general . Heck , as a bonus , there's plenty of opportunity of psychiatry jokes . The movie is actually entertaining enough . The two stars fit well together , and their on-screen chemistry is sufficient . The movie keeps you entertained throughout , though there are occasional slow spots . The material is hit and miss , but most of it is funny . Kudrow was less wacky than I had anticipated . The acting in general is pretty good , and Palminteri gets some great moments . Dialog is good , mostly . Language is . . . free-spirited , let's put it that way . All in all , a funny enough film , worth a watch . I recommend this to any fan of the actors involved as well as anyone the plot appeals to .
Let's talk about VFX	This is a special feature found on the second disc of the 2-Disc release of X2 , the second X-Men film , and it deals entirely with the effects . It's made up of interviews , pre-vis , animation material in various stages of development and varying degrees of detail and some clips of the two films ( as well as a little behind the scenes footage ) , both obviously focusing on VFX . After Mike Fink , who worked on both , divulges to us how he felt , and feels , about the work they did on the first , and not long after , the going over the scenes or sequences , each starting with a title card telling you which specific one it is . Quite a bit of information is given , on animation , how exactly they did the various bits , and no interviews waste any time ( nor do they rush on , particularly ) , or seem at all irrelevant . Singer and , much more so , Cumming and Marsden , only appear fairly briefly , each giving some tidbits from their perspective ( and each are nice to watch , indeed ) , with the very most part of the talking being done by the people who worked on the effects , with Fink , in his position as " supervisor " of such found at the very top , with the very most screen-time . This is well-edited throughout , and paced reasonably . It comes to about 25 minutes in total , and it does a good job of covering everything in that time . I recommend this to any fan of the movies and / or anyone who wants to know about the way the effects were achieved in X2 .
Fairly entertaining science-fiction comedy , but nothing special	While I normally don't like Will Smith , I did think he did a decent enough job in this film , and it was mainly his unlikely partnership with Tommy Lee Jones that carried the film . It's thoroughly tongue-in-cheek , breaks no barriers and attempts no such thing . It's just mindless fun . The plot is pretty good , highly unlikely , but if you manage to suspend your disbelief , you'll probably find it funny , at least to some extent . It's fairly fast-paced , and thoroughly entertaining . The acting is all pretty good , both Tommy and Will do a good job , and most of the other actors are good enough . The characters are somewhat well-written . The special effects are reasonably well-done , but they do look a little dated now , 7 years later . The action / science fiction aspects of the film are mostly just done for the humor , rather than to be exciting or awe-inspiring . The film is , all in all , more humor than anything else , really . It does have some good humor and some memorable , quotable lines , but nothing much . Nothing spectacular . I recommend this to fans of science fiction-action-comedies , Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones .
The review of someone who's hardly been to a concert in his life	I've never really " gotten " concerts . Fear not , review-reader , I shall not bore you with details about why , nor delve into some story which intends to make you go " ohhh " and completely understand . . . I merely wish to say up front that this review was written entirely by a man who's just barely been to any concerts , at all , because he did not wish to . I may focus more on the filmic aspects . I first got into Eminem's music back in the early 2000s ( possibly 2000 or 2001 ) , after listening through The Marshall Mathers LP . My interest in his music may very well have been the basis of me purchasing this DVD . The DVD is comprised of a one hour , ten minute ( give or take some minutes , but sans credits , that's about the length ) documentary , following Mr . Shady and D12 on the All Access Europe tour , two bonus performances ( Purple Pills and Forgot About Dre , both are well-done ) and a still gallery ( which is nice , though it is automated , you don't skip back and forth between them , yourself , they run on their own , with a rap running in the background ) . It all comes to over an hour and a half . There are no subtitles , and obviously no alternate audio tracks ( based on the Region 2 release ) . The documentary is good , it utilizes his music ( featured are raps from both of the albums he had released by this point , the one I mentioned earlier , and his first release , The Slim Shady LP , and some of what he made with his five fellow rappers ( R . I . P . , Bugz and now also Proof . . . Slim , take care , man , you two seemed close ) , from the album Devil's Night ( the only one they had released by this time ) ) well , and features both performances and footage of behind the . . . stage , the rappers kicking back , making jokes and such . There are also bits of a couple interviews . It's nicely edited , rather tight , and the performances are nicely covered . . . they include The Way I Am , featuring Marilyn Manson ( who only appears in the performance ) , and Stan , featuring Dido . It's funny , provided you like Em and The Dirty Dozen . It's well-paced and never really loses your interest , if you're a fan . Obviously , there is some language . . . there is also some drug content , but no real violence or sex ( the closest to the last-mentioned is a stroll taken down that street in Amsterdam ) . The end credits have Marshall telling us ( audio only ) how his career began , and this is also available under the Special Features menu . I recommend this to any fan of the rappers , in particular our favorite angry white boy , the title performer . This may be best suited for those who like tours and concerts , or at least to be in the audience of such .
Good film , no doubt about that , but pretty much only for those who know just about everything there is to know about Nixon	After sitting through this painfully long and very drawn-out film , I can't help but feel that it is just slightly . . . redundant . I watched this with my father , who actually followed Nixon's career to some extent , and I can't deny that without his giving me cliff notes to explain actions and motivation of the characters every so often during the film , I wouldn't understand any of what happened . And that's the sad truth . . . if you don't know almost everything about Nixon , his time , the political situation , what happened during that period of time , etc . you won't understand it . The film hints at so many things , instead of making what happens clear , and presumes you know everything behind every situation , instead of providing any back-story . We get scene after scene , one situation after another with people we're supposed to know beforehand , situations we're expected to know of and understand and if you don't know of these , and you have no way of knowing them , you certainly won't know after watching the film . The film really isn't the story of Richard M . Nixon as much as it's Oliver Stone's objective presentation of him . How are we supposed to judge this man , his staff , or any of their actions when we don't know the situation or the background of it ? Then there are of course those who do know these things . . . but why would they watch it ? They already know the things presented in the movie , and probably from a far more reliable source . So , I guess what it comes down to is : who is this film actually aimed at ? Who can watch this and really enjoy it ? My father suggested that Stone's intention with this film was to tell the story to young Americans , teenagers who weren't even alive when what the film is about happened . A good cause , but again , it requires them to already know of Nixon . And that is ultimately this movies downfall . The plot is very good , and from what I understand , quite accurate . The pacing is . . . off , I think is the right word . It switches between going insanely fast and painfully slow , making the film a sure-fire head-ache machine . The acting is perfectly flawless , and most , if not all of the characters based on real people are historically accurate in personality and appearance . The time-line is somewhat messed up , but the basic idea is that Nixon is actually sitting and thinking back on all this stuff , so it makes perfect sense and is used nicely ( as opposed to as a cheap gimmick ) . The film is good , definitely , it's just so limited in who it will appeal to , and the pacing is a real killer ( and I don't mean that in the good way ) . I recommend this to anyone who is interested in Nixon and big fans of Oliver Stone . I suppose very big fans of members of the cast might want to give it a chance as well .
Very black and pretty funny	This started off a little slow , but quickly accelerated to a very quick pace . It went so fast for the last two thirds of the movie that you really had to pay attention to get everything . The twists are great , and incredibly funny . The plot is pretty good , not brilliant but allows for some very funny twists , and some unbelievably funny , but fairly unlikely , very complicated , situations that will make you laugh for several minutes without stopping for a breath , provided that you like black humor . The actors all do pretty good jobs , even Elijah Wood , who I normally hate with a passion , pulled off an entertaining performance . There weren't really any of the actors I was heavily disappointed by . All of the characters were funny , in their own , twisted sort of way , most of them are either caricatures or stereotypes , but they work really well together . The humor was great , most of the time , though some of the jokes fell flat , but most of it was a treat for fans of black comedy ( like me ) . The sparse number of action scenes there was , were really great . The movie has a very good fast pace throughout most of the movie , there was hardly any moment where I was bored . The movie has some scenes that take place on a non-linear timeline , especially in the beginning , but the moment these are over , the film finds a better pace . This is not to say that these scenes were bad , in fact I find them to be a great start to the film . Overall , the movie was quite good , but some of the humor seemed to be more there to shock than to amuse , some of it did seem over the top . It could have been better , had the humor been more balanced and had more of the characters been believable and likable . In the end , the movie has some great laughs , but that's about it . It's easily forgettable . I recommend this to pretty much any fan of black comedy . It's not the best , but it's a pretty good one . If you're not easily offended , and you like black humor , it's worth checking out .
Do you dig spaghetti Westerns ? Look no further	From the commercials for this film , it didn't look like much . . . a pretty entertaining Western , and that's about it . Well . . . my predictions were true . An entertaining film , not much else . But dang . . . is it entertaining ! Gun fights , chases , etc . So much spaghetti Western action in one movie . The plot is well-written and keeps your interest . Making the gang be the good guys was an interesting twist , anti-heroes are always fun to watch . The acting is very good all-round , no performances seemed weak or unsatisfying . Farrell , Smith and Bates are particularly fun to watch . The characters are well-written , human and credible . The dialog has its moments , but is often contrived . It's mostly nicely delivered , at the very least . Few lines are quotable and fewer scenes are memorable , but it's still a fun and entertaining film while it lasted . I found the cinematography to be quite good , and the overall stylish feel to the film was effective and a welcome addition . The action is all very nicely set up , and well shot and quite intense , not to mention involving . It was hard to look away for a second during the action scenes . The humor is pretty good , though at times somewhat forced . By no means a great film , but a sufficiently entertaining one . I recommend this to any fan of any of the actors involved as well as fans of Westerns , spaghetti Westerns in particular . If you're into that kind of film , don't miss this one .
Like cats and dogs . . . only singular	While I'm not sure just when Figaro moved to . . . wherever Pluto lived in the late 40's , I'm not complaining , because this is fun . The plot is good , and well-told . . . not a single spoken or written word , yet we follow it without any problems . This was featured on the DVD of Pinocchio , which is how I watched it . Recently , anyway . The humor is great , and universal . The gags and jokes are almost all realized skillfully and are entertaining , and this doesn't suffer too much under repetition of material . There is some cartoon violence in this , as with many of its brethren , young and old alike . The sound is well-done , though not as synchronized or as much of a tool as the Silly Symphonies pieces . The animation is nice , most everything is conveyed well . Music is spot-on . It's part of the drive of this entire short . There is no actual moralizing herein , but there is some moral to be found . The personalities are easy to relate to and understand . I recommend this to any fan of these animated cartoons , especially those who love the two already-mentioned characters .
Gets an awful lot right	Two decades after the film , this came out , picking up about where it left off . This can be judged as either just a stand-alone exploit , or as a sequel . It does introduce the idea , and one does not need to have seen the movie ( though I would definitely suggest it ) . While this is less complex , and plagued by the usual type of conceptual change that are seen elsewhere when it comes to further entries in a series ( and / or when changing from another medium to this interactive one ) , in order to facilitate more of the specific popular and easily crowd-pleasing sights and situations ( if this makes no sense to you reading , then feel free to contact me and ask ) , it does do certain things really well . It builds atmosphere quite successfully . . . the eeriness is utterly spot-on . The isolation is thicker than the deep snow . And all the dangers from the silver screen version are there , continually threatening you : The icy cold , and merciless , weather , paranoia , infection ( albeit not of yourself ) and , last but not least , attacks from Things . If those all stayed true throughout all of this title , it would be more accurate . But it strays , and whether or not that's a positive is , I suppose , up to each individual to decide . One could of course argue that since this was made based on the chord that was struck back in 1982 , it ought to stick closer to that . Yes , part of the way in , this takes a turn , and goes down a much-trodden path ( which , in itself , does not have to be a negative , ' eye of the beholder ' and all ) . The quality of the ending is up for debate , however , in at least one aspect , it's entirely in Carpenter's vein . That's not the only portion , either . Apart from quite literally , since he appears in this , you can see him , and his hand , in this . The humor and dialog come off as stuff he could have written , without seeming like it was copied from elsewhere . You get to visit locations we already know , and they crafted them well . In general , the level design is a mixed bag , they can be nice and open . It isn't always clear where you're supposed to go . You aren't even equipped with a compass . The HUD is rather discrete , perhaps excessively so ( health bar , be visible ! ) . The Fear and Trust systems are interesting , and a fantastic thought , and they add to the overall experience . Moreso , if they had a stronger impact , and were significantly important ( and less infrequently so ) . The execution leaves a bit to be desired . Nevertheless , as they are , they are inspired features in this . Your people have to have faith in you still being human , for them to do anything you ask at all , and if you don't keep them from losing it when they are terrified , they may quite simply wind up blowing their own brains out from panic . As far as I know , these are unique to this . They can be helpful ( Medics to heal , and Soldiers that are skilled at fighting along with you ) , and several of them , you need to keep alive and well ( Engineers , to work electronics that you can't ) . The first-mentioned Squad-combat is also available , and you can give orders to your men . I personally , as with other releases that allow that , wanted a couple more commands , and too often found them getting in the way . The AI varies . The aforementioned teammates relatively seldom get stuck or hit you , and are fairly decent at using the weapons that you can give all three classes . The Things tend to be aggressive , and it does occur that they are slow to act . No , they do not have all the abilities that they ought to . . . meanwhile , I challenge anyone to , after seeing someone " turn " , not be satisfied with the way they did that . The guns are well-selected , and there aren't so many , aiding in preventing this from becoming just a straight-forward , all-out shooter . The flamethrower is impossible to do without , exactly as it should be in this . This is faster paced than one might think , and there is focus put on the action in it . Don't get me wrong : It is mainly survival horror . It doesn't dare be as bleak . It isn't unlike AvP ( either , both are better than this ) . One problem , I've seen other places , and may be on account of it being made ( primarily ? ) for consoles . The view can only be moved left to right and vice versa , never up / down . Third person is the usual camera , with a handful of odd angles that are briefly forced upon you here and there , and the option of using 1st , if you stand still . As in Enter the Matrix , your precision when firing is considerably improved in the latter , for no readily apparent reason . The auto-aim is great , and only comes up short in the rarest of instances . This has freedom , yet at its core , it is linear . In fact , there are one or two bugs that keep you from proceeding if you don't do it how they planned it . Graphics are magnificent , with well-done effects . Nearly glitch-free , too . The voice acting ranges between average to pretty good . The story-telling is OK , mostly done with the plentiful cut-scenes , all done in-engine . As far as design of enemy units and attacks go , you can kinda tell that this is done by Computer Artworks . . . as in , they also did Evolva . It shows . That doesn't have to be bad ; on the other hand , you can see that they had played Half-Life . . . that one's worse . The similarities , thankfully not all over the place , are obvious . The audio is fine , music and sounds can be marvelous . The boss battles are a nuisance . The items hold a few gems . The saving doesn't cover that this is a short , and not that re-playable , game . There is bloody violence / gore and a moderate amount of harsh language in this . I recommend this to fans of John's The Thing . If you're going with one or the other , I'd watch that , instead .
Hmm . . . upgrades	Yes , this is more of an upgrade to Jedi Outcast than a sequel . . . and it takes so many steps back and forth ( in quality ) that it winds up being overall on about the same level . . . which , should be noted , is " pretty good " . If you dug JO , well , grab the shovel again . I might not pay full price for this , as if it was a full new game , as it's more of an adjustment , but that's not to say that it's not worth playing ( at all ) . The music and sound in general isn't bad . There is technically only one new weapon , and a change of appearance of another . The two new multi-player modes are interesting , if not terribly original . . . Power Duel and Siege , the first one is two-on-one duels , and the second seems to be ( I've never played it ) basically Assault mode from Unreal Tournament . . . again , these facts don't have to be negative , not at all . More liberties are taken with the canon . . . at what point do bent rules get so out of shape that you almost wonder why they acknowledged their existence at all ? The makers go for ( and sometimes succeed in ) delivering the most fun ( and at points , open ) experience than making sense or following aforementioned rules . Most of the changes are to make the game more like the movies ( and some are great ) , both trilogies . . . some of them do seem to be more about making it seem like a new release , instead of a polishing up of the last one , and they all vary in quality . The references do almost get too much at points , some ( not all ) , however , are well-done ( humor / boss-fights , same ) . One new vehicle ( and similar ) . The multi-player levels are reasonable , but the amount is somewhat underwhelming . The single-player portion is about as long as that of JO , but shorter . Mostly , missions are one-shot ( and the order in which you play them is more or less up to you ) , and both that fact and the levels themselves , are hit and miss . Level design is clumsy and rushed , at points , visually appealing at others . Voice acting is poor ( but not the joke that that of Mysteries of the Sith was ) . There is an overall story , and though parts are obvious , it's decent , and one twist is OK . You no longer play as Katarn , and you can now customize the look of the original character you control . There are two alien races per gender , in addition to human . That's five in total , four of them alien , and both genders . There are multiple choices for each of them , and three ( head , torso and legs ) groups , with several options . Bringing back from when this series first turned to Jedi affairs , this lets you choose between the Light and the Dark side of the Force . They took the easiest way out on the way they integrated that , but at least they have game-progression and endings based on your decision , following it . Now , the biggest change or addition is what was added to the Lightsaber . You can now choose between each of the variations we've seen in the movies ( I won't say what they are here , if you've watched them , you know , if not , I won't spoil the surprise ) . Moves are added , as well , and you can now actually read how to do them and what they require ( of powers and circumstances ) , and saber battling becomes more interesting ( if still not necessarily too demanding in skill ) , as does the use of the weapon , in general . Mods of JO are in existence that attempt to do almost all of the things that this does , and some an awful lot better ( fans and just in general unpaid creative souls manage to outdo the studios ( and no , I'm not just referring to the medium of video-games , here ) too often to be ignored . . . perhaps that's why so few games are released with tools to create more content or alter what is already in the game , and / or the reason for the easy user-interface to be so seldom seen in said instrument ( in an effort to scare off those so inclined from working on modifications ) . But I digress . More acrobatics are introduced , as well . Where JO stopped after wall-running and - jumping , which , whilst commonly attributed to The Matrix , I am willing to maybe accept isn't just , you know , trying to capitalize on the success of something recent and popular , because I'm not certain that it originated with the Wachowski brothers ' film ( in fact , I've seen signs of that not being the case ) , and it maybe isn't the last thing a Jedi , Dark or Light , would do . This time . . . they add running up ( further than that of the JO one , which remains in the game ) a wall leading into a jump backwards , and " sticking " to a wall momentarily ( going so far as to even striking the pose ) , then automatically jumping back down . . . yes , Spiderman . As in , popular release of 2002 . Nevermind the fact that they're useful ( yes , they are , I'm not trying to deny that ) , that's too obvious to ignore , and a really cheap , easy strategy for getting your game attention . A long jump also finds its way into the game , and it's hardly useful anywhere . On that which is not useful . . . all the Force Powers are now in the single-player portion , and you can choose between all eight ( the Light / Dark ones , the neutral and saber ones are upgraded automatically ) , and they aren't all equally helpful , so you may wind up using those that are it the least . The Powers are tweaked , the result of which varies ( and depends on how you prefer them to be ) . Someone on the boards remarked that they didn't realize how much they liked puzzles until playing JA . Yeah , there aren't many ( if any ) , at all . The game-play is still entertaining , but perhaps more tedious ( in spite of plenty efforts to keep it fresh , within levels ) . Bugs / glitches are plentiful , varying in severity . You don't need to know the other games before playing this . You should have watched the films , in particular the OT . I recommend this to fans of JO , and anyone wanting FPS / Third-person-action set in the Star Wars galaxy .
Take control of Robin and the merry men in this strategy / action game	Not everything is easily turned into a game . Some comic books and films ( typically of the action genre ) make good games . But how to convert a centuries old legend that has been re-told many times , with additions over time ( the romantic interest found in Maid Marian , for example , was not part of the original . . . or so I'm told ) ? The first obvious difficulty is that Robin and his band of companions were , obviously , not just one man . A standardly-controlled action game wouldn't cut it . Instead , they opted to make use of the tactical interface of games such as the Commandos series . A birds-eye view , control of half a dozen characters for one level and abilities specific to the characters . The plot works well to introduce new-comers ( without being condescending towards those who know the story ) whilst including all of the elements and characters ( to the best of my recollection ) . You start off with only Mr . Hood , and slowly gain more followers . As an incentive to keep killing to a minimum , the higher the body-count , the fewer men join your cause . Throughout the game , you also gain control of the famous of his allies . . . Little John , Friar Tuck , Will Scarlett . . . they're all there ( though the last-mentioned doesn't feature his famous knives , but rather a mace ( not to be confused with the kind you spray at assailants ) , for reasons of equality in the fighting ) . I was a little disappointed to find that you don't get to do the famous battle ( which happens to be a personal favorite of mine as far as re-tellings of the tale go ) of Robin against Little John . While the game lets you ( and encourages you to ) sneak , there is an added fighting system . The Commandos games had a few up-close-and-personal weapons and guns . . . no German soldier would attempt to fight off an enemy soldier , certainly not one discovered on occupied land . It just so happens to be that each of the merry men ( including Marian ) can fight , and so , anyone you meet in the game as an enemy can ( and will ) fight you . . . provided he notices you ( as you can often sneak behind and knock them out ) . This fighting is a certain mode and is initiated either by challenging an opponent or him noticing you . This can prove annoying , as the mode can be ended or entered at a moments notice , disrupting concentration . If you entered it upon pressing a button and exited through pressing again or letting go , it would work much better , in my opinion . Another method could have been taking the very same route as the fine game X-Men Legends 2 : Rise of Apocalypse , and do the RPG thing . That worked perfectly for that game , and the fighting was much more intense and well-rounded there , too . How much did the good Sir Robin go on secret missions , anyway ? To my knowledge , he spent more time stealing from the rich . Rest assured . . . there is room for that in this game , as well . The missions are divided into those two . . . castle missions , taking place at the five various and very richly detailed castles featured in the game ( in varying weather conditions and at different hours of the day ) , and the ones taking place in the forest of Sherwood . Last-mentioned have you assaulting tax collectors and convoys , luring the guards into traps that have been set by Robin and his followers , as well as battling them on your turf . The fighting , whilst it can remain automatic ( any character that is attacked will try his hand at defeating the enemy ) , can be directly affected by using the mouse . This allows for some pretty nifty dueling , not to mention many entertaining battles of one of your merry men against a group of enemies . It's not quite as swift and clean as it could be , but it's still cool and can be thrilling . The game arranges several duels against stronger adversaries . Opening and ending with very stylized action-packed cut-scenes , the story is rounded off nicely , with a good prologue as well as epilogue . The graphics are fair , if seeming a tad dated by the time the game came out ( after Commandos 2 , but not employing a similarly powerful new engine ) . Each character has three abilities that are to be executed by activating them , and some have ones that are circumstantial ( robbing a fallen enemy , picking the lock on a door , and so forth ) . This necessitates a diverse team ( though I found myself going through the game with little alternating between whom to use ) . Before each mission ( after the first two or so , after which , the Sherwood forest becomes your " base " ) , you may choose what the men that you don't bring ( provided you keep a fair portion of your neutralized enemies alive , the followers will positively be pouring in ) should do . . . train fighting , produce useful tools , heal and such . You are allowed to choose which men to bring , though the game will not let you start a mission without the men that you need to achieve the necessary objectives . The abilities are relatively plentiful , and some seem of questionable use ( though it's nowhere near as bad as with Commandos 2 , where they practically throw supplies and abilities at you ) . With limited indoor areas , this seems like a mix between the first and second Commandos game . In some ways better , in some ways worse than that franchise . The story evolves at a fine pace , and you never really feel like it's dragging along . None of the missions really seem to be there just to take up time . However , the game passes relatively quickly . . . I beat it in about 20 hours . For a non-modifiable game with low replay value ( it's quite non-linear ) , that's just not enough . Also , the difficulty . . . on the rare occasion that the game does try to challenge you , it usually results in frustration . Apart from its shortcomings , this is still a good ( but not great ) little game , with commendable voice acting ( they sound British , but not " ' Allo ' Allo ! " British ) . I recommend this to any fan of medieval action , a world of that time to immerse yourself into , strategy , and limited armed martial arts ( ! ) .
Beautiful , touching and moving . . . a tale of a love so strong it defies death itself	I must say this film surprised me . Coming in , I knew nothing about it but the famous clay-forming scene . . . I didn't know I was in for such a strong experience . This film had me from the first few moments of it . I never lost interest . The plot is so interesting and intriguing , you can't help but watch , often at the very edge of your seat . I will say that I found one twist somewhat predictable , but maybe I've just seen too many later movies before watching this . There is a lot of suspense in this film . When I found that it was directed by a Zucker ( yup . . . Airplane and so forth ) , I was somewhat doubtful as to any other quality in the film than the humor of it . . . if you're reading this and you're thinking the same , trust me ; he pulls it off . Excellently . There are few , if any , flaws in directing . The writing is solid . At times , there seemed to be a little too much humor and some scenes were maybe a tad long , but apart from that , there was not really anything with this film that was flawed . The score is great . The pacing is incredibly good . The acting is really good all-round . Goldberg provides a lot of comic relief , without being obnoxious . Moore and Swayze have magnificent chemistry , you truly believe them as a couple . The special effects are grand , yet they don't take over the movie . This is driven by the emotions , by how the plot affects these characters . I was completely into this movie all the way . The humor is very good and surprisingly tasteful for the theme . Much of it is derived from the situation of Swayze's character and his interaction with environment and other characters . All in all , just a very impressive film . I recommend this to any fan of drama , romance , comedy , thriller or fantasy , as well as anyone interested in seeing a non-parody Zucker film and fans of the actors .
A little slow , but not bad	This starts off as a great action / horror film by one of the masters of the genre , John Carpenter . The very first scene is really good , a great mix of horror and action . The same fast pace continues for about twenty minutes ; then it slopes downwards , continually . It only picks up again at the very end , and the last thirty minutes are more of the same that you see in the first scene . Unfortunately , that leaves the rest of the movie rather slow and boring , and sometimes seemingly pointless . I like the attempt at an explanation of the vampire origin , thought it was very original and an interesting viewpoint . The action in the movie is the typical Carpenter stuff ; violent , fast-paced and intense . Sometimes it's a little bit too violent , but it never reaches the extreme . The acting is very good , especially by James woods . The plot is average at best , and the ending is a bit anticlimactic in a few ways . If you're a big fan of Carpenter ( like me ) you'll probably enjoy it , but you most likely won't think it's a great movie , or his best work . Just average .
A bit overlong , and some may find it funny rather than thrilling , but a nice Polanski film nonetheless	I've been trying to see more of Roman Polanski's films , partly because I find him interesting , and partly because he always adds something unique to the film , small details which most mainstream directors skip . I found this and was interested , both of Polanski and Ford . It turned out to be different from what I expected ; not necessarily in a bad way , but still . The beginning had me thinking of Steve Martin , for some reason . . . I think it was the humor and the likeness between him and Harrison Ford . Again , I wasn't disappointed , just surprised . When the plot took off , it became quite exciting , but I can see how some might find it funny ( as another reviewer did ) . Cultural differences that Polanski has included for a more full picture may be mistaken for successful attempts at comic relief . Who knows , maybe he was going for a bit of both . The little nice touches he adds are what make the film memorable , raise it above the run-of-the-mill suspense-thrillers . A kidnapping that leads the kidnapped woman's husband to search for the kidnappers himself ? Please . How many times have we heard that . Polanski doesn't really add anything new to the genre or the idea , but his eye for details help with making it far more entertaining . For the male audience , something that may ( read : will ) also make it more easy to sit through is the fact that about half-way into the film , Ford meets a french girl who's quite easy on the eyes , and isn't afraid to show it . She runs around in a very short skirt for a good part of the last part of the movie , which is always good to see in a film that's arguably a bit too long for its own good . The plot is interesting , but loses momentum around the end . Too many scenes that could have been resolved enormously easy , but are made more complicated through very obvious and inelegant plot points . The film also seems to go on for a good half hour more than it needs to . The acting is pretty good , apart from the french girl who is less than convincing in a little too many of the scenes . The characters are interesting and well-written . The film as a whole is worth watching , but probably only once . I recommend this to fans of Harrison Ford , Roman Polanski , kidnapper flicks and mystery-thrillers .
Done well	This is a featurette found on the 2-Disc Special Edition DVD of The Terminator . It's also one of the best and most memorable that I've ever seen ( I freely admit that part of that may be due to me very much liking and enjoying the film itself ) . Technically speaking , it's well-done . It consists of clips from the movie , interviews ( at times these seem odd , since some of the people had multiple interviews from different times ) and footage from the making of it , as well as storyboards and conceptual art . Members of every aspect of putting it together get to speak , and you see all three stages of production ( pre , during and post , for the uninitiated ) . I wouldn't complain if Biehn had gotten to talk more , but I simply find him so cool , I'm not sure there is an upper limit to that . Many of the crew and actors have interesting and good things to say , and the anecdotes are just great . They are a big reason for this being such a marvelous documentary . Several of them are rather funny , and among those told are genuinely inspiring ones . There is a bit of the usual love-fest , but it isn't too bad , nor is there a terrible lot of it . There are some disturbing images in this , mainly from the title , or in the concepts for it . I recommend this to fans of Jim , Michael , " and the rest " , not to mention anyone wanting to know about the creating of the piece .
Borrows some from respected RTS titles , but also adds a lot	I'm sure I'm not the first to notice the many similarities between this game and the famous and well-doing Real Time Strategy games that precede it ; most noticeably , StarCraft and the Age of Empires series . Last-mentioned in the way of control and construction of buildings , and aforementioned in the way of the races and special abilities . But while it is immensely easy to simply hold this fact against the game , do note the following ; at least they borrowed from one of the best games ( Blizzard's StarCraft is a classic , and one of the RTS games that has the most and best longevity ) , Age of Empires has been copied a number of times ( there was a RTS title of the Star Wars franchise that was basically Age of Empires in the world of Star Wars ) , and while they didn't start from nothing in creating this game , they added a lot never before seen in the world of RTS gaming . Where all previous games in the genre have stayed in one map per level , this has up to 16 . . . and the travel between these is done through wormholes . Any spacecraft will go through such a wormhole , and you can even construct something called jump-gates on them , which will allow one your units and those of your allies . The graphics are very nice ( and hold up very well ) . . . this is one of the first RTS games to employ 3D visuals . The explosions , lasers , buildings and ships all look excellent . The sound is likewise . . . crisp and clear , with detailed , realistic-sounding sounds for any action in the game . The interface is fairly good , though it could be simpler and it felt somewhat lacking to me . . . I found myself missing command lines , confusing radar commands with each other and finding it much too difficult to tell if units were in needs in repair and / or resupply than it should be . The supply part of the game is another thing . . . it feels realistic enough , but some ships simply run out too fast to be useful unless accompanied by supply ships . Each ship ( and the few buildings ) that attack , have a set number of supplies for their weapons ( and where applicable , their special abilities ) , and rather than regenerate this energy ( as was the case in StarCraft ) , they need to be resupplied , at a base , supply / repair building or by a supply ship ( which , obviously , also has a fixed amount of supplies ) . The three races are reasonably diverse ( though countless of their units are alike , across the three ) , with the human Terran race , the vicious alien race of Mantis ( who have a weakness for annihilating enemy races and speaking like Yoda ) and finally , the hyper-intelligent alien race of Celareon , who master space-travel and wield extremely futuristic weaponry . They are quite equal in terms of strength ( and coolness factor ) . With how similar to the three of StarCraft ( who , in turn , were inspired by famous sci-fi , including the Alien and Predator creatures ) as this sounds , you may be surprised to learn that there's only one campaign . Yes . The Terran one . You do get to play around some with the other races in the course of it , but that's it . The other two have a training mission for each , though . But sixteen missions of Terran fighting is how far the single player experience goes . That pales quite a bit in comparison to StarCraft , with 30 missions in total , divided evenly among the three races . The multi-player allows you to play all three , and allows for AI opponents , with a few different difficulty rankings , ranging from " easy " ( you'll beat them back to the stone age before they've built even a little ) to " impossible " ( which I haven't attempted , but with the difficulty of several of the campaign missions , I take their word for that ) . The game allows for " random map " generating , much like Command & Conquer : Tiberian Sun did . No map editor , and only a handful finished maps ( those of them that I tried were interesting and well-done , though ) . The space you fly through is extensively detailed . . . a large number of different fields ( including , obviously , asteroid fields ) that affect your ships in different ways if you leave them there or fly through them , including slowing them down , damaging them , yes , even blocking their weapons , while you are in the field . The fields will typically allow you to gather resources from them ( the asteroids for ore , any other field for gas ) . Apart from defensive buildings ( and obviously jump gates ) , any building must be made on a planet . There are a number of these planets throughout , so that's really not an issue ( actually , it's a pretty good and interesting , not to mention original , idea ) . Planets also hold different amounts of either resource , and sometimes crew ( on the inhabitable ones ) . The four main things that buildings and units in the game require are the two types of resource , crew ( to run and maintain either ship or building ) and something called Command Points . In StarCraft , the Points were the unit requirements ( similar to what crew is supposed to be , here ) , and only units ( not defensive buildings as well , as it is here ; presumably due to a fear of overuse of such ) required them . Personally , I didn't care much for that addition . The amount that the various units required didn't seem particularly carefully thought out , and by limiting how many defensive units one force can have ( whilst maintaining an army ) , holding several systems ( the jump-gates are quite easily destroyed , leaving the wormhole to your home system wide open ) is a real trial . There are some bugs . . . not big , but still . Nevertheless , the game offers entertaining RTS gaming , with game-play that echoes a bit of previous titles but brings more than enough new things to the table and creates a unique gaming experience . Any fan of RTS games should give it a chance , especially those who enjoy the Age of Empires series . Pretty good storyline , as well , and very nicely done cinematics between some of the levels . I recommend this to any fan of RTS gaming and science fiction . Unique , entertaining and engaging strategy game set in outer space , that could have been just slightly better .
The humor makes up for the few scares	I was interested in this series from when I read about it being in its planning stages . . . since it didn't air on TV on a network available to me , I didn't get a chance to watch until just recently , where I discovered DVDs with singular episodes , as well as some special features for the episode . Not wanting to wind up with a bunch of episodes that I didn't like , I asked a friend of mine who has watched the series for recommendations . He named this and John Carpenter's effort , Cigarette Burns . In that this is the first episode that I've seen , I can't really draw any comparisons to the others . . . nor to Landis ' earlier horror effort , An American Werewolf in London , as I've yet to find a copy of it . The plot is quite good , if not terribly deep . The mystery is slowly unraveled , if it is fairly simple . The pacing is very good . . . I was never bored while watching this . I was surprised to find few scares in this . . . there's gore enough , and several genuine " ick " moments ( including a brief but unpleasant close-up of an autopsy in progress ) , but there's very little to jump at . The film makes up for this with humor . . . and lots of it . There's a smart-alecky sense of humor throughout , and almost every single laugh works . If you've liked any comedy effort by Landis , and you can take the black nature of many of the jokes , you'll definitely find this funny . Among the jokes is the running gag of the one police officer who irritates everyone around him to the point of them telling him to shut up . Brian Benben yet again displays his comedic talent ( as he also did on the show named after him and on Dream On , where he also worked with Landis ) , and proves his depth as an actor . He carries the film perfectly . The actress portraying the title monster also does really well . . . with no lines of dialog , she uses facial expressions and gesturing to convey the emotions , and does so flawlessly . Also , she manages to shift between a sweetly-natured feminine character and a creature of pure evil from one moment to another . The effects are very well-done . The characters are well-written and interesting . Among them , the character of Dana , who seems to be mainly inspired by Abby Sciuto of NCIS ( hey , it may not be original , but still ) . The cinematography shows signs of not being shot as a feature , theatrically-released project . . . it looks and feels somewhat " TV " , and it works really well . For anyone bothered by such . . . this has a little female nudity , a bit of swearing in the dialog and , as mentioned earlier , some graphic stuff . All in all , this is just a funny film with a horror feel to it , a dark comedy with some gore and scares . I recommend this to any fan of John Landis , Brian Benben , horror and black humor .
One of the best anti-war war movies	The thin red line is one of the best war movies , since it doesn't just focus on the war itself , but also very much on the soldiers , how they feel , during a battle , during a briefing , when just talking between the battles , and it's all very credible and well-acted by all of the actors . All of them portray their characters well ; of course a few of the big names are typecast , especially Sean Penn and George Clooney , but that doesn't drag the movie down , as their characters fit well into the situations . The problem of the movie is that it's slow . Very slow . For pretty much every scene that isn't a war scene , it drags terribly . In fact , it drags so much that my rating went from a perfect 10 , down to a 7 . The war scenes are incredibly realistic , very chaotic and confusing , explosions everywhere , people running and shooting everywhere . Perfectly staged , perfectly done , simply perfect . But the scenes between the battles are at times so incredibly slow that it can be a trial to sit through them . I guess if you like war movies , and you can sit through this , you probably should . But be prepared for some very slow scenes .
A great action / horror / adventure / survival game	Nocturne was a sadly overlooked horror-action game that is well worth a look for any fan of such . . . first of all , the game has a great atmosphere . You walk around in this dark , gloomy world , constantly expecting to get attacked by some creature , constantly sure that there is an undead enemy around the next corner . . . and most of the time , that's not far off . The graphics are very good , even though they are a few years old . The story is excellent , and the way it evolves is great . It has some very good twists , as well , which is unusual for a video game ( as is the good story ) . The characters are interesting , and , though underused and a little vague , very well-written and credible . The voice acting is great . The Stranger would be the best example of this ; he's cool , he's calm and he's bleak like you wouldn't believe . One example would be when he's rescuing some people , he gets too far ahead , and they ask : " Do you even care if we make it back alive ? " he immediately replies , coldly and without changing tone or even thinking for a second : " Marginally . " The rest of the characters are well-voiced as well . The game-play is very entertaining , challenging and fresh . Notice how much I've praised the game so far ? Well , here comes the bad stuff : first and foremost , the control is very bad . The controls work pretty much in the same way that they do in Tomb Raider ( well , the first game , haven't really played any of the later ones ) . . . this , in itself isn't bad , but combined with a fairly slow-moving character and the awkward way the camera angles work , it will take a lot of getting used to , and it will rarely ( if ever ) work to your advantage . The jumps are too hard to control , so you'll often mistime an important jump or jump too far or too short in one of the many jumping challenges . The camera is static , like the Resident Evil games . . . however , where in those games ( that I don't like anywhere near as much as this ) , the enemies are mostly slow . . . here , half of them are twice or three times faster than you are , and sometimes more , which makes a lot of the many , many fights against enemies harder than it should be ( and than it was supposed to be , I think ) . Often the camera will cause you to die , by walking off-camera directly into a trap or off a cliff . The game can also be hard to find your way in , and I often found myself consulting multiple walkthroughs to get further in the game . The weapon selection is great , if perhaps a bit limited . You always start with a pair of . 45 pistols , which can be loaded with different types of ammo for the different types of enemies . They have what I will claim is one of the best features in a video game ever ; if you set an option called " auto-aim " ( which really helps with those fast enemies ) to ' on ' , The Stranger ( who you control ) can aim both guns at two different opponents , at the same time , without them even having to be in your ( the players ) line of sight ; that means you can fend off a group of enemies with little to no difficulty . The rest of the weapons have auto-aim as well , so you don't have to spend that much time aiming your weapon ( like , say , Resident Evil ) while being attacked . Also , unlike aforementioned fellow horror / survival game , Nocturne allows the player to save at any point in the game . Nervous you might die in the next room ? No problem . Just save first . Scared to walk off-screen because you might get killed by some unseen force ? Don't worry ; just save . The enemies are very well done and scary as well as challenging . Also , I think , without exaggerating , that Terminal Reality ( the firm behind this great game ) managed to find every single undead creature that there exists a myth about and put it in the game . You'll fight ghouls , zombies , skeletons , stone golems , demons , vampires , succubi , sentinels , werewolves . . . the list goes on . The graphics engine is great ; it allows for multiple severe dismembering , which basically means that you can chop both arms off a ghoul , knock the head off a zombie or sometimes even whack the upper body off it . The weapons are nice ; you get the aforementioned pistols , a shotgun , a tommy-gun , a crossbow , a flamethrower and a good amount of different short distance weapons including a fire ax , a shovel and a sword . There's more or less one effective weapon ( or ammo type ) per enemy , so once you get used to switching back and forth for the many , many fights throughout ( and you've figured out what weapon should be used on which enemy ) , you'll be fending them off skillfully . A problem with the game is the length ; it's far too short , and has too little re-playability . There should have been a training level or a few small levels that were just there to entertain the players who have beaten the game . The epilogue that appears in the menu after the player has beaten the four main chapters was nice , complete with an excellent ( and quite unexpected ) hint towards a sequel ( which , unfortunately , has so far yet to be released ) . The game should either have had more levels or a level editor , to extend play-time . I beat all four of the chapters on an average time of between an hour and a half and two hours . That's ( roughly ) less than eight hours of entertainment ; even Max Payne had about ten hours of game-play . All in all , the game has some things going against it , and some things going for it . . . luckily , it has more of the latter . I recommend the game to any fan of action , horror , adventure and / or survival games . It's much better than others in the genre ( though I , admittedly , have not played too many other survival ones ) , especially Resident Evil ( just in case you haven't been able to tell by now , no , I really don't like RE ) .
Solid entertainment	This is only the second of Dario Argento's films I've seen , but I found it quite enjoyable , and I'll definitely look for other films by him ( not something I felt like after watching the other film by him I saw , Creepers ) . The film is a salute to Argento's idol , Alfred Hitchcock , and contains homages to several of his films . It's about a guy who sees two girls meeting and discussing the plot of Hitchcock's Strangers on a Train briefly , and then someone close to one of the girls die . Has the two girls switched murders , like it happened in the very film they discussed ? The plot is a playful mix of Strangers on a Train and Rear Window , with some parts inspired by other Hitchcock masterpieces . The pace is pretty good , though it drags at some points in the film . Like Hitchcock , Argento manages to create some excellent suspense . The gore isn't as shocking or gratuitous as what I understand most of Argento's film contain , but it's good considering that it's a TV-film . There's also a fair bit of nudity . This fact will no doubt deter some possible viewers , and draw others . The acting is fairly good , for the most part , though there are a few scenes where the acting is embarrassing , even by TV-movie standards . The characters are credible and interesting , though a few of them seem written in just to make room for a few twists near the end , and at some points , the characters seemed completely illogical to me ( but this may be an issue of cultural differences . . . this may be typical for Italians , in other words , but I've never seen people act like that ) . All in all , a fun little film , good for fans of either or both directors , but not really something you'll want to watch more than once or twice . I recommend this to fans of Dario Argento and / or Alfred Hitchcock . Check it out if the plot grabs your attention . Chances are , you won't regret it . I certainly didn't .
Not the greatest war movie , but a good movie , and a somewhat true-to-facts portrayal of Jeanne d'Arc	Luc Besson usually makes spectacular movies ; Leon , The Fifth Element , etc . Joan of Arc is no exception . It details the life of Jeanne , the maiden of Lorraine , who in and around the year 1431 , helped France defeat England , and win a war that has lasted for almost an entire century . The plot is great , and it has a very good pace . I am almost never bored when watching this film , despite the fact that it's fairly long ( about two and a half hours long ) , and I've seen it at least half a dozen times . What I've found to be great about the film is the re-watchable quality it has ; I've seen it many times , yet I haven't grown tired of it . Up to the very end , it always has a scene or two that you can look forward to , either because it's exceptionally well done , has very good cinematography , has great acting and / or dialog , or every one of those qualities . The acting is great . Every single actor gives a great performance , even the child actors were convincing . The performances that impressed me the most , however , were those of Milla Jovovich and Dustin Hoffman , as Jeanne and her conscience , respectively . They never cease to amaze me . The characters were well-written and credible . I particularly liked the way Jeanne was written as having a very notable temper and being very decisive . I also very much enjoyed the various supporting characters , the best being La Hire and The Conscience . I liked the way the film seems to question Jeanne's sanity ; whereas most believe that she was in fact , sent by God , this film sits down and asks the question , if she really was , or if the signs and miracles weren't all in her head , and caused by everyone wanting to believe it . The very last scenes especially puts doubt in the viewer . It was quite a gutsy move by Besson , to question his own country's hero . I will admit , the film does really make it seem more like she is crazy rather than sent by God , but it doesn't feel like Besson is pushing his view onto us , telling us that that's the way it was ; it feels more like he tries to make us question it . The action and the war scenes were very well done , very chaotic and disturbing , very intense and bloody . This isn't the best war movie ever made , nor is it the most factually accurate ; it might not even be the best retelling of the legend of Jeanne d'Arc . But I have found it to be a thoroughly enjoyable , well-acted , well-choreographed , well-done film that makes you think . And that's good enough for me . Several scenes are quite memorable , as are some of the lines . All in all , a very enjoyable war-drama , with an authentic story and some well-done battle sequences . I recommend it to fans of the actors , of Luc Besson's other work and of war movies / dramas in general . Just don't expect a full-out war movie ; it's two hours and thirty minutes long , and I don't think more than forty-five minutes in total are spent fighting .
Short , fun , funny short	Chad Peter , a man who does or used to have , a crush on Natalie Portman . . . and founded NP2K . This is the first in his thus far incomplete ( he is still working on the last part ) trilogy , Sex , Drugs and Natalie Portman . He shows a clear understanding of the principles of film-making , as well as a good sense of humor . The plot is quite good , and develops throughout , and in spite of many twists ( do yourself a favor and do not read the plot summary , it'll give almost all of it away ) , it never becomes too complicated , and you can follow and keep track all the way ( without it being boring , either ) . The pacing is fast , but not too much so , this is never overwhelming to watch . The acting isn't bad , and it never becomes downright poor . The writing is great , all the way . Dialog is well-done . Technically speaking , this is a nicely produced indie , with favorable quality of sound and image , and the cinematography and editing are reasonable and spot-on , respectively . Music is well-chosen . The outtakes for this aren't too bad , either , if slow at points . As the title'll tell ya , there is some mature material herein , though there is no nudity and the language isn't too harsh . The comedy is magnificent , and if you enjoy the quirky , slightly off-beat brand that this is , you're likely to find this very entertaining . I certainly did . I recommend this to any fan of indie comedy , and aforementioned type of such .
Pretty good , for a TV-film	It's rare to find made-for-TV films that are good , or even watchable . This is one of the better , though still not a particularly good film overall . The plot is surprisingly interesting , and it mostly moves at a good pace . It takes us through Dorothy's entire life ( well , mostly her adult life ) and her relationships with male acquaintances , many of which turned out less than fortunate . She has a hard life , and must deal with racism throughout her entire career . The acting is above the typical level of TV-movies , but still not exactly good . It is however mostly - at the very least - acceptable . Berry gives a credible performance . Brent Spiner is surprisingly good . His character is one of the most entertaining to watch throughout the film . Many of the characters are somewhat stereotypical . The writing is at times a bit too predictable and dull , but it's mostly good enough to keep your interest , keep you watching . The film's emphasis on racism and intolerance seems underdone ; we never truly see her being singled out , never experience the ignorant hatred towards her . There are just a few scenes and some vague mentions of it ; and with how much her life was affected by it , I had expected the film to be all about it . The thing is , apart from these few , barely noticeable ( in the film as a whole ) mentions of racism , the film doesn't seem to be about it at all . It focuses more on her unsuccessful relationships with men and her attitude towards being a movie star . I'm guessing either the director didn't know what to do with the film or didn't think the racism was important enough . Either way , it leaves the film seeming more empty and flat . I recommend this to anyone interested in the story and fans of Halle Berry . Just don't expect anything more than a good TV-movie .
A highly entertaining spoof of the old 50's sci-fi horror movies	This is a parody of the old B-movies of the 50's , concerning gigantic animals , mostly spiders . It's filled with corny humor and cheesy special effects , which only help to make it a funnier spoof movie . It spoofs a few other well-known movies too , there are references to Indiana Jones , Tarzan and the likes . The plot is far-fetched and extremely cheesy , but it's all in context with the very theme of the movie . The acting is mostly not very convincing , but it once again fits perfectly . Half of the actors are not exactly A-list actors , so they did OK , in my opinion . The characters are either cliches , caricatures or stereotypes , which makes sense , considering it's just a spoof movie . The special effects are pretty good , not great , but good . They definitely fit with the movie perfectly . Something I found particularly funny was the cheesy sound effects and the nice touches that contained great humor ; most of the spiders seem to have their own unique personality , which is shown by a collaboration of campy sound effects and comical movements by the spiders . I would recommend this to any person who enjoys spoof movies , especially ones which contain campy humor ; I'd also recommend it to anyone who's seen one or more of the old " giant spiders " movies , and couldn't take it seriously .
Important , if not overly impressive film	I remember when this hit theaters . I don't remember exactly why I didn't I go for it back then ? maybe I thought it was something else . In any event , I knew that I had to watch it when the TV ads came on for its airing here , on Danish TV . The part of the advertisements that ran that best summarizes it is the exchange between the film's two Julia's ; upon being asked by Roberts what she wants to do with her life , Stiles replies that she will marry soon . Roberts further asks " and then ? " , to which Stiles , clearly very surprised at the query , simply replies " then I'll be married . " That was all a girl or woman could aspire to , back then . Being married . Taking care of their husband and children , to directly quote a character in the film . Far be it from me to suggest that we should completely ignore tradition ? roots are important , and we can learn from the past ? but to put a certain role upon every person of a certain gender is hardly fair or constructive . What makes this film work is that it shows you both sides of the argument . Sure , it clearly takes a stance , but anyone competent enough to look past the manipulative nature of certain films will get a reasonably full perspective . And while Roberts is clearly the " hero " of the story , she is not flawless , nor does she always win . The plot is fair , and develops nicely throughout . The pacing is decent . The acting ranges , but is all-round acceptable . This won't break any ground , especially not through its technical aspects , but it will hopefully inspire some thought . I recommend this to any fans of the people involved in making it , and anyone into having views challenged ? their own or those of their contemporaries .
Very pulpy . . . perhaps too pulpy for my tastes	I'm not sure what would have made this film more appealing to me . . . maybe Tarantino should have directed it . . . maybe someone other than Christian Slater should have played the lead role . . . maybe there should have been fewer deaths . . . maybe the film should have been shorter . As is , the film just didn't interest me all that much , and I only really paid attention to the first few and the last few scenes . The plot never really got my interest , though I thought the love story between the two leads was surprisingly good . The pacing seems much too slow and jolted for a Tarantino film ( honestly , either Tarantino should have been allowed to direct it or Scott should have written his own script ) . The acting ranges , but most of it is good . Slater is acceptable , but a good actor he is not . His performance is passable at best , and him being the leading man definitely took a lot out of the experience for me . The film never really seemed to take off or go anywhere . . . and not long into the movie , it was just waiting for the next guy to get killed . The dialog is typical Tarantino , meaning somewhat roundabout , but usually funny and / or insightful . The humor is pretty good , and also fairly typical Tarantino ( though it too would have benefited from Tarantino directing the film ) . To make it perfectly clear ; the film is clearly and obviously and in many , many ways a Tarantino film . His unique and easily recognizable style is here , just like in Reservoir Dogs , both volumes of Kill Bill , Pulp Fiction and Jackie Brown . However , this is , by definition , not a Tarantino film . He didn't direct it , and believe me , it shows . Scott just doesn't " get " Tarantino's style , and messes up so many of his trademarks ( most notably , he removes the important non-linear time-line ) and references , stuff that Tarantino never would have blown , not in a million years ( here I feel it is necessary to point out that I am not a fan of Tarantino's ) . Yes , that's what really brings this film down ; another director trying to shoot a story that Tarantino has put together , and who completely misses the boat . Just for the record , an example of a director's perfect use of a Tarantino script is the Robert Rodriguez / Quentin Tarantino collaboration From Dusk Till Dawn . Go see that one before even thinking about this one . I recommend this film to Tarantino / pulp fans . Give it a chance . Just don't expect a Tarantino film .
Weird	The one line summary says it pretty well ; this film is pretty weird . It's fast-paced , very few scenes last more than a minute or so , so you have to pay close attention to it , or you'll miss crucial details . The plot is pretty good , and fairly interesting , though it confuses its audience a lot , especially near the end . It is , like I mentioned before , very fast-paced , and yet it seems to crawl through the film a lot , if not most , of the time . The acting is mostly good , though I have to admit that Drew Barrymore drove me crazy for a lot of her scenes , with her annoyingly , overly sweet type of acting . Julia Roberts is decent enough . Sam Rockwell gives a great performance and carries the film almost entirely on his shoulders . George Clooney was great as well . The characters seemed fairly well-written , though Roberts apparently jumped straight out of character in a single scene ( I don't know if that has to do with her acting or the script , though ) , but most of the time they were credible . The script is pretty good , though I think it jumps a little too much forward at times , and seems to refuse to stay at one point long enough for us to think about that period . The film has some good , well-edited and nicely cut sequences that show promise , but the film never really picks up on it , leaving only a few really good scenes , but no good continuity , and no really good film . I know that the film is based on someone real , Chuck Barris , but I find it far too boring and seemingly pointless to make for an interesting watch , unless you're really interested in knowing how Mr . Barris ' life was . I guess the moral of it is , that you should do everything you can to realize your dreams , or you might wake up one day and find out you're too late , and you've wasted too much of your life . That's a good point , and kudos on trying to make it with this film , but at least make the film interesting and watchable . Barris isn't even particularly likable , not to mention , the shows he made could very well be the fault of the low-brow nature of most TV-shows today , which is only reason to loathe him , as much as most of the female characters in the film do . I recommend it to fans of black comedies , and possibly of the actors too . Just be prepared to be bored out of your mind , if the film doesn't grab you or your attention almost immediately . Unless of course you're just dying to know who the ' famous ' Chuck Barris was .
Too few features , could have been better , but fairly entertaining overall	First of all , I haven't really tried playing Grand Theft Auto III , so if anything I say is good or new in this review is also in GTA III , you know why . I have the PC version of the game , so if something I say is a good feature and you don't have it on your console version of the game , yep , once again , you already know the reason . The game is pretty good , but has much too few features compared to how far it has gotten ( time-wise as well as compared to the technological achievements within the field of video games ) since the release of the first Grand Theft Auto ( which is basically the only game in the series that I have played ) . If you hit water , you still drown ( if you are far enough out , of course ) , no matter what water it is . No swimming , no getting out of the car in the nick of time to get the less than two meters back onto the shore . . . you just die . And saving can only take place at designated locations , which you'll only get more of when you get further in the game . Sorry , but a game that is this darned difficult should offer saving at all times . You can shoot out the front window of any car , but it's rarely possible to shoot the driver , which really renders this an utterly useless feature . Also , to my knowledge , it's impossible to shoot out any of the other windows ; that's just laziness , if you ask me . You can shoot any car to pieces , but there's not one particular ' zone ' you can aim for . . . you just shoot all over the car , and it'll explode once it has taken enough bullets . Once again , lazy . How about giving us a little zone to aim for , near the engine , for instance , that when hit once or twice will cause the car to explode . You can shoot out the tires , and this is one of the features that are really cool . If the cops are on your tail , if you can feel the heat breathing down your neck , just pull out a fast and / or accurate gun , aim for one of the tires in the nearest cop car , and watch them skid off the road . For maximum enjoyment , take out two or more tires and engage in a high-speed chase through town . They won't be able to drive properly . Like the original GTA , it's very entertaining to go nuts and get as many cops to chase you as possible . This time , you get SWAT , FBI , even the military after you . I'm not kidding , we're talking tanks and armed choppers . I don't believe there is anything quite as satisfying in this game as shooting down a chopper with one well-placed shot from the bazooka . The weapons are pretty good , but I think it sucks that you are often forced to change a weapon when you take on a mission , and you have to get your weapons back by buying them somewhere or finding it in town somewhere . Why not give the player an armory accessible through all of the safe-houses ? The way you have to work your way through most of the city for so many of the benefits seems like a lame way of getting the player to be on the move a lot ( it's a game of fast cars which lets you drive as fast as the car can go . . . finding ways of encouraging players to drive around a lot really shouldn't be that tough a feat ) . The story is pretty good , but much of it is dull and bland . The voice acting is all good . I thoroughly enjoyed running around as a character voiced by Ray Liotta ( and the in-jokes were a nice touch ) . The missions are good , at times . . . at other times , they are overly hard and frustrating . There were at least two missions that I had to cheat my way through . . . and believe me , I hate cheating . I was just so tired of losing constantly , I gave up and gave in . All in all , the game is fairly entertaining , but it just lacks too many features . The MP3 Player ' radio station ' is nice , but it doesn't add enough . How about a properly integrated MP3 Player in the game , where you can listen to that specific track you want to listen to ? Shooting whilst driving is fun , but why only allow one class of weapon ( the SMG , or Sub Machine Gun ) to be used for it ? And there's no way to aim or predict where the shots will go . I'm not saying you should have perfect aim whilst driving at high speeds and using one hand to steer , but just a hint of a control feature would be nice . Also , you can only fire to either side , and , if on a bike , forward . How about a feature where the car is either driven for you , and you can shoot anywhere you want out of the side window , or you drive it whilst someone ( maybe the helper could be hired ? Money are easy enough to come by in the game ) else shoots , a la Enter the Matrix . I'm by no means a car guy , yet I very much enjoyed those parts of that game , in spite of how widely recognized the fact of them being less than perfectly done ( or even completed all the way ) is . The humor , mostly , did just not work for me . It felt more about throwing stereotypes and " offensive " material at the gamer than actually being entertaining . Like someone with no talent trying to do South Park style comedy . I recommend this to fans of car / action games , but definitely not to fans of shooting games ( as the shooting sucks hard , compared to just about every other game that involves shooting , if not for completely sure ) . Just don't expect to be that entertained , as the game is , unfortunately , not unlike Postal 2 and a few other recent games , geared more towards being as politically incorrect as possible , rather than entertain .
Exposing the indifference that is the core of corporate America	The earliest of Moore's films I've seen so far , this is definitely not his best work . . . technically , this is the least impressive of the ones I've seen ( the others are Bowling For Columbine and Fahrenheit ) . The editing , pacing and presentation just isn't as sharp or clean as the other two . The score isn't as ironic or fitting either . The humor , tone and ' direction ' is just as good , though . This time , Moore takes a clean shot at corporate America , and clearly exposes the indifference of the common man's fate displayed by all executives . Several times in the documentary we're introduced to companies that , despite of high profits and no problems with their workers are laying people off , closing and moving factories . . . putting people out of work , effectively robbing them of their livelihood . As usual , it's done in Moore's fashion of outlining the facts that support his cause and denying or ignoring the ones that do not . Of course , he gets so many laughs throughout that you barely notice it . . . and what he says is true , at least to a certain extent . The interviews in which Moore asks all the right questions , usually very controversial and direct are inter-cut with what appears to be a stand-up performance by him , which adds a sense of closeness that means a lot for the effect of the film . Not as memorable and interesting as Bowling or Fahrenheit , but most definitely worth watching . I recommend this to any fan of Michael Moore and humorous documentaries .
Finally , a good Bond spoof	This is really a funny parody of the Bond movies . This is the best thing to watch if you've seen a typical by-the-numbers Bond movie , one of the old ones , for example , and thought it was ridiculous , or at the very least something other than great . The plot is directly spoofing the old Bond movies , with an evil villain trying to take over the world . The acting is pretty good , for a spoof movie ; the characters are mostly caricatures and stereotypes , to further parody the Bond movies , but they add to the humor of the film . Mike Myers is great in this movie , pretty much anyone who likes him will probably enjoy him in this . I loved how it was spoofing the Bond movies , sometimes even mentioning the ludicrousness of the characters actions in details . If you're into 60's stereotypes , crude sexual humor and some great Bond-spoof action , you'll most likely enjoy this . I recommend this to anyone who enjoys spoof movies , and who's seen at least one Bond movie and thought it was a bit ridiculous . It's filled to the brink with crude sexual innuendo and Bond-spoofing .
When a licensed game works	Ah yes , it is , I suppose , a sad , but definite truth . . . licensed video-games are seldom of particularly high quality . We all know it , us gamers ( even those of us who perhaps sometimes deceive ourselves into thinking otherwise , in wanting a game of a recent flick , a comic book , etc . , and wanting it to be an accomplishment . . . yours truly admits openly to being guilty as charged of that ) . No , rather , they tend to be rushed messes which try ( ultimately failing , on account of lacking real substance ) to win over the player by throwing a bunch of references to what the original is at them , in uneven amounts and without properly developed material . The Disney games aren't all good , either . . . the one for The Lion King has levels that make somewhat little sense , just to name one . To name another , the quality of Hercules was , overall , just above average . But this one . . . this one , is a different matter . This is one of both those types , and it actually works , in both respects , and never really lets you down . The plot follows that of the movie , most of the way , adding some to make up for what had to be taken out ( not all of the film could be turned into a game , at least of this type ) , but it all makes sense . And there aren't really any bad parts to the game . I should perhaps point out that this review could reveal details about the animated musical original that may be best experienced by watching that . The music used consists of so-called midi versions of some of the songs of the feature ( usually the song used in the scene , since that does , obviously , make the most sense ) , including One Jump Ahead , and this works quite well . The sound isn't bad , if perhaps somewhat sparse , but I'm not sure more was really missed . The game is a platform action game , and has you running , jumping , crouching , and occasionally , climbing , around as the title character himself , and for fighting purposes , for dispensing some Middle-Eastern punishment upon the enemies , such as those pesky guards ( who do seem to be stationed just about everywhere in the kingdom . . . or is it sultanate ? Whatever ) . . . fear not , for he is brandishing a sword with two possible attacks , one stronger than the other , and , for some reason , apples for throwing ( in the movie , Al is considerably less decadent , and does not , in fact , waste food ) . However , not to spoil it , but the magic carpet will also make appearances , as will Abu . The Genie appears in multiple forms throughout , to aid your quest . One thing that helps are the countless great references to the movie , which with no real exceptions are well-integrated and fit in , taking you into the universe and making it interactive , rather than coming off phony and forced . The levels are all based on material in the film , and in addition to the obvious and more or less direct translations , such as the Agrabah Market and the exhilarating Rug Ride , there are such levels as the Desert ( where you must seek out the Golden Scarab ) , Jafar's Quarters ( complete with Iago , who appears what I suppose is an inordinate amount of times ) and a level inside of the lamp , the latter full to the very brim of Genie and his magic in various forms , as seen in the feature . Level design is nicely done , for the very most part , with backgrounds and details from the film , mixed in with original material that fits in the universe as presented . There are a few boss enemies here and there , and they're varied in how they attack and how you must defeat them . The graphics are great , the animation being done by actual Disney animators , and looking almost entirely like that of the movie , throughout . The color scheme is marvelous , and the visuals quite good . The action and game-play are really good , with you being able to attack from almost any position or situation ( climbing a rope , jumping , ducking , etc . ) , and the levels being fun to explore and run through . There are secrets enough to keep you coming back to the game , and tons of bonuses and stuff to pick up and find . Granted , the game won't take you but a few hours , but given that there is no saving outside of the levels ( there are save-points in most levels ) , you will have to start the entire game over if you lose one too many times , and if or when that happens , you will be grateful that it's no longer than it is ( and right after you've beaten it , your fingers will , as well ) . It doesn't overstay its welcome , either , and it's great fun while it lasts . I can't help but suggest to anyone wanting to play this to watch or re-watch ( it is one that makes for going back to ) the film in connection with playing . It helps you see just how many things they managed to put into the game , and how expertly lifted from the feature they were . The difficulty settings ensure that most people can play it , regardless of how skilled a player you are , and that it can still provide a challenge for the veterans . The levels get increasingly more difficult to complete , and you get less help and have a harder time finding the helpful items , and enough of them , the further you get . There is no real AI to speak of , but the enemies and environments do pose genuine threats to the survival of the popular Arabic thief , and the probability of him being successful in saving the Princess , defeating the Grand Vizier Jafar , and thwarting his evil scheme . The adventure is definitely a thrilling , satisfying and entertaining one . The game is perhaps dated now , but it was magnificent when it came out , and it still holds up well , and surpasses ones released later . If you like the feature , Disney , platform games , one , several or all of the aforementioned , you may very well enjoy this fine piece of work . I recommend this to anyone who fits that .
Off to a great start	At a time when it was thought that this movie franchise was beyond any possible rescue , this was put together . What I got when I sat down in the theater , over three years ago , and the lights were turned off was a very pleasant , and rather welcome surprise . First off , let me make it clear that Nolan takes appropriate time introducing and building up before the superhero aspect turns up at all . A lot of this is spent on back-story , Bruce's as well as that of other important characters . With that said , my hat's off to Christopher . . . I'm not sure any other director has the same understanding of what makes Bruce Wayne and his alter ego tick . The motivation , the determination , terrifying his enemies . . . perfect . The way bats ( the animal ) are used in this is magnificent . Whenever Batman attacks henchmen , we see it from their angle . . . not his . This is fantastic , and works really well . The other action scenes , however , the fighting and such , at their worst , do arguably reveal that the director is not used to this kind of film ; most of the shots are at medium range , and about half of them are dark . To put it bluntly : There are points where you can't see a thing . Another thing that bothered me was that this seems too eager regarding some of the surprises . At least once or twice , I sat waiting for something I knew would come , to happen . Apart from those somewhat minor complaints , this feature is excellent . The plot is well thought-out and it pays off . The dialog is brilliant . The humor is good , almost every single line that tries to be clever succeeds . The performances are top-notch , all-round . Neeson is marvelous , as are Bale , Caine and Oldman . Holmes is above average . The direction is very stylish , and this bears resemblance to a psychological thriller . It would have been nice , though , if they went for more complexity than " fear " seeming to be the one thing they focus on . The attempt to make the story and villains seem more realistic and believable went well . I wasn't a huge fan of the new Batmobile when I first saw it in previews , but . . . just wait until you see it . In fact , there's a car-chase involving it that almost alone is worth watching this for . The equipment and weapons are easier to look at when it's explained as something that very well could exist in the real world . I especially liked the idea behind Scarecrow . I won't reveal it here . Also , I would like to give Mr . N two thumbs up on his decision to use primarily practical effects , with little to no CGI . It looks better and is enormously credible . The atmosphere is expertly achieved . As the very last thing : This really isn't a superhero flick . It's a moral tale of a man and his fight for either vengeance or justice . He wears the suit for a reason . There is a little moderately strong language , no sexuality and material dealing with drugs . I recommend this to any fan of the comics , any of the actors and / or any of the genres . Do be sure to know what to expect from it . This is not colorful , and definitely not campy . It's dark , brooding and bleak . Fits like a glove .
Good , but inferior to Se7en	Hannibal Lecter . The name that will spark interest , gain recognition , and most likely send a chill down your spine . He's one of the most interesting and well-known fictional serial killers , and this is probably the movie that manages to do him most justice . Anthony Hopkins as the serial killer , psychiatrist and cannibal was a great casting decision . He definitely performed the role as perfectly as it could be done . However , when it comes to the overall quality of the film , it just doesn't entirely measure up . The plot is good , and evolves at a pretty good pace ; however , I couldn't manage to sit through the entire thing . . . I only barely made it , half-attentive , through the first 45 minutes . I couldn't even sit through more than ' s of the movie , let alone the whole thing . Now , this may be because I've seen it many times in the past years , but usually , when I can't sit through a movie because I have seen it before , it's due to my remembering most of the key parts of the movie , and not being surprised by it . . . but not this movie ; I can say , in entire honesty , that I didn't remember or even recognize any of the film , despite having seen it plenty of times before , about one time a year . If I remember anything from a movie , that I haven't seen for a long time , it's because it had an impact on me ; for example , I still haven't forgotten the twist of the famous Hitchcock horror-thriller , Vertigo , despite the fact that I've seen it once , and that was about five years ago . Nothing in this movie had an impact on me , nothing affected me deeply . Maybe I'm hard to impress , maybe I am too hardened by worse films . . . but still . The film involves sick and disturbing characters and actions ; it should have an impact on the viewer . Maybe I'm not smart enough to get it ; maybe I keep expecting the film to be very different from what it was . . . I don't know . I just didn't find this film as good as it has been made out to be . The acting is very good ; Hopkins nails the role of Lecter perfectly . Foster is good , too . Both portray their roles convincingly , and make their characters and their actions credible . The characters are well-written , credible and , well , colorful . Buffalo Bill makes a great villain , very psychotic and disturbing . Levine also gives a very good performance . All in all , a pretty good horror-thriller , but inferior to Se7en ( arguably the best of the genre ) , and only enjoyable for people who can appreciate the psychological aspects of the film ( which I guess I can't ) . I recommend it exclusively to people who can enjoy a very psychological thriller-horror piece .
I was at the edge of my seat , with my eyes consistently glued to the screen	Let me start off by saying that I have not read the novel . It would appear they cut the amount of occurrences in half , which doesn't mean it isn't still an amazing piece of work . This holds up incredibly well . It's over thirty years old , and beyond possibly some of the music , I really didn't feel that this was particularly dated . This takes off almost immediately , and from then on , it keeps a solid grip on the viewer . The suspense and intensity is immense , and it is pushed to just before it becomes overwhelming , an impressive achievement in that it doesn't actually go over the line . The editing is excellent , throughout . The cinematography is inspiring . The direction is masterful . Nothing is too much or insufficient . It never gets to be crude , and there are many marvelous underplayed moments . This is one of the examples that can help prove that an action scene does not have to be big , loud , dumb and / or obnoxious , but can be sophisticated . I found all of this rather effective . The writing is magnificent , and the script still has relevance today . The plot is well-told and develops perfectly . The acting is quite simply spot-on , not a single performance is off . Redford , Dunaway and von Sydow are fantastic . There is a sequence where sexuality is hinted at , in the same subtle manner as the majority of the piece . There is language , though rare , and only twice is it harsh . This is only the third film ( the other two being They Shoot Horses , Don't They ? and The Interpreter ) I've seen with Sydney at the helm , and I do not intend it to be the last , although I can imagine it to be the most exciting . I recommend this warmly to any fan of spy-thrillers and / or those who made this , Mr . Pollack in particular .
Not like the rest	Review of the Special Collector's Edition . This is different from the rest , which doesn't mean that they , nor this , are bad . It holds elements that simply hadn't really been seen much in the franchise , and , more to the point , it does them well , with several of them being important and interesting . It's got great production values , throughout its entirety . The make-up , effects , costumes , lighting , pacing , all of it , masterful ( compare this to V , and . . . yeah ) . One thing that must be mentioned is the acting , specifically of the new characters . Warner , considerably stronger in his role than in the part he played in the movie immediately preceding this , Plummer as one of the best of this , and , yes , Cattrall , save for precious few instances that are arguably made up for by certain other portions of her performance . This mostly doesn't try to be funny , but succeeds when it does . The tone is achieved rather well . I don't know where Meyer got his direction chops , but I applaud them . The language , well , there is a lot less of it than usual for these . This is both smart and entertaining , and manages to do crowd-pleasing sequences without feeling like it's stooped to a lower level . I recommend this to fans of Star Trek , and / or of the people involved in making it , and I would suggest the previous films be watched first .
Bloody good time	This is the first Rambo movie I watch , I intend to watch the first three , as well ( I made the decision to before watching this ) . Almost all I know about Rambo as of writing this is what I saw in this film . The trailers promised a massive action-film ( and the red band ones , a blood-soaked one , at that ) , and the movie most definitely delivers . It's entertaining throughout . The plot is fine , certainly not the best , but it isn't the focus of this , anyway . The pacing is spot-on , I was neither bored nor overwhelmed ( which is not at all to say that the action is anything less than epic ) for a second , from start to finish . The acting is reasonable , no downright embarrassing performances . Dialog varies , but the good is more great than the bad is awful . Characters aren't half bad . Cinematography and editing are pretty good , if the latter doesn't permit the viewer much of an overview of some of the battles , although that could be the intention , when in such a situation for real , one cannot be expected to fully grasp everything . The action is awesome . Explosions , gun-fights , it's there , it's wicked cool . It should be noted by anyone who even vaguely considers this that this has a lot of gore and blood , and it doesn't attempt to hide it from sight . Effects are solid , all the way . The guns , well-chosen and accurately depicted . This is only the second of Sly's directing efforts I've watched ( first being the second Rocky film ) , and he certainly does commendable work , here . One thing that could be argued , and that others have brought up , is the way the violence is shown in the same manner whether it is against those we sympathize with , or those we want to watch Stallone put the hurt on , which can be criticized ( as well as the inclusion of actual footage from the conflict ) . He can be called either brave or foolhardy for his decision to make this , both his sit in the directing chair and his position in front of the camera , starring , and I suppose there are points where his age shows , but I feel he pulled it off well , remarkably so , in both . I recommend this to any fan of action , Sylvester Stallone , and , I presume , Rambo . . . but do get a second opinion , someone who's actually watched the others , before you take my word on that last one .
Beautiful	I hadn't really seen any other movies by Penny Marshall before watching this . The only one I'm sure I've seen is Riding in Cars with Boys , and , well , if you've read my review of that one , you'll know I didn't think very much of it . Looking at her filmography , I think this is the best of the films she's directed , quality-wise . The plot is great , and very well-told . The pacing is pretty much spot-on . The acting is all top-notch . De Niro is astounding . My fiancée remarks that it made her forget the stereotypical " De Niro roles " , Cape Fear's Max Cady and the various ( and more often than not , interchangeable ) gangster roles that he's played . Personally , I'd also say that Anthony J . Nici was a good choice for the young Leonard Lowe . I think he looks remarkably like him ( right down to the mole . . . added or not ) , and he does fine acting , as well . Williams shows that he can make us feel , as well as make us laugh , once again . The music is really good , songs are well-chosen . The editing is very good throughout . Most of the camera-work is , as well , although the zoom-ins don't work in the least . Very engaging and sad film . I recommend this to any fan of drama and / or the actors involved .
Quite good , if very 80's	From the moment I heard of this film , I knew I had to watch it . . . a buddy comedy pairing up Charles Grodin and Robert De Niro , that's simply too good , to golden an idea to miss . As expected , Grodin's deadpan and matter-of-fact humor compliments De Niro's hot-headed , sarcastic witty humor perfectly . The plot is interesting , though the pace seemed odd to me . It gets going faster than you'd expect it to , and then proceeds to take it's good time getting to where it's going . Maybe it's just too long since I've seen a movie of this period . There's no doubt about it ; the film is very 80's . Around half-way through the film , I thought to myself : " There is no doubt as to the fact that this movie was made in the same decade as The Blues Brothers . " It starts out 80's , continues 80's and ends 80's . The music , the tone , the dialog . . . everything . Any fan of the movies and culture of those years should love it . Heck , I'm not . . . and I thought it was pretty darn great . The score consists heavily of jazz and blues , which both fits and just sounds , well , damn good . The action is somewhat . . . well , close to non-existent , but that's not what this film is about . It's about the characters - the people we follow . True , only the two main characters are well-developed . . . but they all seemed credible , and what back-story was provided was excellent . The acting is all good . The humor mostly works . . . though there were two characters who seemed to only be there to provide comic relief , and of the worst kind . They were inexplicably daft , and this was just hit on every single time we see them . . . no depth whatsoever to them . Some of the jokes and gags try too hard to be funny , and a few are added in at points in the movie that are too busy , too much going on for us to find them funny . To the director and the writer , I say this : Remember , less is more . You can't cram in jokes wherever . Like action , humor needs pacing and timing to work . Finally , De Niro fools the same character not once , not twice , but three times with the exact same trick . It turns out to be a setup , but still . Still , this is one of the best films of its kind , and it's a lot better than many , if not necessarily all ( The Blues Brothers and Trading Places definitely top it ) 80's comedies . I recommend this film to most people who can enjoy a film that is a little older than brand new . . . it has , most definitely , aged quite well . Watch it for De Niro , watch it for Grodin , watch it for some good laughs and a good film experience ( thought it would be a lie to say that it's exceptionally well-made , from a purely technical standpoint ) .
It's a movie that can provide a lot of laughs . . . and that is important right now	This is a fantastic spoof . I'd suggest watching Airport 1975 first , to get the full effect . I haven't seen Zero Hour ! , so I can't say how that impacts it . Of course , having a basic knowledge of popular culture is also a help . This has just about every kind of material you can imagine : Slapstick , random jokes , sight gags , verbal humor , gross-out comedy ( thankfully not very much at all ) , sexual , physical and possibly more . The vast majority of these work ( they clearly put effort into it ) , and hilarity is the main ingredient in this . The timing is spot-on , and the performers are well-chosen . This is what launched Nielsen as a funny man , and you can tell why . Stucker is marvelous . The pacing is good . The plot is , as well . The acting fits . The effects are nicely done , and the production values barely leave anything to be desired ( in spite of the low budget ) . There is some racy content in this , in addition to what I've already mentioned as types there is relatively strong language , in a moderate amount . Children shouldn't be allowed near this , although they hopefully won't understand all of it . I imagine there are alternate versions , and among them , there may very well be milder ones . The regular DVD holds a commentary track with the three writer / directors and Jon Davison , and while there are silent areas in it , it's worth listening through , and is nicely informational and entertaining . I recommend this to any fan of parody , the Zuckers ' and / or Mr . Abrahams .
An introduction to video-storyboarding	Whereas the first of these 10 Minute Film Schools was packed with tips for indie film-makers , this is more centered on one thing . . . storyboarding . Rodriguez did not do storyboards for El Mariachi , as he didn't actually have a crew and did not need to tell them what he wanted to achieve , but he did some for Desperado , since he had Columbia backing him , and was expected to make ( and certainly delivered ) a bigger , more epic film ( which is not to say that it was necessarily better , but this is not the place for a debate on that ) . He tells us that he did not want a storyboard artist , as they then dictate basically what shots you will be doing for the film . . . and as he was a cartoonist , he did some boards , himself . For those who aren't skilled at drawing , and something Robert had to do , himself , is video-storyboarding . . . bringing a low-tech video camera to tape rehearsals at the location , to figure out which angles to do . Most of the short ( which is actually considerably closer to the length in the title of this series . . . which shows how much less material he had ( I'd say that good ol ' Rob blew most of the great tips on the first one ) , and he even veers slightly off topic in the very last bit ) revolves around this , with shots from the rehearsal inter-cut with footage from the final cut of the film , as he describes the process . What's a real credit to his skills as a storyteller and editor , however , is that you're still not bored for a second . That , as well as the great tidbits of behind the scenes material found in this is what brings it up to such a high rating . While the original is still the best . . . as is usually the case with any creative effort . . . this is a worthy follow-up , and helps to explain to people how the same man who was behind El Mariachi was able to pull off Desperado , and still save both money and time . It looks studio , and Rodriguez brings it down to a level where anyone interested in and excited about film-making can understand it . I recommend this to any fan of the first Ten Minute Film School , El Mariachi , Desperado and Robert Rodriguez in general . Definitely worth your ten minutes .
Maybe I'm missing something . . . minor spoilers , clearly marked and confined to a single paragraph	I rented this at Blockbuster after thinking about it for a very , very long time . A friend of mine had recommended to check this out , and that I should go for the Director's Cut version . So naturally I got quite excited when I found this in said rental store and noticed that it was indeed the Director's Cut . When I finally sat down to watch it , I was immediately engrossed in the action . Not long after it starts , something happens . Then the movie kind of slows down . . . a lot . It keeps that slow pace for a very long time . . . and then something happens again . . . and it returns to the slow pace . The whole movie is like that . . . mostly slow , with a burst of action here and there . I don't know if this was on purpose or not . . . but as a result , I found the movie mostly dull . Just for the record , I wasn't expecting a huge action-packed sci-fi shoot-everything-you-see extravaganza . The plot is pretty good , just very oddly paced . The acting is pretty much flawless . The actors playing Replicants have to portray a adult characters with the emotional maturity of a young child . . . and they pull it off perfectly . The special effects are amazing ; quite an accomplishment for the time the film was made . MINOR SPOILERSOne of my biggest problems with this film is that the investigative portion of the film doesn't seem to hold water . . . Deckard pretty much runs into each of the Replicants casually , rather than figure out where they are , or where they will go . END SPOILERSNow , what I found great about this film ( and the main reason everyone loves it , I would suspect ) is the great theological and ethical questions it asks . Chief of them would probably be : If we actually created Artificial Intelligence ( A . I . ) , would it be right to consider them lesser creatures . . . as opposed to equals ? It also demonstrates how everything we create are for our own use , not for the greater good . And how everything we create , we exploit and use . The film holds many truths about human nature and much food for thought , stuff that will create discussions between you and your friends . . . but not enough . Having watched this so close to my second viewing of Abre Los Ojos , I can't help but compare . . . and this just loses right away . In the end , this is a very good sci-fi film with astounding visuals and some depth , but I fail to see how it's the best sci-fi film of all time . I recommend this to fans of science fiction , particularly of the works of Philip K . Dick ( since apparently this is a very accurate representation of his novel , Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep . . . one I have yet to find and read ) . Be prepared for a oddly paced and somewhat slow film , though .
The series reaches perfection . . . unforgettably entertaining	Finally . . . the last pieces are in place . This is where it all came together : The goofy and incompetent policeman is gone ; Axel Strøbye is the criminal investigator who is neurotic , stuck in his job job and finds his younger colleagues painfully ignorant of how the police work needs to be done ; Ove Verner Hansen plays a muscle-man-for-hire ( though not Bøffen , yet ) ; and the plan truly is brilliant . This is also the very first time they truly try something different with the opening , where Egon is released from prison after serving his time . And the Gang come closer than before to success . . . with a plot that surpasses any of the previous ones , several excellent plans and a pace that is thoroughly solid , this is about as good as it gets , for Danish comedy produced at that time . This contains the hilarious performance of Egon's as a German businessman and a sober ( ! ) Dynamite-Harry . The humor is refined , sophisticated , satirical . The element of humanity is there in just about every gag and joke ( there is hardly any silly humor left at all ) , and the film pin-points what being Danish in Denmark ( of that time ) was . The acting is all top-notch . Strøbye is an indispensable addition to the cast , generating proper opposition for the Gang ( sure , Rico of " . . . in Jutland " was fairly professional , but he remained inferior and incompetent ) . The writing is great . Gone are the ridiculous mix-ups . . . enter instead the interesting and logical twists . The filmic language reaches a nice and steady level . . . setups are properly used and the film uses few , if any , weak plot items . The cinematography finds a comfortable level , with few ( blatant ) zooms ( that aren't used for dramatic emphasis ) and no wasteful shots . All in all . . . a grand comedy of Danish proportions , and one that has made not only millions of Danes laugh countless times ( I , myself , have seen this more times than I can keep track of , as well as the later films ) , but also many Germans ( the former Eastern Germany found the films uncontrollably funny ) , past and present . I recommend this to fans of comedy and of the other films in the series . . . and it helps a lot to , if not downright be Danish , at least know how things are here , especially back then . While it certainly doesn't transcend the likes of more well-produced ( typically American ) films , I still say that the enormous amounts of hours of entertainment for so many people earns this film a solid rating of .
Meaning	Bertocci never really seems to misfire . The quality may vary in his shorts , but he always does good work . This is carried by the style and the acting , both of which are rather solid throughout . Siegel , who we've seen before in other stuff by Guy in his Basement Productions , is remarkable . Mark is credible as well . Adam himself is fun to watch , as usual . The quirky comedy , whilst still a little present , is toned down in this , in his performance and in general , to make more room for the serious material , and it's pulled off magnificently well . This didn't lose my interest . The plot develops nicely and is well-told . The pacing isn't bad at all . The references to various films , and the one to a previous effort by the director , tend to be well-integrated . The visuals are just about invariably attractive , and editing and cinematography are commendable . The music is well-done , unsurprising when it's the work of Van Kapeghian ( I speak from experience , he did scoring for me , twice , and I was quite happy with what he delivered in each case ) . I recommend this to fans of Adam Bertocci , and his releases .
Relatively original	Obviously there are other films similar to this one , even , perhaps especially , in recent years . I won't name them here , as that might tell you too much , about this or them , before viewing . I would advise against reading anything about the plot of this before watching it . This presents a couple of interesting concepts ( one of which is extremely beautifully realized , and possibly unique ) , and the explanations , while varied , show that thought was put into this . The tone isn't overly dark , though this surely can be intense , without going overboard . The pacing is good , it never really loses the audience . There's humor , and most of it works . Characters are fairly fleshed out and well-written . Denzel is largely spot-on in his portrayal ( it might have been negatively affected by the script , also ) . Caviezel does great with what he's given , which could and should have been more . The cinematography and editing are marvelous . There are utterly fascinating visuals in this . The action is well-done , effective and entertaining ( and at times amazingly thought up and put on the screen ) . It does beg the question , however . . . is it perhaps too " Hollywood " ? If it had focused entirely on the intellectual aspect of the story , it would definitely have made a different movie . I'm not sure this fully reached its potential . They had places to go that they didn't even seem to consider , and , in that respect , the titles that use ideas akin to that of this feature are better than this . Also , this might be mistaken , particularly from the trailers , for a simple flick with big explosions by some , and they will be disappointed , and selling it short . It has very little language , and not the worst it could be . There is a tiny bit of nudity . Finally , there is violence , a nominal amount of which is strong . The DVD holds deleted and extended scenes , complete with English subtitles and optional director's commentary ( that are subbed , as well ) , and a group of featurettes , each corresponding to specific parts of Deja Vu , that can be played as you watch it ( complete with an audio track of Bill Marsili , Tony Scott , and Jerry Bruckheimer , during the picture itself , that seems to have been recorded at different times and put together ) or altogether , from the Index . I recommend this to fans of science fiction and thrillers , of productions that ask you to think and can provide food for thought , as well as of the actors and / or anyone else who helped make this .
Deeply unsettling and emotionally draining	During the Depression , many had nothing . . . and the few that did were almost equally as miserable . This movie displays a dance marathon , held for the entertainment of the latter , and the expense of the former . The contestants dance for daily meals and a place to sleep , and the weak hope of a prize , if they are the last couple standing . The rules are cruel , and whilst the many dancers fight to remain standing , the audience is served snacks and fast-food . The film shows how callous people can be , sometimes . The plot is magnificent , the story-telling excellent . Acting ( Sarrazin can exude an extraordinary amount of emotion through his eyes ) , casting , editing ( with extremely few slightly weak moments ) , pacing , direction , cinematography , lighting , music , production design , everything , it's all amazing . This is a very difficult film to watch ( which is by no means to say that I regret doing so ) . It is not entertainment , nor is it something to escape one's everyday life with . It is brutal and uncompromising , a window into an era and an event , both of which show humanity at its worst . A masterpiece . I intend to look for other films by Pollack , there is no doubt about that . . . fortunately , my fiancée has told me that he has done lighter fare ( I would prefer watching something less bleak than this for the next of his movies I view ) . This is a very important movie , particularly in today's world , where reality shows are all over TV . I recommend this to anyone certain that they can sit through it .
The truth and entertainment value are remarkable	When doing parody , you have an important choice to make ; whether or not to pay respect to the source . The difference is impossible to miss . The Scream trilogy does . . . the Scary Movie series doesn't . Spoofing genres is reasonably easy to do , for those of comedic talent . . . observe the clichés , point out the things that everyone knows are ridiculous , and need to be said out loud . It becomes harder when it is based entirely on a franchise . . . especially one that so many people love . This pulls it off ( and goes the right route , in not mocking ) . The plot plays off ST ( whilst using the on and off-screen personalities of the show in much of the material ) . . . in most , if not all , facets of it , and the humor is mainly surrounding that , with some references to other efforts , typically also sci-fi . The self-awareness is magnificent . There are a few instances that qualify as being at least a little bit gross , but they are so few , far between and easily ignored that it doesn't impact the overall enjoyment of the film . The puns and in-jokes are plentiful . Though the idea may not be completely original , the script is very well-written . It fits so many great gags in , without lacking character development or dramatic moments . The pacing is really good , I didn't find it boring for a second . The acting all hits the mark . Allen , Weaver and Rickman are spot-on . Rockwell's role is such a marvelous idea , and it works so well . It has a larger budget than you'd expect . The special effects are excellent , throughout . There is a small amount ( less than in even the Star Trek feature mildest in that regard ) of language ( and as my fiancée put it , don't let your children read lips ) , and violence . A minor complaint is that , as a result of the re-editing when they decided to tone down how dark it was , Tony Shalhoub appears stoned for the entire running time for no readily apparent reason . In spite of that , this is a gem of a picture , and it stands on its own . The DVD holds nice extras , including a featurette , several interviews of varying length ( as low as mere seconds ) and deleted scenes , all of interest and worth watching . I recommend this to anyone who enjoys TOS , Next Gen and / or science fiction . . . and people who know the first two well . . . and don't take it too seriously , mind you . . . are going to get more out of this ( albeit it is by no means a requirement ) .
Humorous and stylish British gangster flick	I haven't seen Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels , which makes this the first Guy Ritchie film I've seen , and the only one I've seen so far . I had heard plenty of good things about this film , and I do believe that I've seen some of Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels ( though that didn't impress me much , actually ) , and after seeing some advertisements for this , I was looking forward to seeing it . I must say , it did meet my expectations , though it didn't exceed them . The plot is great , very interesting and constantly developing . It also has a good pace , you're never bored , which can also be attributed to the many quick cuts and great editing . The acting is great , I really enjoyed Brad Pitt and Vinnie Jones , not to mention Jason Statham , though they were all great , I think . The characters were diverse , well-written and credible , not to mention quite entertaining , though at times they became a little lame , in obvious attempts at humor . The action is great , though there is fairly little of it ; it's mostly sacrificed for the sake of more humor . Don't get me wrong , the humor is mostly good too , but sometimes it just seems like there is too little action in it , though , when there is action , it's good . The camera work and overall filming style is , well , stylish , and looks very cool . I liked the use of slow-motion , fast-motion and instantly changing angles , not to mention the well-placed quick cuts . The way the diamond constantly changed hands in the film was great , though a fairly basic way to keep the plot going . I liked all of the things that didn't have anything to do with the diamond , like the gypsies and the boxing , but I did think the plot revolved a little too much around the diamond . All in all , a very entertaining film , that couldn't have been much better or much more professionally made , but was lacking a little . I recommend it to fans of British / violent humor , and fans of the actors . I guess people who liked Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels will enjoy this too , though I can't say for sure , as I haven't seen it .
Great film , but marred by the same things as all other pieces of Danish cinema	I haven't read the novel behind this film , but I'm told that the storyline and tone is followed fairly well . The plot is very good , and the pacing is above par for a Danish film . The acting is nearly flawless , with few exceptions . The characters are well-written and credible , though that may have more to do with the author of the novel than anyone who worked on the film itself . The film is great in many ways , but I somehow can't really bring myself to completely love it , or even remember it . I saw it for the second time , after having seen it a year earlier , and I couldn't remember any of it . Normally , something , anything makes an impact on me emotionally and I can recall it a long time after . But on this one , nothing had me remembering . There was a good deal of ' oh yeah , that's what happened ' but no ' ah , and what happens now is . . . ' Nothing . Not even a detail , a line of dialog , a sound . . . nothing . I think the problem is that this is struck by the same thing as most , if not all , other Danish films . . . a lack of creativity , a love of keeping things simple and obvious . Nothing is hinted at , there are no fine lines or symbolisms in the background . Everything is forced down our throats and subtlety is given the cold shoulder . There are several scenes that are awfully misdirected and the editing is terribly rough in many places . Scenes that play out like mystery / tension scenes leave the viewer bored due to us already knowing how they will end . Also , the humor of the film seems to be desperately sprayed all over the whole project , supposedly to make it easier to sit through ( although it serves more as a distraction from the serious drama in the film ) . All in all , it's worth watching , and probably good for a brief discussion or analyzing , but nothing more . A film that is quickly forgotten , maybe you're simply better off reading the book . I recommend it to Danes that either don't have access to the book or just don't care to read it , but don't wish to miss the story and the great themes to it . I don't believe anyone else should bother , though .
Great action . . . about as good as Ambush	After watching all of the The Hire BMW commercials , I'm still considering the first , Ambush , my favorite . But I must say , this one comes damn close . It has great action , a pretty good plot and very good acting by all involved . The cameos by Ray Liotta and Robert Patrick are a nice touch . The only thing I didn't like in this was the twist . . . when we find out what's inside the suitcase . That is a little lame . . . and overly ' good guy ' , I think . Apart from that , though , the commercial is very cool and intense . I like the way the story was told , jumping a bit back and forth in time , throughout the entire thing . . . that worked exceptionally well . I haven't seen any other films by Joe Carnahan , but if any of them are as action-packed and intense as this one , I might have to check out some of his other work . While I can't say too much about his acting talent in general , I think Don Cheadle did a pretty good job in this . Clive Owen is , as usual , great as The Driver . F . Murray Abraham is charismatic as always . While this is not the best of the commercials , it is very good , and definitely worth watching . I recommend it to fans of the commercials and action films .
A decade after , the impact is still clear	I base this on the GOTY ( Game of the Year . . . it was awarded that title in ' 98 , and one can still figure out why ) version , and on the PC release . For years after FPS's started being made , after Wolfenstein 3D , the growth was slow , and fairly obvious . Then this came . Marking itself as a big step away from the arcade feel of the predecessors , this was made highly realistic . The way it starts , how it is throughout , at next to no point in all of this is the following not true : It comes off as less of a VG , and more like , well , real life . Heck , this begins with you coming in to work . Of course , you have a really interesting job , and something happens that shapes the rest of this . This doesn't have shiny pick-ups , and all that there are , appear in places you'd expect to find them , ammo not just lying about , but in boxes and on shelves , near dead bodies . There is not technically a single cut-scene in this . . . rather , what will happen is that events occur , and you can overhear conversations ( and a lot of them , you will be directly talked to ) , yet without the angle ever changing ( in all of this ) , and you can still move around , often with whomever is addressing you continually looking towards you . You get to decide from where you want to look at it , and you catching them all depends on you being aware of your surroundings , making for fantastic immersion . Story-telling is well-done , with some being directly explained to you by NPC's , and the rest being discovered , all with the 360 degrees of viewing freedom . They even explain the HUD , as well as the reason you can keep going after being attacked and otherwise taking damage . This has an actual , genuine plot , and it's smart and develops well , to boot . The level design is impeccable , and the fact that this is almost completely linear is hidden nicely . The length is appropriate , and it doesn't overstay its welcome . This manages to combine intense action , a mesmerizing other world ( alongside ours ) , disturbing and creatively done creatures , atmosphere , horror and more incredibly well . The audio is well-done , with well-composed , fitting score , voice acting that is above average and sounds that are all well-chosen and well-done . Puzzle solving , with logical and well-thought out tasks , is part of this . This never gets stale . It helps that there are so many and such different enemies . This was one of the first times AI in something like this was really more than scripted movements and such . There are foes in this that will follow you , work together in teams to try to take you down , using grenades , taking cover , and in general using bona-fide tactics against you . They'll adapt and provide challenge . The arms also demand mention . . . there is not a single weapon in this that is not useful , and almost all of them have secondary fire . Short or long range , fast or accurate , powerful or not as much , there are so many variations , and with a dozen or so specific means of eliminating what you're up against , including , but not limited to , an assault rifle with grenade launcher , a revolver , tripwire mines , explosives you can detonate at will , a shotgun , as well as a couple of exotic entries , not to mention some that allow , to an extent , shooting around corners , you can pretty much pick how you want to dispose of the next group you fight . The graphics are maybe a little dated today , but they are well-done . Purchasing Blue Shift , which holds a High Definition pack ( and that's about all the reason there is to get that particular product ) that applies to this and Opposing Force , as well , helps . The effects are mixed , though with muzzle flashes and , sometimes , fire , being well-done . The entire engine is great , as evidenced also by the massive amount of user-made modifications , mods , that have come out since this did . This was also one of the first to make using them easy . . . it has a menu for them . The multi-player is also well-done , allowing for Free-For-All and Team Deathmatch in plenty of arenas . This has a training portion , the Hazard Course , that teaches you nearly everything you need to know and be able to in order to complete this , even going over movement and such , so if this is the first you play , that can prepare you . You can return to that anytime , and practice or remind yourself how to do something . The re-playability is almost entirely in the three difficulty settings . If you are unsure if this is for you , I would advise trying the " Uplink " ( the demo ) , free of charge . It gives you a sense of what the full thing is like , without it just being a part of it , but instead unique . This has humor , and it doesn't go overboard . There is a well-done loading feature , allowing for large , fairly extensive areas with no problems . It makes use of this , with taking you through a number of grand and well-done locations . Saving can be done anywhere and anytime you want in this . The boss battles are well-done and satisfying , without being overly frustrating . You can , in this , ask those on your side to follow you or stay put , and this is easily accessible , and used well in this , as some of them help you by opening doors ( so keep them alive ! ) , and those that have guns , use them to help you out , and / or defend themselves . That feature is used well . There are , unfortunately , numerous bugs and glitches in this , the least of them being clipping . They can be troublesome , and at times the stability even suffers . There is a little language in this , of moderate strength . There is relative violence and gore , and it is definitely not for children . I recommend this to any fan of First Person Shooters , especially those who want it to be a step up from Doom ( it is fun , yes , don't get me wrong , it's just simple ) and / or science fiction .
Heavy-handed and slow , but not without its moments and definitely interesting	When George C . Scott was approached for a part in this film and shown the script , he exclaimed " The language is terrible . " I disagree . The language is real . The dialog is true-to-life . We don't , or , very rarely , at least , always say the right thing , and we often repeat ourselves and say stupid , pointless things when making a point or being in a situation we can't control . Contrary to what you might think , this doesn't mean that the dialog is tedious . It may take some getting used to , but you realize that it is much better than typical Hollywood dialog . . . because words don't convey our emotions the same way body-language and behavior does . Writer / director Paul Thomas Anderson obviously knew that , and used it in this film . I haven't seen any of his other work , but I will . Now , this film is character-driven , and that is its biggest strength , and its main reason for failing in some parts . It's a long film , but it's not overlong ( maybe a little in the end , but the first two hours are hardly ever boring ) . It's a film with non-Hollywood dialog , but this is just something to get used to . The problem lies undeniably in the character-driven nature of the film . Some big films have many , many characters . This one , however , has many , many main characters . This means that there are about 15 people that you have to remember , learn of , and follow throughout the three-hour run-time of this film . This means that you probably won't be able to pick up everything on the first viewing , and , more importantly , there will most likely be at least one character that you dislike , maybe even strongly . This makes every scene with them hard to sit through , and their very presence in the movie can make you annoyed with it . For me , it was Jim Kurring . He was just so pitifully annoying and unbearable . He can't tolerate ' bad language ' , he has the most annoying blind faith , and he just seems generally retarded . What's worse is his narration and his lack of charm or charisma . He's the guy you avoid in real life , but act nice around because you don't want him to know how badly you hate him . The film has some very heavy-handed symbolism and some seemingly pointless scenes , that could easily have been written out or cut with no real effect on the film . I enjoyed the first two thirds considerably more than the last . The scenes near the end . . . I won't put what happens here , but it just seemed pointless and stupid . The film didn't seem to have a real ending . . . nothing is really resolved . No questions answered , no solutions given . It's basically just a story about all of these people , and that's it . I don't know if I expected the ending of the film to hold some major surprise ( well , that it did , I admit ) or an explanation , but it just seemed kind of pointless in the end . " But it did happen . " Yes , but why ? Are we supposed to take some moral lesson out of all of this , or is it just a study of different persons and strange coincidences ? What makes a magnificent drama , I think , is if it offers a commentary on something that we all know , or pushes through an important point . . . One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest has the beautiful message of freedom and fighting for it , Citizen Kane shows how important love is to any man . . . but what does this movie show ? What message is it trying to convey ? I can't seem to pin-point it . Maybe I need to think more about the film . . . maybe there is none . That doesn't make it a bad drama , but it prevents it from being a truly remarkable one , I think . The plot is very good and well-written . The pacing is good , at least for the first two hours . . . after that , it seemed to slide a little downwards . The acting is flawless . Absolutely flawless . From the biggest star to the least seen extra . . . not one performance was unsatisfactory . Not even the child actors . The characters are well-written and credible . All in all , a very good drama , but not a perfect one and not as impressive as some shorter films . I recommend it to fans of dramas , but I will say that it takes some effort from the viewer to enjoy and it is kind of an acquired taste . It's also a bit slow , after the first two hours .
Great , considering it's a TV-movie	I haven't really seen too many of the Columbo films . . . actually , I think I've only watched one or two , apart from this one . I've always liked Columbo , though , somehow without even having seen that much of him . Peter Falk is and has always been the perfect choice for the character , because of his looks , his voice and his charm . The perfect proof of this is that though the series started all the way back in 1968 , the latest ( and probably not last ) of the films was made in 2003 . That's 35 years . And Falk was 40 back when he made the first one . The series consists of 68 films ( unless my count is off ) , all of which are made for TV . Everyone knows the character , even though no one has ever seen a film featuring him in the cinema . That is quite an accomplishment , if you ask me . The plot is pretty good . The only problem I have with it is that the killer and murder is revealed at the very beginning ( though that may be the same for all of the Columbo films ) , leaving no mystery but how Columbo solves it , making it somewhat dull ( since there's not much to look forward to at the end of the film ) . The pacing is good , there's hardly a scene where you're bored . The acting is very good , particularly that of Falk and Ruth Gordon . They have some great exchanges of dialog in the film . The characters are well-written and credible . The dialog and script is unusually good for a TV-movie . All in all , the film is , yes , surprisingly good for a TV-movie , and definitely worth watching for any fan of Columbo and / or crime / mystery flicks .
Better than I expected	When I first heard of this film , I didn't think it would be much of a worthwhile experience . . . few Danish film productions are worth watching . Of course , then I was told that it was directed by Thomas Vinterberg . . . who directed Festen . . . and written by Lars von Trier , who's responsible for some of the greatest Danish productions . The plot may not sound impressive at first ( it certainly didn't to me . . . and I'm a gun freak ) , but it develops very nicely and holds your interest for the entire running time . I wasn't bored for a second , really , which also says a lot about the ( high ) quality of the pacing . The acting is excellent all-round . Not one performance is even slightly disappointing . The score is magnificent . Plenty of The Zombies , and it both sounds great and fits well . The direction is excellent , and nicely ( not to mention subtly ) stylish . Near the end , there are some effective insert shots . The writing is of equally high quality . . . there are some incredibly good observations and very interesting themes in the film . One thing I had a bit of a problem with in this film ( and pretty much the reason it's getting an 8 , not a 10 ) is the typically poor Danish humor . It didn't get as much as a smile from me , and it ruined several potentially strong scenes ( there do remain quite a few strong scenes , though ) . It just didn't help the film any , it just made it slightly harder to endure . The other thing here is , the film moves somewhat slow for the duration . . . it's a character study with simple plot , and a great one at that , but there could easily been a faster pace without losing too much of that quality ( plus , one of the main characters , Freddie , could have been cut out of the film with no real loss ) . The film gets truly entertaining , downright fun to watch at the end ; I won't say how or why in case someone reading this hasn't seen the film yet , but let me tell you , it's a blast to watch , and it's a great , no , scratch that ; an astoundingly great payoff to the major setup the film up to that point really becomes when this portion starts . The last thing that bothers me about this film is how ( over - ) critical it is of America and the US gun policy . Lars von Trier ( who , like another reviewer points out , has never set foot in the US ) is very critical of America , and his views and opinions on the country as expressed in this film are skewed and quite in contrast with reality . It's as if he was creating satire with this film . . . but judging from the last scene , it was rather ( as yet another reviewer points out ) propaganda . A well-written and nicely directed film that most people should watch , but one should not look at this for a realistic portrayal of America . I recommend this to fans of drama , any of the actors and either or both of the film-makers , Vinterberg and von Trier . People who are ignorant of what the US is actually like should take care to understand that this film was made by someone who has a very stereotypical , highly negative and ( most importantly ) quite wrong view of the country . Still , an interesting piece of film , and one I wouldn't mind watching again .
Thoroughly entertaining action-film	Granted , it's not that much of a Die Hard film . . . but were any but the first , really ? Yes , it is one of the new action films . . . infamous for their overwhelming and often noisy action and pacing , the dialog's constant attempts at making us laugh , and the martial arts ( well , OK , that last one , I , personally , really don't mind ) . It's an acquired taste , and many don't care for it . However , what makes this considerably more watchable than the bunch is that the action really only gets to be downright overstimulating for the very last bit of the film , that the pacing , whilst by no means slow , isn't overwhelming . . . and that aforementioned attempts , by the dialog , for the very most part work . The theater I watched this in was almost constantly either impressed by the action , or in stitches from the last line or exchange . This may not be the same Die Hard we know , but it's still a pretty good effort , and McClane is about the same ( if his language has been toned down noticeably , due to the producers going for less than an R ) , and he's always cool to watch . He's joined this time by Matt Farrell , as portrayed by Justin Long , who played a dork in Galaxy Quest almost a decade earlier . Long has grown up ( and is now playing a big dork ) , and he plays off Willis very well ( there could maybe have been one or two less jokes regarding the difference in physical fitness between the two , but that's about it ) . Some of the funniest exchanges are between those two . Long's character could easily have been a cliché , with how many of the traits commonly associated with computer-nerds and dorks in general , but he really feels like a full character , and it's great to see Long get this opportunity to prove himself , and he definitely pulls it off . The bad guys don't let us down , either , with good acting capability on that end , as well ( I won't reveal who portrays them here ) . The film is entertaining and thrilling from start to finish . I wasn't bored for a second . The action is exciting and well-done , and it maintains much of the realism of the earlier films ( though it is kicked into high gear ) . There were a few bits where you could tell that Wiseman started directing with Underworld , but it never felt as though McClane should have been fighting fantasy creatures . Wiseman definitely knows how to do action , and I would say that his abilities within story-telling are improving . I will most definitely keep my eyes on his work in the future . Kevin Smith's role is short but good . The casting and acting is all quite good . The plot is good , and the concept is reasonably relevant ( and definitely involving and interesting ) . There are some nice nods to the original Die Hard in this film . All in all , I liked it , but I also only liked the first films ( excluding the third , that one , I did not care for much at all ) , so the fan-base might not particularly enjoy this . I recommend it to anyone who likes Die Hard as a franchise and / or the character of John McClane . The hard-core fans will probably find this too far a stretch from the first film , and the previous two sequels .
Dark , intense thriller by Sam Raimi . . . about as good as it gets , really	A very , very dark movie , A Simple Plan manages to be thoroughly interesting and intense , keeps you guessing how it'll end until the end and mostly keeps you on the edge of your seat . The plot is very good , and something everyone can relate to . What would you do if you found several million dollars ? The pace is good for the most part . The characters are well-written and credible throughout . They are also interesting and easy to relate to , in one way or the other . The acting is great ; the four leads , Paxton , Fonda , Thornton and Briscoe all give excellent performances . Most of the supporting characters are well-acted too . The mood of the film is great , and the atmosphere is very , very dark . Most of the mainstream fans probably shouldn't see this , as it can definitely be too much for some people . The ending is very dark and can be depressing ( I can imagine ) . The very end seems to whisper three little words in your inner ear ; Crime doesn't pay . The film really shows how affected regular people can be by greed and the desire for something more than they have . I guess it just goes to show that one should be happy with what he has . The film is good , very good . . . possibly even great . But it does have a few flaws and shortcomings . About halfway through the film , the pace seemed to slow down a little , and there was nearly fifteen minutes where it seemed like nothing really happened . A few parts of it also seemed to be a little more about shocks and intensity than logic . . . which is forgivable , of course . . . this is a movie , after all . . . but it does drag down a little , both in entertainment value and in overall rating . A very good film that only falls a little short . . . but it's worth watching just for the non-preachy morale and dark mood . Very good thriller by Raimi . I found it a bit interesting that Raimi's fascination with Hitchcock shone so much through . . . particularly obvious with the crows . I recommend this to any fan of Raimi , any one of the actors or of dark movies and thrillers in general . Just be prepared ; it's fairly disturbing .
Great movie . . .	This is the first Coen brothers film I have seen , so I don't really have any previous experience to compare with . However , even after having read a lot of negative comments towards the film , I still must say it is great . It was funny and surprising , throughout the entire movie . George Clooney is fantastic in this role ; his facial acting was incredibly funny . Catherine Zeta-Jones was also quite funny , especially the ' crying in court ' scene . Pretty much every big character in the movie is somewhat a caricature , of that type of person ; the money-driven lawyer , the gold-digging rich woman , the black ghetto-type guy , etc . This doesn't make the movie seem bland , as the caricatures are not cliched . The movie is thoroughly entertaining , and I guess most people will enjoy it ; you should have a decent understanding of America , though , especially the court system in America , or you won't get all the jokes .
Not Eastwood's best , but a pretty good science fiction drama	Having seen only a few of Clint Eastwood's films , I can't put this movie up against too many of his other films . However , considering the high quality of his other films , I was expecting a bit from this movie . I was pleasantly surprised . It was really entertaining . The plot is very good , very involving , and moves along at a nice pace . The acting is mostly very good , some of the minor characters seemed to be more or less miscast and not perfectly well-played . The four main characters all do excellent jobs in portraying their respective characters . I especially enjoyed the comic relief presented by Donald Sutherland's character . The characters are all well-written and their actions are credible , in nearly every scene . The special effects are pretty good , they look very real , and do a good job of convincing the viewer that it is actually happening , or , at the very least , it could happen . The end could be called poetic , without giving it too much credit . The actors all share very good on-screen chemistry . You believe that these people could have that friendship with each other . I recommend this to anyone who likes Clint Eastwood's directing style , dramas and science fiction .
Good fun , but not as exciting as Ambush	The only problem I have with this commercial , the only thing in it that makes me like Ambush better is that it's based almost entirely on the humor . . . and unlike action , humor is not a good enough base for a car commercial . . . at least not for me . Ambush was primarily based on action , but also had some humor . This is almost all humor , and not great humor at that ( not in my opinion , anyway ) . Guy Ritchie is a talented director , and his stylish direction really helps here . . . in fact , had it not been his style of fast-paced editing and overdone sound effects as well quickly changing camera angles , I probably wouldn't have cared too much for this commercial . The humor just was too lame for my tastes . . . OK , we have this big star who's convinced that she's better than anyone else and constantly gets what she wants . How old is that ? Madonna does this part well , but the jokes are just too old . Clive Owen stills does great work as The Driver , but his character was a little too . . . childish , I think , in this one . The ending was good , with the stuck-up star getting what she deserves , but it's still just a tad dull . The car-chase stuff was cool , though , and Ritchie's stylish direction make this worth watching . I recommend this to fans of Guy Ritchie and the The Hire commercials .
Meaningful	It's been about a decade since this film came out , and the sad truth is , the majority of people haven't learned . Reality TV is not dead , but has rather flourished , and is gradually becoming more and more perverse ( indeed making the idea presented here seem almost tame by comparison , which is a very unpleasant notion to consider ) , digging deeper into the lowest common denominator to grab attention ( worse still , it's working ) , and they are at least as shallow as they've always been , quite possibly worse ( I won't claim that I watch them ) , and costing depth in real people , by abandoning it in favor of more ratings-grabbing " entertainment " . Niccol is not a man who favors superficiality , or that which seems , at first glance , to be perfect , beautiful , or even right . . . nor is he one who keeps quiet about his view on said subject . One needs to look no further than two other movies he wrote , Gattaca and S1m0ne , both of which he also directed ( he is perhaps less shrill in his protesting in the former and this , compared to S1m0ne ) . I've not watched much of Weir's work . . . to this day , only this and Dead Poets Society , which my review will immediately reveal , I did not find to be anything special . Therefore , I don't know whose idea it actually was to let the imaginary hidden cameras be our eye into the world of Truman . . . whether Niccol had it in the script , or Weir thought it fitting . . . but I commend and respect whomever thought of it . The score and music are fitting . The acting is good , all-round . . . Carrey surprises . Harris is marvelous . Carrey may have some sillier moments in this , but it is a film separate from his comedy work . Those seeking his typical brand of humor ( which it should be noted , I am somewhat fond of ) won't find that satisfied herein . Exposition is delivered with fairly good subtlety . The writing in general is excellent . . . Niccol hits the mark entirely , and maintains a realistic tone , steering carefully clear of the pitfall of mockery to the point of the ludicrous , which he would later fall into with S1m0ne , and his continued exploration of reality is interesting . I personally make it a point to keep up with what the man is working on . The satire and cleverness found in his work deserves recognition . This , as The Cable Guy , has some social commentary on the viewers , but on the whole , this is by far the superior film ( sorry , Ben ) . It is but saddening that it would seem that the film caused exactly what it may have been trying to prevent . I recommend this to fans of science fiction , Andrew Niccol and Jim Carrey as a dramatic actor .
Great , one of the best comic book movies	I really enjoyed this film ; and believe me , that's not easy to say , since I expected to hate it , as I have hated the other Guillermo Del Toro films I've seen ( Blade II , Mimic ) . It met all of my expectations , and surpassed several of them . It has all of the elements that a good comic book movie needs ; the action , the character development , the interesting and well-developed characters . . . everything ; and pretty much all of it was exceptionally well-done . The plot is pretty good ; standard stuff for a comic book movie ( learn of origin , fight the end of the world ) , but it has a good , intense pace , while still bringing some good " buffer " scenes , that allow the audience to relax and exhale , after an intense and very well-made action scene . The acting is all great , especially by the four leads ; Ron Perlman , John Hurt , Selma Blair and Rupert Evans . The characters are well-written , interesting and well-developed . I really liked the way the main characters aren't depicted as " perfect " , or " heroes " ; they don't always do what's right , and they aren't invulnerable . Many action scenes end with one or more of the main characters getting seriously hurt or injured . The action is well-done and very well-choreographed . I also really liked the villains ; they were cool , at least as interesting as the heroes / good guys , and evil as hell . The special effects are great , not the best I've seen , but among the best . There were only one or two times where the CGI was easy to tell apart from the live-action , and you wouldn't notice it if you didn't look very hard . The script is well-written , there are plenty of character developing scenes , plenty of action , and plenty of comedy ( you gotta love the wisecracking Hellboy ) ; there wasn't really any point during the film where I felt bored , or was in any way heavily disappointed with what was on-screen . The film dodges most cliches and cop-outs , stuff that comic book movies are usually packed with . The one thing I didn't care too much for was Del Toro's usual personal touch ( which I loathed in both Mimic and Blade II ) ; his affection for seemingly pointless , ongoing gore sequences . The guy apparently can't make a single movie without having some disgusting corpse or something similar be dissected / cut up / mangled / whatever , in detail , on-screen . It really annoys me . In this one , however , I can forgive him , because in this one , what we see in extreme detail was the one most cool-looking character in the film , so I didn't mind it too much . It still is kind of ridiculous that this guy can't make a movie without putting that in , though . Nonetheless , this film is great . I recommend any fan of Del Toro , comic book movies , and possibly the comic itself , Hellboy , to see it .
This may have gotten an undeserved bad reputation	I haven't read the novel ( I understand that changes were made ) , although I'm certainly considering it now . This should not be compared to its sequels or the overall memory or impression that people have of Rambo . This does have violence and explosions , but it isn't a simple , straightforward Hollywood flick . While there is action , and it's rather nicely done I might add , it isn't gratuitous , nor is the blood and the like . The plot is well-written and develops well . The pacing is magnificent . The editing and cinematography in this are very good , there is one sequence in particular which is highly effective , and nothing you'd find in a run-of-the-mill movie of this genre . The suspense is marvelous . The acting is great , the leads all give solid performances . Sly is spot-on in the role . The dialog certainly has well-written and quotable lines , if the one-liner or two seemed out of place , and it's never poor . There is language in this , plenty , and harsh , albeit it could be argued that it's justified and fits the characters . The DVD features a teaser and a theatrical trailer . I recommend this to any fans of those involved in making it , not the least of whom being Stallone , and possibly of the book .
Difficult to sit through . . . for several reasons	From when I first heard of it , this sounded like a controversial and worthwhile film ( it should be noted that the two are seldom one and the same ; some works feature both qualities , but one should have more of a reason to see any given film or read any book than simply the fact that many found it to be controversial ) . . . and the idea of playing with time has always intrigued me ; it's one part of the freedom of film-making that too many ignore and deny the power of . Tarantino understands . So does Nolan . And as is undeniably evident herein , Noé does , as well . I haven't seen any of his other works , but the two films about The Butcher sound interesting , and I certainly intend to look for ( and look twice at ) anything with his name on it . The plot is simple enough . . . in essence , it could be summed up within a sentence or two . What is fascinating here is how it's told . . . the reverse order puts an unusual spin on the typical revenge-tale . With the vengeance being one of the first things seen and the story moving backwards from there , the ending has an ironic tone to it . The film opens to end credits . . . rolling backwards . The first visual we see is a naked man ( though it should be mentioned that there are parts of him that are not visible ) , and the first line spoken is " Time destroys everything " . This sets the tone perfectly ; the glum , dark atmosphere , the bleak visuals , the seedy locations . . . only at the very end are we treated to bright , happy , beautiful colors . But by then , we almost can't enjoy it . . . we've seen the cruelty of the world , witnessed repulsive acts and experienced terror first-hand . In the end , one faces the ultimate truth . . . you don't know what you've got until it's gone . The acting , editing and character writing ( as far as that can go , from just a synopsis ) are all top-notch . It should be noted that most of the scenes are several minutes long . . . with only one camera angle , and no cuts . This , coupled with most of the acting being improvised , creates some of the most natural and real performances and scenes ever seen . The cinematography bothered me early on . . . for the first third of the film or so , it's just frantic beyond reason or belief . Seriously . You have to see it to believe it . With the subtitles on , it was also really hard to tell who were saying what in those scenes . The film contains some seriously disturbing sights . . . and it dwells on them . There are no quick images of something unsettling ; instead , the camera finds itself a fixed position to view the unpleasantness and remains there for the duration of it . The two ( in ) famous scenes ( I see little reason to name them here , as they have been mentioned countless times before , in relation to the film ) are indeed very strong ( I doubt anyone can claim them to be anything less than disgusting and disturbing in the extreme ) and should not be viewed by anyone who thinks there is even a slight chance they may find it to be too much . It takes a lot to bother me , it takes a lot to shock me . . . but this film crossed that line , did so happily and did it several times in quick succession . Finally , I advise anyone to not eat anything for the first half hour of the film ( for the reason why , read the trivia page ) ; I , myself , did , and , well . . . nothing happened , but it wasn't a good idea . I urge anyone who believes they have the stomach for this film ( and feel inclined to watch it , too ) to just make the most of the shaky ( literally ) cinematography of that first bit and hold out , because after that , it gets good . . . really , really good , and getting to that is more than worth the wait . I recommend this to anyone who can take it and who find the subject and style interesting . I suggest you make sure that you find yourself in both groups before watching . . . otherwise , I would imagine , the film may be too strong for you . Difficult to sit through , but if you make it , it's worth it .
War	I can't claim that Spielberg has overwhelmed me on many an occasion . I tend to find his work somewhat sentimental and too bright and up-beat for my world-view . But here , he delivers . The first thirty minutes or so of this will pretty much tell you what you need to know ( and I mean that in the most positive way possible ) , and few will manage to avoid being pulled in , right from the start in a grip that only really lets go when the credits roll . The production quality is rather close to setting a new standard for highest . The direction is spot-on ( there's some beautiful underplaying going on here ) , and almost all of the emotional material is done exactly right ( there was perhaps one bit near the end that just ? it is not quite there ) . The pacing is flawless , this never loses your interest ( in spite of being close to three hours ) nor moves so fast that the audience is lost . The acting is impressive ( this thing's got enough acting power to fuel half a dozen of these ) , even Mark Vincent ( even if he'd prefer we called him Vin Diesel ) isn't bad ( yeah , I know . . . I could kick myself , and no thanks , Amy ) . The realism is an accomplishment ; the situations , the reactions , the people , everything , almost the entire way through is so close to the real thing you'd swear someone colorized actual footage or something . There is some Hollywood herein , however , but the scales are tipped so far in favour of the authenticity , it's a very , very minor complaint . Cinematography and editing are just amazing . . . they really bring the scenes to life , and give you a sense of what it must be like to really be there . This has got atmosphere to spare . There is a lot of violence and language . The writing is remarkable , and many details are magnificent . The story isn't the most engaging ever in an anti-war film , but it certainly is good . I recommend this to any fan of war movies , just do realize that this holds little back in its depiction .
This is at least twice the equal of other games !	On account of my unfortunately not being able to find them anywhere , I have not gotten to try any of the other entries in the series , although I certainly would not mind , and trust me , I have looked . For anyone who does not know , this is a point-and-click adventure title . That means that the mouse is what you use to interface with everything that you can do so with in this , though there is one particular case in this where that is inaccurate . I won't spoil it here , for anyone who haven't yet tried it . Nevertheless , regardless of how little experience you have with computers , you can sit right down and try this . There isn't even terribly many bits of this where you need to be fast or have swift reflexes . Heck , you can adjust the speed of the text ( if you have it have subtitles on ) , and thus , of the talking in it , and it's not enormously awkward or forced when slow . Accessing your inventory is easy , as well as combining or using items . Clicking and holding down the button at anything you can affect gives three options for what to use with it ( be it a person , a specific part of the surroundings or an object ) : Hand ( push , pick up , open , etc . ) , eyes ( examine , look through , etc . ) and mouth ( eat , converse , etc . ) . This all adds up to a welcoming , friendly environment , where you can approach the plentiful puzzles ( the amount of them is varied , based on which of the two difficulty settings you try this on ) at your own pace , and explore and take in the dozens of individual , creatively done characters and areas in this to your heart's content . The length of this will be determined by how much time you take to do such ( you'll hear no blame from me , they're worth it ) , and your skill at figuring out the solutions . There are a few points in this where you get to decide if you want the harder way of completing that or not . This can be enjoyed by anyone , from any age . There's no material that isn't acceptable for children . This is one of the products that help prove that that very fact does not have to mean that it is intolerable for older audiences . The animation is quality work , smooth , everything moves as it should , and the 3rd dimension honestly isn't that sorely missed when trying this . The story-telling is well-done , and you're never unclear as to what is going on . There are numerous well-directed cut-scenes , kept in the same colorful , mostly bright 2D world as the rest , with well-done camera motion . " Cartoony " is an appropriate word to describe this , and not only the visual style . It can be applied to all of this . The entire world of this is very similar to , but not quite the same as , ours , with a mix of past and present , inhabited by people and filled with things that we can sort of recognize or understand at least portions of , but the absurdity makes them funny . That would have to be one of the greatest strengths of this , right there : It's hilarious . A lot of that comes from the lines spoken ( what is said as well as how it is ) , and those who dig British efforts with focus on verbal , the likes of ' Allo ' Allo or the BlackAdder franchise will want to check this sucker out . However , there are several different types of jokes , including , but not limited to the following : Satire , cleverness , dark , spoofs , irony , gross-out comedy ( not exactly my favorite aspect of this ) and more . There's self-awareness , with the lead addressing you , personally , and , for example , explaining why he isn't going to do what you just asked him to . There are references to pop culture through a couple of decades . Almost all of it works , hardly any gags fall flat , and if you aren't in stitches during this , my best guess as to the reason would be that it's simply not compatible with your sense of humor . . . a situation that warrants no judgment , and if one suspects that could be the case , and wishes to find out , I suggest the demo version , where you , for free , can see if you care for the brand of play and / or laughter . The plot is well-written ( nearly all of this is , really ) , develops nicely throughout and keeps your interest well . The audio is all excellent , crisp and well-done . The sound effects are spot-on . The music is well-composed with no exceptions . The voice acting is impeccable , with a celebrity or two . Armato is fantastic as Guybrush Threepwood ( gotta love that name ) , whom you control . Boen is incredible as LeChuck , the deceased ( and still threatening ) zombie villain . The designs are immensely well-done , highly imaginative and all fit . In spite of the relatively limited disposition of our hero when it comes to pirate deeds , you do get to engage in some . Steer a ship , board that of others , and match blades in a rather unique , and marvelously thought up , way . The re-playability lies mainly in the choices , during dialog , etc . This is linear , with a tad freedom as far as the order goes , so the buccaneer sitting down with this , for at least the second time , has not got that large an amount of possibilities as far as being challenged by this goes , unless he or she has forgotten what to do in the meantime . Ah , nothing is perfect . Anyone who would care to delve into a thoroughly well-crafted and fascinating fictional universe , and crack up countless times should get a real kick out of this . The good kind , not the ones that hurt and potentially leave bruises . Don't forget , kids , do not eat books . . . that is just begging for a paper-cut . I would wager a guess that those who like the others would appreciate this one , too . And they're not the only ones who may get into this . I recommend this to , apart from members of aforementioned group , any fan of this genre of VGs , as well as anyone to whom this review appeals .
A different take	This is a much more ambitious production than the other of the same title . Where the first was a ( marvelous , I might add ) parody of old serials , this uses some of that in a concept rather unlike it . This is pretty dramatic , at times . It isn't always funny , but it almost never tries too hard to be , and the gags and jokes do mostly work . The plot is well-thought out and well-told , and develops nicely throughout . The pacing is just about spot-on . I wasn't bored for any of it . The effects are excellent . And I don't mean that in the way where you add " for a student film " to excuse it , no , they're plainly put invariably amazing . From what little I know of what they were going for , I'd say they hit it ( and did so without the overall short losing its seriousness ) . The acting varies , but none is distractingly poor . The script is great , and I was surprised more than once by what happened . The dialog couldn't really be better , every line fits . The music is perfect , a magnificent score . The tone of this entire thing is achieved impeccably well . If broken down to its basic elements , the story is relatively simple . . . but the execution elevates it , and it's all told well . I recommend this to fans of Sanderson and Bertocci , their styles , and of course those who enjoy 50's sci-fi pieces , be it straight or spoofed .
Very entertaining action-filled commercial	First of all ; for a commercial , this is great stuff ! I don't think I've seen a commercial that was so thoroughly entertaining . You hardly even notice the product placement . . . which proves both that the commercial is so entertaining that you almost forget what you're watching and that the product placement is carefully done and the commercial is not just shoving a product in our face . I enjoyed it immensely . . . and I am not that big fan of car-chases . Actually , I mostly think they're tame and boring . But John Frankenheimer and Clive Owen really make it work . . . as director and actor , respectively . I haven't seen too many of Frankenheimer's films , but I enjoyed Ronin a fair bit . . . here , he truly proves how good he is ( or was . . . R . I . P . ) at directing action . I haven't seen too many films featuring Owen either . . . but here he does a great job , portraying the dead-pan , calm and collected unnamed driver . His character halfway made the commercial as great as it is . The action is great , very intense and exciting . The story , as little as there is , is quite good . Andrew Kevin Walker did a great job on the script . All in all , a great little action-packed commercial . I recommend this to anyone who enjoys action . Why can't all commercials be like this ?
Truly the greatest fairy tale never told . . .	I've lost track of how many times I've seen this great film . I believe the number is below ten , but I'm not even sure of that . It somehow never gets old , the jokes remain fresh . Every once in a while , when I get the chance to see this film , I sit down and my laugh ' till my sides ache . It's about time someone decided to make a spoof movie making fun of fairy tales . . . I mean , they have been around for a few hundred years . In this film you will see just about every fairy tale creature poked fun at , and it's hilarious . The plot is very good , and quite original , for being based so much on typical fairy tale formula . The pace is great , you're rarely , if ever , bored ; even on repeated viewings . The acting is pretty much flawless , and the talented main cast create an impressive number of laughs throughout the film . The characters are nicely fleshed out and interesting , for being based so heavily on fairy tale stereotypes . The humor is excellent ; the comic timing of the gags and jokes is impeccable , and Myers and Murphy make a great comedy team ( quite astounding since , according to the trivia , none of the voice actors actually met each other ) . The casting is perfect , and that is something that really , really , REALLY needs to be in order for an animated feature . As much as I love Steve Buscemi , even I can tell that he was completely miscast in the Final Fantasy movie . The dialog is well-written , with plenty of quotable lines . The whole thing is full of very talented and clever writing , both in dialog and in general . . . many memorable scenes as well . There's plenty of great music in there as well . . . not really one single piece of music on the soundtrack that I dislike . No loud or annoying tracks , but good , old-fashioned quality music . Not much else to say , except that I urge you to see this film , unless you can't stand fairy tales at all ( which would require more hatred for them than even I have , a feat nearly impossible to accomplish ) since it is , in the end , a fairy tale , no way around that . Happy end and everything . So , if you're not sure , go check out a trailer or the memorable quotes page . I recommend this to just about anyone who is at least a teenager and who won't completely fall apart when they see fairy tales being made the butt-end of jokes .
Great spy action	After putting off watching this film for a lot of time , mainly due to the fact that the other film based on the famous Robert Ludlum book being so unforgivably bland and dull , I finally decided to see this film , mainly because I had heard so many great things about it , and because I am going to see the sequel , Bourne Supremacy , at the cinema immediately afterward , and I wanted to know the story first . The film is surprisingly good . The plot is good , and well-paced . You're rarely bored . The acting is good , particularly Matt Damon , who gives a very powerful performance . The characters are well-written and credible . The dialog is well-written and well-delivered . The action is well-done , well-choreographed and fairly stylish without being overdone . It's cool , it's unpredictable and it's fresh ( at least a few of the scenes ) . I don't know if the film is as good as the book , but I enjoyed it thoroughly . The film keeps your interest throughout , it's never really boring , and the way the plot evolves keeps you interested and intrigued . You want to know how it ends , since it keeps surprising you , you want to see if the ending is a surprise as well . During most of the film , at least , it manages to surprise you and avoid clichés . However , there are a few scenes that fall into the many pits of Hollywood action clichés ; one is an early scene that has Bourne fighting mano-a-mano against a henchman , which we've seen far too many times . The character development does leave a little to be desired ( though it can be argued that a man with no memory wouldn't have much of a personality , either ) , but the action more than makes up for it . The scenes involving Bourne fighting hand-to-hand are very good , and the shootouts , while not plentiful , are great . The film is genuinely exciting throughout , which is more than what can be said about many recent action films . I recommend it to fans of the various actors involved in it , as well as fans of spies and story-driven action-thrillers .
A stylish and excellent example of expert story-telling .	After watching this half a dozen times with a biased , anti-Tarantino , " what the heck is so great about this guy , anyway " view ( which , as most anyone watching any film with that view and a fair bit of self-knowledge will tell you , is a rather fruitless practice in pointlessness . . . if you've decided you're not going to like it , there's very little reason to think that you will , no matter how good it is ; you need an open mind ) , I finally decided to give it a fair hearing . . . and I saw it for what it is . An unusual film , at least for its time . A stylish film full of cool dialog , cinematography , editing and music . The whole thing comes together perfectly and is very short of creating a sublime film experience . The plot is excellently written and told . The pace is perfect . I wasn't bored for a second , nor did I ever really want it to move faster or slower . The cinematography is magnificent , and incredibly well-integrated . Pans , dolly trips and , lest we forget , the stationary shots . . . all perfectly used . Very stylized . The acting is top-notch all-round . With most of the cast being name actors , this is no surprise , but they really do shine . Madsen , Buscemi , Keitel , Roth . . . all incredible . The one role that had less than good . . . well , let's be honest , it had rather awful acting . I'm speaking , of course , of Tarantino's character . Now , don't get me wrong ; in From Dusk Till Dawn , this man did great . But just about any other time I've seen him act , he just doesn't seem to have the first clue . Being a film-maker myself ( albeit on somewhat of a smaller scale than Quentin ) , I can relate to wanting to cast yourself in a role . . . but sometimes , you just need to face up to the facts , and admit it if you can't act . Still , that is a minor complaint . Another one might be that there are at least two fairly big characters that seem completely and entirely expendable . . . they had no real role in the action and could very , very easily have been cut with no real loss to the overall product . I won't name them here , but anyone who's seen the film will know who I'm talking about . All the characters , however , are well-written and their actions credible . Tarantino knows his stuff when it comes to writing . . . something that also shows in the dialog , which , although somewhat drawn-out at times , is exceptional . Well-delivered , too . When it comes to direction , he shows how talented he is , as well . The film is very well put together . The editing is great , with the non-linear time-line telling the story far better than a " regular " film ever could . One of the many Tarantino-fans , in fact , the very person who originally talked me into watching this film , once told me that he had heard of someone editing films with such time-lines - this , Pulp Fiction , Memento , etc . - so that their time-lines were perfectly linear . I'm sorry , I entirely respect their right to do such a thing . . . and I won't claim that their doing so has less artistic value than the original films in any way . . . but I refuse to watch that . A big part of this being so well-told lies in the time-line . Also , I'm a firm believer of watching something the way the makers intended it . Don't edit , don't censor , don't make your own version and pass it off as anything but just that . . . your own version , and not the original . Sorry , rant over . Finally , I just need to comment on the music . . . the soundtrack of this is just great . Tarantino collected so many amazing 70's tunes for this film and used them great . All in all , just a really , really good film . Very little keeps this from being a perfect ten , most of which I've covered here . I recommend this to anyone who can stomach the violence and who likes their films with a side of style .
Kubrick's final film . . . and possibly his least impressive	After having seen just about every single of Kubrick's films ( The only films that are left are Spartacus , Lolita and his short films ) and a documentary about him ( Stanley Kubrick : A Life in Pictures ) , I was looking forward to seeing his last film , despite it's reputation . Now that I've seen it , I'm not sure what to think . . . I don't know for sure if I agree with the common opinion that this is his least impressive film ( even less impressive than The Shining ) . Don't get me wrong , it is a good film , but it just seems . . . I don't know , unfinished , rushed . . . like Kubrick didn't spend as much time filming as he should have . Maybe it's the actors , I don't know . It just seems . . . uneven , somehow . The plot is very good , and has a pretty good pace . . . but there are places where you're bored , and the film seemed to end too suddenly , I think ( despite the film being quite long ) . The acting is , not unlike The Shining , less impressive than most of Kubrick's other films . Cruise is not an actor with a lot of range , that's for sure . Kidman is mostly believable , but , like Cruise , she seems more like an actor playing a part than the actual character , which distances us from their characters and thereby from the film itself . Not good . The characters are well-written , credible and interesting . The story is interesting , evolves at a very good pace and provides food for thought . I liked how the film presented infidelity and sex in general as acts lust and desire rather than affiliating them with love or emotion . I've heard many complain that the film was lacking sex scenes . This is a Kubrick film ; just because the subject matter is directly intertwined with sex , doesn't mean that he's going to do the typical , simple Hollywood thing and just pack the movie with sex scenes . A talentless director could ( and probably would ) have done that . Anyone can make sex look appealing to the general public . It's much , much harder to make it seem unappealing and in fact almost disgusting . . . but Kubrick succeeds . He reminds us that sex is just a bodily function , something between two people that doesn't actually require emotions . It's physical by nature . The soundtrack is quite good too . . . there is a classical piece that can bring you to the edge of your seat just listening to it , and Kubrick pairs it up with great visuals . Maybe I should let you know that , while this I think this is one of his lesser films , it is still definitely a Kubrick piece . No doubt about it . Perfectly framed shots , slow pans and zooms , great music . . . and the ending , albeit being a bit sudden and leaving the viewer somewhat unsatisfied , still has the Kubrick touch and , whilst appearing to resolve the film , it also hints at something more sinister and unsettling . A good , maybe even great , film by the master of innovative storytelling , Stanley Kubrick . I recommend it to any fan of Kubrick . Anyone who isn't a fan , or at the very least isn't used to his style of film , should consider watching some of his other films first , as this is one of his heavier and less impressive ones ( at least in my opinion ) .
Thorough	We watched this in History class , to follow up on having read about both World Wars . This deals with Hitler and his rise to power , WWII and a lot of the situations surrounding them . It's got a lot of detail , and an utterly immense amount of footage from back then , almost exclusively in black and white . There may have been some stills , but I don't believe there are any talking heads , interviews , in this . The material and narration are all . The editing is magnificent , and the quality of picture and sound are impressive ( keeping in mind that what we see is decades old , and that this was put together long before the digital age , computers and smooth Por Mac-based systems for post-production that anyone with the capital required can acquire , that we take for granted today ) . This is a well-produced documentary that doesn't attempt to judge or pass blame , it presents and analyzes , goes into the facts with a certain depth , yet it doesn't point fingers . I recommend this to anyone who is interested in knowing more info regarding the subject .
More hilarity on film from the Monty Python team ; this time , in sketch-comedy form	The third and last real film by the Monty Python crew . First , they made fun of the medieval times and its beliefs . Then , they gave the earliest followers of Jesus a whooping ' . Now , they . . . well , they pretty much cover every stage of life in the search for the ' meaning of life ' . The film , unlike the two other ones ( Monty Python and the Holy Grail , Life of Brian ) is basically a series of sketches ( whereas the two aforementioned films had progressive plots ) , much like the series ( Monty Python's Flying Circus ) . As such , it's pretty much like watching an episode of said series , if the episodes were nearly two hours long . Of course , this means that if you like the series , you'll like the film . To this date , I have yet to meet anyone who likes the group and doesn't like the series , so I guess it was a good idea . Despite the title , it has reasonably little actual philosophy and such , but I doubt any Python-fans will be completely devastated by this . As another new thing for a Python-film , it's also a musical . There have been one or two musical numbers during the previous films and the series , but nothing this major . There are about 8-9 musical scenes in the film , complete with choreographed dancing , lead singers and backup vocals . Of course , it's all done in typical Python-style , so not a single one of them is what you'd normally expect from a musical . The comedy is pretty much the same as usual from the Python troupe , with some misses , but mostly hits . Plot is pretty much nonexistent , but what there is , is good . The pacing is good , but because of the film's all-sketch content , it gets somewhat dull around the middle ( as Cleese also points out in the ' making of ' featured on the DVD ) . The acting is all pretty good . The special effects are nice . Not much else to say , since you already pretty much know the Pythons ' style of humor from the series and the two earlier films . And if you don't , you should probably check out either of the films first , or , even better , one of the more sober episodes of the series . I recommend this to any fan of the Monty Python group , particularly those who prefer the Flying Circus over the two other films , since it's more sketch-comedy than the others .
Great neo-noir film by the Coen brothers	I haven't seen too many films by the Coen brothers ( Ethan and Joel Coen ) . . . in fact , this and Intolerable Cruelty are the only ones I've seen . I decided to see this after hearing many positive things about it , and finding out that it's a tribute to the old ' noir ' films of the 40's and 50's . I love noir films , and neo-noir films are often great as well . So I decided to see this film , and I'm am very happy that I did . The plot is great . . . something that we all can relate to , and yet very recognizable for noir . . . which is quite impressive , since many noir films suffer from the plot being of limited appeal ( the P . I . / detective who gets the case , etc . ) . The pacing is excellent . I wasn't bored for a second . The atmosphere of the film is great . . . very dark and moody , even in the humor . The acting is great . . . Thornton , McDormand , Gandolfini , Johansson , Shalhoub . . . everyone is great . Billy Bob Thornton's character is easy to relate to ( who hasn't felt that their life wasn't going anywhere , at one point ? ) and his narration as well as flawless performance is part of what makes the film noir . . . his character talks very little , but the voice-over and his subtle acting ( which includes very little dialog ) is great and he carries the movie perfectly . The characters are all well-written . . . there was only a short period where I didn't entirely understand a characters actions , but this was more because I hadn't thought that much about this particular character than a lack of credibility , character-wise . The story is great . . . it has some very interesting twists , and it holds your interest and entertains you for the entire run-time of about 1 hour and 45 minutes . The humor is good , but there is fairly little of it in the film ( considering that this is what the Coen's are well-known for . . . well , part of it , anyway ) but all of it fits perfectly . Much of it is dark , like the rest of the film . I watched this on a DVD which I borrowed from the library , and when I was about to start the film , I noticed that there were two disks . . . one in black / white , and one in color . I thought for a while , considered which would be better , but then I remembered that this is a homage to noir films . . . and , possibly more importantly , the directors intention is to make something that looks as if it could have come from that period where those films were at the peak of popularity . . . and why would I want to go against the directors intention on a film ? That would negate the very point of watching it . All in all , if you're a fan of the Coen brothers directorial style or neo-noir / film noir , you'll most likely love it as much as I did . If not , maybe you can just enjoy the great acting and atmosphere . And if not that , the film probably just isn't for you . I recommend it to any fan of the Coen brothers and of film noir / neo-noir . Fans of any of the actors might also like it . Just be prepared ; it is quite dark , and many will not like it simply for that . If you believe you can sit through this film , you definitely should consider it .
A few shortcomings don't manage to mar an overall excellent entry in the series	After the slightly disappointing " . . . Outta Sight " , the series revolving around the Olsen Gang take a flying leap towards their peak yet again . In spite of a very silly sequence that wouldn't have looked quite so out of place in a show by Benny Hill or an old black and white silent film a la Charlie Chaplin , this is one of the best of the franchise . Dealing with the future of Denmark , the plot is exceptionally well-written . It evolves very nicely throughout the film , and the pacing is perfect . The acting is of the typical high level , with more or lesser known Danish actors of the time shining in the many smaller roles in the film . The humor ( apart from in the scene mentioned above ) is excellent . With the usual plays on words , sophisticated jokes and funny running gags , not to mention the masterful human touch that brings us so close to these characters ( main as well as supporting ) , what grounds it all , what pulls us in . As Kjeld struggles mercilessly to access a meal that he's been anticipating for a long time , we can laugh at it , not because he's pitiful . . . but because he's real . We feel his pain . We can recognize it . Anyone who's seen the film knows exactly what I'm referring to , and I refuse to ruin it for anyone who hasn't . We are treated to some nice visuals in this one . . . the film takes us inside the Copenhagen City Hall ( as far as me and my father could tell , shot on location ) , and even into the tower and to the City Hall Clock . . . and that's all I'm saying , as the scenes that take place there are too good to spoil . More fun is had with Germans , specifically through the character of The Black Baron . With an unusual opening , a completely different ( though understandably so ) Yvonne and a very funny variation on Egon being rescued and having the impassioned , sentimental speech after-wards , this certainly also manages to divert nicely from what has been established as normal for the films . Also , Bøffen is unusually witty , this time around , which works quite well . More machinery that would have made the ( nationally ) famous Dane Storm P . proud . This time around , Benny shows unexpected skills , and Kjeld is put on a diet . More pseudo-German , this time , spoken by Benny . . . in a hilarious and short scene . This is the tenth in the series , and it also came out exactly ten years after the first . . . something that the filmmakers made something of a bit of deal out of , in the film . I'll leave for the viewers to find out how . I recommend this to any fan of the series and / or of Danish comedy of this period .
A great made-for-TV crime-thriller	I did have my doubts when I sat down to see this , as I have had nothing but bad luck with made-for-TV crime-thriller , as they are usually high on cliches and have very bad , totally predictable plots . I was pleasantly surprised to see so much humor and style in a TV-movie . It does have some cliches , but the film definitely makes up for it by being incredibly well-made , at least for a TV-movie . Though the plot is a little predictable , it has a good amount of twists and it keeps your interest throughout the entire run-time ; I certainly never lost interest in it , or got bored by it . The plot is good , a little predictable , but never dull . The acting is pretty good , most of the actors pull off great performances . The characters are well-written and credible . I don't know if this film is based on a true story , it had a sort of authentic ' feel ' to it . I like the way the director did the flashback sequences , his use of slow-motion , especially near the end . The humor of the film was also great ; the cops had a believable ' tough guy ' humor . All in all , the film is definitely one of the best of the made-for-TV crime-thrillers I've seen . I recommend it to fans of crime-thrillers , and murder mysteries .
A fitting farewell	Benny Hill was in his late 60's when this was shot . . . he died not long after it was finished . Only the greatest of entertainers , the ones who truly feel it a privilege to perform go on doing so until they die . In most of the latter half of his life , Benny Hill spent his energy and time making people laugh . I hope he died feeling that his life was a full one . . . he was an astonishingly funny man , and deserves every single one of the many laughs that he got in his lengthy career . This special holds a special ( pun not intended ) place in my heart . . . not only because it was his last , but because it was the first I saw of him . I remember seeing this in my early youth , and slowly warming up to the humor . I've seen this countless times since . . . and I still find the jokes and gags extraordinarily funny . No matter how many times I watch this all the way through , the hour it takes always seems to pass incredibly fast . From the very first sketch , the first joke or running gag , this has you in stitches . You'll learn " how to meet beautiful women " , see a marvelous parody of Ask Dr . Ruth featuring Roseanne Barr , you'll even get to listen to a cough-and-sneeze choir . This also features the first , last and only ( to my knowledge , at the very least ) rap performance by Mr . Hill . . . with lyrics like only he could write them ! Seeing as my " eureka " moment ( the time I discovered it , and realized I loved it ) regarding rap came at a later age , this is one of the first places I've ever heard rap , as well ( before the concept of different music genres made its way into my head ) . . . for that , too , this will always be special to me . Sure , some of the material was seen in his shows , too . . . but it's almost all great . All , or at least most , of his regular cast returns as well . All his trademark moves and facial expressions also appear . The humor is often smutty and crude . . . but that's just the way us fans want Benny to be ! While this may not have the pace of either series , which had a younger ( and probably of better health ) Hill , it's still a worth-while experience . I recommend this to any fan of Benny Hill , though it may take a certain amount of respect for the man and his craft to enjoy , as it may not hold up if pitted against newer specials of other , younger comedians . RIP , Mr . Benny Hill .
Astounding , if slightly overlong , superhero film	I watched this shortly after viewing the ' 78 film . Within half an hour of the end credits rolling of that , the opening ones of this came on . Therefore , I have an unusually clear memory ( and basis of comparison ) of the first . From the first frame ( literally . . . as the credits roll at the beginning of the film ) , I could tell that Singer is a definite fan of the original . As the film progressed , it was also proved without a doubt that he's a fan of the character . For a revival film , for restarting a franchise , this couldn't really have been much better of a superhero / Superman movie ( as far as I can tell , from my non-fan view , and having only seen the first film prior to this ) . The in-jokes and references to the first are quite funny , if there are arguably a tad too many of them . The plot is well-written , explains the various changes and developments nicely . . . and I , for one , love the way it uses the first as a starting point . The acting is all good . Routh is fitting as both Superman and Clark Kent . Bosworth seemed too young a Lois Lane to me . Kevin Spacey basically is Lex Luthor . There was less energy put in his performance than the trailer suggested , which is a shame , but he's still marvelous . Posey provides some good comic relief and shows off some of her somewhat seldom seen acting talent . The characters are fairly well-developed . Kent is less clumsy here . The pacing is solid . There are drawn-out scenes , but the action more than makes up for them . . . and I was never actually bored or hoping it would end soon ( though I will admit that the film may be as much as half an hour too long ) . The cinematography is quite good . . . the camera takes on a panicky shaking during several of the intense scenes , but it never really seems overdone . The action is exciting and breathtaking . The visuals are stunning . . . the effects are amazing . You truly will believe that a man can fly . Yes , one or two of the subplots may have been unnecessary , but the end result , what it all comes down to , is a pretty solid film . You can watch this without having seen any of the others , though I would recommend watching the first . . . first . I recommend this to any fan of the character , of superhero films in general and / or of the 1978 movie . Highly enjoyable .
Truly timeless	I don't know how old I was when I first watched this , but I may very well have been too young to comprehend how long ago it was made . . . much less how old some of the score is . I still recognize some of it from watching it more than a decade ago , and probably further back still . Putting images to classical music is a great way to get those of us ( yup , guilty as charged ) who just wouldn't sit down to listen to something like that under normal circumstances to experience it . Cartoons have aged remarkably well ( not just this , in general ) . . . what needs to , and / or is meant to , look imposing still does ( I won't blow what they are , for anyone who hasn't seen this . . . and those who have may very well know exactly what I'm referring to ) , and the whole thing still works , almost 70 years after it was originally released . Little sound is added . . . the visuals are scored almost entirely with the performances of the orchestral classics , the way the animation brings the well-known composed pieces to life . Drawing styles vary , and some segments are naturalistic , others almost psychedelic . Colors are vivid , and sometimes underplayed . Segments are briefly introduced by a speaker . There is story progression in at least some of the bits . I recommend this to anyone who doesn't object to two hours of animated visuals to go with some of the greatest score ever composed .
A very interesting and entertaining film . . .	This is an interesting story , watching a con artist evolve , how he starts off with the small stuff ( in an early scene , he pretends that he's a substitute teacher , to get back at another student ) to stealing enormous amounts of money ( several million dollars ) . To watch how intelligently he tricks people , into getting information he needs for his next scam , how he professionally forges checks and the likes . A very good movie , enjoyable to the common viewer . stars .
Tough to watch , gripping and impeccable	I've liked Waterston since I first saw him , probably on Law & Order . There's only one possible exception in what I know of , as far as him being talented . This is the performance of his that I am most impressed by . Malkovich does great as always , and does not steal the show ( which we know he could ) , does not take the attention away from the subject , where it is intended . Ngor has to be mentioned . . . he's fantastic . The Oscar was completely deserved . The plot is well-told and never stands still . The pacing is spot-on . The direction is effective and masterful . The shocks are all proper , not a single fake or cheap one among them . This is powerful , engaging and disturbing . The violence and blood is never gratuitous . I doubt anyone could sit through this and not be affected . It does not make for a pleasant viewing , but it is important and should be respected , not ignored . While there is some humor in this , it is seldom if ever a light experience . The script is well-written throughout . It is very difficult to find flaws in this , although the one particular music choice can be debated . I recommend this to fans of dramas , historical films and war movies .
Condensed	This is a documentary on the regular , one-disc DVD of The Matrix ( and one of the only extras in the set ) . It does , of course , go into that film . It consists of behind the scenes footage , interviews , artwork , storyboards and clips from the movie . Some of it also made it into Revisited . I would say that this is the better of the two . This doesn't waste any time . It's very informative , with plenty of material . The pacing is spot-on , there's a lot here , in little time . . . less than half an hour , or , more accurately , about 26 minutes . The people talking have things to say , and this doesn't particularly favor anyone over anyone else . The editing is sharp and tight . You don't just get an explanation , and peoples ' takes on what the title is about , you also get a couple of anecdotes and you get to see bits of the crew and cast relaxing and having fun on set . Heck , even the brothers , for what appears to be one of the last times , certainly for this series , appear and you get an idea of what they're like . There is a tiny amount of fairly harsh language , and arguably a tad of violence . I recommend this to fans of the franchise , and / or anyone who wants to know what they can about this first piece .
Bizarre . . . truly bizarre	I don't believe I've ever seen a movie that I had such a hard time understanding every second of , yet was drawn to at the same time . From the very first frame to the last , the film is bizarre and weird . The characters all act in a way that is quite hard to . . . ' decode ' is probably the most accurate word here . Some act entirely uninhibited , some just act plain weird . I gathered that the whole portal into John Malkovich's head was a metaphor , but I couldn't make sense of all of the film . The plot is interesting and unbelievably bizarre , and quite difficult to follow . The pacing is a little slow , but that might just be because I had such a hard time understanding what was going on and why . The film has some truly memorable scenes , and even a few memorable lines . I'll never forget the famous restaurant " Malkovich " scene , and I doubt anyone else who've seen it will . The whole idea is great , and I think it's fairly original , as well . I didn't understand all of it , but I suppose I would if I were older , and had experienced a situation similar to that of one or more of the main characters , I would understand their actions more . This is a hard movie to comment on . . . especially since I don't entirely understand it . I will say that , while I found the ending to be slightly unsatisfying ( which can probably be attributed to my being too used to Hollywood endings ) , I liked the deep , insightful commentary on love and emotions . What else is there to say . . . I might not be making a good case for the film , but I really do recommend you to watch it . . . if nothing else , it's a great unique movie that makes you really think . A very weird movie , but a very good one as well . I recommend it to just about anyone who is up for a new twist on one of the old love-story formula , and a good story that boils down to one of the most common fears among us humans . If you think you might like the movie for whatever reason , go see it . If you are smart enough to appreciate something slightly different from what you're used to see in Hollywood films , you'll most likely enjoy this .
Among the best of the The Hire commercials	What makes this commercial really stick out from the others is the filming style , which seemed documentary-like . While I found this style a little annoying at first , I ended up actually enjoying it and liking the commercial for being different without being bad ( like the one Ang Lee misdirected ) . The cinematography is very good , and gives us some great intense sequences . The acting is great , both by Clive Owen and Stellan Skarsgård . Owen must have gotten very much used to his character of The Driver by this point , so it's interesting to see him in a more emotional take on the character . Skarsgård is very good as the war photographer , and his final speech , though going very close to crossing over into being cliché , manages to work perfectly and arouse actual emotions in the viewer , rather than just being sappy , manipulative drivel ( which this sort of thing almost always is ) . The action ( the little there is ) is great and the amount is just right . It's obvious that this was more about story and characters than action and thrills , and director Alejandro González Iñárritu pulls it off perfectly . It's rare to see something so short that manages to hold your interest without a lot of action and whilst managing to tell a story so beautifully and emotionally . While I prefer Ambush over this one , I think it's a great commercial . I recommend this to fans of the commercials and of this type of stories .
A classic , but inferior to Dawn of the Dead	This is a film to be watched and appreciated for what it did for the zombie-horror genre . I just watched the 30th Anniversary Edition of this film , and while they certainly butchered a lot of the original ( which I saw a month or so ago for the second time ) , it is still a great film . I urge any fan of horror to track down an original copy of this film ( don't be fooled into getting the 30th AE version , it's not worth it , and should definitely not be the first version you see of this movie ) and watch it as soon as possible . Just it being the first part of George A . Romero's cult trilogy makes it worth your time . I have yet to see the third part of the trilogy , but from what I hear , it's the least impressive one . As is , I will just say that this film is inferior to the second , Dawn of the Dead . The energy is just lacking for too much of the film , I'm afraid . However , when it is there , and that goes for the gore too , when it is there , it is most definitely impressive and effective . While few people will be wondering how the effects were achieved and the plot won't exactly have people thinking deep , profound thoughts , this is still a worthwhile trip to Romero's bleak world of living dead . The plot is sufficiently well-written and interesting to keep the viewer's attention . The pacing is decent , but much of the film moves slower than the zombies . The acting ranges , but for the most part , it's not particularly impressive . The characters are well-written and credible . The score is quite good , it helps keep the tension high . While this is not as effective and impressive as Dawn of the Dead , it is still worth watching . I recommend this to any fan of horror , George A . Romero and / or zombie-flicks . Just make sure to watch the original version .
A good bloody action movie , but slow and dragging at times	Blade is probably the most bloody action film of the nineties , and probably the most bloody comic book adaptation too . You get used to this pretty quick though , well , if you don't , you won't be able to sit through the entire movie , as it's very bloody , throughout it's entire run time . The action is very intense , and the best thing for people who like / love martial arts in western cinema ( like me ) . I've watched it seven or eight times now , and the action scenes are still pretty entertaining to watch . The special effects are nothing special anymore , but they were pretty good for the time ( it's no The Matrix , though ) . The acting is nothing special , but it isn't very bad , well , apart from maybe N'Bushe Wright's acting . Most action fans will like this , Blade comic book fans might love it , I have never read it , so I don't know how accurate an adaptation this is . I prefer this to the sequel , that's for sure . A lot of people seem to compare this to The Matrix ( myself included ) . While I think this is definitely nowhere near as good as The Matrix , it is pretty good nonetheless .
Does the book a lot of justice	I read the book immediately before watching this , having thoroughly enjoyed what else I've read ( which is basically just a collection of short stories of his that had been turned into movies ) by author , Philip K . Dick , and it most definitely impressed me . Having just watched the movie , with the written words still fresh in my mind , it certainly does a great job of adapting it , with actual direct quotes , and scenes that go exactly ( or almost so ) the way they were described in the novel . A character or two are dropped and / or merged , and there's at least one twist that I either didn't pick up on in the book , or which was included in the film as something original . Some parts were dropped , and there are additions . Most , some might argue all , the important scenes are present ( some things brought into the picture through rather interesting methods , including thought bubbles ( ! ) and voice-overs ) . I don't think everything was explained as well as it was in the novel , but I'm not sure you can achieve that in film the same ways ( every medium has its strengths and weaknesses ) . The movie creates genuine tension and paranoia ( even if it isn't always as strong as that of the original ) . The actors portray their characters well , Downey makes a marvelous Barris . I had watched the trailer before reading any of the book , and I attempted to place the characters ( save for Arctor , I already knew that that was Reeves . . . and he does a good job ; when I read the " make it " monologue , I chuckled , and he got the same reaction out of me , delivering it , in the movie ) , and while I didn't see it at first , I did eventually realize that was the character he portrayed , and it fits remarkably well . Ryder and Harrelson do well . The twists ( which I found amazing in the book ) are handled nicely , if I didn't find them to have the impact they did in the written work . . . but what translation is ever perfect ? Something that must be mentioned is , of course , the animation . It works with the tone , and is almost always excellent . Very trippy , but enhancing more than distracting . The humor of the original is maintained , more or less . The language is about the same as the novel ( not particularly restrained ) . Sexuality is toned down , though there is some nudity . The violence is nearly non-existent , much like the original . This does a fine job of depicting the environment of drug users . The plot is marvelous , and lifted almost entirely ( literally ) straight from Philip's written source material ( though at least once , the carpet was pulled out from under me , when I expected it to go exactly like the book ) . I agree with those who say that you understand the film better if you've read the book . It has good pacing . It's intense at points , but doesn't really rush ( in spite of going through a written work which is close to 300 pages long in about an hour and a half , sans credits ) . Phil K . ' s written version of the story is certainly worth a read , really whether or not you watch the movie , if you're into his stuff . . . reality , and the way it's perceived , paranoia ( and he brings up an ethical question or more , as well ) . If you do both , as I did , well , it's a toss-up , as far as the order . . . do you want to read and be wowed by reading , then see the ( if not by all that much ) lesser cinematic interpretation by Linklater , or watch the film , perhaps find it magnificent , then read the , in my opinion at least , better novel after ? The DVD features the theatrical trailer , two featurettes ( featured in these are parts of an interview with Dick himself , as well as a radio recording of him reading part of the book aloud ) of about twenty minutes length , each , on the production process ( on focusing on filming , the other on the roto-scoping / post-production ) , and a commentary track , featuring the director , Reeves , Tommy Palotta , a producer , and the perspectives of author Johnathan Lethem , and Philip Dick's daughter , Isa Dick Hackett , all of which are great additions , interesting and I found them all to worth my time . The language for them is less than the film , but still there . I recommend both to any fan of Philip Kindred Dick , science fiction and tales about a dystopic future .
Excellent sci-fi film . . . the one true flaw is the heavy-handed , preachy presentation of its moral	I had heard about this film a number of times before I got to watch it . It's been lauded as one of the best science fiction movies ever , and there are numerous references to it in other movies and on TV . I definitely understand its popularity now . The plot is interesting and develops nicely throughout . The pacing is pretty much solid all the way , I was never bored . The effects hold up remarkably well , and are seldom anything less than completely convincing . The writing is quite good , with credible characters and events ( considering the genre , obviously ) ; it did , however , stand out how one character seems to disappear for the final act with no explanation . The acting is fine ; it doesn't soar to Oscar-winning heights ( nor does it drop to the point where it's embarrassing ) , but it worked well for the film . I thought that the event which the title refers to held a great point , and worked well as satire and social commentary . The music has the disadvantage of being produced at a time where music for sci-fi alien / UFO stuff was what by any standard today is considered corny ; this piece deserves a much more fitting score , but if you can overlook that ( which I had little trouble doing ) , it's still a highly enjoyable movie . The film plays much more seriously than many sci-fi films ( particularly of the period , and for dealing with UFOs ) , and works really well as such . The one thing that brings down the overall quality is the way the moral of the story is presented . . . I realize that movies did occasionally spoon-feed their points around this time ( Scarface of ' 32 being a prime example thereof , although this film certainly isn't as bad as that ) , but it's difficult to listen to the point being presented , valid as it arguably may be , when it's being preached to us . Still , this is a fine piece of science fiction , and should be experienced by any and all fans of such . I recommend this to any fan of the people involved in making it as well as the genre of sci-fi .
Brilliant and incredibly compelling	This is , if not a masterpiece , then very short of it . I don't use that word lightly ; few cinematic efforts deserve to be credited as such . This is deeply psychological , not to mention rather accurate and credible in that , and complex . I can only imagine how long it must have taken to write it . Many people talk about the quality of Ashton Kutcher's acting . I think it was fine . . . if that's the one thing keeping you from a viewing , I'd say to go ahead and give it a chance . No one really handed in a pitiful performance . . . the kids were surprisingly good . . . and most were marvelously cast . I won't detail the concept of this here . Without being aware of it , I've only watched the Director's Cut of this . Having heard specifics on the changes . . . I'm happy I did . It adds a lot of vital scenes , and after careful consideration , I actually prefer the ending of it over the ending of the Theatrical ( which I've thus far only read a description of ) , even though I was at first left emotionally numb with its nihilism and cruelty . The plot is quite interesting and well-thought out . Yes , the writers did mess it up a little by trying to have their cake and eat it too , but if you can overlook that , this can be amazing . The pacing is just about spot-on , this never goes too slow or faster than it should . So much is said with so few words and hints . This , to a degree , allows the audience to connect the dots , and doesn't presume that we need hand-holding . The cinematography is great , though there are some shots and camera tricks that reveal the makers to be new at the helm . All in all , a thoroughly entertaining and engaging dark sci-fi movie , and one to be seen by anyone even remotely interested in / fascinated by said genre , provided you are sufficiently thick-skinned for it . There are also elements of fantasy herein . The commentary track is probably the best I've heard . . . the two are funny , informational , and awesome on it , and I suggest anyone who likes the feature itself , and aren't turned off by language , though it isn't the worst ever , to listen to it . I recommend this film to any fan of science fiction , and / or pictures that qualify as deep and thought-provoking . Just remember to only get the version I did if you're prepared to be kicked in the stomach , feelings-wise . The faint of heart should stick with the original release . . . or stay away entirely .
Excellent thriller	This is a film about paranoia . When you think you're being watched , your every move being documented , your every action recorded and analyzed . Mace Sowell , an ex-military officer from a covert operations team no one knows about , is confined to his home , because he fears for his life . His daughter doesn't think that he is in danger , instead , she just thinks he's getting senile , or maybe he's just paranoid . He regularly runs ' drills ' in order to keep himself prepared for any direct strike on his house . Meanwhile , he also discovers that he's slowly developing Alzheimer's Disease , which only makes things worse . The plot is great , the idea is quite original , and the movie moves along at a great pace ; every scene has some development in the plot , and often it also has some great humor . The film delivers a great sense of paranoia all the way through . The acting is great , both by Patrick Stewart and Kimberly Williams . The consistent paranoia , the various intense scenes that are easily explained once they're over , the overall mood of the film , it all leads up to an exciting climax that only few will be able to figure out until it happens . All in all , a great thriller about paranoia . I recommend this to fans of thrillers , especially fans that are fond of conspiracy theories and paranoia in thrillers .
Moving	I was looking forward to finding out how this historical yet forgotten event would be put to film , and how accurately it would be depicted . I am not disappointed . This evokes emotion without ever slipping into sentimentality or sap . It personalizes without robbing the true occurrence of attention . There is focus put on certain characters ( all of which are quite well-written ) , but never to the point of such being lost on what really happened . The plot is great , and develops well . Some liberties are taken with the story , and they are not all justified , but the core is kept intact , and this manages to both tell what happened and make us feel and care about it . The overdubbed singing could have been subjected to better synchronization , but there is little to any criticisms directed at the acting itself . The same goes for the production value . The technical aspects of this are excellent , as well . The cinematography and editing are just about flawless . Pacing is rather good . Writing and directing are commendable . All three sides each speak the actual languages , adding to the already well-established sense of realism . I recommend this to anyone interested in the period , and the specific situation in particular .
Interesting . . .	Cronenberg is an interesting director ; for most of his career , he made biological horror , dealing with viruses , mutations and the likes . In these last few years , he's moved away from that , focusing on more down-to-earth conflicts . His films still have the gratuitous violence and perverted sex that we've come to expect from his films . . . and a few things in this film seem to suggest that all of those years of violence and sex and extreme films have taken their toll on him . He's lost touch , which hurts this film , since it's supposed to present us with a regular American family , in a small , regular town . . . and Cronenberg's perspective on this is clearly skewed . The cast is too ' pretty ' . Everyone looks like they could be a supermodel . Hardly " regular people " . This vision of regular , everyday things being ever-so-slightly off , really hurts the film . . . it feels like what we're watching is pure imagination , a ' pretty ' vision of typical America . Directly opposite of the point . Now that I've got that out of the way , let me say that this film was at least as good as I had expected from the trailer , and that says a lot . The violence is incredible ; I don't mean what we see of it ( though it is quite well-done ) , I mean the way it's used . The whole film is an excellent commentary on violence in our society , in our everyday lives , in our lives in general . . . violence and the consequences of it . The plot is intriguing and intelligently told . The pacing is grand . The way Cronenberg underplays important scenes , especially the way he hints at violent scenes to come is incredibly effective . The acting is mostly top-notch , with a few ( yet quite important ) exceptions . Mortensen , Bello and Harris are incredible . Hurt has an infinitely small but impactive role , and his acting surpasses just about everyone else's . The characters are well-written and credible . The writing is mostly good , though there are a few scenes and lines of dialog that don't seem to fit , that instead stick out and hurt the final product . The action is incredibly well-done , even though there isn't much of it , but it clearly isn't the point of the film . Very intelligent and well-crafted film , but hurt by Cronenberg's marred perspective of ' regular ' . Definitely one to catch , though . I recommend this to anyone who can take it , and especially fans of Cronenberg . An enthralling and exciting experience .
Great game , but too short compared to the first two	Having just beaten this , the third installment of the Commandos series , I am mostly struck by how short it is . The first game took months to beat , because there were plenty of missions and they were all quite tough to beat . The second game took me about two weeks , because there were plenty of missions , and they were long . This took me two and a half days , because there were few missions . . . even though they were challenging , almost as challenging as the first at times , it only took me a short time to beat . Part of this is that while the creators of the game did their best to make each mission intricate , detailed and hard , they also wanted to make the player go through it in a certain way . . . or maybe a number of certain ways . But in doing so , they left a number of loop-holes which are far too easy to take advantage of , as figuring out what exactly you're supposed to do on a mission is fiendishly hard ( harder than actually going through with it ) . This is kind of the same problem there was with Hit-man 2 ; they want you to close your eyes to every solution but the one or the ones that they want you to use , but this is just a pointless thing to do for the player . Also , the game does a poor job of leading you on the right path . . . no tips or hints , not even a detailed description of your goal ( s ) . You just get told how to control your men and use their abilities , and a vague little outline of your objective . Occasionally you can piece together what exactly you're supposed to do from the introductory cut-scene , aforementioned outline and the map . But other times , you have to guess , try stuff out . . . and that can get frustrating . I can't tell you how many times I failed , especially on early missions , without having any idea why , or what I did wrong . The first game had about 20 missions , and they were all challenging . The second had about 10 real missions , and 10 bonus missions , coming to a total of 20 missions , all of which long , but easy . This game has 12 missions . All of them are somewhat hard , but most of them have one or two parts where the team behind it made a mistake , and the player can do something extremely simple to win the mission . I found myself looking for these parts after the first two or three missions , as it was much , much easier than figuring out what exactly they want you to do . The plot is very good . The story is good , if a bit repetitive . . . your men get captured two or three times between missions . The graphics are good , but not really that much of an improvement on the second game . The game-play is entertaining , but a bit repetitive . In the first two games , there was a fair bit of diversity . . . some missions were stealth , others were just straight-forward action . In this game , almost every single mission is stealth . The features are nice , though there aren't really that many new since the second game . I also thought it was a little weird how the number of men in the Commando group was cut down so severely . . . in the second game , there were 8 commandos . . . 9 if you count the dog . In this , there are 6 . I don't remember , but I think there were more in the first game . Why so few this time ? The locations in the game are also less interesting than that of the second game . Last time around , we had the bridge over the river Kwai , Paris , and several other historically accurate and interesting locales . This time , the only remotely interesting are a few missions in Stalingrad and partaking in the storming of the beaches of Normandy . However , some things in the game make up for some of the things the game lacks . . . for one , the game has some kick-ass cut-scenes , even though they might be overly action-movie-like . Also , the Green Beret can now pick up a machine-gun . . . from a tripod . . . and walk around with it . We're talking Commando , Terminator , Arnold Schwarzenegger , say-hello-to-my-little-friend , shoot ' em-up fun . The Sapper also has a few nifty tricks up his sleeve . . . if you find the equipment and weaponry , that is . But his flamethrower . . . phew . If you do get in a position where you have to shoot or fight your way out , it's quite entertaining , and you'll often have a good deal of weapons at your disposal . The last thing I will mention is that the game still has too many of the problems that the second game has . . . you have loads of features , but your commandos are often overly slow at performing them . . . this might be too make the game harder , but it doesn't make sense . Why would it take a trained commando almost a full second to throw himself into the ground ? In real war , it would cost him his life to take that long . And bringing out weapons , placing explosives . . . I don't know , maybe what it really needs is a queue system , like many other birds-eye-view strategy games have . The ability to tell one or more of your men to do something , then do something else , and then finally a third thing , one after the other . That way , you could have many of your men do something at the same time , instead of often failing because you need two men to do something complex at the same time . Not really anything left to say . . . great game , but I suggest you try the two earlier games of this series first , because otherwise you might find the controls overly hard and impossible to keep track of , as this game ( apart from two short tutorial missions ) throws you directly into the action . Worth playing if you like the genre and / or you enjoyed the first two games . I recommend it to fans of the first two games and people who like strategy .
Jan Gintberg's best work , by far	I've been a fan of Jan Gintberg for several years . At first glance , he may seem like a loud-mouthed malcontent , but once you listen to him , you'll find an awful lot of truth in what he says . The man masters satire , and when he's given a chance and when he's at his best , he's hilarity and cleverness itself . Having found his previous effort ( Gintberg Show Off ) fair , but not too memorable ( and finding all his later ones , at least so far , downright poor ) , I define this as his best work . He's assembled an amazing team for the purpose . . . Dorset , with his calm demeanor and writing assistance ( though , judging by Gintberg's pace , he most likely provides most of the material himself ) ; Marzouk , for the occasional energetic performance and the token immigrant ; Øgendahl , for more energy , in what can best be described as Denmark's answer to Jim Carrey : wild , silly and frantic , with plenty of facial comedy ; Bang , as the stone-faced reporter caricature ( typically dealing with important subjects with an excellent touch of humor ) , and , lest we forget , his character of a drunk-out-of-his-mind alcoholic with a nasty habit of bugging the people Jan attempts to ask " the question of the week " on Copenhagen's main street ; and , of course , Gintberg himself , for the grotesque analogies , the pushy ( and loud ) truths presented and the biting wit . The humor ranges from silly to satirical , and , granted , some jokes do fall flat . The vast majority of material works like a charm , and even the worst episodes had better gags and jokes than some of the best of his other work . The five comedians all play off each other perfectly , and the casting of the many parts played ( usually by the group of stand-up performers , themselves ) in the segments is spot-on . The show plays like a Danish version of The Daily Show . With weekly bits , such as the one of a troubled man threatening to jump , yelling about his problems ( played to perfection by Jan himself , who started his character , years back , yelling satire in a similar fashion ) , and the slightly dim , Jutlandic police officer who attempts to talk him down . They make fun of numerology , politics ( one particular clip of a female politician having a strong reaction to an unpleasant topic is re-used quite a lot , but mostly to great effect ) and many , many other subjects . . . including Jan's all-time favorite thing to poke fun at , bikers . Quite often , they got well-known people to contribute , almost always with hilarious consequences . Eight weeks in a row of 2002 , the week was ended on a good note , with Jan and co . spoofing the week's news . But alas , in spite of the promise of it returning for a second season , they never got to do more . Was it not popular enough ? Was it too sharp , too on the mark ? I don't know . I do find it sad that Jan and several of his kin are now doing utterly humorless talk-show-type programs , playing off how many famous guests they can get into the studio . I guess there's little reason to hold out hope for another season of this show ( or even a similar show ) being made . . . instead , I'll just hold on to my tape of all eight episodes . I recommend this to any fan of satire , Danish comedy and any of the comedians involved in making it . Very much worth your time .
Great film by Scorsese	This is a pretty impressive film ; most of its qualities are good , if not great . However , it still falls short on a few points . The ending seems somewhat anti-climactic . Much of the film is overly Hollywood-like , as well . The climax is a letdown . Overall , the film is great , but it could have been fantastic . The love story is also too much of what we've seen hundreds of times before . The plot is good , and tells a tale that very well could have happened . It's fairly historically accurate . It's somewhat well-paced , but I ended up being bored in the last half hour or so , and downright disliking the very end . The acting is great . All of the actors pull off very good performances . Diaz , Day-Lewis , DiCaprio , all great . The supporting characters were well-acted as well . The characters were well-written , and mostly credible , though there were at least once where a character seemed to go very much out of character , apparently just to move the story along . The cinematography is great . It has a pretty good atmosphere , and there are scenes that feel very much like you are watching actual footage from that time . The film suffers somewhat from being predictable ; it holds very few surprises , partly due to it being fairly formulaic . The film is well-done and the scenes that are supposed to be so , are intense . The special effects are well-done , and the direction is good . All in all , an entertaining and well-done film which is unfortunately dragged downwards in quality by various Hollywood-like qualities . I recommend it to fans of the respective actors , fans of the director , and people who enjoy watching films that depict certain time-periods to such accuracy .
Excellent film in all respects	I haven't read the original comic , only the concept of it . This is the second movie by Proyas I've seen ( the first being I , Robot ) , and it's one of the two that's been recommended and suggested to me the most ( the other being Dark City ) . Brandon Lee's fate was lamentable , and thoughts go to Eliza Hutton , his widow . He died making an amazing film that I'm glad was released , though it is obviously an ethical choice if it should be or not . Inspired by his own experiences , James O'Barr wrote a comic ( book and strip ) about this character , and Proyas and Lee brought it to life ( so to speak ) on the big screen . The plot is well-told and engaging . The pacing may be flawless . It never moved too fast nor too slow . The writing is good , the dialog is very well-written . There were some really cool and instantly quotable lines spoken in this film . The acting is great , if Ling Bai is perhaps somewhat flat . . . this may have been intentional , I'm not sure . Lee ( R . I . P . ) did grand in his performance , both as far as action and acting go . Wincott makes a marvelous villain , as expected . The action is awesome , pure and simple . The music , rock , really works for the film . The look and feel is Gothic and neo-noir , and it fits the theme and concept perfectly . The camera-work and editing are both top-notch . The film has scenes that could have been sappy and hokey in the hands of less talented film-makers , but they work well . A film about the strength of love , about spirit and justice . The DVD features the theatrical trailer , and a commentary track with Jeff Most and John Shirley , and it is highly informative and well worth listening to . I recommend this to any fan of vigilante stories , comic books , superheroes and the people involved in making it .
A worthy next chapter	I base this on the PC version . I will be comparing this to the first throughout . The journey of the brooding cop goes on , and he hasn't lost his touch . This has improvements over the one preceding it : One of the very noticeable ones being the new physics engine , Havok , that makes almost everything ( that ought to ) be able to move , in stark contrast to the admittedly rigid nature of the environment in the one before this . Now you can affect your surroundings , knock over stuff , break things and such . The game-play is varied , as well , with bits where you provide cover , defend someone or similar . The structure is intact , with the order altered somewhat , making it less predictable without losing the arc . I am of course referring to the plot , which again is brilliantly written , unfolds and develops incredibly well , and is another well-crafted mystery , perfect for the genre . The system for throw-ables is considerably freer , now it's a secondary attack , and the alternate to it is " melee " , something that in this is code for " pistol-whip " , and you can do that regardless of what you're packing . Finally , beating this doesn't only unlock the next difficulty setting ( there are three , that should help ensuring that anyone , regardless of expertise at these will be challenged as well as enjoy it ) and the New York Minute mode ( in a word : run ) , but now also the Dead Man Walking one , where you can choose one of five locations where you have to try to stay alive for as long as you can , through the shootouts with spawning enemies , and it'll list your best time for each , and you get a mission selector , as well . These add to the re-playability , a good thing , since this is short , 10-12 hours I would say . However , not all of the changes are positive . I don't know if people found the original too complicated in that aspect , but this one has hints , in case you forget what you're supposed to do , or you can't quite figure it out . That's part of the things they did in this one to make it easier , as one of those recent releases where the start of the series was thought to be too hard and thus they made the follow-up less so ( another case is Hit-man , and Commandos is one where it did work out ) . Another step is that this is less snippy about the amount of Bullet-Time ( and it looks better still , and now , you get to reload during it ! To top it off , they gave it a wicked and fitting animation ) that you get to use , you can sorta " store it " , and it regenerates over time . I am personally not fond of the choice of villain , though I do not know of the general reception of it . In what I can only imagine must have been an on-going attempt to keep this from becoming too depressing , this has a bunch of humor not in the other one , not only that , no , even made from things that were disturbing in it . Then there are parodies of things in that one , including the overall , well , the entire thing . There's a self-awareness to it , maybe they were trying to prevent themselves or others from taking these too seriously , and I'd say it hurts the experience at least a little , it gets too silly at points ( and that is tough to accuse the 2001 title of ) . Not all of this aspect is bad . Whilst this is potentially a tad less dark , the potent satire on the US , American life , etc . is going strong as ever , in the ads , on TV and otherwise . Moving away from the new . . . this continues an excellent Noir piece , as directed by John Woo . In fact , that may describe this one spot-on . You've got a femme fatale , a tale about love , and this one , ahem , does not end up going high-tech and modern . The time-line is more non-linear , as well . The story-telling remains mainly in the comic book style ( including the brief and great summary of the past adventure of Max , for those who've just joined us ) , and is astounding . Thus , the nicely articulated facial and body movements of the characters are not used as often as they could be ( and that's fine ) . The graphics are magnificent , and I'm not sure it even puts that much of a strain on the video card . Level design is marvelous , and you're seldom lost . The audio is all top-notch , with qualified voice acting that never lets down , well-composed score music , and sound effects that are all fantastic . There's only really one Boss Fight in this , I would say . The AI is well-done , they may follow you , they'll try to get you and they use grenades and they'll even try to avoid those you toss at them . The weapons are well-chosen , most of them are returning favorites . They still include sidearms , shotguns , SMGs , assault rifles and snipers ( no , the Grenade Launcher does indeed appear to be gone ) . The realism is impeccable , ammo and the likes are always found in places where it makes sense , there is recoil , and so on . The tone is bleak . There are mature themes in this , and material ( nudity and what goes beyond sensuality ) and that is certainly not for younger audiences . The amount and harsh nature of the language is gratuitous . I agree that it can be used in works of fiction to establish what type someone is , or display growth ( like someone becoming not as crude , or the other way around ) , but in this , it does honestly come off as " we get to use it , so we're sure as heck gonna do so " . Like John McTiernan apparently putting a sex scene in Die Hard : With a Vengeance just because he knew it would be rated R . It's immature and stooping to the lowest common denominator . Nevertheless , this is an immensely well-done effort , and helps dissolve the myth that sequels have to suck . I recommend this to any fan of the game that got this franchise going , and the ingredients . .
Worth watching due to the narrative and the study of the male way of thinking	I had quite a few doubts about whether or not to see this film . First of all , Iben Hjejle is in it . No matter how international she thinks she's become , she's still Danish . I haven't seen that many of her films , but I've seen enough Danish films to back up following broad statement : Danes just can't act , in the majority of the cases . Second , no one I know who enjoy films have any clue as to whether or not it's worth watching . I'm talking about people who have seen even the least known 70's and 80's films and can describe what's good and bad about them . In detail . Third , this is a romance comedy . A romantic comedy . The genre of film that is without a doubt the easiest to make and mass-produce , because half of the worlds women go nuts over them and cry their eyeballs out , if there's at least one good-looking guy in it who doesn't portray a complete asshole . So , when I found this available for borrowing at the local library , I was uncertain at first , but eventually decided to check it out . I'm glad I did , though I wasn't too surprised by what I thought of Hjejle . I was surprised at how good this was for a romance comedy , though . I will make sure that my friends know that this is worth watching . I like how Cusack throughout the film addresses the camera and tells us exactly what he's thinking . Without any bull . He's entirely honest , and through this honesty , we feel connected to him . We feel what he feels and we understand why he feels this way . I doubt there is any other film that so perfectly describes how men feel about love and sex . We follow Cusack's character through a recounting of his Top Five worst breakups . First we get a brief retelling of the list , and then he delves into the list , as the film goes on , and he's in the middle of the last breakup on the list . The plot is very good , and has a fairly good pace , though I felt it moved both too slow and too fast at first , somehow . The acting is pretty much all good . No actors really surprised me . Hjejle was about as annoying as I had expected , albeit more tolerable than I had thought . Black was his typical annoying self . The characters are well-written and credible . I really enjoyed this film , and recognized just about everything about the way Cusack acted . Everything he did and most of what he said . The fantasy sequences , particularly the one where he fantasizes about what to do when he faces a guy he hates , are great stuff , something that every guy can relate to . As Cusack says in the interview featured on the DVD : what's great is that it reveals the dark sides of us , of our love lives and relationships . I recommend this very good film to anyone . Yes , anyone . If you can sit through two hours of , basically , a study of the common male's thinking , and you can enjoy a somewhat non-Hollywood movie , you should see this film . It's not the best out there , but I doubt there is or can be a better movie about this subject .
An epic about the spoils of war , the longevity of hate . . . and the power of love	I remember watching this film some years back . . . the only thing I could still recall today , before re-watching it , was a brutal fight at one point in it . Having just watched it again , I can say without doubt that it was the fault of the shoddy taste I possessed back then ( that I could not remember more of it ) , and not the quality of this grand motion picture . Michael Mann is an impressive director , and he takes a huge step away from his typical path in creating this film . From a man who usually helms police dramas comes the story of Hawkeye . . . and this time , it's as huge as it should be ( for the first time , from what I understand ) . The plot is well-written and gripping . It develops constantly . . . blink and you'll miss something . The pacing is intense . . . the film never stands still . The version I watched was just over an hour and 45 minutes , and there wasn't a single moment of boredom or distraction among them . As always with Mann , the action is spectacular , and the scope of it is simply stunning . The cinematography is breathtaking . . . as my father remarked near the end of watching the film , " they found a lot of picturesque locations to shoot at " . The editing is effective . The acting is strong all-round . You truly believe that Daniel Day-Lewis grew up among Indians , that he is a master within all the abilities that the Indians were known to possess . The characters are well-written , and going by what my father recollects , quite true to the book , as is the story . A thoroughly entertaining ( and seemingly authentic ) story of the country that is now known as the United states of America . I recommend this to any fan of epics and / or Mann .
Could this game possibly have been any better ?	Not long after I saw X-Men the movie , I found this game at the local video-game store for the PlayStation console . Being a fairly big fan ( not just of the movie ; I had been reading X-Men for a while , and I knew and liked the characters long before I heard of the movie being made ) , I immediately bought it and went home to play right away . I fairly quickly beat it , and kept playing until I had unlocked everything in the game . And now , about four or five years later , here I am , reviewing it . This game is great . It succeeds in just about everything it attempts to do . It brings the universe of the movie and the universe of the comics together , so that no fans are alienated . I suppose it does not offer much introduction into the world of X-Men , but hey , if you're playing this or considering to do so , you're either a fan looking for an authentic experience , or someone who plays fighting games and doesn't care which characters you're fighting or fighting as , or where they're from . It gives a relatively unique fighting game experience , with even a few features no one else seems to have thought of ( I quite liked the counter-strike ) . There's no real plot as such . . . you're just given control over these mutant heroes ( and later on , villains ) and you fight your way ( though it can hardly be claimed unusual for these characters to fight , which is precisely why this game really hits the spot ) through a total of ten characters . Yep , ten . All ten of which you can select to fight with . The ten are as follows : Cyclops , Wolverine , Beast , Gambit , Phoenix , Storm , Mystique , Sabretooth , Toad and Magneto . All of them have unique powers and attacks , making for some intense , challenging ( you can't fight the same way against two different enemies , especially not if you intend to last very long ) and surprisingly well-rounded and fair fights . Some of them can shoot , some of them can jump far , some move fast , some can attack the enemy from one end of the level to another . . . but all are fair , no one is overly powerful ( unlike , say , Tekken 3 ( another fighting game that I do , admittedly , rather enjoy ) . . . Bryan , anyone ? ) . Most of the powerful attacks are fairly easy combinations , making it entirely possibly to remember and , to great effect , use them in combat . There's a training ground ( based in . . . yep , you guessed it . . . The Danger Room ) . It's divided in two parts . . . Academy Training and Independent Study . The first is basically Professor X guiding you in a fixed order through all of the attacks at your disposal , while the second is , as you may have guessed from the name , a chance to simply train by yourself , against an immobile dummy enemy ( who you can have jump or crouch , to practice attacking enemies as they do such ) . There are some cool slow-motion effects ( Wolverine's kick-based throw move ? Beautiful ) in some combos and every time you win a fight , you get a nice slo-mo view of your opponent falling down ( Replays ? We don't need no stinkin ' replays ! ) . Every character has three costumes , the usual comic one , the movie one ( even those who weren't in the movie , an adequate idea of what they would have looked like ) and a third one . . . for the fans to unlock and recognize . The level design is excellent , with quite a few references to popular , well-known and famous ( as well as infamous ) locations from the comics and some very , very nice backgrounds with impressive level of detail . Every fight opens with both fighters entering the scene in a fashion that seems logical for them ( Storm flies in , Wolverine jumps in and slashes his claws at the camera ) . There are some cool camera angles for many of the special combos , making it even more intense and giving it a cinematic feel . Every fighter has three throws ( one even has four ) , and they're all pretty darn cool , if you ask me . All the characters are dead-on as far as personality and fighting style goes ( Beast is intelligent and uses his physique to great advantage , Wolverine fights like a cat-like animal , etc . ) . The fighters can even taunt each other ! The voice acting is pretty much perfect throughout . I can't think of a character I'd have changed the voice or acting of . Apart from regular fighting and the aforementioned training , there's also a Survival mode , which is pretty basic . . . fighting as many enemies in a row as you can , only gaining a little health between fights . Then there's Cerebro Mode . . . which really isn't a mode at all , but rather a base for all the cool things you can unlock . Things like trailers , pictures from the comics , extra costumes and such . This makes the game last much , much longer than otherwise ( and than most other fighting games do ) . Gameplay is great , sound is superb ( the music in particular ) and the game is just pretty much spot-on with everything . There are plenty of cut-scenes , all of which are gorgeously rendered , and the ones you need to unlock are usually worth it . They often reference the comics , without it being in the dictionary-type " let's just fill the game with random references and trivia " way that X-Men Legends II : The Rise of Apocalypse kinda sorta really was . In fact , all of the references are skilfully implemented , none feel as if they were simply put there to draw in the fans ( which , obviously , is their main purpose , that and satisfying us demanding comic book geeks ) . The biggest issues with this game are the low number of fighters ( though everyone in the game , in turn , is perfectly well-rounded , neither too strong or too weak ) and the somewhat odd controls compared to the usual fighting games ( like the Tekken series , for example ) . But what characters there are , are great , and you get used to the controls . Neither of those complaints stop this from being a great game . I recommend this to any fan of X-Men , no matter where your interest in them stems from ( movie , comic , TV-series , mental projections , whatever ) and any fan of fighting games .
Funny , well-made and watchable . . . but I really didn't find this as moving as some people claim it is	First off , I'm an atheist . That means I don't believe in any higher power or deity , and that I am in no way spiritual . So naturally , when one of the first things said in the film was about how the main character gained his faith in god , I wasn't too thrilled . Still , I decided to give it a shot , if for nothing else then to trash in it my review . Well . . . now I've seen it . . . and I don't really see any reason to trash it . Truth be told , it's not half bad . It's actually fairly well-made , though this was no big surprise to me , as the director is the same guy who made Daredevil ( one of my favorite of the new superhero flicks ) . Now , like I said before , I'm not big on spirituality or faith in god . I'm of the opinion that if you need to believe in something like that , you're fooling yourself , and merely proving that you can't accept the world's harsh realities . Religion is simply an invention designed to make our seemingly pointless existence , as well as our ultimate death seem less empty and bleak . Personally I've found constructive thought and the gathering of useful knowledge to be a far better way to fulfill this purpose . Anyway . . . I'm getting off track here ; even though religion is a big theme in the film , I still found it to be pretty good . It's quite funny , for one . The plot is good ( enough ) . The acting is very good . No complaints in that department . This contains what is arguably the best acting by Jim Carrey ever . . . he does a voice-over narration throughout the film that underlines what happens . The characters are all well-written and credible . Some of the humor is overly childish , but most of it works . The direction was one of the best points of the film . Mark Steven Johnson proves his worth and talent as a director , using interesting angles , great cuts and displaying some of the best usage of slow-motion I've seen for a while . However , I didn't really find this movie to be particularly moving . I see a lot of people comparing this to The Mighty . . . now , this has better direction than that film , but this doesn't evoke even a fraction of the same amount of the emotion as The Mighty does . I never really found myself saddened at Simon's lost battles , though I did cheer a bit at his victories . I guess that counts for something . All in all , a fairly good comedy-drama with very good direction , acting and writing . I recommend this to fans of comedy and drama and fans of movies in general .
An unpleasant , unsettling , and most importantly , necessary film	After reading about Palindromes and finding myself oddly attracted to the subject matter of several of Todd Solondz's features , I bought this film . It would seem that it has a reputation as being his worst work to date ( at least as far as theatrically released movies go ) . . . I must say , if the rest of what he's done is this powerful , I will have to keep my eyes open for it . You seldom see movies that are this unpleasant . There are films that are far , far harder to watch . . . but this is still not one you put on to enjoy yourself . As many other viewers , I didn't care much for the first half ( well , part . . . it's a third of the projects full length , with a running time of about 25 minutes ) , " Fiction " . I felt I had gained little after it was over , though I will say that the concept and themes explored are quite interesting . " Non-Fiction " proved to be far more worth-while , in my opinion . The writing and direction is excellent in both . The pacing works well . . . I was never bored , and while it wasn't exactly a " good " time , it moved along as it should , never really too slow or too fast . The characters were incredible . . . the sheer amount of development , through so little time spent on each . . . that's talent . As its title indicates , Storytelling goes into different methods of telling a story . . . and displays some of the most impressive storytelling that I've seen to date . There is some humor , but it's quite black , and throughout the film , I was unsure of whether I should laugh out loud . . . or cry my eyes out . The film is strongly satirical , very direct and seemingly almost aggressively anti-PC . Dealing with several subjects of taboo , Solondz pulls few punches , if any . Certainly not a film for everyone . Both parts seem to end somewhat abruptly , but that may be intentional . I will say that my rating would almost certainly have been higher had the first part been improved upon . . . or removed entirely . It's difficult to say who I'd recommend this to . . . cynics or realists with a strong threshold for the some of the ugliest sides of human nature , I suppose . From what I understand , though , it's less provocative than the other film of Todd Solondz .
Incredible Hitchcock film . . . more scary than most other horror films	Hitchcock has a unique film style ; no one can do exactly what he does when directing horror films . His talent is especially obvious in this film ; all the nice little touches , the old typical Hitchcock details ( controlling mother , minor romance between male and female main characters , strong-willed , powerful female main character , etc . ) are beautifully and discreetly put into the film , without in any way distracting from the main plot or disturbing the natural cycle of the film . I like how Hitchcock , as with several other of his big films ( Psycho immediately comes to mind ) starts with one story , that has nothing in particular to do with the source of the terror . The movie starts with a certain story , that has nothing to do with the actual horror of the film , and ends with that story still present , instead of just flat-out starting the film with a story about birds attacking people . There are hints and a lot of foreshadowing from the very minute that the movie starts , but it's not the main theme of the film until the last fourth part . The plot is pretty good , interesting and developing consistently throughout the movie . The actors all perform very well , with no exceptions . The characters are believable , and their actions are mostly entirely understandable . In fact , I found it far more psychologically realistic , in how it portrays the different characters emotional reactions to the situations . The special effects are amazing ; the film is more than forty years old and the effects look very dated today , but it still scared me more than I could have possibly imagined . I don't think I'll look at a bird the same way ever again . Another masterpiece from the master of suspense . I recommend this to anyone who doesn't mind watching a film that isn't entirely new , and who are looking for a good scare . I have a hard time imagining anyone not being scared by this film .
Innocence meets Benny Hill-esquire slapstick in a very sweet film	Comedy is an art that can take many forms , and can be seen more places than more or less any other . Almost anywhere you search , you may find it by looking closely . Many would argue that slapstick reminiscent of the late Benny Hill isn't the greatest expression of the comedic arts , but it's difficult to dispute that it's one that anyone understands ( if not everyone will find it funny ) . Here , that type of humor is meshed ( and with quite good results ) with the innocence of Bushmen who have never seen modern society . There are three story lines ; following Xixo , a Bushman who has technology thrust upon him in the form of an object common in civilization , Andrew Steyn , a young man who works in Botswana ( where the whole film is set ) and a malevolent man fighting the government . These story lines run parallel each other very well , and the overall plot is rather good , for the production . The pacing is relatively even , and the movie neither moves too fast nor too slowly . The comedy is almost all in the form of the slapstick , and there is occasional cleverness in the dialog . It all goes together well , and makes for a very funny movie . The innocence and the general tone of the film makes it very sweet ( without being sappy ) , and though few will make the claim that it is an unpredictable piece , it's a nice little film , one to take your mind off bad things and just relax ( in-between the laughing ) . An inexpensive movie that doesn't look cheap . The humor is very well balanced ; it never tries too hard , and it is almost invariably successful at getting the laughs . Seeing Xixo be introduced to modern conveniences , and respond with the naiveté ( which is perfectly accentuated by the narrator ) is heartening , and watching how he adapts to it is a testament to human ingenuity . A simple film , but one that can be watched by just about anyone at any time . The slapstick does get a little violent at times , but it's cartoon-y violence ( think Tom and Jerry ) . It shows little actual consequence of violent actions . . . for better or for worse . I recommend this to any fan of slapstick and physical comedy . Very good for what it is .
They've still got it	Utterly devoid of taste , this sketch of a mere six minutes is so rich in material , both as far as amount , and as how solid it is , go . The jokes are based around sex education , corporate " ethics " , and the Python zaniness that we know and love . Unless you completely disagree with the viewpoint openly and continually expressed by the second source of gags mentioned , and / or are offended by sexual comedy , or , I guess if you aren't a fan of the Monty Python crew and their brand of humor , you are highly likely to love and thoroughly enjoy this , as I most certainly did . The pacing is spot-on , there is some repetition , but not too much . Three of the Pythons join forces and bring us this all-new sketch , including Cleese . It's well-edited and nicely , if simply ( but it doesn't require complexity in how it's put together , the strength lies in the verbal work , the delivery ) , done . This was released on the second disc of the ( surprise surprise ) 2-Disc release of The Meaning of Life , in 2003 . I would definitely say to give it a watch , if you're a fan of the Pythons and you have the DVD ( if you don't , consider getting it , it's well worth it for , yes , again , fans ) . I recommend this to any fan of Monty Python .
Keep ' em coming , Niccol	If not necessarily by the start , then by the end , of the opening credits , you should be well aware of what the point of view driving this movie is . Like this piece or not , it doesn't really try to pass itself off as anything but what it is . I've liked all that I've seen of Niccol's ( not always equally much ) , and this was the one I looked the most forward to . It lived up to my expectations . With an ironic tone lasting the duration , this takes you through the world of gun-running , with Yuri being our guide , also filling out the role of obvious metaphor , something not exactly foreign to Andrew ( do not worry , this is by no means another S1m0ne . . . that would turn making fun of it into a ridiculously easy task , what with it featuring the actual , real-life kid of the director and star of said other effort ) . While there are moments of see-through material , and the occasional poor lines of dialog , this is a solid contender for the best film helmed by the man . It's fun , it's dramatic , it's fairly unpredictable and it does build tension when it seeks to do so . And when all's said and done , like the rest of his movies ( again , to varying degrees ) , this'll provide something important to think about . The plot is great , and develops well throughout the running time . Pacing is rather good , neither boring nor in a hurry at any time . The acting is pretty spot-on for the whole thing . Music isn't bad . This has violence , language and sexuality , and plenty of them , for anyone either avoiding or seeking out such . I recommend this to any fan of Andrew Niccol , Nicolas Cage and / or their respective ( heck , throw in the respect-less ones , too ) works .
Its aim is spot-on	This one goes for the jugular . Verhoeven has never exactly had a reputation for the light , the family friendly , or holding back in criticism . As one of his satires , this is quite simply excellent and utterly ferocious , in its depiction of society and big business . . . of the future . Yes , that's it . The writing is marvelous . The dialog is endlessly quotable . The characters are credible and portrayed well . The gritty , and sometimes intentionally over-the-top tone is masterfully achieved , and lasts for the entire duration . The action is incredible , and all memorable . The suit is amazing . The special effects are extremely well-done , with a handful of exceptions , most having to do with limitations of the time . The symbolism is exceptional . Consider what not to take at face value in this . As with other of Paul's works , bring your brain for this one , if for absolutely no other reason , remember it says " sci-fi " as a genre , also . Be aware that there are fairly gruesome and disturbing things in this , some would call it downright distasteful , most notably in the violence and themes , and " intense " isn't exactly a wrong word to associate with this . The Parents Guide on here can help let you know what to expect , if such bothers you . There is also a little nudity , and plenty of language . I recommend this to any fan of science fiction , any of the actors ( Kurtwood Smith can be a bad-ass ) , of clever films , and of the concept .
Great action , excellent horror	This is how to make a hybrid of action , horror and science fiction . John Carpenter knows exactly how to set a mood , and , as proved by this film , also knows how to direct good action . The plot is not really new , but it's not a story that's been done to death either . The actors all perform pretty well , considering that most of them are B-list actors . The special effects are great . The music is perfect for the film ; John Carpenter knows the importance of a good score . The atmosphere is incredible ; any fan of Carpenter's earlier work will at the very least enjoy it . The film is exciting and scary at the same time ; a thing most other films can't accomplish . The action is well-choreographed and cool . The story is told in a reasonably original fashion , and it works perfectly . The pacing is great . The humor is very dark and cynical , and fits perfectly with the overall mood of the film ; very good decision by Carpenter . I'd recommend this to any fan of action , horror , science fiction or John Carpenter . Just keep an open mind about it ; it's a bit different from what you might expect from these genres .
An impressive mini-series	Human Trafficking is an important tale about an important subject . Too often ignored , because it's easier to live in an illusory world than face the awful truth . This was a necessary series , and a well-thought out premise . . . the execution doesn't live entirely up to it , but it comes pretty darn close . The main problem is cinematography . . . very much in the spirit of Paul Greengrass , much ( luckily , not all ) of the filming is done with hand-held cameras . Apparently believed to raise intensity , it more often than not has the viewer blinking at the screen to avoid the effects of on-the-spot focus adjusting ( blurring the image and then readjusting it , for the uninitiated ) and struggling to figure out what's going on , as the image is poorly framed and basically looks like they just ran the scene through a few times while a few half-cooked camera-men ran around with a hand-held camera each , and just pieced it together from the best footage ( which , I can tell you now , is often less than great ) . I wonder what happened to quality filming ? What happened to setting up difficult shots , attention to detail and careful planning ? Hitchcock and Kubrick must be turning in their graves . Another problem is acting . . . Yes , Sorvino does better than what we've really seen her do before ( one should pause and wonder if that really is saying all that much , though ) , but she still spends an awful lot of time reverting to the deer-caught-in-headlights glare that she became famous for . She does , however , do something that impressed me and caught me by surprise , near the end of the series . Anyone who watches ( or who already has ) will recognize it almost instantly ; pay close attention to when she is asked to " change / fix her eyes " . That was an unexpected , and very positive , surprise . Sutherland does good , as usual , but it would be a lie to claim that this character is all that different from what he mostly plays . Carlyle was rather great . One has to wonder , though , with all the actors available . . . they had to cast a Scotsman ( I know , we think of him as British , but check his profile ) as a Russian ? And a French-Canadian ( Girard ) ? However , going back to the positive . . . this was a truly astounding piece of infotainment . The writing is excellent . Dramatic moments , while plentiful and played for effect , are never really sappy or overly sentimental . The series has heart , contains cynicism , as well . This mix makes for a very realistic yet not hopeless product . . . as if this is saying to us : " Yes , human trafficking exists , and it's awful . . . but we can fight it . We can beat it . " And somehow . . . with the lack of Hollywood stereotypes and the ever-present realism . . . we believe that it's true . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know the truth and are not afraid to have it told to them , with little to no censorship provided to soften the blow .
Interesting , entertaining , informational . . . and thorough without being boring	This special starts before the original Star Wars , and after introducing Lucas and setting the scene for the time period , it takes us through the entire trilogy , with clips , interviews and behind the scenes footage en masse ( I won't throw on the ever-ambiguous " and more " that is a common favorite to throw on DVD covers and the likes . . . believe me , if they've got something good to sell you , they know it , and they won't hesitate to tell you , " more " is like " interactive menus " . . . it makes nothing out of the ordinary sound like a real treat ) . Each main member of the cast , including Kenny Baker ( R2D2 ) , and Anthony Daniels ( C3PO ) - who sounds a lot like his character even when he's just speaking normally - and Peter Mayhew ( Chewbacca ) . It has a good pace throughout , the version I watched was 90 minutes , and it never grew stale . It is edited expertly throughout . There is a solid flow to the documentary . It holds a lot of information , and the right amount of time is spent on it . The fun factor of this is achieved nicely , and without overshadowing what it is presenting . About the only person not brought in for an interview is David Prowse , who I suppose may still hold a grudge over not being told that they weren't going to use his voice ( and if he knew that they were going to add in footage of Vader where his voice was still the one heard , in this special ( which . . . let's just say , doesn't exactly sound as powerful and terrifying as that of James Earl Jones , who is also interviewed in this ) . . . well , he might have stayed away for that reason , I know I would ) . There is perhaps a bit of patting on the back going on , as the special mentions just how many nominations and wins the films got , and how important it was , and so on and so forth , but this doesn't keep it from being worth watching . I recommend this to any fan of the original trilogy . Heck , the anecdotes alone almost make the hour and a half worth it .
More great trademarks added in another unforgettable entry	The previous film in the series was incredibly entertaining and sophisticated . . . those are some big shoes to fill , even for the same writers and main cast . Fortunately , they not only wore them , they made wearing them look good . More of the trademarks are added , probably the very last of them . . . ironically , this was originally supposed to be the last in the series . Fortunately , it was such a huge success that more were produced . We finally get Ove Verner Hansen as Bøffen , the part he was born to play . . . a Mafia-esquire hit-man who takes great pleasure in his work . Coupled with Bjørn Watt-Boolsen as the thoroughly capitalistic and only somewhat criminal business-man , we have the recipe for a delightful piece of Danish comedy with the Gang . With immense amounts of tiny clever details , this is sure to keep you laughing . The plot is very well-written , and takes our leads down a new path ( though basically towards the same destination ) , with another variation on the opening scene in front of Vridsløselille state penitentiary . The pacing is flawless . I wasn't bored for one moment , even knowing most of what was coming . In addition to the aforementioned two recurring characters , Ole Ernst finally takes over as the younger police official , portraying a cowboy-ish , eager young detective . He compliments Axel Strøbye's dry , experienced , fed-up and realistic / pessimistic investigator perfectly . This and the next one are the only two that start in the Gang's dream destination . . . Mallorca . The humor is satirical and has that wonderful touch of humanity , making for pure hilarity . With fewer coincidences and easy ways out of situations than in the previous films , this is among the best of the series . Taking the audience along both to Zurich , Germany and the Danish stock exchange , and featuring the memorable shot of the balloons being released , this also has some of the most good-looking shots of the films . I recommend this to any fan of the series or any fan of Danish comedy in general , but I definitely recommend having seen the others before this .
Good , but far too long	The only real problem with this film is that it is too long ; had it not been for that , this film would be a perfect action-drama that details the private lives of people on both sides of the law . But it isn't . The drama plays a bigger part in the movie than the action does , and that's a shame , especially since the drama often turns to soap opera material , and ends up looking like deleted scenes from Days of Our Lives . The plot is great , it just takes too long to tell us what it's there to tell . It moves very slowly throughout the film , and many potential viewers will definitely get turned off by this , and turn the film off , which is too bad , because the film is good , it definitely is , it just tests the attention span and patience of the audience . The acting is all top-notch , definitely no complaints there . Pacino and De Niro both portray their respective characters flawlessly , and even less experienced actors like Natalie Portman , who was just beginning her career , gives a great performance . Every single major and supporting character is portrayed by some more or less famous actors , mostly more , and it really shows . Every performance is great . The action is some of the best I have ever seen , some of the most intense and some of the most realistic ever seen on film . Every action movie fan should at the very least see the film for the famous bank robbery scene near the end . That is probably the best shootout ever seen in Hollywood history . The film contains little to no humor , which further makes the slow scenes hard to sit through . Far too little happen , and there isn't even anything to laugh at . I'm not saying they should have had a geeky character as comic relief , but at least a few jokes or something , while still keeping the seriousness of the film . Several other movies that are at least nearly as serious as this pull off at least a few good laughs . All in all , this is a good movie that could have been great , but passed on the opportunity by cramming too much drama into it and making it far too long in the process . I recommend this to fans of action and drama , but be prepared that it's going to be hard to sit through . If you do manage to sit through it , though , you won't regret it . Trust me .
What is there really to say ? Probably the best martial arts action film ever made	After hearing so much about Bruce Lee , his fighting , his films , specifically Enter The Dragon , I just had to find out if any of it was really true . It is . By god , it is . Lee is faster than lightning , and to watch him fight is like watching something superhuman . . . you have to be asleep not to be carried away by his awesome fighting skills . The plot is good , though it's not terribly original . The pace isn't always good , and when no ones talking or fighting , it tends to be a little slow . . . this is especially true for the many lingering shots of the Asian ( sorry , I can't remember if it's Chinese or Japanese . . . I'm always mixing the two up ) culture , which I think are a little dull , too , but I've never really understood their culture . The acting is good , and the characters are well-written and credible . The action is spectacular . Every single scene involving fighting is intense and exciting , but when Lee fights . . . it's excellent , it's fast as hell , and it's bloody awesome . He is so fast that he could kick the legs out from under you before you even realize that he's going to attack . The final fight between Lee and Shih , the villain , is excellent . It's almost epic , even for a Bruce Lee film . The fight in the hall of mirrors . . . wow . Simply wow . Words can not even begin to describe it ; it must be experienced . Any fan of martial arts will love this film . I found the story and the motivations for the characters to be very good too , which made it that much easier to pay attention when there weren't any on-screen fighting going on . All in all , a great martial arts action film ; any fan of such will not be disappointed . I recommend it to fans of Bruce Lee and martial arts in general .
A nice slice of the 80's	You know why this film is so popular ? It's not the subject matter . . . it's not the acting . . . not the humor , nor the music , the effects . . . what makes it so popular even after all these years is that it's a great slice of the 80's . The music , the clothing , the dialog , the script , the effects . . . everything is so definite 80's that the film is almost entirely irresistible . The plot is quite original and has a pretty good pace , as well . It's interesting to see these characters develop , even though they are kind of thin . . . and that each of them is basically the same type of role the respective actors usually portray . The acting is pretty standard . The characters are neither particularly well-written or well-developed . The humor is pretty good , but not really anything special . Not the best of 80's films . . . but good . The special effects vary , but mostly they're typically 80's . . . some of them are quite good , though . The dialog is good . . . some of it is very well-written . . . and most of it is nicely delivered as well . The film is about three scientists who are certain of the existence of ghosts , and as all of their hopes ( or , rather , fears ) are confirmed , they decide to make a team of ghost-fighters ( or ghost-busters ) . The rest of the film deals with their fighting the ghosts in an entertaining , humorous and exciting manner . The film is rarely dull , never drags and is an instant classic due to the very 80's qualities of it . It's an entertaining and exciting ride through the 80's , and a film that won't be forgotten any time soon . I recommend it to fans of Ivan Reitman and the actors , and of course anyone who enjoys an 80's film . It's worth watching simply for that 80's charm .
Intriguing film about love	Right from the start , this movie somehow grabbed me . . . it wasn't particularly fast-moving or laugh-out-loud funny and it didn't immediately seem like revolutionary film-making . I caught TV ads for this for about a day before it came on , and decided that , had I nothing better to do when it aired , I'd at least give it a fair hearing . The quirky nature and the straight ( pardon the pun ) tone drew me in , and I found myself watching all of it closely . The plot is very well-written and develops nicely throughout . The pacing is pretty good , if somewhat uneven . The characters are detailed and credible , and you find yourself truly wondering how things will turn out for these people . The acting is pretty good , all-round . The two female leads were both very involving . The comments on love are insightful and intelligent . The whole thing was pretty well-written . The humor is subtle and comes across more as footnotes than a part of the film . I can see people watching this and not laughing even once . The jokes are well-implemented and don't really disrupt the flow of the plot or get in the way . Given the homosexuality in the plot , this could easily have turned into a moralizing tale . . . or succumb to sappy sentimentality . Instead , it artfully dodges most ( if not all ) of the clichés and creates a truly interesting story about a romance that you hadn't expected . While it falls a little short , partly due to the abrupt nature of some parts of it and the somewhat unsatisfying ending . All in all , still a great film on the subject of love . Good for a few laughs and , more to the point , for some thoughts on love . I recommend this to any fan of movies about love , just know that the film is about lesbianism . Personally , I'm not bothered by that , but I know that will find that to be a problem .
Who says history has to be boring ?	The following is a review of the Gold Edition , for the PC . If anything I write didn't fit your version , please keep the aforementioned in mind . This is one of the classic releases , and it just so happens to have quite a bit of stuff for being so early . It takes you through the following different powers from the old ages : Egypt , Greece , Babylon and Yamato . Each with actual occurrences to experience . This , in general , takes a far more realistic and naturalistic approach than other big , known ones , then and now . There are of course liberties taken . . . somewhere before the ship that fires what may be spears lit on fire , and , well , even though we don't know everything about the past , especially that far back , I doubt that maritime vessels back then could be fitted with catapults . And if you think that credibility is a quality of dubious value for something that is in company with alternate realities and future scenarios , I challenge you to look at the sight of a hailstorm of flaming arrows , perhaps accompanied by large , thrown stones that are glowing red with heat , descend upon a building , and tell me honestly that it doesn't look cool . Granted , the graphics are now dated . Also , they do still do the job just fine , and there is an admirable range of movement , that I'm not sure was seen elsewhere at the time . There are nine fully animated and well-done cut-scenes , and they went for epic scale in them over what they could render best , as opposed to Command & Conquer . They have impressive detail , and that fog is well-rendered . One is shown right before you reach the main menu when you start the title , the remaining are placed right at the beginning and the end of each of the 4 campaigns . Every mission , the amount of which coming to about three dozen ( ! ) , in them is based on real-life events , with background and outcome staying fairly true to what is considered known , as far as I could tell . For example , you participate in the Battle of Troy , and , since the famous wooden horse may have been invented by Homer , it does not appear here . Outside of that , there are also plenty of options for playing this , and for spending literally countless hours , because simply put , this can be fun for an enormous amount of time , surpassing that of other in the same genre . You can try a Death Match , self-explanatory for those who know this type of VG . Random Map allows you to , through choosing the frequency of various things found herein , immediately generate levels . If you want further freedom , why not try the Scenario Builder ? The already created efforts in Scenarios contain maybe ten kinds of objective-driven ones . In this , you can already heal , steal enemy structures or units , seafare , and last but not least , upgrade . In fact , that one's an important part . Deciding what to get and when , as all affect your abilities in a positive way , but at a price . That brings me to the resources . There are four to gather , those being wood , food , gold and stone . There is a direct way to get each , and the second and third have at least one additional one . They're all vital for purposes , such as researching and training . One can wonder if the Temple has something of a jab at the Catholic church , in particular before the Reformation . The many vehicles ( as long as that it takes as a relative term . . . they usually have to do with horses , or less commonly , elephants ) and men ( armed with everything from bones through axes and swords to composite bows ) allow for creative setups and tactics , depending on speed , range , their effective uses and how they can support one another . A couple of them are unique and only available to certain countries in this . This is not focused as strongly on fighting as others . That doesn't mean it isn't necessary or encouraged . . . they don't try to claim that there hasn't been innumerable wars throughout mankind's time . Quite the opposite . There are fair features , and surely about what you would find in others from the mid-nineties , but you don't have to think for long to come up with what would be good to add . A button to immediately take you to the area you've just been alerted to , as for example StarCraft has , is near the top of the list . Less need of hand-holding is , as well . Too often , your military or your workers , frankly , get stuck , trying to take the direct route to somewhere where it can't happen ( did people not realize , in ancient times , that you can't walk across water that isn't shallow , and that you can't walk straight through mountains and trees ? ) , and / or not moving out of the way when their colleagues need to pass . Beyond that , the AI tends to be great . The five difficulty settings help ensure that newcomers and veterans alike should be both comfortable and challenged . For any history buffs , this has a massive amount of design and culture , all throughout it . Right down to the color scheme , it's customized with specific and well-drawn art that fits with the era and region . Obviously , the Greek is toned down . Control and overview are mostly smooth and well-done . The music is easy to listen to , and fits the tone of neutral , non-threatening and ' real ' , so to speak . The audio in general is a positive , if it could have more variety . The sounds all come off right , the clash of metal weapons , the animals and the ambient material . On a final note , this actually has the responses from those you order around in an incomprehensible " language " , rather than recognizable English , because let's face it , that would make little sense . I recommend this to any fan of RTS , or Real Time Strategy , games , and / or anyone who cares to learn or freshen up their knowledge of the old time periods presented here and their people in a way that doesn't involve opening a book .
Very funny movie from Anders Matthesen . . . but is it better than the CD ?	Anders ' Anden ' ( ' the Duck ' , in English ) Matthesen's name is synonymous with variety , diversity and innovation . . . in a few years , he has created more original and unusual projects than most other entertainers do in their careers . . . put together . He has stated on numerous occasions that he's bored when he does ' the same thing again ' . Maybe that's what keeps this from being truly great . . . that it's the same thing he does again . This is based on the CD Mr . Duck released a few years back ( and I mean ' a few ' , we're hardly talking more than five ) , and fairly little is changed . Let's talk about what has changed . Some jokes are cut ( to surprise , perhaps ? ) , others are repeated ( one joke is used at least twice as much in the film as it was on the CD ) and some are re-worded . The comic timing is at times very much off , especially compared to the CD . . . and while some of the gags work well , visually , I still missed Arne's narration and nothing really changes that verbal humor is just best experienced only heard , sometimes . Anders is a stand-up comedian , let's not forget that . . . he's used to being limited to the visualizing that can be achieved with his hands and feet whilst carrying a microphone ; maybe this was too big for him . He did quite a lot better on " Jul på Vesterbro " , but maybe sitcoms and Christmas calendars are just easier to make . Also , he had fellow writers and more time . The animation is simplistic , yet many jokes rely on it being complex . The direction is a mix of flashy and underplayed , which makes it a tad annoying to sit through more than once and leaves the viewer feeling somewhat cheated during some of the many scenes where dialog is changed very little , and there's just not enough happening on screen to make up for it . Some things are removed from the source material , and few ( er ) things are added . Several characters are changed around in an unnecessary fashion that adds little if anything to them or the entertainment they do bring . Now , thus far , this negative has been a fairly negative one ; but let me make it clear , let it be known that this is funny . . . this is still Matthesen . He's just had too little time and probably not enough inspiration . This isn't what it could have been , but it's not bad . There are plenty of sight gags that work really well , and the pace rarely lets you down . The film is provocative and very politically incorrect . Something that is a bit odd is how the film-makers , instead of choosing a single route , catered to both those who've never seen the film and those who have . There are in-jokes for those in the latter category and background for those in the first . The humor is quite good , though there were too many repeated punchlines and corny humor ( not Anders ' best quality ) for my tastes . The soundtrack is excellent , and most of it is retained from the original CD , with great visuals put to the well-known songs . The one all-new song , Paranoia , is some of Anden's best work , musically ( and this is from a fan who just bought his new album , which , while not his best musical work , is still some pretty good Danish rap ) . The new material in the movie works really well , and adds nicely to the plot . There are still a few holes , but when it's so much fun , who really cares ? The characters are ( as is somewhat standard practice by the good Duck ) stereotypes and clichés yet somehow reminiscent of real people and very amusing , though hardly terribly credible . The voice acting ( all by Matthesen ) is nothing short of excellent . The DVD extras are very typical to Anden's style ( though they're hard as heck to navigate ) and are a real treat for any fan of his . All in all , a pretty darn great mix of cartoon-y violence , black humor , sight gags , various parodies , and characters that most people can relate to , even if they are more or less stereotypical and extreme . I recommend this to anyone who liked the original CD , or anyone who just enjoys Anders Matthesen's humor . I urge you , however , to listen to the CD first , and then consider if you really want those images in your head snuffed out by animators ' ideas and the plot and such messed around with . It's a one-way street .
Unusually well-produced and important Danish film . . . but not without flaws	I didn't expect a lot from this film . . . I just knew it was a Danish thriller about some political situation , and that it had gotten mostly positive reviews . Being somewhat unimpressed by Danish cinema , I didn't really give it much of a chance to grab me . . . yet it managed to do so . For at least the last two-thirds of this film , I was hanging by every single line spoken and every detail on screen . It's unusually well-made , not only for a Danish film . I'm impressed that this is Nikolaj Arcel's first movie as a director ; he does a marvelous job . The film contains a very accurate and realistic portrayal of politics in a democratic country . As such , it's actually quite unnerving . . . the thought that something like what is shown in this film can actually take place . The very last line of the film holds more truth than the combined efforts of plenty of less intelligent writers . The plot is interesting . The pace is very good , you're never really bored . The visuals and cinematography are perfect , not too simple , but not flashy , either . The acting is top-notch in all cases . The dialog is well-written and equally well-delivered . The finale is one of the best pieces of storytelling on film I've seen for a while . Now , despite all these positive things I've written so far , this film does have some rather big flaws . First off , it's plot-driven , yet the story and concept would have done much better with a character-driven film . All characters are used as plot devices ; they exist to drive the plot further , to tell the story , rather than to evoke emotions and be active parts of it . The character development is slim . . . actually , it's rather close to completely non-existent . We don't know or care about these people . . . and why should we ? They are all paper-thin and clichéd . Everyone is completely driven by one thing , and one thing alone . The villain is the worst . Not one redeeming quality to him whatsoever . Not even the least bit credible . Something that hurts the high quality of this film is that we are practically introduced to the bad guys . . . there's no suspense on that front . So part of the film is just watching the main character discover what we already know . What's left for suspense is the viewers following the evidence being collected . Not saying that it isn't entertaining to watch . . . but it could most certainly have been better . As it is , the film is a well-done and accurate portrayal of modern-day politics with a very good plot , and in which the execution leaves some to be desired . I recommend it to fans of thrillers , particularly political ones . It lacks in nuance and slightly in suspense , but it is well-done and it has an important message .
The few , the proud , the awesome	When one thinks RTS ( if one is aware of what that is an abbreviation of , mind you ) , one is likely to be able to think of a multitude of such games . . . maybe even name some favorites and / or the best released . But before the world knew this title , it would have been difficult to come up with many that steer clear of the standard formula . There is no base , you construct no buildings , you do not lead , or train , an army , being discovered by the enemy forces is seldom something you will survive ( and you can neither build a defense to keep them at bay nor overwhelm them with superior numbers ) , at no point do you gather resource , and Fog of War takes a prolonged vacation for the entire duration of this ( presumably , it needs it , so much work for so many franchises ) . Are you still with me ? Then by all means , read on . Taking place during the second World War , this puts you in charge of a team of six men on the Allied side ( of distinct nationalities ) , each specializing in his field ( covering almost everything you could think of that could be useful , strategic and cool . . . this was expanded further ( complete with more individuals added , and more abilities ) later in the series , in fact right away , which is not to insinuate that this was missing much of anything ) , and almost invariably indispensable ( and the correct use of what they can do , proper utilization of their different talents a necessity ) whenever available ( you didn't think you were gonna get to use them all every time , did you ? ) . You are ridiculously outnumbered , you're in territory under Nazi control , and the tasks you are to carry out are hardly a walk in the park . You will most certainly need tactics , and ones that are thought out well , to come out victorious . It takes a lot of precision and exact timing to do well in this . One of the first things you notice about this is how accessible the interface is . . . you can get right into this with very little , if any , prior knowledge or instruction ( and this does have six interactive tutorials ( and some video ones ) , one per Commando , taking place in a safe environment , and which can be tried as many times as you feel like it . . . and do set up the rest of this ) . This should not be confused with simplicity or lack of challenging game-play . This can be frustratingly tough . It can , however , also be rather rewarding and entertaining . The difficulty level is ever-so-slightly uneven . The concept is excellent and majorly pays off . This could be smoother ( and is , in the sequels ) ( meanwhile , it definitely beats its concurrent counterparts ) . There is high realism throughout , and almost everything is designed to a strong accurate measure , as far as period , people , architecture , etc . go ( the troops , both sides ' vehicles , areas , . This is somewhat open , but there is admittedly at parts a sense that you're meant to figure out what they intended for you to do , in the order and the way they planned it . All missions are preceded by a briefing , which always starts with a brief update of how the war is going , which point this takes place at ( even with a date ) , and it's backed up by authentic photos . The objectives could perhaps be more varied ( one certain thing seems to be kind of a stand-by , a well that they go to pretty often . . . this was improved upon in the followups ) . This is almost unblemished as far as glitches go , and there are no real show-stoppers ( unfortunately , on a newer machine , it may kick you out due to memory issues , but this happens so seldom that it's by no means a problem that can't be solved largely by saving often , which you should be doing anyway in this ) . Graphics are nice , if mostly " for the time " , and effects are well-done . There are several cinematics , well-edited and put together expertly ( if they aren't as effective as the later ones tend to be ) made up of actual footage from the time , narrated , and they really help with the overall mood , and feeling of accomplishment . A bit too much trial and error is necessary , even about things that ought to be obvious . There is a lot of sophistication herein ( if not as much as the later ones , but as a starting point , this is undeniably about spot-on ) . The music is a score that is never out of place or doesn't fit ( sound in general is quite magnificently done ) . This takes you across a vast number of different locations , and nothing really comes off as having been phoned in . Your efforts will be evaluated and rated , whenever you complete a scenario ( you can even be promoted ) . This can last reasonably long ( without staying beyond its welcome ) , entirely dependent on the player's skill , as well as such variables as persistence , and more often than not , luck . This can be a lot of fun , not the least when it lets you unleash some hijacked weaponry , the handful of types of explosives you get to " play " with ( I know , rotten pun ) , and the like . Don't get me wrong : it is also an experience to savor to methodically go through the German soldiers , to the extent allowed or all the way ( and almost without them ever realizing what happened , to boot ! ) . AI is almost flawless ( within the bounds that they wanted ) . This is not that heavy in the way of overall , overarching plot , but it doesn't particularly need one , and it does have a well-known backdrop that doesn't get old in the course of beating this . The last level is incredibly satisfying in , and I say this without hyperbole , every single imaginable way ( the absolute end of it . . . thank you , Pyro and whoever else had a thing to do with that ) . In closing , this is just about unique ( the right kind ) . I recommend this to everyone into the genre , especially those who dig guerrilla combat . . . it really doesn't get much better than this ( even with the continuation of the franchise I would still also suggest playing this , in addition to them . . . they're all great ) .
Superb	I can't be the first to realize it : The guys at IO Interactive think up awesome and interesting concepts , and their execution usually leaves little to be desired . I haven't tried Kane & Lynch : Dead Men ( it does seem excellent , though ) , but Hit-man and this - impeccable . The plot of this is good , and the story well-thought out , with nice progression . It does have a couple of clichés , and a tad of predictability . It invents an alternate history , and in this the US is , in present time , being invaded by the Soviet Union . The people of New York aren't going to stand for that . You are to gather as many followers as you can and fight back , guerrilla style . This means precision strikes on key targets , planning and skill . You will engage in sabotage . You will retake your city from its conquerors . Two important words in this are " vantage point " . The strategy and tactics available to you are fitting , without it becoming an RTS . This is shooter-action , albeit requiring thought to a greater degree than others . The command system for giving orders to the squad is simple , clean and to the point , and as soon as you're used to it , you might wonder why it isn't used in every game in which you are the leader of soldiers . The interface of this is just short of being sublime , if it is in fact , imperfect . The AI is almost beyond reproach . Your own men will move away from bombs and moving vehicles , and I experienced opponents moving out of the way when grenades were tossed at them , as well . This has extremely few exceptions . In general , this is nearly entirely devoid of bugs and glitches . The camera is third-person , with zoom being possible regardless of what you're holding , obviously the amount of it will vary . In fact , it's essentially that of Codename : 47 , with a free , 360 degree one ( think Blood Money ) added . You can see that it's those same people from other things in this . . . they have " tells " . How you feel about this is really based on if you like no less than one of their products , or dislike them all . Where they go , Jesper Kyd follows , and his music , as usual , is amazing . It consists of beautiful score pieces , and synthesized , techno ones ( not at the same time in this ) . Another thing we get that can be recognized is big areas , without the LOD being embarrassing . Actually , you'll want to check your map . It's not only helpful , it's necessary . It doesn't give everything away . The level design : Marvelous , if the , at least occasional , sense of them being linear can be bothersome . You get to choose in what order you want to take care of the different Locations . . . take out the center of the troop transports or that of the attack chopper ? What would you prefer to not have to deal with later ? Thus , what you do in one affects the others . The scenarios and objectives are plenty varied . The graphics are gorgeous , they still know their stuff . The atmosphere and mood is outstanding . You really believe in your surroundings . The realism in the look , feel , the weapons ( appearance , recoil , damage ) , buildings , all of it , help with this . Real life places are recreated , with the twist of the signs , all of them written in Russian and English . While this title is gloomy , it is also humorous , and it isn't the most disturbing they've done ( it might be the least ) , and the violence is very mild . There is next to no , if any , harsh language . This doesn't hurt it , and besides , it is rated Teen , so it should be expected , going in . The ideas in this are fantastic . It's cinematic , too . If you don't get carried away at during the mass panic portion of the opening / tutorial , then you are tough to impress . Each chapter has one cut-scene . These are done all in-engine , and aren't half-bad . The characters are well-written and quirky , meanwhile , they went over the top with the stereotypes . This features a well-done rag-doll effect , and actually sometimes allows enemies to survive explosions ( if they have enough health , presumably ) . There are not terribly many different guns ( quality is not lacking . . . the picks are magnificent , with Molotov Cocktails , the AK47 , the Dragunov sniper and others ) , and you may only ever carry one side-arm and one rifle . They're all useful , however , so choose carefully , and don't assume that ones dropped by the so-recently alive Reds you've taken out are going to be full ( I'm sure you're aware what that'll make out of both of us ) . Ammo can prove limited , so aim and conserve . If you've got the gall to try that . . . keeping in mind that they can do the exact same . . . you can use close-quarters combat , at any time , no matter what you have equipped . You'll gain charisma ( the more you have , the bigger the army you can Recruit , meaning , get serving under you , up to a dozen individuals ) , as you get further in this , and it aids in this to reach out a , well , healing hand , to suffering civilians , and completing secondary goals . This has no multi-player , and while it might have been doable , I respect that they chose not to include it ( I have found no reason why making something that is one or the other , SP or MP ) , and if you wish to try a release similar to this with your friends , the company's 2007 one might be the ticket . This one is a lot of fun . . . although when the different missions are mastered , this ends kinda soon . Beating is begets you a Selector , so that you can revisit any part from the start of it . This doesn't have an awful lot of re-playability value . The range in the difficulty settings , arguably one thing that can boost it , should ensure that the majority of those who try it can get a challenge , and one that matches their abilities . I recommend this to fans of the group of Danes who made this and / or the rest of what they've given us .
Powerful and moving . . . the definitive anti-war war movie	After putting off watching this film for a while , mainly due to seeing a few bad war movies and quite a few mediocre ones ( The Thin Red Line , The Eagle Has Landed ) , I finally decided to watch this . I had heard that it was realistic and powerful , but I wasn't quite sure that I actually believed it . I barely glared at the first few seconds of it , uninterested and expecting a mediocre , dull and cliché-ridden war film , but was immediately captured by the purity of the film and the lack of pretension . The director doesn't shove the belief of war being pointless and devastating physically , spiritually and psychologically down our throat . . . he merely shows it as it is , and lets us decide / discover for ourself . The plot is very good , and the way it's told is great . The first half or so has a good bit of flashbacks , with the main character thinking back to the past , in a very disturbing and worrying fashion . Many of the major tragic events in the first half are made even worse when you see the flashback related to it . The pacing is good , but it drags a little at some points , and there are too many scenes that seem less important than they should . The acting is very good , none of the major roles disappoint . The characters are well-written , credible and human . None of them are heroes or villains . Everyone is equal , which is exactly what it is like in real life , in war . I was incredibly moved by this film , and deeply affected . It shows exactly how rotten , pointless and devastating to humanity and creativity war really is . I didn't cry , watching this movie , but had I not looked away during the most disturbing sequences and possessed an almost insurmountable amount of self-control , I would have . This shows that you don't have to display graphic violence , deafen your audience with loud , noisy heavy metal or throw in plot twists to shock your audience ; you can show something that the general public is oblivious of , such as war in it's purest and most uncensored form . This movie is so close to being a masterpiece that it's too bad that it falls just a little short . The cinematography is good , but there were times where it could have been better ( see The Thin Red Line for a good example ) . It's very , very close to a perfect rating , but it has just enough low points to pull it down . I recommend this film to just about anyone who believe they can manage to sit through it . . . everyone should see it . Everyone . The very end is so devastating and horrifying that no one can possibly see it without being affected . Beautiful symbolism .
Interesting and deep , but not as deep as it tries to be	This is a great film ; it has pretty much everything a great film needs : a great score , great actors , great performances , etc . The film revolves around Ghost Dog , perfectly portrayed by Forest Whitaker . He is a assassin who lives by the code of the Samurai . Apart from him , we also follow the fate of several mafia men ( though nowhere near as intimately as we follow Ghost Dog ) . These two very different groups , Samurai and mafia , are both depicted reasonably well , giving us insight to how the groups work , and , more importantly , their code . Both groups live and die by the code , and this is probably the most important thing in the movie , and it's shown with respect with both Samurai and mafia ; I'm not entirely sure that it's correct all the way through , but that's not what's most important , anyway . The film has reasonably little action , but it's not supposed to be an action film , by any means . It's fairly slow throughout the film , but it never really bores you to the point of not watching any more ; I've seen the film at least five times now , so believe me , I know . The film is very stylized and cool throughout , which definitely has some part in keeping you interested , but the theme and story / plot plays a bigger part , I think . The plot is pretty good , and though it keeps a fairly slow pace throughout the film , it also keeps your interest for the entire duration of the film . The acting is all good , though not everyone pulls off as excellent a performance as Whitaker . Isaach De Bankolé portrays Ghost Dog's best friend , and he does gives a great performance . So does Camille Winbush , who portrays a girl who Ghost Dog befriends and discusses books with . The characters are well-written and ( mostly ) credible . I'm not entirely sure that the film does provide a totally correct version of the Code of the Samurai . The soundtrack is great ; it's made by the hip-hop artist RZA , but most of it will be enjoyable to people who aren't into hip-hop . Also , I guess it's more of a score than a soundtrack ; there isn't any time where the music feels out of place in a scene . All in all , a great film , but not for all tastes . Don't go in expecting an action film ; don't go in expecting a very deep an entirely intellectual film ; don't go in expecting a regular movie ; go in expecting to see a decent ( if not good ) representation of both the mafia code and the Samurai code . I've heard some people describe the ending as an anti-climax ; I don't know what they were expecting . . . I won't say that I saw it coming , but I wasn't disappointed when it happened . It had to end it , and I think the director , Jim Jarmusch made a good decision on that . I recommend this film to people with an interest in Samurai , fans of Jarmusch and people looking for a reasonably deep film . I don't recommend this to fans of action movies , as there's fairly little action in the film . No matter who you are , if you're going to see this film , make sure you have the patience for it ; it's worth sitting through the two reasonably slow hours for .
Great	This is a making-of-type featurette on Jul på Vesterbro , obviously located on the DVD of that . The majority of it is one big in-joke , that everyone is in on , and that the audience immediately can figure out , and this works remarkably well . They do slip out of it on the occasions where keeping it up would impair their ability to share things such as the film-making techniques with us . It consists of behind-the-scenes footage , interviews and some clips from the show . Everyone who speaks has something to add . On that , I have to wonder why Bossy Bo doesn't . . . say a word . Wouldn't one expect that a rapper could dish out quite a bit , in that department ? This is both funny and informational , with a staged sequence or two , and Anden's / The Duck's impressive improvising , and earlier mentioned " playing along " getting countless laughs , and this also containing plenty of details on how they achieved certain effects ( you even get to watch Matthesen's stunt ) . The editing gets top marks all the way , in particular the ending of this documentary is perfect . There are spoilers , I would say , so one may wish to save this until having watched every episode of the Christmas calendar ( why they put it on the first disc is not a decision I can explain ) . It's just under half an hour , and well worth the time . This has language , themes and descriptions ( not technically any violence or sexuality , apart from in the dialog ) of the kind also found in the X-mas effort and other material by Anders . I recommend this to any fan of him and / or the subject of this extra .
Cute , entertaining and fun action-adventure platform game	Video games didn't always have rich plot-lines , photo-realistic graphics , epic cinematics and budgets to match . . . however , in recent years , with the constantly expanding computer power , we players have come to expect quite a lot of the media . That is not to say that good games did not exist before bullet-time and multiple camera angles were implemented ; in fact , this very game is a mighty good example of that ( and by all respects a classic video-game ) . The plot is about as simple as can be ( without being insulting to the player's intelligence ) ; a superhero has to rescue a damsel in distress from a villain ( it just so happens that the hero ( Jazz , whom you play as ) and damsel ( Eva Earlong ) are rabbits . . . and the villain ( Devan Shell ) is a turtle ) . The very opening sequence , which in a tongue-in-cheek manner attributes the superpowers of the main character , Jazz Jackrabbit , to be a mix of those of Superman , Batman and . . . Wonder Woman ( ? ! ) , lets us know that there is no pretense or seriousness within this game . The description of how to play even says , quite literally , that all you need to do in the game is run , shoot and pick up items . This game had exactly what games had to have back then : it was hip , fun , fast . . . and just something to enjoy . The music is funky-sounding , hip and rock-y . . . whichever fits the current level the most . The sound is appropriately cartoon-y , fitting in with the mood . The humor is the same ( for example , Jazz pulls at least one Bugs Bunny move in a cinematic ) . Basically anyone can play this game . . . it has no violence or any material that is otherwise offensive , so children can play it with no problem , and it doesn't require anything other than quick fingers and good hand-to-eye coordination , which any action game requires , anyway . The story is easy enough to follow , too . The game-play is entertaining ; it's fairly simple , but the game still challenges you ( the four different difficulty settings help , as well ) . The graphics are quite good , and the dynamic camera and level of detail helps to ensure that it still holds up well . . . more than ten years after it was made . It's 2D , but there are elements of 3D . The animation is mostly very smooth and well-done . To get Eva back from the evil clutches of Devan , Jazz will have to travel to a number of planets where the terrorizing tortoise has left over his henchmen ( among many others , turtles . . . which grow increasingly more threatening ) . Each chapter of the game ( of which there are six main ones and three bonus ones ) features 2-3 planets , each with 2 levels , followed by a boss fight level . The levels consist of Jazz running , jumping and shooting his way past the enemies , grabbing items for points , collecting ammo and power-ups . The points help give the game re-playability , together with finding every item and killing every enemy in each level . While the main projectile of your gun ( named the LFG-2000 , in a cute nod to Doom ) is quite efficient on its own ( and has an unlimited ammo supply ) , you can , as just hinted , pick up other kinds of ammo for it ; these include one firing flames , one with dual missiles , grenades that bounce , and even dynamite . The power-ups include " rapid fire " upgrades , the standard invincibility , faster running and more . The boss enemies vary , but most are well-designed and cool ( and reasonably challenging , as well ) to fight . Each planet has its own theme , with matching music , enemies , and often even unique color scheme . This helps keep the game fresh . In addition to the power-ups and alternate ammo , you can also get rather interesting ( and might I add , very unusual ) things to aid you in your heroic quest ; a bird with firepower ( ! ) and a jet-board ( yeah ! ) . The first-mentioned flies with you and fires at enemies that you are facing . . . although the bird does fly away from you if you are hit by an enemy . The second . . . what can I say ? It rocks . Flying around shooting enemies and finding hidden areas on the board is among the most enjoyable things to do in this game . One or more planets also contain water . . . and Jazz can swim . And my , that is exceedingly well-done . Much better programming than Commander Keen 4 ( and that's not an easy thing for me to say , as that is one of my favorite games , growing up ) , and just generally a really , really well-implemented feature . Both the board and the swimming are rather nicely done , and neither is overused . The main game is platform action-adventure , and the bonus levels are in 3D , with you collecting diamonds on a time limit . . . and if you reach the designated number of diamonds , you earn an extra life . The level design is really good , with plenty of stuff to collect , enemies to blast , and secrets to find . The game is hardly ever frustrating , nor is it boring . All in all , this is just a really good game . Good for hours of enjoyment . There are only a few negative things to be said about this production ; the game does just slightly overstay its welcome , probably due to the three bonus episodes . In fact , the bonus episodes only just exactly add enough to the overall game to be worthwhile ; the level design starts getting sloppy , and other areas that suffer in quality are the animations , design and number of new enemies . . . it would seem that the team used up all their creativity on the main chapters ( which are by all means great ) . That is , however , basically the only downside to the game . . . and in spite of the bonus chapters being less than stellar , the game is still highly entertaining . Besides . . . how many video-games on that side of the new millennium can brag with working slow-motion and bonus levels in 3D ? So load up your LFG , gear up . . . and go save Eva ( and kick Devan's shell ) . I recommend this to any fan of platform games , the genres of action and adventure , any genuine kid or any adult who wishes to treat their inner child to something fun .
Not as good as Life of Brian , but worth watching	This Monty Python film is great , partly because it works on several levels ; it works as a straight up typical Monty Python movie ( which in itself ensures hilarity ) and as a spoof of many of the old " medieval times " based films . The plot is pretty good , and less disjointed than that of other Monty Python creations , so if you're looking for a linear time line based film , then this might interest you . The plot does move along a little slowly , though , even for a Monty Python film ( slower than Life of Brian , for example ) , and the film suffers a little under that . The jokes and sight gags make up for it , but it still does seem a little slow , especially on repeated viewings . The acting is good , as it typically is with Monty Python films . I can't really comment on the characters , but I guess they pretty much stay in character all through the film . The humor is good , but not as great as it is in Life of Brian , though that may be because I've seen it too many times . I don't know , I just wasn't really laughing at any point when I saw this . I knew that it was funny , and a few of the gags do stick in my mind as amusing , but when watching it I couldn't even muster up a slight chuckle . In fact , about an hour into the film , I was getting tired with the film , and hoped that it would end soon . I don't dislike the film , nor do I have anything against the humor , I just think I've grown tired with it . When it's not new and in-your-face anymore , it just loses impact , I guess . The film has plenty of entertaining sequences , and the gags and jokes are mostly quite good . It even has a few very memorable scenes , such as the the Black Knight scene , and the witch scene . The dialog is as sharp as the Python's dialog usually are , and there is more good dialog than there is in Life of Brian . All in all , a good Monty Python film , but just slightly inferior to Life of Brian . I recommend it to any fan of Monty Python , and fans of dark and silly humor in general .
Think	I don't particularly know anything about the writer / interviewer of this , and I watched this because someone else made me aware of its existence . Here , superstition is investigated , and science praised . Religion is not mentioned much at all beyond the very beginning , and I understand that it has already been explored in a prior effort by the same man who made this . Dawkins delves into the world of psychics , chakras and the like , and both undergoes treatments , readings and such , and talks with the spokespeople of them . He asks all the right questions , and comes across as quite respectful , considering his obviously differing opinion . He is notably less aggressive and overbearing than Michael Moore , who , I'm afraid , is really the only person I can think of to make comparisons to in this regard ( I openly admit to not watching that many of these ) . Rather than attacking with accusations , Richard debates intelligently , and presents the facts , from what I can tell , entirely without bias . He exposes tricks used by some of those who claim to see beyond . He puts into perspective . Even if I did disagree with what he is saying , I'd find it a feat to argue points so logical . What he believes can be proved , and does not require faith , as a stark contrast to a large portion of what he takes a close look at herein . He and his approach are not really condescending , either . I am not aware of multiple versions of this , but what I watched was two parts , each of about 45 minutes , so an hour and a half of highly informational and revealing documentary . It points out that while some of it is harmless , certain of the practices can be harmful , to varying degrees . The production values leave little to be desired . The tone is serious , without being heavy , and allowing some irony . I recommend this to anyone who do or wish to value the tested , and / or tend to meet the opposite with skepticism .
Never mind the ethical implications , playing God is fun	I have not played any other titles in this series ( I gather that this is the third Populous game , and , to my knowledge , thus far , the last ) . I have heard ( or read , rather ) this referred to as a " god-sim " , but not having played anything else that could go under that term , save for maybe Black and White ( which I've got little , if anything , positive to say about ) , I would call it more of a Real Time Strategy game ( RTS ) . The game has you leading the Shaman ( and your tribe ) , who , if she manages to eliminate the presence of every other tribe ( who've got a Shaman each , too , and may otherwise match you in technology and so forth ) throughout the solar system ( which is , obviously , what your goal is in the game ) , she will rise to the status of God ( ! ) . Every level is a new world in the solar system , and many levels , quite possibly most of them ( presumably to spice things up and keep them interesting . . . and it works ) , all have at least one new thing to " learn " in the level . . . about all buildings and spells have to be learned in the game . Yup , at least ( ! ) one new ability or magic spell per level , for almost each of them . It's strong motivation to play on , if not doing so for any other reason , then to see what the next spell ( or , in the first half or so of the game , building ) you'll get permanent use of ( there are " single charges " of some spells ) . There are also some levels with other variations on the formula of building up a base and destroying the enemies . Much like an RTS , you build up a base , and train an army . There are half a dozen classes of people in the levels , including your avatar , the Shaman . The main class are the Braves , who make up the basis of your tribe . They build and can be trained , and they're essential to using magic . Keep your tribe happy and content , and your mana , the energy for your spells , recharges quickly . The remaining classes are for defending your base ( well , the three of them , one of them can't defend ) and attacking the enemy bases , which should be discovered by the players themselves ( failing that , there are FAQs ) . The remaining four have to be trained at buildings , all of which are , again , " learned " , in the levels . The learning , and the achieving of in-level bonuses ( such as single-shot spells ) is all done by worshiping . . . to do so , you must find the site in the level where you must worship , which will be in front of a stone head , an obelisk , a totem pole , and such . Any unit under your your command can worship ( though some sites can only be worshiped by the Shaman ) , and all it means is that the unit ( s ) must remain stationary at the site , and they can't be doing any other action ( including defending themselves , though they may , it just means that the worshiping will have to be resumed ) , until the meter has filled , and you'll then get the bonus . The game is entirely controlled in a point-and-click interface ( and the side-bar selection is masterfully done ) , and if anything seems difficult to understand , don't worry . . . the game offers tool-tips , and an in-game encyclopedia , with information on everything ( ! ) in the game , and this can be accessed at any time in the levels ( and the game will be automatically paused ) . Sound is well-done . The music is pretty good , with some nice ambient pieces for the regular game , and some more fast-paced stuff for the fighting . The fighting system is simple , but it works , the entire game really has few glitches or problems ( though there are some , mainly in the command of units ( though for the very most part , it works and is above reproach ) , and they can , indeed , be irritating beyond reason ) . One obvious thing is perhaps the difficulty level . . . there is no setting it , so some may find themselves resorting to cheating to finish it ( which I'm not saying to be holier than thou , pun intended . . . I succumbed to temptation , myself ) , or give up before they get to the end , which is a darn shame , because the last level . . . let's just say , something , from the earlier levels , changes , and while I can't speak for playing it through without , completing that one with cheats can be so much fun , you have to play it to believe it . The game can be downright frustrating at times . Apart from that , there's little to complain about . There are 25 levels in total . Level design is great . The graphics have to be mentioned . . . they're really , really expertly done . Rather than the 2D of the typical RTS ( or god-sim , whichever . . . bird's-eye-view game ) prior to the beginning of the new millennium , everything in the game is rendered in 3D , and while there has since come better done engines , it is still a sight to behold ( and the two cut-scenes are nothing short of breathtaking in execution and quality ) . In addition to the main , regular view , you can also zoom out , and view the entire planet that makes up the level . . . you are God , after all . This can be helpful ( and zooming back in is quick and easy ) , and prove invaluable in gaining a fast overview . The fact that each level , obviously , is round ( yes , disregard the theories of the time ) does cause some confusion , as you can fairly literally go in circles without actually realizing it . Now , I won't finish off this review without detailing the spells . . . the basic idea is that you choose a spell , point where you want it to go ( the range of the spells is made clear , as many other things in the game . . . and if you're out of range when you use it , your Shaman may , if she can , just move into range , then fire ) , and click . They may very well be the most fun thing in the game . They include the forces of nature . . . such as Lightning , Earthquake and Tornado ( ! ) , just to name a few ( and not spoiling the discovery ) . I recommend this to any fan of RTS . . . or god-sim , whatever . Magic is fun .
Fury is unleashed	This picks up after the previous one , and does so well . The basic stuff is the same , with some tweaks ( among them , notable improvements ) . The plot is summed up , since it relates to that of this one ( which is quite good , and very nearly has everything coming together as well as that of the prior one ) . Between the two , The Prince has changed . . . I suppose being mercilessly hunted down by a seemingly unstoppable force will do that to a man ( you are chased by it , as well , in highly intense and exciting portions ) . Almost all of the emo is gone , and , well , he's turned into a sheer bad-ass , which fits the surroundings and , well , all of this production . With this comes one of the new things to this : The Free Form Fighting System . This adds a lot of attacks , around 50 , including about 30 combos . . . only a few are in The Sands of Time . Sadly , this is at the cost of the amazing updated chess-match style combat of aforementioned , where you need tactics , countering your opponent and skill ( the rest of this still requires that , as well as the patience and trained fingers that the former did ) , and you're left with typically being free to just spam powerful strikes . There are two entire sets of swordplay : A single blade , and one for having something in the other hand , as well . And that can be a variety of weapons : Maces , daggers , axes . . . 50 + individual ones , total . You can pick up what others drop , or you can smash one of the plenty of cases of them . You can even throw the secondary one straight into someone else . . . and you'll literally see it there , sticking out of them . There is a greater amount of battle in this than before in these , and sometimes they last longer against the specific ones . Unfortunately , it gets to be too much , and they wind up being annoying . This one heals you right before saving ( not counting the Auto ones , that you don't control and can't return from if you quit ) , with next to no exceptions . Apart from that , this is tougher than the one it immediately succeeds ( it does have three difficulties , however ) , but it may also be shorter . . . it does have at least two different endings , though . There are also unlock-ables , artwork , and even videos , behind-the-scenes type and others , to give more re-playability still . They went overboard on the Bosses . . . the frequency is silly , so many in this , at the length it is . . . and the last one can be downright ludicrous in how hard it is . You have , well , gain , the same abilities ( and new ones ) as last time around , and this has Tutorials , as well . . . it also has a pretty nice slow-motion death feature , that you can adjust , and it's got subtitles . The story develops nicely , and it's a marvelous idea . It is not as vague and has less mystery , not as much room for interpretation , as that of the one this is the direct sequel to . This has a few bugs , but I didn't run into any big ones . The puzzles are well-done , and they tend to make sense . The story-telling ranges , but the cut-scenes are effective and well-directed when at their best . The CGI is astounding . The graphics and animation are smooth , crisp and excellent . Realistic water , dust , etc . The lighting is stunning . The engine is close to the same as the first of this new trilogy , which also means that the camera problems remain . You won't always get to move it the way you want to , and if it suddenly turns on its own , you'd better be prepared to press the corresponding directional keys right away . You still have regular , First Person view and the panoramic one . This does still not happen all that often . The enemies are well-done , and the AI is almost exclusively not half bad . They don't only block , now , they also dodge . The team decided to throw in taunts , and this can get goofy , as it has elsewhere . And please don't ask me why there are vampiric dominatrixes in this . The types of foes are fairly diverse . This takes place in the same location , with numerous areas . . . however , it also operates in the past along with the present , so you'll see the appearance of them in not only one , no , two periods . You'll want to remember what you work your way past . . . chances are you'll pass it again . Thus , this is the first of these to give you a map , not to mention put you in a situation where you need it . The level design is remarkable . This is definitely darker than the earlier ones . . . there is blood and some gore ( although that does not reach the heights of the original two ) , you can grab a stranglehold and proceed to cut across the torso , and slice those you are up against in half , etc . The tone is bleak , grim . The humor from the one that precedes this of the recent ones is largely gone . This is arguably a tragic tale , more-so than that . It can be downright disturbing . The music is mainly hard rock , yet there is a somber orchestral ( well , on piano ) score , as well . And there is Persian-style tunes , they're just integrated into aforementioned heavy metal . . . think of it as remixing . If you're into brooding and awesomeness , you should get a real kick out of this . I sure did . The audio in general is rather well-done . . . the voice acting is marvelous . The character writing is credible . Sounds all seem right . This brings a couple of traps into the series that haven't been done before , and alter a thing or two . Acrobatics are pretty much the same . Violence is perhaps a relative matter here . The nudity is once again as close as they can come without it actually revealing anything . I recommend this to any fan of the franchise , the concept , and / or the continued adventures of the Persian heir to the throne , who simply will not spill the beans on what on Earth his name is .
Another great film by Paul Verhoeven	Paul Verhoeven has a knack for making entertaining films that involve sex , violence and action ( not always the first , but the two last mentioned he always manages to deliver ) . Those three things , of course , do not make a great movie . He just somehow always finds a way to incorporate them into his movies , which are usually great . This is a science fiction action film , with social commentary and obvious stabs at America in general ( but mainly the politics and their seeming obsession with solving any conflict by violent means ) . You'll see the typical narrow-minded ( American ) individuals who dehumanize ( yes , I realize that they are aliens , but still ) the enemy in every possibly way , you'll see propaganda , there's even a scene where a member of a debate refuses to even think the thought of the enemy actually being intelligent beings . As an action film , it reminded me a little of RoboCop , but nearly everything was on a much larger scale . There are several epic battle scenes in this movie , and they are very well-made . The action scenes are all intense , and capture war conditions pretty good . The special effects are also very well-made , and add to the intensity by giving us a chance to see some very gruesome deaths and alien / futuristic weaponry . The film also has several camera pans and angles mainly used to show human death and misery . I think that was a good way to show how pointless and grotesque war really is . The plot is very good , and moves along at a great pace ; I wasn't really bored at any point in the film , and I've seen it four or five times now . The acting is mostly just below standard , but sometimes it drops several notches and goes to being ludicrous , and actually making the viewer snicker or laugh at what would have been a serious scene , had it not been painfully overacted . The characters all seemed fairly well-written and credible , though a few of them were stereotypes . The film also does have its share of clichés , but none of them ruin the movie . I haven't read the book this film was based on , but I doubt that it could present the social commentary much better , or done a much better job of mocking the general ignorance usually involved with war and the likes . If it does , I might just have to find it and read it sometime . I recommend this to fans of Verhoeven's other films , especially fans of RoboCop . If you're into social commentary and / or sci-fi action , you'll probably like it , too .
Very well-executed and interesting	I first saw this three-part mini-series when I was this tall ( not to be confused with " high " . . . I was shorter , not under the influence ) , 11 years ago . . . more than half a life-time , with my current age . No , I won't start talking about ' the old days ' or start talking about how things were when I was young . My point is ( yes , amongst all this rambling , there is a point . . . somewhere . Honest ! ) , even then , at the tender age of 9 , I was strongly affected by this . So much so that I still remembered much of it today , when I re-watched it . I recognized much of it . Not as much story as simply themes , ideas in it . Detailing the young life of Lise Nørgaard , the great contemporary Danish writer , this runs at nearly three hours . . . and there is not a boring second to be found . The pacing is near-perfect , with both drama-heavy scenes and slower ones to allow the viewer to take in the events . The plot is thoroughly well-written and revolves around the first thirty years of the famous author's life . . . during which , she is neglected , ignored and overlooked until she finally rebels , and fights back , against her parents , the male-dominated society and everyone who doubts her abilities and are bewildered by the magnitude of her ambitions , as well as the very fact that she harbors any at all . . . simply because of her gender . The acting is very good . There is fairly little dialog , so much of this is told through acting ( requiring quite a bit of talent , and some of it is even limited to facial expressions , not body language ) and cinematic effects . Events are hinted at , mentioned in passing by characters and shown . . . but rarely ever littered with dialog . The cinematography is marvelous . . . with relatively few cuts , long takes and nicely planned dolly trips . Great attention to detail and some extensive research makes this a rather remarkable period piece , as well ( spanning over 30 years , no less ) . The film has very high production values . The editing has its moments , times where it is simply superb ( one particular sequence is rather reminiscent of one in the Brian De Palma film The Untouchables ) . . . but much of the time , the cinematography does the job , leaving little to cut from or to . The sound work is nice , though , with a few sounds exaggerated for effect and a great score ( not to mention soundtrack ) . The orchestral score works perfectly to enhance the emotions on the screen , whether genuine or slightly overplayed , as an early scene intentionally is . The jazz-packed soundtrack works excellently to underscore later scenes , and it fits perfectly due to it being contemporary . In spite of this being a Danish production , there is little tacky humor , and this really comes across as far more serious , touching and strong than just about any other Danish production , with the possible ( well , let's be honest ; probable ) exception of last years Mørke ( Murk , in English ) . Featuring deep insight , solid social commentary and very good characterizations , this ranks as one of my very favorite Danish film experiences , and , in my humble opinion , one of the best of them . I recommend this to fans of drama , period pieces surrounding the time this is set in ( between 1917 and 1947 ) and / or the actors and filmmakers involved in making it .
Like a spot-light	This is one of two feature-length documentaries on the # 8 ( The Roots of The Matrix ) of the 10-Disc Ultimate Set . Apart from the other one , exploring philosophy , that particular DVD doesn't hold anything but links , and neither of these have subtitles . This does not go over a ton of different subjects , like one might suspect , no , they chose to make it all about a specific one , and concentrates entirely on it . This is all about A . I . ( and to an extent , the symbiosis of man and machine ) , and they go over the development ( and potential problems inherent to such ) , technology and more . This consists of interviews and clips of the movies as well as the Animatrix episodes . It all provides a lot of food for thought , and some may find this to be downright overwhelming . It's well-paced and informative . While this could be claimed to have a narrow focus , being the only science fiction extra in the entire release that doesn't directly relate to the trilogy or shorts ( and there certainly other ideas in the franchise to delve into ) , there sure is plenty to talk about , and running at about an hour , this is actually quite concise . I recommend this to any fan of sci-fi , and anyone interested in the future of computers .
A definite must-see for anyone who has just a hint of interest in war films	After having taped this film off TV , me and my father ( who is about as anti-war as you can get , partially due to having a little experience as a soldier ) talked about seeing this at some point . It didn't take much more than a few weeks before we decided to see it , and from the moment we put it on , we didn't regret the decision one bit . This film currently holds the record as the best war movie I've seen ( before held by titles as Full Metal Jacket , and after that , All is Quiet on the Western Front ) . It's by far the most realistic and intense war movie I've ever seen , and up there as one of the most effective . Contrary to what I had expected , the better part of the movie is action and intensity . I was under the impression that most of it would be build-up and there would be one or two relatively short war scenes near the end . Or worse , half the movie would be the general and colonels talking about how to get out of the situation . Instead , most of the film is action , and almost all of it is realistic , too . This perfectly illustrates how intense and chaotic warfare is , particularly urban fighting . While this doesn't have the beautiful symbolism and strong message of All is Quiet on the Western Front , it does have the more accurate and disturbing portrayal of war . The plot is good , and apparently mostly true ( though I don't know how much is shortened and such to make for more dramatic sequences at the cost of realism ) . The pacing is incredible . Never before have I seen so long and yet so captivating film . Even more so than The Godfather , I was glued to my seat , barely ever even glancing at my watch . The high level of intensity is kept through pretty much the entire film , from the beginning of the war-scenes that take up almost all of the film . The excellent editing and cinematography also contributes to this . The acting was great . The characters are well-written , though I suppose there are a bit too many to keep track of ( though this is because we are introduced to all of those who played an important part at this battle ) , and not all of them get enough character development or screen-time . The effects and action are fantastic . Amazingly accurate to the real thing , as well . The details , however , are what make the film the nearly perfect piece of war film history that it is ; you'll see so many things in this that happen in real life war that are usually overlooked or ironed out , for the people supporting war to keep face . Friendly fire , underrating the strength of your enemies , ignoring a blind angle for even a second . . . however , the film also has a sour aftertaste of Hollywood and mainstream film to it . This film isn't completely free of the ever-popular and completely ludicrous slow-motion shot of the heroic soldier running from one point to another , while under fire of several automatic weapons at much too close range , and coming through without a scratch . It doesn't hold true , it doesn't happen in the real world , face it . Near the end there is also a dramatic silence , despite the ease with which the enemy could attack our heroes . . . again , most likely done for effect , rather than realism . There's not much of it , but it still hurts the experience far more than it adds to it . I didn't see this film to see heroic , American soldiers do impossible feats ; I saw it to see what by many is being referred to as the most realistic war film ever made . In the end , this still stands as at least one of the best war movies out there , despite some shortcomings . I recommend this to just about anyone who can stand the violence in it , which is quite uncompromising and real . If you're able to see this , and you're not deterred by the reasonably high level of graphic violence , you really should watch it .
Satirical , stylish and graphic	I hadn't heard an awful lot about this film before I saw it , so I only really had the fairly positive impression of the trailer in my mind as I watched it . I can't quite put what I think of the movie to words . . . can't commit it to writing . I suppose you could say that I'm torn . It doesn't have the sense of danger and intensity that Black Hawk Down had . It doesn't have the psychological undertones that Full Metal Jacket mastered . It doesn't have the perfectly conveyed anti-war message of All Quiet on the Western Front . It does , however , have the most stylized direction , most effective visuals and most satirical tone of the bunch . I read about how they affected the color of the film stock , and I must say , it looks very nice in the film . The plot is quite good , and takes off . . . well , immediately . I don't think more than a few minutes pass before the main characters are well on their way towards their destination . The film wastes no time , yet doesn't seem in a hurry to get where it's going . It takes you on a ride , but it has the sense to keep the speed slow enough for you to be able to take it all in . The acting is very good , with no or few ( major ) exceptions . The characters are well-written and credible . The humor is great , and in surprisingly good taste , for such a touchy subject . The stylish direction makes it seem closer to home somehow , easier to relate to . All in all , a very good and well-made film , but I'm not entirely sure if I really enjoyed it or I was manipulated by political propaganda . Still , to give credit where credit is due , I can't claim that I think this deserves any less than a rating of . On a final note . . . Spike Jonze can act ! Who'd have thought so ? I recommend this to fans of the people involved in making it and fans of stylish and satirical films . It does require you to have a stomach for graphic and uncensored violence , though . You have been warned .
You will seldom find so much in so little time	Not only does this contain a lot in the only two and a half minutes ( to the very second ) , it also makes it work marvelously . It has being concise down to an art-form . The plot takes a simple situation , one that anyone can easily imagine , and gets so much material from it , without it ever seeming like it just took the easy way . The writing is excellent . That goes for the progression and the reactions as well as the lines . The delivery of last-mentioned is spot-on , if the accents ( at least to those of us who aren't British ) can require a small measure of effort , to determine exactly what was said ( the meaning never fails to come across ) , though it should be noted that the enunciation leaves infinitely little to be desired . The acting is magnificent , they both as performers , have few tools in this , but they certainly put them to good use . Lighting is perfect . Cinematography and editing are of immense quality , and the psychological thriller " feel " is achieved flawlessly , and without ever slipping into flashiness or over-stylization . Sound is great throughout , in my book there's really no criticisms to be put forth about the technical aspects of this . I would advise against reading anything on the main page ( and if you already have , try to forget or not think about ) prior to viewing this . There's no real language or otherwise offensive content ( save for maybe a single bit of suggestion ) to be found in this , though it is disturbing and is perhaps most suited for adult audiences . I recommend this to . . . well , you , if you have the minutes to spare ( yes , I'm being facetious ) , and you are into the genres and not averse to watching an unsettling short .
Silly , fast-paced fun . . . if unevenly difficult , and , well , we could have done without quite so much gross-out comedy	One day , as Jim , the earth-worm , was crawling around , he found himself chased by a crow . . . he was fortunate enough to escape to safety , but what made this particular day stand out was the fact that right after that event had played out , a super-suit fell from the sky , and landed right on Jim . . . transforming him into Earthworm Jim , the superhero that we know today . The game starts with you going out to find Princess What's-Her-Name , who's been kidnapped by her hideously ugly twin-sister , the appropriately named Queen-Slug-for-a-Butt , who employs Psy-Crow , and various other evil creatures , in trying to get their hands at the suit , since it will make the Queen beautiful . The controls are simple and easy to learn , letting you fire the gun in basically any direction . The graphics are good , and still hold up nicely . The humor is silly and the gags are plentiful . . . and almost all of it works really well . Personally , I could have done without quite so much gross-out comedy . . . but maybe the fans of the character like that , I really don't know ( I've only played the first two games , I haven't seen the show that came later ) . The level design is pretty cool . . . the places you get to visit are imaginative and varied , and the challenges are good , if they don't always fit how far into the game they appear . The genre is action-adventure , with you alternating between blasting enemies with the red gun that goes with the suit ( or whipping them with Jim's worm-part ) and solving puzzles . You work your way through about twenty levels , to the almost impossibly and frustratingly hard last level . You get to play around with a few vehicles during the course of the levels , and some of the levels consist of racing Psy-Crow through increasingly thick asteroid fields , on a small one-person jet . Apart from the standard machine-gun blast , you can also pick up ammo for a few other weapons ; two , I believe , one , a blast of plasma , that does massive damage to anything in its path , and the other being seeking missiles . The sound is excellent , with both the music and the sound effects also adding to the hilarity . As you fly through the aforementioned asteroid fields , you are accompanied by a number of instruments ( which are unrelated to each other ) playing a merry tune . . . occasionally interrupted by a dog barking , a Jew's-harp or the sound of a farm animal . This is a game that takes you to Heck ( as it is known in this game ) and back . . . and on your trip down there , you'll encounter lawyers that attack you with case-files , and , when hit by your weapons , retort " I'll sue ! " The entire thing has that silly and goofy tone throughout . If that is how you like your games , then this is a must-have . With an entirely linear level design and a lack of high-scores ( or even anything to collect that gives points ; everything that you can pick up is extra lives , more health and more ammo for the weapons ) , the replay value really lies only in selecting a higher difficulty to complete the game at . The main levels are platform , with a dynamic camera which is mostly locked on Jim . Fast-paced , hopping , floating ( since Jim is , in fact , a worm , he can use his head as a propeller to keep himself afloat , though he can't stay in the air for very long , and will continually drop downwards , slowly ) and fighting fun . The game is exciting and addicting , and the boss fights and occasional unique level keep things interesting . Made by David Perry , who later went on to be the lead designer on Enter the Matrix , the simple controls and interface let you do quite a lot of fun feats . The sequel went on to add more weapons and a feature or two more , but only featured half as many levels , several of which weren't different from each other . I personally prefer this game , and one has to admire the fact that this was apparently what started the show , instead of the other way around . It certainly isn't hard to tell why this begot more games , and a television show . I haven't heard Castellaneta's Jim , so I can't say how good Douglas TenNapel ( the character creator who does the voice here ) , is comparatively , but whilst Dan ( no , I'm not putting myself through spelling out his last name again ) is known for his comic voices , on The Simpsons , Douglas does quite good , with a wacky , spaced Jim . Though I haven't tried the original version , I would advise anyone who intends to play this game , expecting to like it , to get the Special Edition , as it adds several things ( which you can read about in Alternate Versions ) , and improves on what is there . I would guess that children are the main audience that is aimed for , here , though basically anyone can play this game . It does take good reflexes and a bit of patience , however . You are given a level selector , though you cannot choose to start in a level that you haven't reached by playing through the previous ones , first . You start out with only a few lives , based on the difficulty . . . and though most levels have a few continue-points , which , if reached , allow you to start from there , instead of starting over on the level . But , if you run out of extra lives and Jim passes on , you will be sent to the " continue " screen . . . and you'll have to start the level all over , not necessarily knowing how to pass the part that cost you your level progress . That , and the gross parts of the comedy is pretty much the only problem I have with the game . If you plan on purchasing and playing this game , know that it can be very difficult . But through that , it's usually fun , always silly and makes for great escapism . I recommend this to any fan of the character , as well as anyone who enjoys silly , goofy fun . Cartoony , creative and colorful . . . and a great game for all ages .
Westwood Goes to Camp	Quite a few games are unintentionally campy . It's difficult to make a game that's both entertaining and has a compelling story , and many efforts wind up with silly-sounding expositionary dialog and characters going out of character . The first Red Alert , admittedly , has some of this camp quality . What Westwood did with this sequel was not only admit the camp , but flaunt it . Every character , every line spoken , everything , campy . Personally , I didn't really care for the humor , but that's my subjective opinion . The game is actually considerably easier to get into than one would think , considering the camp . An interesting new addition was the " par time " . . . after each successfully completed mission , you'll be told how long it took you , and the par time , and if you did better than it , you'll get a positive statement , based on that , which does wonders for both ego and re-playability ( of the player and the game , respectively ) . It also heightens the pace , knowing that . . . in fact , one of the first things that I noticed about this , compared to the preceding games of the series , was the high pace . Right from the awesome intro , a great mix of story-telling and action , to the first several missions , and , really , through to the very end , the game is very fast and action-packed . The slowest unit moves at a pace that feels fast compared to the other games , and the music yet again gets the adrenaline flowing ( complete with a " HM2 " , a new , unfortunately shorter , version of the excellent track from the first game , which , again , is in the intro as well as on both sides ' play-list ) . This also means , however , that the game moves through the only twelve missions per side really quickly . In Westwood's defense , all the missions make good sense , they're nicely introduced and explained , and heck , they even all take place at actual locations ( complete with famous landmarks ) . The level design is great , and several missions are quite interesting . Sometimes , though , the objectives are simply " eliminate enemy presence " , which , whilst making rather good sense in a game about a war , is something of a cliché within the genre of RTS . Both sides get a satisfying finish . Story-telling isn't bad . . . before every mission , you get a briefing , and not a single one of them feel as if they were done in a hurry ( as they did to varying extent on some of the previous ones ) . They knew exactly what they were doing , and took the time to get it right . The performances are quite good ( for being intentionally campy ) , and all the actors seem well-cast . Kari Wuhrer is Tanya Adams . Corbin does great as a Texan / Southern general , Wise makes a good president , and Kier rocks as Yuri . The cut-scenes , in general , are among the best the franchise have seen . The production design is of exceptional quality . . . sets , props , costumes , everything looks and feels exactly like it should . The CGI elements blend in more seamlessly than ever before . The story evolves reasonably , with just a few unexpected twists . Now for the fun part . . . the units . They pretty much all rock . The new ones are interesting , powerful and quite even ( including a giant squid , an airship that drops bombs , an aircraft carrier and more ) . You need a varied force to attack , as well as to defend . As far as selection goes , it's interesting how they , for both units ( buildings , too . . . for example , the Allied radar building is also their airfield ) , mixed a high amount of units with only putting in ones that are cool and fun to use . There is a ton of strategic possibilities . The Soviets get an infantry unit capable of mind-control ( who possesses the uber-creepy voice of Udo Kier ) , which makes for one ( but not the only ) quite interesting single-player mission . You can now garrison the regular infantry unit inside any building , and they can then fire at enemies from in there , though they will abandon it once it takes enough damage . One Allied unit can even enhance the abilities of just about any infantry unit put inside . The Spy can be put to rather good use , as well . The super-weapons are beefed up , too . The Allies also actually get an offensive one . . . a thunderstorm ( ! ) . The Chrono-Sphere ( teleportation device ) , which was very tentatively used in the first game , almost becomes common-place here . . . the harvesters now Chrono-Shift back to the refineries to hand in the ore and diamonds gathered ( silos , by the way , have also been sacrificed in the name of efficiency ) , for example . The game is more fun to play than the first Red Alert , however , and not only is the improved Chrono-Sphere cool and powerful , the more uses of Chrono-Shifting also means that an excellent infantry unit , the Chrono Legionaire , is introduced . He can Chrono-Shift anywhere he wants ( though the longer the distance , the longer time must pass before he can act again ) , and his attack is to slowly but surely zap whatever he aims at out of time . He's just as cool as he sounds . The multi-player is great , very well done . The sound is very well-done , everything sounds just like it should . The graphics are very nice , though the many effects can take a lot of resources . This was the first in this series since Command & Conquer and Covert Ops to kick me out of the game . Some things are kept from Tiberian Sun , others are abandoned . This has several features that really help increase the game-play , including ones that really should have appeared earlier in the franchise than the fourth game in the series . . . and unfortunately , it still does lack some . You can still not tell units to hold their position . Still , if you found the earlier games enjoyable and felt that a few features were lacking , chances are that they're present in this game . Most of the new things introduced are incredibly well-done , and the game is almost entirely free of bugs . A very good effort , and sure to eat up many hours of free-time ( if more on multi-player than on single-player ) . I recommend this to any fan of the series .
One of the original RTS games . . . and arguably the one fathering the biggest franchise of such	Before I commence with this review , I must regrettably inform anyone reading that due to game-crashing bugs that I have been unable to work around ( yup , in both campaigns ) , I have not finished this game recently . . . so my review will be based in part what I've played of it over the last few days , which makes up about half of the game put together , and what I remember of playing it back when it was new . This came out around the time of StarCraft ( don't believe the year on that game's IMDb listing ; 1998 was the year that marked the release of Brood War , the expansion pack , not the original game , which came out four years earlier ) , so comparisons are logical to draw . One of the first things that you will find this has that StarCraft doesn't is areal damage . This has flames , grenades and explosions . . . whereas in the futuristic RTS title , you either attack a certain object . . . or don't attack at all . True , some damage can affect more than one target . . . such as the blast of the Siege Tank . . . but this has a much smoother and more versatile engine for such . In both games , most of the stuff in-between levels is briefings , with occasional cut-scenes that tell back-story , further the plot . . . or just plain look cool . Blizzard's game had the looser , more colorful style ( possibly due to the science fiction genre of it ) , where even the humans were animated , and Westwood's . . . that would be this one . . . was more realistic and natural . Sure , we can tell today that it was green-screened , and the CGI no longer has as much of an effect . . . but it was an ambitious project , and the drive still clearly comes through . Playing this after one has played the later Command & Conquer titles ( yup , it's not only the title of this , the first game . . . but also the franchise as a whole , including the ones that take place in different " universes " than this one ) , you miss some of the later features and such . . . but once you get used to it , you find that this had more than enough to keep you entertained , and most of the features that people love about these games were present right from the start . Selecting multiple troops and assigning the squads numbers , the radar window ( which has a zoom feature that I'm afraid did not last long in this franchise ) , great scenarios . . . not to mention the cool units , awesome style , and the music . To take them in the order I've just mentioned . . . you've got the grenadier , and the flame-thrower , to name one from each side , both of which can hit several units with a single attack , but which are also dangerous to keep in clusters , because if one goes , his arsenal goes with him . . . his fellow soldiers burning up with him ( War is the H-word , as the Futurama episode title goes ) , several cool tanks which pack a punch but of course also move slower than the less armored and armed vehicles , and last but most definitely not least , the Commando , who can take out enemy troops in a single shot , and blow buildings up with explosives . The style is not overdone , but rather very easy to take in , and you feel as though you're in a cool alternate world , or possibly just in the not too distant future . And the music . . . adrenaline-pumping techno to get you in the war-waging mood , with around a dozen diverse pieces . The missions are all very good , and the difficulty of them increases as it should . Many objectives will seem relatively similar , but the many different level designs help to keep things interesting . After each level , the game lists percentages for how many of your own men you kept alive as well as how many of the enemy's you neutralized , as well as the same for buildings and a count of how many credits you had left at the completion of the level , and a time for how long it took you . There's a top 10 list of scores that lets you put in your name , which , together with all the levels that there are several different versions of ( only one of which you may play each play-through ) keeps the re-playability quite high . The game also offers multi-player , over modem , internet or network . In this , as in other RTS titles , later C & C ones as well as StarCraft , you can play as both the good guys and the bad guys . . . the first being GDI , the Global Defense Initiative , who were established as peace-keepers and who seek to rid the world of terrorists , and The Brotherhood of NOD , a religious cult that wish to control the planet ( you know they've got serious megalomania when their barracks ( named The Hand of NOD ) is a large hand with the world in its palm ) and rule it according to their beliefs . Now , when you play as NOD , you will find that the leader makes a rather powerful entrance when you first see him ; his name is Kane , and he's got charisma and screen presence enough for several dozen warlords , each one more brilliant than the last . Joseph D . Kucan portrays him , and he is . . . incidentally . . . also the man behind these games . Whenever Kane makes an appearance in any of these games , Kucan is the one doing the acting . And whenever he is on screen , he has your attention . The actors are all fairly good , but he stands out as the best . Now , I'm afraid there are also a few things about this game that are negative . . . the AI , for example , could have used some work . The AI programming is about the same as StarCraft , all in all . . . each has good and bad points . The plot and story-telling is quite good , especially for a game from the mid-nineties . While ID Software were busy making bleak monsters for players to blast away , Westwood were doing well-done cinematics with CGI . I recommend this to any fan of the franchise as well as people who just plain enjoy RTS gaming . Cool , fun and well done .
Brilliant , and almost sublime . . . a masterful work within the genre of psychological horror-thriller	As I write this moments after the second viewing of the film , I can say without a doubt that this is one of those rare films that benefit greatly from being watched more than once by any viewer . Having been very interested in the work of director / writer / composer Alejandro Amenábar basically since I first knew of Abre Los Ojos , after watching the Americanized remake with Cameron Crowe at the helm ( and much , much more upon actually watching some of his work ) , I made sure to watch this as soon as I could . I remember being gripped and never really looking away . . . and astoundingly , I had much the same reaction this time , as well . This time , I noticed all the little hints along the way . . . all leading towards the shocking and intelligent twist . Anyone who hasn't seen this , I urge you to avoid hearing what it is , and make sure not to read neither the quotes nor the keywords for the film . And yes , it is somewhat similar to another popular movie ( which I haven't and don't intend to see ) , but a movie doesn't have to be 100 % original to be excellent . The plot is incredibly well-written , and it develops exactly as it should . The pacing is perfect . You're never bored and the film never hurries to get where it's going . The acting is flawless , quite simply . As far as Kidman and the other adults go , this is no major surprise , but the children . . . they are quite simply among a far too small group of extraordinarily talented young actors . The cinematography is breathtaking . The editing is masterful . Something that simply must be mentioned is the lighting . . . the way it almost becomes a character itself , the way it affects everything else , the way it is played with throughout the film . Explaining the lighting as well as the general isolation is the fact that the two children suffer from a tragic illness . . . they cannot survive sunlight . What is amazing that throughout the course of the film , you get used to this . . . the darkness , the thick atmosphere ; it becomes every-day life . Near the end , you find yourself fearing the sun . . . the bright light . Featuring no real gore , blood or violence , the horror is all psychological . The atmosphere and the light ( or lack thereof ) creates a lot of tension and suspense . . . and all of it pays off so well . There are no false scares , nothing gratuitous and the whole film is very close to being sublime . Now , to the real problem with this film , at least my problem with it . . . it's simply not as open as the other works of Alejandro . It's more Hollywood , easier to take in . Instead of challenging you to think , of providing food for thought , questions as opposed to answers ( as Amenábar himself has commented that his films are about ) . . . it reveals everything at the end . It leaves little , if anything , up to the viewer to decide or debate . All is explained . . . the very thing that ruined what potential the remake of his film , Abre Los Ojos . I understand trying to open up to a wider audience , but it's a little sad that he has to make a compromise with his integrity and goals in doing so . With that said , however , this is still not the average Hollywood flick ; there is still nothing in the film that is entirely superfluous , and almost every frame of it is perfection , pure and simple . I recommend this to any fan of Alejandro Amenábar , any of the actors and psychological horror / mystery-thrillers .
Stylized , adrenaline-filled awesomeness	Given that this was made so soon after Sin City , one cannot deny the possibility that a reason for making it was the popularity and widespread success of the aforementioned film . Both are based on comics of Frank Miller's . . . both are bloody , and packed with adrenaline and style . However , regardless of what may or may not have been in the minds of the producers , this movie is entertaining and fulfilling . Whilst not as well-rounded and perfectly executed as Sin City , it has plenty of action , cool shots and intensity to go around . I have not read the original comic book , so I cannot comment on how well this tells the story that Miller ( not the historians ; don't make the mistake of confusing this film for an actual account of events ! ) intended , but I can say that it pulls off the comic book feel pretty darn well . The visuals are simply stunning , and the movie is filled , just about to the very brink , with gorgeous designs and camera-work that amazes . The many boxes of text found in most comic books are translated to the medium of film with a narrator , and it works remarkably well . I was worried early on that the narrator would remain for all of the film . . . but I found it to not only mesh with the visuals but improve the overall experience . The music is part orchestrated score , and all fits exceptionally well . The pacing was flawless . The acting I found to be masterful for just about every part . The dialog varies , but the majority is good . The grandiose speeches and the serious tone of them is lightened pleasantly through occasional wit . The battles are massive , bad-ass and often quite bloody ( though there was less gore than I had expected . . . but I didn't mind ) . I would guess that big parts of the audience are comprised of people coming mainly for the battles , and I would say that most will leave the theater satisfied . The sequences of fighting are long , stylized , well-choreographed and wickedly cool . I found the rest of the movie to be interesting and engaging , and I wouldn't say that the fights are too long . One thing I really liked , and that got the movie and Frank Miller my respect , was the way the Spartan women were depicted : Strong , passionate and as full of courage and fortitude as the men . Whether or not this is historically accurate , I don't know , but that Miller and the movie would depict women that way is something I can only support and encourage . The movie was not perfect , however ; some shots were less spectacular than they could or should have been , and the last battle was perhaps a little disappointing . Still , this is a movie that I urge anyone who enjoys action , macho-ism and comic book style to watch . I strongly recommend this to any fan of comic books and any man into action .
Interesting	This is one of the two feature-length documentaries on # 8 ( The Roots of The Matrix ) of the 10-Disc Ultimate Set . It goes over many philosophical concepts that inspired , and are presented in , the trilogy . They spend the first half ( ! ) on the original film , and the rest of the time then goes over parts 2 and 3 , with a couple of things on the Animatrix shorts . This consists of clips of aforementioned releases and interviews . This does a good job of informing the audience about the various thoughts , although it would obviously take far longer to go over all the symbolism in them , and one can ask the very appropriate question if something anywhere near that definite and final is even desired , by viewers or the Wachowskis alike . That does mean that this is limited , but it is likely enough to enlighten and provide food for thought . In line with the series , this may provoke debate , rather than give answers set in stone . Whether one cares for this or not may depend on the extent of their knowledge on the subject , the old ideas , as well as how much they've thought about the presence of such in these three silver screen efforts . Obviously , it also makes a difference if one particularly wants to think about the meanings one could possibly take out of them . This is well-edited and has an appropriate pace . It doesn't overstay its welcome or repeat itself . The tenth and last DVD of the set , Zion Archives , holds tons of artwork , as well as the media of the movies , meaning , trailers , TV spots and music videos . I recommend this to anyone who wishes descriptions of the stuff that we've seen interpreted , visualized and / or updated in the franchise .
Highly entertaining and addictive , exciting and intense	I recently found this game and realized that I hadn't played it in years . . . despite thoroughly enjoying playing it back then . I immediately installed , and have been playing it ever since , until now , as I type this , within minutes of having played through the game for the second time . The story , while certainly neither complex nor deep ( but how many games before the turn of the century can honestly be claimed to possess one ? ) is well-written , if short and to the point . It has you controlling Nick Vrenna ( who is only mentioned by name in the opening crawl ) , a wrongfully imprisoned man who's being held in a high-security penitentiary in a dystopic society of the future ( which , by now , according to the game , is a mere three years away . . . ) . At said pen , grotesque and inhuman genetic experiments are being conducted on the prisoners . One such experiment has transformed its subjects into vile , aggressive creatures ( rather eerily reminiscent of the Xenomorphs of the Alien movies . . . ) , and this substance is what the game is named after . . . Abuse ( and yes , I realize that I could have made a rather alarming amount of puns in the one line summary . . . " I don't have to take this from you ! " or " It's not just for drug addicts anymore ! " just to name a few . However , I respect the game far too much to joke about it in the title of my review of it ) . The mutations are highly contagious , and the main character is the only one to show immunity to it . In the midst of a riot , chaos breaks out , the cell doors are all opened and the virus spreads out to everyone . . . leaving you the only human being left in the building . The threat of the mutated beings notwithstanding ( I guess due to the fact that they are contained within the thick walls ) , the game has but the following objective ; for you to fight your way through the levels of the prison and reach the control room , where you must prevent the contaminated water of the institution from reaching the water supply of the rest of the world , and infect the Earth's population . You put on some battle armor ( which , in addition to looking wickedly cool and obviously offering some protection from outside dangers apparently also enables you to suffer no damage from falling whatsoever . . . ) and this is where the game starts . The graphics , for a game that's no less than ten years old and fairly simple , are very nice and the dark , cyberpunk-ish mood of the game ( as I've attempted to describe through telling the story ) is strongly supported by them . Like many games of this period , it's a platform game , though the camera is dynamic and the screen moves along as you move ( as seen in the Commander Keen games , as well ) , instead of being a large , stationary display , showcasing an entire level , like is the case with many , if not most of such games of this period . The weapons are very military - and sci-fi-based , ranging from a laser rifle that you start the game with to , for example , a napalm-launcher . Highly futuristic . The game has no actual blood . . . anything you destroy basically falls apart , in body parts in the case of living ( or should I say , dead ) beings and explosions and metallic dust in the case of robotic ones . That comes with the setting ( location-wise as well as time-period-wise ) and the ( story , not game ) genre . . . robots . Lots of ' em . The interesting thing here is that they're somewhat neutral . . . whilst you are technically still considered a threat by them , so are your transformed foes . More often than not , you can therefore utilize the strong defense network in the pen to help dispatch of the mutated beings . Fixed turrets , all armed with one specific of the weapons you ( and the former humans you're fighting , who've also only got one gun each , though you can collect them all ) pick up along the way ( oddly enough , though , all are collected simply by picking up some ammo for it . . . ) , who more often than not fire uncontrollably on a fixed area , which gives you opportunity to easily dispose of your infected enemies by simply luring them into the range of these automated guns . The security is also upheld by various flying robots , some firing plasma ( one of the few weapons in the game that you , yourself , sadly , cannot equip ) , and one walking / standing mech-like robot . There are also dangers in the form of booby-traps , mines and some form of what appears to be an automated cleaning machine that pose threats of varying size . The level design , while at times somewhat repetitive and linear , is great . Dark , dreary and seemingly endless tunnels , security areas and the likes . . . there are even some areas that appear to be rain-forest , which I guess is due to the Abuse-creatures . With elevators , automatic ( but not always easily opened ) doors and teleporters , the futuristic charm of the entire product is ensured . Though I will say that the creators went quite a bit overboard with the easily demolished walls ( introduced early as ' weak walls ' , but later found disguised as regular ones ) in the later levels . The game-play is incredibly entertaining , with running , jumping and gunning down enemies , living and robotic alike . The frequent saving ( there are ' stations ' where you can save and they are found often on most levels , and you can often return to them several times ) removes most possibility for frustration from the game , though some is still left , due to the monstrous difficulty found in a few portions of the game . The difficulty , apart from that , is well-rounded . With four different settings , nearly everyone should be able to play it , and most will enjoy the challenge that even the easiest of them offers . Adding spice to the game-play are the three power-ups . . . speed , flying and health . Each giving a notable boost in their respective field and room for only one at a time makes things much more interesting ( and that says a lot ! ) . I recommend this to anyone into science fiction and action . A decade old . . . and still going strong . Rather impressive , really .
Are you sure it isn't time for a colorful metaphor ?	I saw the Special Collector's Edition of this ( which I understand doesn't have any additional scenes that weren't in the original ) . Ah , ' the funny one ' . There is a theory that after a few heavy or dark episodes in a row , they'd have a fun one . This is the movie version of said lighter one . And yet , it's smart , dramatic and , well , a blast . Again directed by Nimoy , and this also partially penned by him , this is superior to the one before it . This could be absolutely lousy , given the concept , but it's . . . not . It's marvelous . The humor is genuinely well-done , timing , material , it all works . Most of it is verbal , with a little bit of silly , with none of it being childish or worse . The prerequisites to " getting " it , apart from knowing the series , are simply understanding American culture and slang , specifically that of the period . The plot is good . The situations are resolved in a satisfying manner , albeit certain aspects might benefit from more seriousness . The dialog is excellent , possibly the best of any of these I've seen thus far . The language is pervasive , to a greater extent than earlier ( and harsher , as well ) , though some of it is there for a purpose ( namely , hilarity ) . There is another minor offensive thing in this . If viewers can tolerate or look past them , they're likely to thoroughly enjoy this . This has a moral , but it isn't preachy . I recommend this to fans of Star Trek and / or sci-fi , and will suggest that the second film be watched first ( the third is perhaps optional ) .
Boundaries	Hitchcock would be proud . The art of hinting within cinema is still alive . This doesn't spell everything out for you . The trailer for this does not do it justice . I was not expecting to enjoy this as much as I did . It is a film about discontentment , control , and the urges and thoughts lying just beneath the surface . I was pleased to find that Anders Thomas Jensen helped write this , as I enjoyed Blinkende Lygter ( or Flickering Lights ) and Mørke ( also known as Murk ) , the latter in particular . I would say that you can tell that he had a hand in making this . I believe this is the first film by Levring I've seen , but I certainly am taking notice to his directorial style . Interesting choices are made , among other places in framing and cutting . The editing and cinematography are definitely worth attention . The story-telling is very subtle , and the use of narration does not become a crutch . The pacing is spot-on , it never moved too slow or fast . The acting is excellent , every single performance is beyond reproach . Even the kid , and that's not something that happens all that often . The use of music is good . This can be rather intense , and proper care is taken to build up suspense . There is a little sexuality including obscured nudity , as well as a bit of language and bloodless violence in this . I recommend this to anyone who wants the themes explored for 95 minutes , and / or those who dig a great thriller .
Magnificent thriller	I watched this because I'm a big fan of the Wachowskies , and after watching their first movie ( Assassins , which they only wrote ) I hoped to see another masterpiece from the makers of The Matrix that had nothing to do with it . It's no wonder the producers let them direct aforementioned sci-fi / action masterpiece after they did this . For such a little amount of money , they really made the most of it . Few characters , sets and occasionally limited camera-work is easy to look past ( hard to notice , in fact ) . The movie is breathtaking . For the entirety of the last half I was literally at the edge of my seat , extremely excited and couldn't wait to find out what happened next . The first half is mostly a setup for the last half , but it isn't boring , and is well worth watching , as it makes the second half near-perfect in suspense . The lesbian subplot might throw some people off , and will definitely offend some people , but if you're aren't one of them , then you most likely will enjoy it , if you're into thrillers . The plot is very well-written , and with twists and turns thrown in every so often , it keeps you watching closely . The acting is mostly good , especially from the three leads . The characters are great . . . diverse , interesting and credible . The cinematography contains several of the same things later made famous in The Matrix . . . anyone who's seen both movies can tell that it's the same people behind the cameras . The action is really well-done . The story-telling is just slightly experimental . . . reminiscent of various heist flicks . This also contains some quite stylish visuals , though not as many as the brothers ' later works . All in all , just works really well and keeps you entertained throughout . I recommend this to any fan of the Wachowski brothers , thrillers and / or the actors in it .
Quite good	I'll freely admit that I didn't know much about Al Gore before I watched this . I have heard about global warming , and it is a subject that worries me . From I first heard of this , I wanted to watch it . Whilst the basic idea may sound dull . . . it can , with some truth , be described as a film of Gore showing a Power Point presentation . Granted , this is hardly an eventful piece ; there is little action and few developments . This is not a Michael Moore film ; we aren't bombarded with facts of varying degrees of truth , with a humorous , if smarmy , commentary . Al Gore calmly describes the problem , the misconceptions regarding it . . . and most importantly , the solutions . Yes , it is idealistic and it has an agenda . . . but it does not talk down to its audience , and the moral is one of world-wide interest . Gore has great charisma , and clearly believes very passionately in his cause . With fact-based argumentation , he describes many of the effects that the green-house effect may have , if we don't prevent it . There is even a small amount of humor , delivered perfectly , which doesn't detract or distract from the serious nature of the subject . There is almost no political content herein ; it is focused on the issue , which , as Gore points out , is a moral one . The editing and cinematography are subtle , and it feels more like simply watching Gore have the speech , attending his presentation . The credits roll as numerous pieces of advice on how to help , through simple , everyday actions appear on the screen , and rather than claiming that the battle is impossible to win , as so many who oppose the fight have , he ends the feature with naming the ways we can alter our lives to keep Earth around . Remarkable documentary , very worth watching . I recommend this to any fan of documentaries and anyone who has an opinion on this subject at all . . . whether or not you agree with Mr . Gore .
The first part of the famous Dollars Trilogy , and one of the best Westerns	Sergio Leone made some of the best and most well-made Westerns in his career , and this one is no exception . It's the first part of his Dollars trilogy , and , in my opinion , superior to the second part , For a Few Dollars More . I can't say if I prefer it to the third part , The Good , the Bad and the Ugly , since it's been too long since I saw that , but I'll re-watch and review that one soon , and then I'll clarify my position on each of the films in the trilogy . The film is widely known as the first spaghetti-Western ; that isn't true , as far as I know . It's not the first spaghetti-Western , it's just the first that became internationally known . Not to say that that isn't an accomplishment for Leone too , though ; after the films release , everyone wanted to make spaghetti-Westerns . The plot is great ; it deals with The Man With No Name who arrives in a small town , finds out that it's run by two major families , and decides to make money by turning them against each other . It's not terribly fast-paced , but it's more interesting than the second movie , and less dragging than the third . The action is also great ; it might be slightly inferior to that of the third film , but only slightly . The score , and especially the theme , is inferior to that of the third film , but that's not to say that the theme or score of this film isn't good ; it's just not as good as the theme / score of the third film . The acting is good , and in some scenes , great . I didn't find all of the performances great , though , but none were entirely terrible . The characters were all credible and well-written , despite the fact that a few of them are ( or has since become ) Western cliches . All in all , a great spaghetti-Western , and a must-see for any fan of Clint Eastwood and / or Sergio Leone . I recommend it to fans of spaghetti-Westerns , Sergio Leone and / or Clint Eastwood .
Weird , bizarre , stylish , funny and intense	When you've got Gary Oldman wearing a red spandex and red lipstick in the role of the devil and James Brown , godfather of soul himself , complaining that the deal he got with the prince of darkness needs to be renegotiated because he's gotten too old to do splits , you know you've divided everyone who hears about it into two clearly marked , separated groups ; those who reject it and those who are intrigued . Those that belong in the latter category probably wind up watching this commercial , are once again divided into two groups ; those who love it and those who hate it . This is a clear-cut short film ; either you love it or you hate it . But that doesn't mean that it's bad . . . just that it's limited . I don't know exactly why , but I'm thankful it is . Maybe it's because that allowed it to be what it wanted to be , what it had to be . What is that , you ask ? Well , bizarre as hell , first of all . But also funny and stylish , not to mention quite intense . The race in the commercial is cool and exciting . The humor is very good . . . again , limited , but very good if you're into exactly that sort of thing . . . and I am . To an extent , at least . I laughed out loud at the ' twist ' in the end . The editing and cinematography is very stylish , very typically Tony Scott . I liked all of the puns and jokes , both those concerning the devil himself and those concerning James Brown . The acting is good . Clive Owen once again delivers a perfect performance . All in all , just a very weird and bizarre yet entertaining little commercial . I recommend it to any fan of the commercials or any of the actors . . . and possibly fans of Tony Scott .
Faithful adaptation of the great short story	I recently read the original book by Charles Dickens , so I know exactly how close this is to a word-by-word adaptation of it . I recognized full lines , entire sentences that were converted directly from the short to this film . Most of the scenes are there too , though naturally some are shortened for length , and some even cut completely , but very little ( if any ) of the spirit of the original is lost in doing this . A few new scenes are added to make the transition between book and film format , scenes more visual than those in the book , and they add to the film , rather than take away from it . The plot is very good , and follows the book nicely . The pace is fitting , moving the plot along quite nicely ; you're rarely bored with the film . The acting is almost flawless ; every character is perfectly casted , and fit their character from the book . I still don't think anyone is as good a Scrooge as the star of the film of the same name from ' 51 , Alastair Sim , but I will admit that George C . Scott does a good job as well , and is probably one of the best choices for the part throughout the many , many adaptations of this great story . The effects are nicely done , though one or two seem poor or off , but maybe it's the visual department who saw something other than what I did in the descriptions in the book . All in all , probably one of the most faithful adaptations and definitely one worth watching at least once , regardless of your view on Christmas and whether or not you've read the original book . I recommend it to just about anyone , as it's in no way sappy or even childish , despite being a children's story and one of some sadness .
A lot better than I expected . . .	I have to admit , I usually hate Stephen King films . I've seen The Shining , Carrie and It . I hate all of those . But this one was really good . It was scary and atmospheric , all the way through . The music was great , very moody and scary , the basic theme was pretty good , and the acting was , if not great , sufficient . The effects were mostly good , though I thought the moving corn , was , well , corny ( no pun intended ) . It's interesting , all the way through , and has more likable main characters than your everyday horror movie . Both main characters are pretty well developed through the movie , and you actually care about them . This is a movie you should watch , at least once , if you like horror movies , even if you hate Stephen King ( I do , and I loved the movie ) .
Excellent crime / mystery drama	I haven't seen too many of Clint Eastwood's films , at least not the ones he's directed himself , but after seeing this I will probably check his other work out . The plot is great ; it shows how deeply peoples actions can affect each other , even over many years , actions they thought would make little to no difference for their future . The acting is all great ; Sean Penn is amazing , and the other actors are all great too , especially the actors who portray the main characters . The cinematography is great . The story is captivating , it gets your attention and keeps it , for every single scene of the movie , in it's 2 hour 15 minutes runtime . This is a great emotional drama , topped off with an exciting criminal mystery that keeps you guessing the final outcome of the movie for the entire time . I never lost interest in the movie . I doubt that it could have been a lot better , the only thing I didn't really like about it was one scene at the very end , in which a character gives a long monologue , that neither I , nor the two people I saw the movie with , could make very good sense of . Apart from that , it was nearly perfect . I'd recommend this to anyone who enjoys a good drama or an interesting criminal mystery . It's worth watching .
Brilliant parody	While I have not watched any of the serials of decades ago , I " got " this . It's difficult to find a lot to say about four minutes , but it's much more so to find anything to complain about in this . . . that is truly elusive . Even more so than Robert Denby . But I digress . The plot is marvelous . The writing in general really hits the nerve , with surgical precision , of the quality and many , many flaws of television writing in days of yore . The technical quality is intentionally worsened ( don't believe me ? Watch anything else done by Guy in his Basement Productions ) , with great effect ( they even put in a section or two of completely black screen ! ) . The comedy is really , really good . The acting is spot-on . As far as pacing goes . . . the short moves fast , and definitely doesn't overstay its welcome . Better to quit while you're ahead , and this doesn't come off as just firing off what material they had and then stopping dead in their tracks ( or worse still , going on beyond that point ) . Direction is flawless . I recommend this to any fan of parodies , and a basic idea of what the old serials were is of great help .
Cronenberg does it again	After seeing every single Cronenberg film I've been able to find , I've come to one simple conclusion : I've seen entirely too little of his works . I have yet to see one film of his that I found a complete waste of time ( though I did not find much point in The Brood ) . This is quite possibly my favorite film of his yet , and I guess that says something about how few of his films I've seen ( as this seems like one of his more unappreciated films ) . The film is quite dark and bleak . It has a fairly slow pace , but there's plenty of atmosphere and I never really felt like turning it off . The plot is very good , and I liked the way it developed somewhat out of joint , with little continuity other than the main plot-line . The acting is superb . One actress performs two roles , and does so with such talent that I never realized they were being portrayed by one and the same person . I only discovered this after checking out the cast list . Spider is a very unsettling film , but I suppose Cronenberg has done far better in other films . For some reason , I just found this the more easily accessible of his films , the one that requires least afterthought to be understood , to decipher what he wanted to say . All of the other films by him that I've seen , I've required to basically ' be told ' what the film was about . . . with this one , I thought for a while after seeing it , and figured it out , put the pieces together myself , without much difficulty . Maybe that's a problem for the film . . . it's too simple . It's far more simple than the usual Cronenberg , and that is what makes me like it more , and his more experienced and analyzing fans like it less . I recommend this film to any fan of Cronenberg and / or dark films . Don't expect to be able to figure out the film from just one viewing , and don't take anything you see in it at face value .
A collision of two powerful men	This is a feature-length documentary found on the DVD of Citizen Kane ( not to be confused with the actual TV picture of a few years later , RKO 281 , in spite of the latter sharing the title and evidently at least some of the premise ) . It's well-produced throughout and leaves little to be desired . It is more about the life and accomplishments of Hearst than Welles , but that can be argued as fitting , as that was whom the film in question was intended to be a biography of ( if it turned out to be a bit of a misunderstood attempt at so , masterful effort though it is , and in the end actually is closer to the real persona , past and then-future of its maker ) . We are given a lot of insight into both of them , who they were , what drove them , their triumphs and defeat . It's all told rather well , with clips of the movie itself ( as well as others , where it fits ) , interviews , past as well as current , with those who worked with them ( and even one of Orson himself , from ' 82 ) , footage from behind the scenes , stills and narration . A number of the many shocks the two caused , including the ( in ) famous War of the Worlds broadcast , are detailed , with witness accounts where possible . It's well-written and put together with expertise . This alone ought to be a strong point in favor of owning a copy of the piece itself . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know about one and / or the other of the mighty people , the controversy and their clash .
Good overview on the life and career of one of the greatest directors who ever lived	This documentary starts out with Kubrick's life as a child , continues through his first films , and goes thoroughly through all of his feature films , from first to last , even mentioning those projects he had planned but which he never made . It has some good interviews with the people he worked with through the years and his friends and family . I only have a few complaints about it , the number one being that just about everything that is said about Kubrick is positive . I see him as one of the greatest and most influential film-makers of all time , but he certainly must have had flaws . Yet this seems to omit any and all references to his negative sides , apart from a few actors mentioning that they did find him kind of harsh every now and then . I know that this was made after he died , but they could have included some of the bad stuff too , if for nothing else then to make kind of a balance . Another complaint would be that Tom Cruise probably isn't the best choice for a narrator . . . I would have preferred Malcolm McDowell , personally . But for the most part , this is an interesting and entertaining look at the life and career of Stanley Kubrick who is , arguably , one of the greatest directors who ever lived . There are plenty of little anecdotes about him , and some of the actors have fun facts about him or his personal habits . Most of the interviewees share their opinion on Kubrick , but , like I said before , it's mostly praise . I found the interviews with the actors on his films to be the most entertaining and worthwhile of this documentary , though the story of Kubrick and the behind-the-scenes facts in it also helped making it worth the time . I recommend this to any fan of Kubrick who wants to know more about him , his life or his colleagues opinion of him . I doubt anyone who isn't a fan or doesn't care about aforementioned knowledge would find it interesting , though .
Puzzle pieces making up a usually pretty picture	I don't know if they are going to do more of these , so for the record , I am going by the first thirteen episodes , of 2007 and ' 08 . . . released to keep the viewers of Lost hooked until the fourth season started ( after the third ended . . . which is about how far you should definitely have seen before taking them in ) . I don't have an exact account of how it went , I understand that it was considered both making them web-based and putting them on cell phones , as far as where people could watch these , but I found them on ABC . com , all available . It contains several main cast members ( and some guests , as well ) , and has stories from the three thus far aired years of the show . Put together , they're around half an hour in length , so between one and four minutes each . The production value , if not necessarily always ( albeit for the most part ) entirely reaching the high level that we're used to from what this is an off-shoot of , comes darned close . There are hints and mysteries in this , also for the fans . The acting , directing and writing are of impressive quality . The music . . . these appear to actually be scored . It seems very polished . There are a few odd moments in these , though the overall is certainly a positive . I recommend this to loyal followers of J . J . ' s popular television effort ( the humor of it is also present in this ) . Well worth the time spent .
Very powerful and beautiful drama	Let me start this off by making one thing absolutely clear ; I love law movies / court scene films , whatever you want to call them . This film reminded me that something that's even more important than entertaining court scenes in such a film , is an involving subject , to make you really feel that this case is important , crucial ; this film shows , once and for all , that a good story , an important subject , makes a good film if executed properly . This film has everything a good film needs ; an interesting and emotionally involving plot , a great cast and good cinematography . The plot is great , and it really makes you care about these characters , as they are likable and humane . The acting is all top-notch , especially by Tom Hanks , who gives a stellar performance as the homosexual AIDS-infected lawyer who is fired shortly after being promoted . Denzel Washington also gives a very good performance , portraying a homophobic lawyer . For the reasonably few scenes Antonio Banderas had , he also gave an excellent performance , as Tom's characters boyfriend . The characters are well-written , credible and most important of all , well-played . They are also very well-developed . The film has a very powerful message , and it delivers it well . It takes a very important subject , and shows us both sides of the argument , something reasonably few films do , and even fewer does it as good as this film . It treats the controversial subject with complete respect for both sides , both views . It's one of the most moving films I've ever seen . I recommend it to anyone interested in the subject , and pretty much all fans of serious dramas .
Nice look on the making of The Shining	This is what Making Of DVD extras are supposed to be like ( or , at the very least , should be like ) : short , precise and to the point . Vivian Kubrick , the directors daughter , takes a camera and follows Nicholson around and interviews some of the actors , both during and after production about making the film and their opinion of Stanley Kubrick . Jack Nicholson was entertaining to watch , because though his characters are usually a lot like himself , it's kind of a rarity to see him really be himself . He flirts a little with Vivian , which must be considered either somewhat cute or deeply disturbing , seeing as he's old enough to be her father , and her actual father is nearby . Danny Lloyd is kind of cute to see interviewed . Shelley Duvall is interesting to listen to in the interviews . Scatman Crothers ' interview is inspirational , even though it only lasts a few seconds . Nicholson is the most interesting and gets the most time in this . What I really liked about it , though , what really made it interesting to me was seeing Kubrick work . He has a certain intensity , a concentration that I find inspirational and impressive , being a ( albeit on a much smaller scale ) film-maker myself . Seeing him directing , figuring out angles , and just going around between takes . . . you can feel his intensity and concentration all the way through . I recommend this to any fan of Kubrick or film-making in general . While not very technical , it provides a good look at what goes on behind the scenes on a film production .
Important	This is a 90-minutes documentary that examines and challenges religion . It covers an impressive amount , addressing Judaism , Islam , Christianity and Catholicism , without any of them being glossed over . It raises questions that have to be asked , and makes remarkable points . The aggressive and uncompromising way of more than one of the groups should not be ignored . Like The Enemies of Reason , this has disturbing material . This is put together of footage taken from the various areas ( including famous sites ) that writer Dawkins visited in making this and interviews with people from both sides , several of which are specifically known for their views on the subjects . This is more confrontational and impassioned than the later-produced , aforementioned piece , and this is sure to offend some . I don't think that is as much the intent as a side-effect . . . I would say that Richard means to provoke exploration , reflection , independent , free thought . I doubt he is particularly likely to go for shock value . The subject matter does perhaps make for more emotional responses , what with the deeply personal nature of it . Richard Dawkins asks great questions , and argues impeccably well . Not always equally respectful , but invariably eloquently and intelligently . I recommend this to any skeptic , and anyone in general who is willing to hear him out .
Hitchcock's favorite film . . . and for good reason	I had heard plenty of good things about this film before I got it , and when I found out it was noir , one of my favorite genres , I naturally had to see it . It was a pleasant surprise . The film is interesting from the get-go , and is never really boring . The idea is very good , and the execution is great . The plot is excellent . The acting is great , particularly Joseph Cotten as Uncle Frank . The writing is excellent , very real and natural , particularly the two young children . I believed the characters , they felt real . As most of Hitchcock's films , I found this to be completely psychologically accurate . Like all of Hitchcock's films , it contains a good bit of suspense . One scene near the end nearly had me in hysterics with how intense it was . Hitchcock builds the mystery and lets it unfold in a manner similar to several of his other films . Though the ending felt somewhat abrupt and unsatisfying , this is still one of Hitchcock's best , in my opinion . A thoroughly great Hitchcock , worth watching for anyone who enjoys his films . I recommend this to fans of Hitchcock , thrillers in general and film noir .
Hip and intense modernization	I hadn't heard all of this story before watching this film , so please forgive me any misunderstandings that may come as a result of that ignorance . When I heard that this was done by Baz Luhrmann and Craig Pearce , who later went on to create Moulin Rouge together , which is one of my favorite love stories ( granted , at the time I first saw it , that was a pretty short list ) of all time , as well as just about the only true musical that I've found myself enjoying , naturally I was going to watch it . Plus , it's difficult to challenge the quality of William Shakespeare's writings , and this is said to be one of his best works . The idea is magnificent ; take the original story and retell it in modern day suburbia , with the original dialog ( though , obviously , unfortunately , not all the dialog could be retained ; I was disappointed to find that the brief exchange regarding " how deep was the cut " was not in the film ) . The result works out very well , by changing the setting to one that today's youth can easier relate to , whilst still making the points that the original play did . The plot is very good , and evolves nicely throughout . The pace is intense . This thing moves non-stop . Blink and you'll miss something . At times , this speed was almost overwhelming . The running time is two ( exactly ! ) hours , but it keeps you on the edge of your seat for almost all of it . The editing seems to bear traces of this . . . more often than not , it seems like the scene or certain cuts of it had been trimmed by a few seconds , to ensure the run-time length , and it can be a little confusing ( for the quite few times it happens ) . I will say that Luhrmann kept the pace at an appropriate rate for the dramatic scenes . In fact , they may become even stronger , from the otherwise extreme pace . The line-delivery is fast , but exceptional . The acting is excellent . I can't name a single performance that I found even slightly flawed . The casting is marvelous , as well . . . the two leads and the supporting players are spot-on ( heck , even Jamie Kennedy worked , here ) . The music is a good mix of hip , new music and a beautiful score . Production values are high . The cinematography causes a confusing moment or two , but it mostly simply serves to keep the intensity up . A well-done modernization of the famous play . I recommend this to any fan of the people involved in making it , and / or William Shakespeare . Do keep in mind that there are various creative decisions made , changing the original tale . . . including one regarding the famous ending .
Stunning	I read the comic book series a handful of years ago . . . I had read some other Manga prior to that , but this was the first that really grabbed me , and I made sure I read every single one of the chapters . I found out about this not terribly long after , and was excited to find out about both if Ôtomo was as skillful a director as a graphic novelist , and how the heck he was going to make a two-hour film out of 20 100-something ( please feel free to correct me if my memory is off on this ) page intense Animé releases . He did a darn good job . Some story elements are altered , and others , as well as characters , entirely eliminated , but without doing so , this would have been considerably longer . The fast pace is retained , and as far as I can tell , the meat of the source material comes through . The plot is engaging and well-told . The score is . . . interesting . The acting is great , with a few exceptions . I watched this with English voices , I don't know about the Japanese ones . The animation is a visual extravaganza ( in the nicest possible meaning ) , breathtaking , the lighting , the effects , all of it . The artists have an awful lot to be proud of here . The action is awesome , and the designs incredible . A solid chunk of what was really , really cool in the original work is here , and it is astounding . There are some rather bizarre , as well as many quite disturbing and grotesque sights and sounds in this , and those unsettled by such should almost definitely steer clear . There isn't a lot of language , but it tends to be strong . There is graphic violence and gore throughout the entire feature . There is a little nudity . It's all written out in the Parents Guide for those who want specifics . I recommend this to fans of Katsuhiro and the novel of the same title , as well as the overall style ( which this has in spades ) .
Do you like Batman , and / or want to know more about him ? Look no further	If you are at all interested in Batman , or maybe even comics in general , this is definitely worth your attention . Narrated by Mark Hamill , who does a bang-up job , this goes all the way back to the beginning of Batman , and takes you through to present time , being quite thorough but never boring . It comes in at 41 minutes , and it is expertly paced . The interviewees are interesting to listen to , and the whole thing is edited well . Harlan Ellison manages to not complain about how his original work was changed for the Star Trek : The Original Series episode The City on the Edge of Forever . Brian Bolland appears , talking about his work on The Killing Joke , my personal favorite Batman story ( though I haven't read Year One or The Dark Knight Returns ) , as written by Alan Moore , and they do talk some about it , too . Frank Miller gets a fair amount of time , and talks about the characters being larger than life . Several esteemed artists who have worked on the characters over the years are interviewed , and the story told is one that spans over decades , and goes back to the very birth of comic books . They talk about the various mediums they appeared in , and Bob Kane's inspirations when he first created the character . I recommend this to any fan of comics , the characters , and the movies .
Probably the best of the teen comedies	This is pretty much the film that started the whole trend of making teen comedies with a lot of sexual jokes and gags , and definitely one of the best . Any teen will be able to identify with the situations and the characters , at the very least to some degree . The plot is very good , and it moves along at a pretty good pace ; sort of laid-back , not too quick but not slow either . The characters are all well-written , very real and even though some of them are cliches or stereotypes , you can identify with them and understand their actions in the different situations . The actors all perform well , I didn't really think any of them did a bad job portraying their respective characters . I think the script was very well-written , it allowed for some extremely funny scenes ( of course , there were also some right-out disgusting scenes , this is an R-rated teen comedy after all ) , and most of them were pretty true to life too . The humor was very good , and had an excellent pace and timing . I recommend this to anyone who enjoys teen comedies , and aren't easily offended . Especially teens will like it , and identify with a lot of it .
Exciting	This is the fifth on the disc of Animatrix shorts . It's seven minutes long , and thus shorter than the usual ( which is about nine ) , and every moment is intense . This manages to not slow down for a second without overwhelming the viewer , as well as provide some food for thought , around one of the themes also explored in The Matrix ( the first film as well as the franchise ) . The action is exceptionally well-done , engaging and fun . The animation is impeccable throughout . The visuals are stunning , and the choreography leaves little , if anything , to be desired . The dialog is well-written and also nicely delivered . The plot is well-done and the story-telling is strong , offering so much in this amount of time , and the ending adds a whole additional layer to it . The drama is powerful . The audio is well-done , with great voice-acting and sound effects . There is a six-minute making of , well-done and interesting , on the DVD , as well as a commentary track , not in English but subtitled , and worth it to hear the thoughts of those who made it . I recommend this to any fan of science fiction , Animé and anyone who likes what they watch to give them something to think about .
Backstory	This is the second Animatrix short , and the first of them to be what one could call ' artistic ' . It contains a lot of references , metaphors and symbols in the dense amount of material , especially with a running time of 9 minutes . I've heard some complaints that this is " anti-human " , or tries to direct hate towards man , for their " sins against machine " . I don't think that's true ; it merely uses the robots to show us , that as humans , we aren't particularly accepting or open-minded towards anyone different from ourselves . I'd say it does a great job of that . The plot is good . . . it plays as a historical document , recounting what led to one of the main conflicts in the trilogy . Thus it holds clips from fictional news reports and the like . The voice acting is very good , if there is not a lot of it . The animation is nice , and the use of color , in spite of the usually realistic drawing style , makes it more open to do the smooth transitions and other surreal imagery . This has several bits of strong violence and disturbing visuals , as well as a little nudity . The disc holds a commentary , not in English but subtitled , and worth a listen / read . There is also a well-done and informative making of , based on both parts , so I would advise watching it after seeing the next one , as well . I recommend this to anyone who enjoys the Matrix universe , and / or science fiction in general .
They mix so well	The eighth , and thus second-to-last short of the Animatrix ones , this is the only one quite like this . This takes two of the main types of filmed entertainment inspirations of The Matrix , and combines them unbelievably well . This is immensely faithful to the trilogy in that aspect , the tone . The animation is a gorgeous , breathtaking Animé . The style , which is omnipresent in this , is Noir . The plot is fitting , and the story-telling , as well , as the music , is spot-on . The sound in general is fantastic , and really helps solidify the mood and atmosphere , along with the drawings and designs . The voice acting is impeccable . This is one of only two where people also in the movies reprise their roles , and both have Anne-Moss , who is the only of them appearing in this . This is one of the best of the nine , and also one of my personal favorites . This is about ten minutes long . The pacing is perfect . It never slows down terribly much , but it's not overwhelming , either . The ending could not have been more appropriate for this . This shares a nine and a half-minutes long making of with Kid's Story , and it's well-done and informative . I recommend this warmly to any fan of the universe and the two genres that this is made up of .
" It parodies , it scares , it satirizes . . . but that's not all ! "	After a period of endless slasher flicks , body-count films or " date movies " in the 80's , following the success of John Carpenter's classic ( which really isn't that much of one , there's hardly any blood ) , Halloween , of 1978 ( which I'm not claiming to be the first of its kind , I've heard of Black Christmas , which is said to also fit as such a film ) the genre died out somewhat . With Scream , it was rejuvenated somewhat ( at least for a few years ) , whether that was the intent or not . Love or hate that it had that effect . . . a respectful parody is such a rarity that it really ought to be commended , even if one doesn't care for the genre ( which is not to say that I don't , I may have only seen a few of the older ones , but I do seek out these films ) . This is half-way a parody of aforementioned sub-genre of horror , and equal parts an entry into it . The clichés are all here , intentionally so , and the film manages to entertain with both halves , and these mesh remarkably and admirably well . The nods , both the obvious and the subtle ones , are all good . The casting is impeccable . The music , both the score and the songs used , all top-notch . The acting is spot-on . The direction is excellent . . . character introduction , building of suspense , plot exposition and development , high marks , all the way . The script is well-done . The gore isn't as bad as it could be , not sure I'd really call it excessive , but the amount of blood is massive ( necessary for the spoofing ) . I've yet to see a recent movie of this kind which surpasses this one . Now , I'm surely not the first to point this out , but . . . why , exactly , were two full-on spoofs done after this , mainly using this for inspiration ? Never mind that neither are that good , and that that they hold no respect of the films they make fun of , but why do a send-up of a parody ? Wayans ' , come on , you can do . . . uh . . . well , still , don't do it again . " Shriek " team . . . well , you guys I don't know . But I digress . Frequently . I recommend this to any fan of parodies , horror films , and this particular kind of , well , both .
Very funny romantic comedy with crude humor	When I sat down to watch this , I expected to see a very average romantic comedy . I was pleasantly surprised ; this is one of the funniest teen comedies , and they came up with the great idea to combine crude humor with romantic comedy . I found it to be incredibly entertaining . The plot is very good , something any teenage guy can get into . The romantic parts aren't sappy or melodramatic in any way . They didn't seem out of place , either . The humor is very well-placed and mostly very funny . The characters , though half of them are stereotypes , are reasonably believable , and their actions are mostly in character . The actors do pretty good , considering most of them are unknowns . I liked how they managed to mix the crude comedy with the romantic comedy . It didn't seem forced or misplaced , in any way . Most fans of movies like American Pie or Road Trip will enjoy this ; however , fans of movies like Pretty Woman can probably also enjoy this movie , as it's a good mix of the two styles of movies . I'd recommend this to pretty much anyone who enjoyed one or more of the aforementioned films . It's worth watching .
A bold statement	Considering that this is a made-for-TV movie , it's actually very good . A few of the actors are well-known , but most are not . They all portray the respective character believably though , I especially think that Brooke Shields & Jordy Benattar gives excellent performances ; even Whoopi Goldberg did a great job . The plot is touching and interesting , and moves along at a pretty good rate . The acting is , like I mentioned a few lines up , very good , mostly . A few scenes seemed a little overly sentimental or less-than-fortunately acted , but that's only reasonably rarely , and it rarely ruins the mood . The characters were all well-written and , considering their respective personalities , they all act understandably for the entire movie . I really enjoyed the last few court scenes in the movie , and the moral questions they brought up . The entire movie presented the different moral questions very well , and really made you think . Unfortunately , it would seem that this movie , probably due to it being a TV movie , isn't very well-known , which is too bad , since it's actually very well-made for a TV movie . An excellent drama , that raises some very important questions . I recommend this to anyone who like dramas , especially dramas that pose such important moral questions .
A hilarious whodunit spoof	This is an utterly hilarious parody , spoofing detective stories . Much of the humor is verbal , some of it relies on stereotypes and such related ( mainly ) to the crime story genre . Some of the humor is a tad dirty , and a bit of it is quite dark . Personally , I loved it , but if you have anything against such humor , you may want to skip this one . It doesn't try too hard to make you laugh . The laughs roll in quite naturally , as it parodies a few of the most well-known fictional detectives ; Agatha Christie's Mrs . Marble , among others . The setting is one typical to detective stories , and the atmosphere is simply perfect . The plot is very good , and develops nicely while still remaining interesting . The pacing is mostly flawless , but it seemed to lose momentum some , around the last third . The acting is all good , especially from Alec Guinness , Peter Falk and Peter Sellers . One wouldn't expect particularly good performances in a comedy , but this manages . The film is well thought out and equally well-executed . The only thing I didn't like , was that the ending , or maybe the entire third half of the film seemed a bit anticlimactic . At this point , all the action is done , and we're just waiting to find out who's behind it all . The very end is quite good though , a very funny and entertaining twist to say the least . And everything leading up to it is incredibly funny . The characters , while admittedly based somewhat on stereotypes , are all entertaining and each have their own shtick ; among them are Milo Perrier , the perpetually hungry and ridiculously sensitive Frenchman , and the very British Dick Charleston , played to perfection by David Niven , and last but most definitely not least , Sam Diamond ( Peter Falk , doing his Columbo thing ) , borrowing from noir and Bogart , complete with nonsensical , lengthy rants . I recommend this to anyone into detective movies and / or spoofs . Do keep the humor I mentioned early in the review in mind when considering whether or not to watch .
Entertaining , challenging and probably the best of the series	I remember reading about the original Commandos : Behind Enemy Lines in the late 90's . It sounded ludicrously difficult . I later borrowed the add-on , Beyond the Call of Duty , featuring eight new missions . I never played the original . . . however , the add-on certainly provided the difficulty that I gathered it featured . I remember spending hours just trying to get a little further . There would sometimes pass immense amounts of time where I didn't play it at all , due to the frustration and irritation this caused . But I kept playing . And by the time I had beaten it , I was wanting more . In 2001 , I finally got it . I bought this game as soon as I could and immediately started playing it . At first glance , it appears much easier than the previous two efforts . . . but upon closer inspection , that is simply a matter of difficulty settings ; the " easy " setting provides less challenge than that of the previous games , whereas the medium and hard ones are very much like it . The game is also much more entertaining than the first . You're given much more freedom , letting the player think for himself , working out the solutions . . . instead of merely spending enormous amounts of time trying out different things in an effort to figure out the method that the developers had planned for him to take . The graphics engine improves vastly , with better lighting , effects and a nifty ripple effect to show you how much noise you're making , when you're making any , at all . Several characters are added , all of which are quite useful . The Sapper , Green Beret , Diver , Sniper , Spy ( who can now control the direction of the enemy soldiers view and even tell them to walk a small distance , when distracting them ) and Driver all return from the first game , as well as their abilities ( along with some thoroughly welcome new ones ) , and a Thief , a dog named Whisky and a Russian woman named Natasha are added to the mix . The thief , apart from obviously , stealing ( from unsuspecting soldiers , those of them that have anything worth taking , such as keys and cigarettes ) and lock-picking ( some doors and crates ) , can hide just about anywhere as well as navigate with much more freedom ( climbing walls , for example ) , due to his slim physique . He moves faster as well as more silent than anyone else on the team . The only downside to him , really , is that he cannot tie up anyone he knocks out . Whisky is limited to being fairly close to his master ( which can be any of the commandos ) , and his bark will distract any guard in the vicinity ( though no one will hurt him ) . Natasha is basically another Spy , though she appears to have fewer abilities . She generally takes over when he can't be there , and appears within the mission . The Driver gets some traps and the ability to throw ( sleeping ) gas grenades , Molotov cocktails and smoke grenade . There are countless new features . . . among them , everyone can now disguise themselves as enemy soldiers ( though only for a limited time and with less effect than the Spy and Natasha ) , you can examine your surroundings . . . and the huge additions . . . height levels and interiors are added , as well as an inventory system . Remember the one-level , entirely exterior user interface of the previous game ? No more . Elevators and stairs will take you higher or lower , and you can see where you're swimming , when you dive ( and that opens up to new underwater hazards ; in fact , the Nazis aren't your only adversary this time . There are some Japanese , and occasionally animal / natural dangers ) , and you can now actually go in-doors . Previously , you could just hide commandos inside buildings , but now , you can actually explore them , making for much more elaborate and interesting campaign scenarios . The inventory allows you to pick up enemy weapons , find and trade equipment , including cigarettes and wine bottles ( which can be drugged , leaving the soldier who drinks unconscious ) for distraction and luring , as well as more grenades , traps and means of navigation ( such as rope ladders ) . Control is made more effective ; you can now attach your own shortcut keys to the various abilities of your commando teams , and pressing Shift while holding the mouse over an interactive object or enemy will often let you activate it . Like the other games , stealth is essential . I will admit that , on the easiest difficulty setting , it is entirely possible to beat the game without it . . . but there's little fun ( and no challenge ) in that , and unlike the third ( the first necessitated it ) , this provides an incentive for playing through properly . Your performance in each mission is judged , on such criteria as how long it took you to beat , how many areas you visited , how many enemies you neutralized . . . and how many of them were killed . Yes , this time around , you're strongly encouraged to leave as many enemies as you can bound and gagged . . . rather than dead . The better you do on a mission , the greater the chance of you being promoted ( since you play as a commander , an officer ) . The game is of a pretty fitting length . After two training missions which work nicely to introduce you to the game , new features and old alike , there are ten missions ( taking you to and through as exciting locations as the bridge over the river Kwai ( though sans the catchy whistling ) , the arctic and even Paris , where you get to travel to the top of the Eiffel tower ) and ten bonus missions ( all playable in the well-executed multi-player , as well , as soon as they have been beaten in single player ) . These bonus missions are made available through collecting puzzle pieces in the missions . . . collect the full puzzle ( an incentive to visit and search all areas ) , and you are taken directly to the bonus level after completing the current level . Completing a bonus level will award you a medal . Completing any level will grant you a short and visually impressive ( if somewhat cinematically bland ) cut-scene . The difficulty slowly but surely heightens for each new level . Entertaining , challenging and thoroughly well-done game . I recommend this strongly to any fan of stealth-games and / or RTS .
Great direction , great acting , but definitely not Hitchcock's best	Hitchcock is known for his unique style of directing , which involves many unusual camera angles , letting his camera " act " , and building up intense amounts of suspense . This film is Hitchcock during his prime , but , unfortunately , the theme is oversimplified to the point of making the film far less that what it could have been . Sure , psychoanalysis is not a subject easily fit into a two-hour film , but maybe it shouldn't be compressed into that ; it should either be done right , in a film entirely dedicated to depicting a true-to-life psychoanalysis , or at least treated with more respect and thought than it is here . The " dream interpretation " scene in this film will seem a mockery to any true psychologist or psychiatrist . Very little is done to make it appear the way it is in real life , and , like I said earlier , it is oversimplified to the point of being fed to a mainstream crowd with no problems ( think the hacking scenes of Swordfish ) . Apart from that somewhat minor criticism , I really enjoyed this movie , and so would any horror / Hitchcock fan . It's very much his style , and is a prime example of his excellent film-making . He was indeed an incredibly talented director . I love the way he slowly builds up a story , only to suddenly introduce a character or an event and have the rest of the movie revolve around that character or event . The story is very good in this one , and if it hadn't been oversimplified , it could easily have gotten a perfect score , in my opinion . The plot is very good , it has a good pace , and the way the story slowly unravels is excellent . The acting is great , both of the leads do exceptionally well , and most of the supporting cast is good . The characters are well-written , credible and well-cast . The suspense is very good , and the intensity of some scenes will leave you as a nervous wreck . The mystery was great , and kept you guessing to the very end . The film's editing is also very good , some of the best in a Hitchcock film , and that's saying a lot . The special effects are surprisingly good , for such an old film . The cinematography is every bit as excellent as just about every other Hitchcock film . A few final notes ; though I did find the interpretation scene a little too simplified , I enjoyed the dream sequence itself immensely . Some of Hitchcock's best directed work , in terms of ' spooky and disturbing ' factor . Though I normally loathe romance subplots , I found this one to be sufficiently credible and entertaining , and it didn't feel out of place . Finally , despite the subject and theme of psychoanalysis being terribly simplified , I enjoyed the various scenes of such analysis in the film , as well as the various twists related to it . Very good job on that , Mr . Hitchcock . All in all , a very good Hitchcock mystery-thriller that most fans of such will enjoy , even if it is just a little oversimplified . I recommend it to any fan of Hitchcock and the genres of mystery and thriller . I guess most people who have more than just a little awareness on the subject of psychoanalysis should take it with a grain of salt , or not see it at all . As said by Alfred Hitchcock when David O . Selznick's psychotherapist confronted him during production , in regards to a fallacy in the depiction of the therapy ; " My dear , it's only a movie . "
Infinitely short of being spot-on	I am mainly reviewing this up to the 7th year ( and I own the sets up to and including that one ) . I will admit that the very first of this wasn't all great . . . drawings were crude , it was " messy " , and it leaned towards the sappy / hokey on occasion . . . but it did have moments . And right after , from the beginning of the second season , this was an amazing show . The animation got to be rather good just about immediately . The writing more often than not packed with social commentary , sometimes silly , though with little to no exceptions , funny . This is consistently well-done , almost entirely invariably . The references ( to everything in and outside of showbiz , within the last several decades ) are typically well-done , and this was self-aware and sophisticated . The characters are relate-able , flawed and credible . The comedy usually steered clear of toilet humor and material tends to go for the smart , satirical gag . The show maintained a high level until the eighth or so , when it started to go downhill . Since then it merely seems to grow worse with each successive effort . The jokes ( which really aren't worth much to begin with , even the few of them that aren't solely based on public humiliation , other disgusting stuff and / or physical pain / abuse ) have multiple punchlines , go against the canon for no good reason , and they practically spell out how sucky this has gotten . The DVDs hold special features such as animatics , alternate language reels , a commentary track for every individual collection of 22 minutes of fun ( with relevant people from behind the scenes , and , if not always , actors ) , and crew people either sharing inside information or introducing the extras / episodes . While I realize that my criticism of the recently aired of this might lead some to avoid this altogether , so I suggest anyone considering it to not do so ( and heck , if you do like even the new , have at it ) , or you would give up many hours of hilarious , finger-on-the-pulse cleverness . And that would be downright nutty . I heartily recommend this to anyone who enjoys laughing and has enough of a base of knowledge of pop culture and American society from the 80's through the 90's .
Pure hilarity in one of the most well-rounded and thoroughly thought out in the series	I must admit that this film has a special place in my heart . . . not quite as big as the one my fiancée holds , but it's still in there . It's the first Olsen Gang film I ever saw , and owned , and thusly , the one I've seen the most . Years before I saw their other efforts , I had watched this more times than I suppose I should admit . This is a unique entry , in many ways . It starts ( though at Mallorca , like the last one ) and ends very differently than any of the others . An interesting thing is that with the last film , the two had written these characters into a corner . . . the former movie ended the series perfectly , with the gang reaching their dream : Mallorca , as millionaires . But the audience requires more of the great series . How to solve this conundrum ? Where Bahs and Balling could have written a cop-out explanation , as lesser writers surely would have , they simply properly explain the return by showing how these people are affected by their new way of life . After an incident ( that I refuse to describe , as its simplicity and pure genius would not translate properly through my words . It needs to be seen ) , they find themselves back in this country . While that isn't a choice they themselves made , we still find that they are much happier here . . . in spite of still needing money , of being mediocre citizens , of suffering under the same shortcomings as they did before . Yes . East West , home is best . Be careful what you wish for . Clichés . But aren't clichés ( often ) just truths that we find we've heard one too many times ( and one does tire more easily of hearing something that is an annoying truth to have to admit to ) ? So , with that , we're back . . . Egon's got a plan , he's released from jail and he seeks out Benny and Kjeld , trying to get their backup for his latest genius and well-devised scheme . That leads to what might just be the most excellent scene featuring Yvonne in the entire series . . . and that's all I'll say of the plot . The plot is brilliant . The way it develops is magnificent . Pacing is as good as it comes . Despite having seen this countless times before and knowing basically everything that would happen , I wasn't bored for a second . The acting is top-notch , as always . Bøffen returns , still messing up the gang's plans . This time , Ove Verner Hansen truly gets to show off his great facial acting . Pouel Kern jumps on , as well , in a very small but incredibly funny role . Furthermore , Paul Hagen and Helge Kjærluff-Schmidt ( his only role in any of the Olsen Gang films , and it's tailor-made to suit him ) join in , as two preposterously old-fashioned high-ranking train workers ( doing a nice job of making fun of the Danish railways , which are featured quite prominently in this film ( hence the title ) ; that ( the Danish train system ) , by the way , is also such a definite Danish thing that it's no wonder they basically built this film up around it ) , and managing to reference a well-known song by Benny Andersen several times in their dialog . The humor is always brilliant , mostly sophisticated and at times downright sublime . The police are thoroughly made fun of yet again ( as is the general " Danish-ness " ) . The human touch remains , still spreading smiles and laughs . This may just be the most hilarious of all the films in the series , and the one that features the most laugh-out-loud moments . You'll laugh upon hearing Kjeld announce what he'd rather be doing than live in Spain . The laughter will become hysterical upon seeing his idea for making money . If you're not already crying with laughter by the time he misquotes the Three Musketeers , you'll start . This may also contain the most of Benny's silly laughter , in any one of the films . One of the best in a great series . Humorous , well-written and highly memorable . I recommend it to any fan of the franchise as well as any fan of comedy and Danish humor in general . I would say , though , that having watched the previous entries is a must .
Better	This is based on the Director's Edition . After the first being essentially a long ( no . . . really ) establishing piece , this takes charge , and does so right away . The pacing is improved , and this is more enjoyable . This uses an episode as a start-off point , and in general presumes the viewer is familiar with the franchise . I'm not sure this was the most interesting way to go from that particular one , but what they get out of it is good . I'm sure I will take a lot of flack for this , but it does seem a little like Gene having less control proved a positive , at least in this case . The plot is well-written . The themes are another positive . This is , as Star Trek is when at its best , about the characters , and they're consistently and credibly written , and they have something to do this time , if not equal amounts . The acting is great . Notable that they got the same performer . The effects are nice , convincing and well-done , and they never take over . The action isn't bad , ditto the tension and the humor . Not all situations are satisfyingly resolved , going by their potential and / or set-up . There is genuine violence in this , and children should not see this , to a greater degree than earlier . The language is pervasive again , though almost invariably still not overly harsh . Props to this for depicting actual space phenomena . This isn't as exquisite visually as its predecessor , but it is well-shot , and editing and cinematography are well-done . I recommend this to fans of Star Trek and thinking man's science fiction , and would suggest that , if nothing else , Space Seed be watched first .
Smart and thought-provoking	If I say " teenagers debating philosophy " , you're likely to do a 180 degree turn and double-time it ( and for those entirely unfamiliar with math and / or military terminology , that means to turn around and run in the opposite direction . . . or what you were walking , not . . . after you . . . turn . . . anyway ) . I must , however , implore that anyone whom this short film crosses the attention of does allow this a second glance . It's a pleasant surprise , and should help prove that good things come out of indie film production . The setup is simplification itself ; two co-workers talk about the title existentialist . Few camera angles ( not excluding effective use of them , however ) . The score is soft , classical pieces . Subtlety is defining , here . The real key is in the dialog and the acting . The exploration of ideas in the former , and the solid high quality of the latter ( Isaac and Marshall both prove that they can be serious just as well as silly ) . The ending could hardly have been any better , any more perfect . This is not much more than five minutes , credits included , and it is very much worth your time . Language is quite strong , it starts fairly early and never really ceases again . Some may take offense to the material presented herein . . . really , the very first line should tell you if you will or not , or the concepts put forth by , again , the person this was titled after . I recommend this to anyone interested in philosophy .
Watch it for Anden	I watched this a while back . . . and the only thing that really stuck out was the performance of my favorite comedian , Anders " Anden " Matthesen . He's usually good , occasionally great . . . and in this performance , he's astounding . This is , simply put , some of his best work to date . It's really too bad that it's surrounded by all the others . I mean , Tingleff has the occasional funny joke ( and the ( very ) rare hilarious one ) , but he more often than not comes across as a cheap knock-off of Anden , with his aggressive ( yet somehow eerily quiet and soft-spoken ) style . Eskelund has some humor , and his hosting is worth watching . . . he has a fair-to-good ratio of laughs to the time he spends on stage . His jabs at Danish sayings are amusing , though nowhere near as entertaining as those of Anden . Øgendahl , I don't know . . . I once considered him funny , but I've come to realize that his performance is always limited to manic ranting and an overuse of " comic " facial expressions . No matter what he plays or where he appears . Klan is introduced as a " stand-up performer and magician ! " I don't " get " magic tricks . I believe I was somewhat fascinated by the practice of it as a ( very ) young child , but I have since come to hate it . It's showy , it's daft and every single audience member over the age of 7 with an IQ higher than their age knows that it's fake . Sure , the same could be said about certain Hollywood movies , but I don't believe I go around tooting the horn of them , either . More to the point , I simply don't think it belongs on a scene of stand-up . It doesn't help that the man doesn't seem to be able to go more than a few seconds without screaming " sausage " . Geo , well , he's just plain weird . Some would call him a psychopath . I am one of them . I didn't laugh once during neither his nor Klan's performance . But turning back to my starting point . . . Anden is just magnificent in this . His aggression in high gear , he drills through ridiculous occurrences , facts and people with the intensity of a heavy machine-gun . He talks about girls ( as usual , his favorite topic ) , Swedes , and covers many , many things he hates or hates certain aspects of . The only negative I can say of his part of the show is that you can only experience it for the first time once . To Anden , I give a 9 . . . or possibly even a 10 . Had this been the first time I saw it , it would probably have been a perfect rating . The fact that the others are , well , less than amazing , brings it down . . . but only one rating . I recommend this to fans of stand-up comedy , definitely fans of Anden and also fans of the other comedians . I'm sure many of you will find the others funnier than I did .
Hitchcock directs a comedy . . . in his unique style , and with his trademark dark humor	Yes , the master of suspense actually directed a comedy . . . a romantic one , even . . . but naturally it has many of the same elements as his other films . There are a few scenes of suspense , but most of it is humor . Some of the humor falls flat , tries too hard , but the vast majority of it works perfectly . The laughs came every few minutes , at times only seconds apart , even . The score underscores the comedy nicely . The plot is interesting , and the way it constantly develops is great . There are plenty of twists and turns , as the characters try to figure out who killed Harry and what to do with his body . Throughout the film , there's quite a lot of confusion about his death , until it's finally revealed at the end . I haven't really seen an awful lot of comedies from this era ( actually , only this one and Some Like It Hot ) , so I don't have a real basis for comparison . . . but I really enjoyed the humor in this film , probably because I've always enjoyed Hitchcock's distinctive sense of humor , seen often as small touches in his other films , and particularly evident in interviews . It's definitely worth watching for any fan of Hitchcock . I recommend this to fans of Hitchcock and / or black comedy . Just don't expect the typical Hitchcock film .
Excellent military court drama	This is one of the best dramas ever made , especially about military law , as it shows perfectly that the system doesn't work . The military courts often result in people being punished for a crime they didn't commit . The system doesn't work because it's based on minor details . This movie shows very clearly that this form of " justice " doesn't work . It's very well-made , the acting is all top-notch , even for most of the minor characters , and the script is well-written . The plot is good , and moves at a great pace . You never lose interest in the story , after it attracts you within the first five minutes . The acting is nearly all perfect , with perfect performances by each of the big names in the cast , and even several of the lesser known actors . The characters are well-written and credible . The dialog is some of the best written and most quotable in any film ever . The court scenes are well-filmed and interesting , and some of the best I've ever seen in a court drama . Overall , it's one of the best , most well-made court dramas I've ever seen , and it's worth seeing for any fan of such films . I recommend this to fans of dramas in general , but specifically fans of court dramas , especially those who have an interest in military law .
Unbelievably scary	This is one of the scariest films I've ever seen ; what's great about it is how it doesn't rely on excessive amounts of gore or cheap thrills to scare you . There's barely any blood or violence in the movie at all , and it's still more scary than most violent horror movies . I love how the horror is all atmospheric ; it keeps building up to something worse , instead of just hitting you with constant scenes of violence . This is a perfect movie to put on , if you're sitting alone a dark night , in need of a good scare . Nearly anyone will find it scary . The plot is interesting , and keeps developing constantly , so you never get tired of it . The acting is top-notch , by pretty much every single actor involved , major & minor character alike . The characters are believable , and their actions understandable . The movie has an excellent mystery , that leaves a lot of open ends to the audience to figure out for themselves ; unfortunately , there may be too many open ends . . . I've seen it three times , and I still can't make sense of everything that happens in the movie . That's the only complaint , though . Other than that , it's nearly perfect . It's definitely one of the scariest movies ever , especially if you're into atmospheric horror . I'd recommend this to any fan of atmospheric horror movies ; this is one of those movies you have to watch , if you're into atmosphere in a horror movie .
Very interesting film , but horrible pacing	This film has been met with a lot of controversy , when it first came out ; a lot of people have a hard time accepting that this might be the truth . I don't know for sure how much of it is based on facts , but from what I understand , it's most of it , if not all of it . The film is packed with great actors , however many of them have very minor roles in the film . Regardless , every single performance is great , there wasn't any point where I thought that any of the actors did anything less than a great job portraying their respective characters . The film is well-edited , telling a lot of the story through flashbacks , and even giving us a visual of things that " supposedly " happened , but quite apparently never took place . All in all , this is a great film , but it could , and should , have been a perfect one . The problem with the film lies wholly in the pacing ; in the first thirty minutes , it pretty much tells you the part of the story that everybody knows ; the assassination itself , Lee Harvey Oswald's arrest and the killing of Oswald . After that , the plot starts to revolve around an investigation that simply takes far too long , and it only takes so long because it's filled with , well , filler . Had it been more to the point , instead of showing scene after scene of questioning , most of them nearly the same , it would have been much easier to follow the film's plot ; I'm not saying that it's simple , in fact , it's anything but simple , but it was made out to be far more complicated than it had to be . I think there was about half an hour , maybe 45 minutes of the film where I didn't pay attention , simply because virtually nothing at all happened in the film . I don't have anything against three-hour films , I've seen several that I enjoyed regardless of length ( Dances with wolves , Scarface ( the Al Pacino version ) etc . ) , but those did a good job of keeping me interested in the story , and the story constantly develops in them ( especially Scarface ) , whereas in this one , it almost stands still , while we listen to one lying witness after the other , every single lie in details , instead of just a few lines to demonstrate that this character is lying . I just think there was far too much material , however true it may be , that belongs in a director's cut or a documentary than a regular feature film . It could easily have been cut down at least half an hour . For a political film , this is very good . In fact , for a film by any standard , it is very good . It's just too bad it isn't as great as it could have been , had it been paced better . Unless you have an enormous amount of interest in the subject matter , and an equal amount of patience , you probably won't be able to sit through this . I recommend it to pretty much anyone who's interested in knowing more about the Kennedy assassination , and who has the patience that is required .
Hilarious British comedy	I'm not certain I've watched every episode of this show , but it sure is not for a lack of trying . The Brits have a tendency of ( and a talent for ) turning unpleasant historical events into the subject of satirical shows . The BlackAdder series covered many of Britain's greatest blunders through the last thousand years or so . This deals with WWII , using the setting of a small , occupied town in France , and spoofing basically any kind of person you might meet there . . . all the people and all the nationalities are covered . You'll meet Frenchmen , Brits , Germans , Russians , yes , even an Italian or two ( actually . . . make that one ) . The humor is a good mix between the typically crude and silly humor of Benny Hill ( complete with ending some episodes with people chasing each other in a farcical manner ) , and the more witty , verbal humor of shows such as the aforementioned BlackAdder series . There's even a tad of black comedy , mostly delivered by the undertaker , Monsieur Alfonse . It steers almost entirely clear of gross-out comedy , something that turned up in last-mentioned show ( even if it didn't become terribly apparent before the last two seasons ) . The characters are well-written ( if somewhat thin ) and humorous . Though most of them are clichés , they are surprisingly easy to tell apart . . . their particular gag , their " schtick " is uniquely theirs . And though they are repeated throughout the series , the jokes hold up exceptionally well . You find yourself quoting characters years after you saw the episode where the line appeared , and some scenes stick in your mind for ages . The reason the stereotypical jokes work is that they hit the mark . . . every single one of them . You have the somewhat whiny German officers who didn't really want to be officers , but , as one remarks , " It's Hitler . . . he's a very demanding man . " You have the small-time café owner who just wants to stay in business , but still lights up some at the thought of fighting for his countrymen , of being considered " the bravest man in all of France . " We have Arthur Bostrom as the British undercover agent who couldn't speak French to save his life ( parodying the difficulty of learning that language ) is always fun , even if his lines and jokes are mostly derived from his mispronunciation , and therefore can hardly be claimed to be anything but silly ( though there are moments of clever puns ) . Richard Gibson , as the eternally stiff , never-affected-emotionally Gestapo officer ( who just happens to contain parts of various famous German officers , and even Hitler himself ) is my personal favorite , in the role that always begets laughter . And Guy Siner must be mentioned . . . never has one character begotten so many jokes about sexuality . German discipline , French passion , Italian flashiness and British cheeriness are all expertly spoofed . The verbal comedy is masterful . Anyone not from Britain ( and even there , it's not just anyone ) needs an excellent grip on the British language . On that note . . . with how many different approaches there are to handling different languages ( ignoring it , having the actors do accents , subbing and dubbing ) , I think this takes the cake , at least for me . No word of anything but English is spoken here . To distinguish , they simply have the ( British ) actors put on an accent according to which language they're supposed to be speaking ( no H at the beginning of any word for the French , Z's instead of S's for the Germans , and A at the end of various words for the Italian , etc . ) . This is established in the very pilot , where both the Brits and the Frenchmen determine that they don't understand a word of what the other group is speaking . The British is all exaggerated British , as well . . . imitating the way the Brits sound to anyone who don't hear them too often . They're making an effort to help the viewer tell the nationalities apart , whilst flaunting the fact that they all speak the same language . Marvelous . The plot lines are intricate ( but never overly complicated ) , and always filled with mix-ups and sitcom-like mishaps . The great thing is that in every episode ( at least to my knowledge ) , you are treated to a minute or two of a character ( typically René , the lead ) explaining the current situation , complete with mix-ups . You can join the show at any point ( though it's always the best to watch them in the right order , and as many as you can get near ) . The rich scenery of many episodes is quite a high-point , as well . . . BlackAdder , from the second season and onwards was always on sets , occasionally average-at-best ones . They flaunt that fact , similarly to how this flaunts the language difference ( or lack thereof ) . Only the first season of BlackAdder had outdoor scenes ( and let's face it , no matter how you look at it , the cinematography wasn't exactly brilliant ) . This has many outdoor scenes , complete with vehicles and surroundings that fit the time it is set in . That helps sell the setting and time period very well . The wide character gallery helps for variety , and some credibility is attained ( and the tone is kept from being overly goofy ) in part through authentic details and occurrences that seem realistic . This was a great show that almost attained excellence , were it not for a few bugging points . . . the occasional overdone or overly repeated gag , the few episodes which just aren't that funny , one or two characters that were somewhat one-note jokes ( and not all that good ones , at that ) , and such . And replacing Gibson . . . even for the last few episodes . . . that , in my opinion , was a very big mistake . However , if you do catch this show and find it funny , I definitely suggest watching the whole thing through . Not only is the vast majority of episodes excellent , but the very ending , the last few minutes of the finale are marvelous . Perfect way to end the show . I recommend this to any fan of British humor , both verbal and the Benny Hill variation , as well as black comedy , and anyone looking to laugh at the second World War . Priceless entertainment .
Pretty good satire on ' dog people ' and common issues	When I sat down to watch this , I really didn't know what to expect , but I had spotted a good bit of small names in comedy on the cast list , so I thought ' what the hey , it might be good ' . Turns out I was right . It's a great film , with plenty of commentary on dog lovers and various general issues ( there is some great dialog between Eugene Levy and his wife regarding how much she dated before she met him . . . great stuff ) . The plot revolves around a dog show , and we see the various characters ( read : dog lovers and friends ) either going to it or talking about it . The acting is all very good , there really wasn't any performance I found anything less than satisfactory . The characters are well-written , credible and realistic , human . The dialog is real and funny . The dog lover stuff is funny , but possibly slightly clichéd or stereotypical , but never overly so . I know I laughed every time a character talked to or about a dog as if it was a human being that could understand everything it was told , instead of simply an animal that is easily trained . The film is a treat for anyone who thinks animal lovers are somewhat ridiculous and / or any fan of any of the comedians and comic actors in the film . I recommend it to anyone who finds dog lovers particularly amusing and knows of ( and enjoys ) at least one of the actors in the film .
In my opinion , by far the best of the series	One of the problems of these is that each director , albeit to varying degrees , were selfish . . . not only adding their respective styles and touches to their separate efforts , each also tried to make theirs the definite piece ( and little was left for the next director to work with ) . I won't claim that Cameron wasn't , as well . . . nor for a second deny that he by far had the best starting place ( you'll know what I mean if you've watched the first , and perhaps also this . . . and if you haven't , you shouldn't find out from any other source ) . . . but darn it if he doesn't live up to it and deliver the goods ( not everyone manages to , no matter how solid the hand they're dealt is ) . Where the first has adequate atmosphere , this has it in spades . It had maybe three or four jump scares , this is continually exciting ( this actually affected me far more often , and typically more lasting ) . This also has humor . It looks magnificent , technically and visually speaking . I'm afraid I just cannot claim that I see how Alien measures up to this . Effects are superior ( how much better could they really have gotten in seven years ? Besides , if you can't get something to look convincing on the screen , why are you putting it up there ? ) . Characters are interesting and strong . The action is awesome , some of the best for the genres ( I'm not kiddin ' ) . Direction is effective all the way , and James just gets something much more satisfying , entertaining and engaging out of the title creature . This takes the next logical step in the franchise , and does so almost flawlessly . The plot is marvelous . Pacing is excellent , this is never boring ( neither version ) . Acting is about spot-on ( and frankly much more involving and involved than that of its predecessor , with Weaver , Henriksen ( nailing his performance unbelievably well ) , Biehn ( by far one of my favorite male actors , and when James Cameron directs him , it gets kicked up a notch of considerable size ) and Henn ( 9 years old , and so talented ) being just the top picks in a film which seems devoid of poor performances . Paxton provides perfect comic relief , without being goofy or lame . The sci-fi aspects of the film are also amazing ( not to ignore what Alien did have , which should also be noted ) , and everything about the Marines is great , cool and obviously very thought through . The Special Edition holds about 17 minutes more material , and it's invariably worth the extra time . That cut also has a commentary track , and it is rather good . . . Bill and Michael are so fun to listen to , and their camaraderie comes off so genuine ( though they do also all partake in the , one would presume , mandatory love-fest ) , Gale , Stan Winston and James have quite a bit to say . . . even Carrie , if she doesn't throw her two cents in as much , is a pleasant inclusion . All in all , the best of the series , and definitely the most intense ( and perhaps scary ) of them . I recommend it to fans of Cameron and / or of the Alien series .
The battle	Of the Animatrix shorts , this is the third , and , obviously , of The Second Renaissance , it is the second part . After the first one ( which perhaps had more to say , but that is debatable ) told us the events leading up to the war , this shows just that : The stand-off between the two forces . We already know the final result , so this is not about the destination , but the journey . The depiction is very dark , bleak and apocalyptic , and it achieves what was obviously one of the things they went for : It is not a pleasant sight . The irony is bitter and arguably cruel . The story-telling is similar . The animation is nice , with a well-integrated mix of 2D and 3D . Very effective direction and choice of color schemes . This has nudity or what comes very close to it , and definitely violent and disturbing images , and is not for the faint of heart . This is controversial , just as the one before it . On the DVD , there is a making of that goes over both , and is very informative and well-done , and a commentary track , not in English but with subtitles , and it is definitely worth taking in . I recommend this to any fan of the Matrix franchise , Part I of these ( watching it is a must for the experience of this one ) and / or science fiction in general .
An excellent first part of the end of the beloved characters	This is where the end is reached for the Olsen Gang . Kjeld and Yvonne are to celebrate their silver wedding . Egon announces right off the bat that he is not going back to jail . The end all be all to all Olsen Gang films ( yes , the ' 98 film hardly has any place in this series or even franchise at all ) . How best to make it count ? Collect every exceptional idea left , every coup , every joke and gag still to be done . . . and create a two-parter finale . This first part ends with a cliffhanger , followed by a brief advertisement for the next film , to ensure that people will watch it all . The plot is simply brilliant . The coups are among the most memorable , they are plentiful and they're all excellently executed . The pace is intense . There's constantly something going on , and the laughs are non-stop . The humor is amazing . From the Latin slogan ( in a delightful parody of the pompous slogan of Carlsberg , which was also written in Latin ) of the insurance company that translates into " In calamity we trust " to Yvonne's one-sided phone conversation with her never-seen sister , it's all sophisticated , accurate , human and hilarious . Bøffen pulls out two ( ! ) of his best death-traps , leading to several incredibly funny scenes . The character of Hallandsen , perfectly cast with Holger Juul Hansen as the executive on the verge of a nervous breakdown , begets several entertaining scenes , one featuring Tom McEwan as an immigrant cab driver . Tommy Kenter is born to play the small but funny role that he does . With an ending that leaves you on the edge of your seat and wanting more , all I can say is watch this , and be sure to have the next one handy . I recommend this to any fan of the series and Danish comedy in general , though having seen the previous films are a requirement to understand and enjoy it .
Excellent ending to a grandiose series	The last half of the two-part ending . The definite ending ( as it should have been , and would have been , were it not for the ' 98 version ) to the series . We get closure and the finale delivers . Most certainly . Dramaturgically speaking , this goes all the way . We experience the biggest , most dramatic plot developments . This picks up exactly where the previous one left off . As to not spoil the highly entertaining end of that film , I won't go into too much detail about that . The situation is the same ; Egon still doesn't want to go back to prison , and Kjeld and Yvonne's celebration nears the date . The Gang is still chasing the suitcase , and their chase takes them into a hotel where the randy old Kai Løvring works , to Carlsberg breweries ( finally displaying the Latin quote , which has inspired so many parody ones throughout the series , probably because this is the last ) and even to Paris ( where Bahs and Balling wrote most of these films , again , possibly chosen because this was to be the last film ) , all of which including funny situations and jokes . The " morally light " nature of Paris is not only joked around a lot , it's a plot point . There are clever references aplenty , such as in the scene involving the KBG ( " No , not KGB , KBG ! " ) , Københavnske Body Guards ( Bodyguards of Copenhagen ) , with the nervous and slightly neurotic Claus Ryskjær at the helm . Yvonne also participates more actively this time , as always , helping in her own peculiar way , never following what's actually going on . Paris is the setting for some very funny scenes , one involving Maxim's . Dick Kaysø makes an appearance in a small role as a slightly tightly wound crane worker proud of his work . Poul Reichhardt has a very funny role , in which Benny shows his immense humanity . The humor is all sophisticated , much of it is hilarious , and it always hits the mark . We can follow the reasonings , understand the conclusions . The Danish sayings that are changed around are also undeniably side-splitting ( such as the very last phrase uttered by Holm , the policeman ) . The ending so perfectly finishes off the series . It's worth it for any fan , any real fan of the franchise . I recommend this very highly to any fan of Olsen Banden as well as Danish comedy . Watch the first 11 , then watch both parts of this in reasonably quick succession . You won't regret it .
Hilarious special found on the DVD of Blackadder II	Fifteen minutes of pure Blackadder . What better way to spend a quarter of an hour ? This has Edmund as a Lord during the time of Oliver Cromwell and the revolution . He has to defend King Charles I ( Stephen Fry , in a deliciously accurate parody of Prince Charles of Wales ) from Cromwell and the Roundheads . Baldrick returns , but Percy does not . The minimalistic cast of this is works perfectly for this short . This has some of the best writing of the series I've seen so far ( The Black Adder and Blackadder II making up the rest of it ) . This is very close to being even funnier than Blackadder II , but it's prevented by just one too many uninspired gags and jokes and some pacing problems . It has some of the most clever material and the most laugh-out-loud as well as burst-out-laughing moments and scenes of what I've seen so far . I doubt more than half a minute passed without me laughing through watching this . A must-see for any fan of Blackadder . I recommend this to anyone who enjoys British humor , Rowan Atkinson's work and / or Blackadder .
A great sequel	When I sat down in the theater to watch this , I was almost expecting to be disappointed ; the first was so great , I couldn't imagine that it could possibly be as good . I was pleasantly surprised . It's at least as good as the first , but I wouldn't call it better . The plot is about as good as the first ; if possibly a bit more far-fetched , most likely due to the sequel not being planned when they made the first ( or maybe Andrew Adamson is just a one-idea guy ) . The voice-acting is great , at least as good as it was in the first , and the new additions to the cast are all great and well-chosen . The characters are well-written , credible and their voices well-cast . Despite being fairy tale characters , all of them are actually funny and a few of the main characters even have personality . I liked how , whereas Donkey was the source of comic relief in the first , now he has someone to play against , namely Puss In Boots . In the first , we met Donkey and got to know how annoying he can be . . . this time , he's still annoying , but now he meets his match , the Puss In Boots . I really liked their constant fighting , and the Puss himself was hilarious , even when he wasn't playing against Donkey . I liked that Shrek and Fiona had more personality in this one . The tone also seemed more adult , whereas the first was kind of children's film combined with adult humor . The humor is still the same in this one though ; as crude as it was in the first . The gags and jokes are very funny , just like in the first , and I didn't think that any of the material was recycled , though the humor is very much the same . I liked the way the fairly tale creatures and characters were implemented in the movie , many of them had tiny roles and bit parts , but were hilarious all the same . Most of the characters from the first one have parts in this one too , though all but Fiona , Shrek and Donkey have small roles . All the parodies are great , and well-implemented as they should be . I loved the scene after the credits , with a nice little epilogue to the story . Great stuff . I recommend this film to anyone who enjoyed the first , or anyone who enjoys crude humor and saw the first ( otherwise you'll probably have no clue whatsoever to what's going on ) . A worthy sequel .
Surprisingly good	Having seen Wes Anderson's first film , Bottle Rocket , and being thoroughly disappointed with it I didn't have that high expectations for this film . It surprised me with how entertaining it was , not to mention how sharp and clever most of the humor was . The cast contains considerable talent and it shows . The acting is superb and the timing is never off . The writing is very good , and there is hardly one joke or gag in the whole film that falls flat . What really makes this film work that despite the extremes , despite the unlikely nature of many situations and characters , it seems somehow believable and it rarely steps out of line or tries to be funny by being downright offensive . It reminded me of old episodes of The Simpsons ; a wacky yet ( albeit only slightly ) credible view at family life . The characters are far-fetched and somewhat unusual but we still relate to them and feel with them . The plot is pretty good and the pacing of it is very good . Despite the laid-back feel of the movie , you're rarely bored . The humor is very good , it makes you laugh without stooping to the level of crude gags or gross-out comedy , and whilst being almost entirely unoffensive . Just about anyone should be able to enjoy this , unless you have something against one or more of the actors , or don't like the style of humor . I advise you to check out the memorable quotes if you are unsure whether or not you'll like the movie . I recommend this to any fan of any of the actors involved and / or fans of Ben Stiller / Wilson brothers ' humor .
A must-see for anyone who enjoyed the first	Wow . . . 5 more hours of Riget . Lars continues the great combination of occult , dark horror and soap-opera drama . Picking up exactly where the last episode of the previous series left off ( complete with the same high intensity and suspense , though that doesn't last ; for better or worse ) , this installation in the franchise seems somewhat more bent on haste . . . in the last series , there seemed to pass a day or a week between each episode , whereas in this , it clearly is one long stretch . . . where one episode ends , the next begins . A lot can be said about Lars von Trier . . . but he is very diverse and pretty eccentric . Both qualities show in this . The plot continues its excellence , now giving a few regular characters that were minor players in the previous four episodes more attention . Basically every character from the first returns , at least as far as the main roles go . The pacing isn't as sharp as in the first part , and I found myself less gripped by this one . That is not in any kind of way to say that this didn't involve me , though . . . I still found myself constantly watching , and at several points reacting strongly , often out loud , to what was going on ( extremely unusual behavior for me , as I am an incredibly silent person ) , as I also was during the first . Like the first , this also brings up some loaded ethical questions . Building on the foundation from the first , this brings the story further . . . and being a sequel , the scope is also bigger . Grander . More spirits , more bizarre occurrences , more subplots . The strong graphic material of the first also returns , and it's been kicked up a notch . The characters are developed further . The acting is amazing , as that of the first . Udo Kier solidifies his immense talent , to anyone who doubted it . Playing a very difficult character ( anyone who has seen the first series can most likely figure out what I mean ) and acting in a language he didn't speak ( he was later dubbed ) . . . and still handing in such a strong performance . The cinematography remains great , and is still very hand-held , with rapid zooms and the occasional long take . The editing is sharp , with a few direct cuts in sound ( though these were more prominent in the first ) . Now , with all that said , I would really like to be able to rate this a perfect 10 . . . or at least just under , like the first four episodes . I truly enjoyed watching , and I don't regret it in the least . But this does have shortcomings . . . the ones the first part had and more . As the first , the humor just takes up too much space . . . and this time around , it's even worse . There are several new regular characters that are there for no other reason than to provide comic relief . . . three of them , no less . Scenes are set up and executed for no other reason than to make the audience laugh . Fine for a comedy , but what is it doing in such a dark and unpleasant , yes , nothing short of sadistic at times , horror piece ? Helmer's solitary secret hiding place of solitude is changed from the hospital roof . . . from which he could see his beloved Sweden . . . to a bathroom . With an angle from inside the bowl . No , you read that right . In general , the humor seems more low-brow . . . more sex and bodily function jokes , which , again , begs the question " Why ? " . Whilst most of the writing is excellent , some of it is downright dire . Several scenes are basically copied from the first mini-series ( one would guess due to their popularity when it aired ) . At times , the drama seems a bit more bombastic than that of the first , and it jumps too much at times . Fortunately seldom , but still noticeably , plot points and items are explained away too easily ( a certain character living in Denmark for no apparent reason , for example . . . anyone who's seen it knows who I'm speaking of ) . The two dishwashers , while still mysterious and insightful , become too much of a gimmick . . . too overexposed , in the end , I guess . Most of the scenes with them are still enjoyable , though . In addition to that , I want to reassure any reader of this that in spite of all the negative things I have just written that this is still mostly good . . . definitely enjoyable , compelling , powerful . . . and in my humble opinion , it should definitely be seen by anyone who liked the first ( though if belong in that group ; do not expect to feel that the story is finished after watching this any more than you did after the first ) . I recommend this to any fan of Lars von Trier and anyone who enjoyed the first Riget and wants more where that came from . I urge anyone who's even considering watching this to make sure you've seen all of the first before you do . . . I bought this before I bought the first , but I held out on watching until I had bought the first and watched that , and I can't tell you how glad I am that I did . Though this features a brief summary of the events in the first , there are an immense amount of details and aspects that you would miss out on if you didn't see it before watching this . Slightly lesser sequel , but definitely still one to watch if you liked the first .
Very good autobiographical drama	Before watching this movie , I had nearly no idea who Larry Flynt was . I read a quick summary a few minutes before watching it , but I hardly knew any specific details . After watching it , I know exactly who he is , and what he stands for . He stands for freedom of speech . Some might call him a pervert . Others call him a patriot . I believe he is the latter . While I don't know the exact story of Larry Flynt from any other sources than this movie , I don't know if it's completely accurate . The plot is great , for a biographic piece , the acting is superb , by most actors , especially the three main characters . Most of the cinematography fits the movie perfectly . The only thing that bothered me a little , was there was relatively little information about why Larry Flynt did what he did , believed what he believed so strongly . I sympathized with his character in several scenes , but I never fully understood him . The director should have had at least a few more emotional scenes with Larry , to explain his actions better . Overall , a very good drama . Recommendable to most fans of the genre , as long as they can stand what the movie shows them . If you have an open mind , you're not too easily offended and you're into autobiographical dramas , this is a good film to watch .
Even then , he was excellent	I watched this entirely based on whom I knew helmed it . I have not read the novel , and was in fact not aware of its existence until I read that this was based on a book . This is the earliest of Stanley's movies that I've seen at this time . I have to say , as far back as this point in his career , the man knew what he was doing . This is a masterfully done noir crime-thriller , in stark black and white , that will have your attention from start to finish . Its impact on cinema is still felt today . I am here mainly referring to one specific aspect of it in particular . The narration can be a tad excessive , but you can find out where the blame lies for that by reading the Trivia ( though I urge you to not read all of it until after at least your initial viewing of it ) . The dialog , however , fits perfectly , offers quotable lines , and is impeccably thought up as well as delivered . The acting in general is fantastic . The writing leaves little , if anything , to be desired . The pacing is spot-on . This is extremely exciting at its best , and even when not actively intense , there's nothing extraneous . The lighting is well-done . The cinematography is marvelous . The direction is fantastic . I recommend this to any fan of Kubrick , and / or the genres it falls into , and the others who helped make this .
Amazing	I had forgotten how astounding this was . This is my second viewing , first chance I got to watch it again after the first , a few years ago , and I re-discovered it . I must say , this is difficult to take one's eyes off . The plot is very interesting , and keeps you watching throughout . The pacing is deliberate , it's seldom fast but it's not meant to be , and it's about spot-on throughout . Acting is just about perfect , for every part . Nicholson mostly drops the mannerisms that we all know , and Del Toro is barely even recognizable . There is a lot of heavy acting talent featured in this . The direction is masterful . . . I've made a mental note to seek out some more of Penn's directorial efforts , and I can't help but wonder why he doesn't do more . This is to an extent a psychological thriller , and so much is more hinted at than shown . The writing is remarkable , very realistic and intriguing . The camera-work is magnificent . The editing is top-notch , and very , very effective . Both should impress just for the planning that went into those aspects . The ending is powerful . The film as a whole is incredible . I recommend this to any fan of skillful movie-making , mysteries and / or thrillers .
One of Stallone's best films	Let me start this review of by making one thing absolutely clear ; I hate boxing . I don't even consider it a sport . I consider it legalized violence , that people pay money to see , knowing that each blow to the head costs countless braincells . So , there is no way I would ever like a boxing movie . But Rocky isn't a boxing movie . It's not about boxing ; it's about determination , will-power , and doing what you can to realize your dream . That's why I think Rocky is a great movie ; it has something that everyone can relate to . Many people who watch this movie don't know the first thing about boxing , nor do they care about it ( myself included ) ; but everybody has a dream , something that they want to accomplish , something great they want to achieve at some point in their life . And that's why it's going to appeal to so many different people ; everyone can relate to the theme : wanting to realize a dream . The plot is good , it moves along at a slow , steady pace , so you will need to be fairly patient with this film . Don't worry , the waiting pays off in the end . That I can promise you . The acting is pretty good , by pretty much everyone in the film , even Stallone , who I'm normally not at all impressed by . The characters are well-written , credible and likable ( the ones we're supposed to like , at least ) . The story and theme is something that really sparks some interesting thought , especially since this was based on something that really happened . It's definitely one of Stallone's best films . I recommend it to fans of Stallone , and people who the subject appeals to ( which should be many , many people ) who has the patience to sit through a somewhat slow-moving two-hour movie ( which narrows it down a little ) .
Excellent film	My fiancée suggested I watch this , and when we found it for sale at a good price , we bought it right away . I must say , this is a marvelous and quite well-crafted film . The acting is top-notch all the way . Gere manages to make us care about a type of person that few like . O'Quinn is somewhat underused , as he is a magnificent actor , but apart from that , everyone gets a good chance to perform well , and they all live up to it . I would have to say that I now have a completely new-found respect for Norton . . . and I had a great deal of respect for him before even knowing of this movie . The plot is well-written and has good layers to it , especially for a movie of two hours ( running time does put quite a limitation on the level of detail and intricacy of the plot ) . The pacing is really good , the movie never moves neither too fast nor too slowly . This is the second film I've seen that was directed by Gregory Hoblit . . . and the second that I've really , really liked ( both have received 8's by yours truly , and very deservedly so ) , so I will most definitely keep an eye out for any future works by the man . I haven't read the book of the same title that this is based on , so I can't comment on how accurate and true to the tone this film is . I urge anyone intending to watch this to steer clear of any spoilers on it , because the plot is too good to ruin . I won't detail it here , I'll just say that the film has many court-room scenes , and deals with a very violent crime ( and it's not the only occurrence in the film of a violent nature ) . For that same reason , since it is depicted graphically in the film ( but not too much . . . there was nothing gratuitous about it ) , I urge anyone who believes they may not be able to handle seeing such to consider if they should watch it or not . There is also quite a bit of language , as well as a brief scene of sexual nature , so if such bother you , you may want to watch a censored version , if you are interested in seeing it . I recommend this very warmly to any fan of court-room dramas and thrillers . If you enjoy an engaging and involving thriller with surprises , this is the movie for you .
Fantastic , and not just for a debut	While certainly a breakthrough in their own right , for bringing another dimension into the world of VGs , for some years after FPS's came to , not very much was done with it . Touch-ups . Change of setting . Overall , it stayed the same , in particular once the climbing / jumping was settled . Then 3rd person view was introduced . And then this . From the get-go , you can tell that this is different . Stealth , which thus far had mostly been a possibility in certain titles , now became an integral part . Not only is shooting everything in sight not encouraged , it's just about invariably punished . This took a realistic and stylistic approach that I've not seen in any release predating it . I do not know why this seems so widely disregarded . What there isn't in this that's in the later in the series usually exists here at least as an idea , and this oozes the awesomeness and need of planning ( yes , the later ones got bigger than this , but that would not have happened without a start-off point ) that the franchise is so loved for . This begins with a concise and marvelous training portion , which can be returned to at any time , and that ranks rather far up on the list of the best introductions to a game , both as an opening and as a course in the basics . The camera in this is cool ( and affords reasonable control to the player ) , throughout the entirety of this , with the known over-the-shoulders angle being the main one , outside of the atmospheric , well-done cut-scenes ( some animated , most are well-scripted , in-engine ones ) and an alternative to it , that I consider an experiment that perhaps didn't work out as hoped ( mind you , you're never forced to use it ) . There are arguably a handful of unlikely things in this , but they're easy to ignore . The cinematic feel of this is omnipresent . The controls are simple whilst allowing plenty of freedom ( and for my money , this has bar none the greatest , as far as quality goes , action interface and weapon choosing setup of the bunch ) . This is more limited in the amount of approaches that can be taken to the tasks than its sequels . The missions are diverse , interesting and well-done , and no two are completely alike . They're well-crafted with gorgeous visuals , as well . The locations that they take place at span the globe . You'll get to eliminate targets in a variety of ways , covering the full range of the professional killer's preferred choices . The guns are excellent , well-selected ( there aren't many , if really any , neither as far as kinds nor as specific picks , that leave anything to be desired ) and lots of fun to fire . Included are side-arms , assault rifles , snipers , SMGs , to name a couple . The depiction of them is fairly credible , as well , with ROF , recoil and aim vs where the bullets actually wind up . You also cannot carry all that you might want to , nor conceal ( ! ) all . You can , however , wield two pistols at the same time , and they don't even have to be the same type . Yes , that does in fact mean that you can have a Desert Eagle in each hand , a Beretta , a Hardballer , or any mix of those . Granted , it can be slightly glitchy , but it's so darn fulfilling to do , and it does work . The bugs are few in number , and even less in the scale of their impairment . The difficulty is relatively high , for all of the three levels . This doesn't let you get away with mowing down everything in your path , and it is the last of the Hit-man efforts to enforce that , at the time of me writing this , out of four . The length depends on how skillful one is . It can be as little as five hours or so . That is when you know what to do , and nothing slowing you down apart from failed attempts . The save system . . . is that every completion is stored , and nothing else . Between starting and finishing the separate hits , you're on your own . Well , almost . There is an admittedly awkward " resurrection " feature for several of them . The audio ( and music ! ) is top-notch , everything sounds the way it ought to . The voice acting is a mixed bag , and a lot of it ranges between passable and " not quite " . Bateson , however . . . why was this man not cast in the film ? He brings the lead to life impeccably well . The writing can be clever , and the overarching plot is well-thought out and unfolds well . It , and the tone of this , is dark before it is funny . You do need to pay attention , and piece together what happened , but it does all come together and make sense . And if you intend to figure out what goes on in the others , as well , you might as well get used to it . . . it sure is not going to get less complicated , and if you only count this , there shouldn't be numerous theories that contradict each other . . . . but I digress . The graphics are near-perfect , with well-designed characters all-round . This contains a rendering method that can handle vast , full areas that are revealed as you come closer to the unseen . It is utterly devoid of lag , and it is well-achieved . The game-play is entertaining , for those who like the concept and genre , and challenging , for all , if the good people at IO Interactive did their job right . I'd say so , definite confirm , in a heartbeat . Before you remove the person you've been paid to , you have to scope out the surroundings , pick what you'll use to instill the untimely demise , the exact time and place . There is a bit of sexual material in this , but little of it is gratuitous . It's about the only stuff to avoid or take note of in this as far as such goes , provided the violence , which is by no means gruesome or brutal ( in spite of the plentiful death found in this ) , doesn't bother you . . . there's no language that I can think of . I recommend this to any individual whom all this appeals to .
From the imagination of Tim Burton	I have seen ( too ) few of Tim Burton's films ; Mars Attacks , Sleepy Hollow and the two first Batman films . . . all of them display dazzling visuals , Gothic style and an eery mood . I try to search out as many of his works as I can find , but they are hard to come by in my area . Therefore I was happy to find that a friend of mine had this to loan me . Burton created an amazing , enthralling and engaging world here . Never having been terribly into Christmas and never having celebrated Halloween ( not being American ) , this movie had less impact on me than it would most viewers , I guess . The character of Jack Skellington ( and his conflict ) was an interesting one . I've never been terribly into musicals , but this one really had me intrigued and watching closely . The score by Danny Elfman is excellent . The plot moves along nicely , never losing your interest . The dark , Gothic tone of the film is incredibly absorbing . Though Tim didn't himself direct this ( due to his commitment to the second Batman movie ) , but you can tell his involvement in the creative process . His influence is unmistakably visible in each shot . The colorful ( or colorless , depending on how you look at it ) characters are plentiful , diverse and fascinating . The DVD features a good commentary by Henry Selick , the director , and Pete Kozachik , the director of photography , and it has a lot of interesting information on the animation process . Lighting and production values are exceptional . So rich color palettes were used to create all of these vastly different worlds within the film . I remember watching most , if not all , of this a few years ago , at Christmas , as it was aired here . . . though upon watching it this time , I realized that I could remember very little of it . I doubt I ' got it ' back then , and to be honest , I'm afraid I may not have , this time , either . Still an enjoyable fable , playing with the two holiday celebrations , and a creative thrill-ride from start to finish . I recommend this to all fans of Tim Burton , Gothic style and animation .
Excellent game . . . must-play for any fan of real-time strategy gaming	I've honestly never been much of a fan of RTS ( Real Time Strategy ) games . . . I generally find them to be uneventful and unimaginative , most of the time . The better part of them are essentially the same , when you break them down to basic elements : Build up a base , collect credits through some kind of natural ( or unnatural ) mineral , build an army and defeat the opponent who has more or less the same type ( s ) of army / units / buildings as you . Well , this one is something else . . . here , you have three species . . . each unique . That's different technologies , units , strengths and weaknesses . There's a larger-than-usual single player part that has 10 missions per race . Most of them are fun , and they grow more challenging , so you won't tire of it before you're done , either . Music is fitting ( and it's even differentiated for the three , as is the color scheme and HUD design ) . The game-play is among the best that the RTS genre has to offer ; it's quite open-ended , allowing you to experiment to find out what works best for you . There are an awful lot of drastically different units and abilities for the three races . I have to admit , I've experienced several RTS games which unfortunately have one inferior army , which can only defeat the other army through means of drastically superior numbers . The model this utilizes has been used other times ( since ) , recently in the Generals game in the C & C series . The graphics are excellent , and still hold up well today . The animations are smooth and positively bursting with detail . For better or for worse , compared to , say , the Command & Conquer franchise , this allows more for a higher number of bases . . . as soon as you can build , you can pretty much build yourself a new base . Also , I would say that this is a game where you have to expect that you may need to spend time finding yourself more minerals . . . or making what you get last a while . Take note , those used to there being credits aplenty throughout the RTS titles they play , as I can't off-hand think of another game that isn't pretty much like that . There is a limitation on how many units any player ( human or computer-controlled ) can control ( clearly shown , in any given level ) , which rules out the often applied strategy ( for other RTS titles ) of just attacking the enemy with a swarm of powerful units , and necessitates proper strategy . The game also has a magnificent story ( and well-told ( partially through rather marvelous voice-acting , and some through beautifully animated video sequences ) , complete with three perspectives , and well-written characters ) . Usually , when playing single player in a RTS game , you have to lead the army you've chosen to victory . . . the campaigns contradict each other , or simply don't relate to one another . In this game , you lead each of the three races through the three parts . This way , you feel like a much bigger part ; you're the one fighting the hardest battles of the war , and making the biggest difference in the plot . Each race has a final mission where they have to destroy an enormously important , heavily defended building , making for an awesome ending to that part of the game . Of course , once you've beaten the single player portion of the game , you'll want something else to entertain you . . . so there's multi-player , which can be played both over the Internet and over LAN . There are several different modes of multi-player , allowing for many hours spent without it getting boring . The multi-player is also reliable , with no errors during play . And if you tire of that , there's even a level editor . No , in fact it's a campaign editor . You can make entire series with this tool , and it's about as easy to use and packed with features as such editors get . Believe me , I've been making levels ( well , trying to ) for several years , and this is one of the best , most compact , and most easy-to-figure-out editor I've tried ( others include the ones for Max Payne ( which allows for much greater freedom , but doesn't allow much easy tweaking , and the interface of which more or less immediately weeds out all but the most well-versed in computers ) and Heroes of Might and Magic III ) . You can make extensively programmed levels and completely redefine the game-play . Even if you don't fancy yourself a creative type , this is to your advantage if you get this ; there are tons of websites with new levels , custom-made , for more or less any purpose ( single-player , multi-player , various separate ones , etc . ) , and all you need to do is download and put the file in the map folder . It does not get much easier . Heck , you can even download more tools to customize , if you want to do something that the regular editor , that comes with the game , won't let you ( though there is precious little that fits into that category . . . it's incredibly open and , as stated earlier , jam-packed with features ) . The interface is better than that of contemporary titles . This is undoubtedly one the best RTS games out there . . . but there are a few minor complaints . Some of the programming does leave a little to be desired . . . at times units go the long way around obstacles , sometimes they don't go exactly where you tell them to , just somewhere in close proximity , and finally , there are examples of units ' acting up ' as a side-effect of certain magic / special abilities . Also , though the games does have a number of in-game tips , it can be fiendishly hard , and there's only one instructional tutorial , and it doesn't cover much . Finally , the three races don't have equally interesting story-lines , and they have to be beaten in the preset order , so if you're stuck on a dull and / or hard mission with an uninspired one , there's really nothing to do , except to just do your best to get through it and hope for the next one to be more interesting . Of course , that is a minor complaint . All in all , the game is an accomplishment . I recommend this to any fan of RTS games , and most gamers and sci-fi fans in general .
J . J . Abrams proves that his talent for TV can be translated fairly well to silver screen productions	My fiancée has introduced me to two grandiose shows recently , as well as a man of excellent writing and directing talent . . . the shows were Lost and Alias , and the man ( who I wasn't personally introduced to , mind you ) was J . J . Abrams . After thoroughly enjoying what I saw of both shows , I started paying close attention to what the man who created them was making now . . . and when I found that he was to direct the third part to this action-packed franchise which I've already seen two quite good action directors take a stab at - only to be disappointed by both - I was rather excited to see what he'd come up with . Let there be no doubt ; this movie is spectacular . It's huge . The trailer promised quite a lot , yet the film more than exceeded my expectations . True , it does run somewhat like a two-hour Alias episode . . . for better or for worse . . . and there are points where J . J . even channels Felicity ( ! ? ! ) , but it's still a good , fun ride ( if not without ideas , settings , situations and themes lifted from his aforementioned highly popular ( and deservedly so ) spy show ) . The plot has more unexpected twists and turns than a well-crafted maze . I never saw any of them coming , and I never felt cheated . None of them are cop-outs ; instead , they all work excellently to keep the story , not only moving , but also highly intense . The pacing is flawless ( save for the scenes of emo ) . The acting was good all-round . Cruise does fine . Hoffman , as expected , shines . Pegg was a great addition , he provides wonderful comic relief ( without being ridiculous or a cliché ) in his brief appearance ( and he's not exactly like Marshall . . . ) . Q and Rhys Meyers are nice additions , though their characters are kind of small ( and thin ) in the overall plot , compared to the ' real ' leads . I wouldn't say that they're underused , though , and Abrams does get some great stuff out of them ( using Q as the female put in alluring clothing ) . The characters are well-written , interesting and credible . The cast may suffer somewhat from Abrams being used to serial form , as there is not enough time to develop the characters . The writing is very , very good , apart from a few minor complaints . The humor is great . The dialog is thoroughly well-written and the chemistry is very much present . One of my favorite changes from the previous films was how personalized this was . . . sure , at first glance , that idea may seem like a cliché left over from poor action flicks of the 80's . . . but , believe you me , it works . It most definitely works . Giving the main character something to lose and then utilizing that to its fullest was an excellent idea , and completely new to a series ( the films , not the two TV series or the mid-60's movie ) which never was all that innovative . The score is great . The settings are spectacular . I won't ruin any of the scenes by telling you in which locales this movie takes place . However , I'm afraid this production is not all good , even for those of us who love Alias . I refer here to the cinematography . Yes , it's great , most definitely . . . but it doesn't look ' blockbuster ' . It doesn't look like a huge action epic with a massive budget of more than one hundred million dollars . . . rather , it looks like a TV production . Tight shots , intense cuts and hand-held camera dominates most of the action . More often than not , it's simply too confusing to even keep track of what happens , due to that . We miss the huge shots that let us know exactly how far there is between the good guys and the bad guys . There is actually one that starts out like that , but then it unfortunately zooms in ( nicely , but still ) on our hero , and again all we see is him and his immediate surroundings . All of this wouldn't be bad ( heck , it wouldn't be noticeable ) if this was , indeed , a TV production . . . but it's not . It's on a huge screen and people have paid good money to see stuff being blown up , bad guys getting whooped and big shootouts . . . you know , like the first two films . And that is what we get here . . . but too often , we just can't see that it is . We can't clearly tell what's going on , what the danger is , because of the near camera angles and the shots that leave no doubt in the viewers mind that this was shot as if it were a budgeted ( if pricey ) episode of a TV show . . . as J . J . is used to making . Many shots linger , with heavy movement ( panning as well as dolly trips ) in the camera replacing cuts and different angles . Again , this would be fine for a TV production where schedules are tight and you have less time to put together something big . . . but this isn't that , so it shouldn't look or feel like it . It should be more grand , epic . Too bad , Abrams . You came darn close . Still , this is a real treat for action flick fans , and a true accomplishment for a first-timer . It's a non-stop action-packed ride with plenty of laughs , spy stuff and more . By far my favorite installation as far as the movies go , and definitely one of the best of the newer action movies I've seen in a while . I recommend this to any fan of J . J . Abrams , Alias , action and spy flicks . Highly enjoyable .
Real Life	Seldom do you see such a good drama dealing with such heartbreak and emotion without it being filled to the brink with sap . Possibly even more rare , this is a TV-movie that elicits more emotion and has far better direction than many theatrical films , even some of the better ones . Peter Falk once again proves his immense talent with a character far from his portrayal of Columbo . The plot is very good , and as far as I know , quite original ( keeping in mind that this is a remake ) . The pacing is unusually good for a made-for-TV film . The cast is excellent , as is the acting . Peter Falk . . . what is there really to say ? With his talent and charisma , he makes even this character interesting , even though , in the beginning , is almost a modern-day Scrooge , with his hatred for just about everyone and everything . He makes us care about this old man and see through the facade , something very few actors can do , and look at the man underneath , the reason behind the hate . Aaron Meeks , I am impressed . Very few child actors do so well on their first try . The dialog has some truly memorable lines . The film deals with racism and hate in a very good way . It also shows that a big wallet does not mean a big heart . The script is good , and has some new ideas , though the very basis of it is pretty much the typical ' two people from two different worlds ' plot . This is one everyone should at least consider watching . I recommend this to fans of dramas and particularly fans of Peter Falk .
Great , but could have been perfect had it not been for a few nagging points	Usually I'm not too fond of Danish cinema , since it's mostly derivative , dull and several hundred miles behind anything out of Hollywood during the same period . I decided to give this film a chance , though , as I'd heard so many good things about it . The film turned out to be better than I expected , in fact , it's great . There are just a few things that keep it from being perfect , that keep it from a perfect ten . First of all , we never get a good insight into why the main character is living this life . . . why he does what he does , and doesn't try to get out . It's clearly not a very healthy or pleasant way of making a living , so it would make it easier to sit through the film if we got some background info , some hint at why he chooses to keep ' pushing ' . He must've had a choice at one point , he must have been able to do something else with his life . We never get real insight as to why any of these people do what they do , and it's harder to sit through the film because of it . The cinematography is pretty good , considering that all of the camera-work is done on steady-cam , and there are fewer cuts than what we're used to from American cinema and mainstream films in general . There's a bit of a documentary feeling to this film because of that , which works well , but also makes the film seem slower at times , because there's often very little going on on-screen , and the camera either moves shakily or not at all , with only the good acting and the purposefully flat dialog to entertain the viewer . The score / soundtrack is pretty good , it fits nicely with the visuals , but at times it interferes with how natural , documentary-like the film is . The plot is good , and it evolves nicely throughout the film . The pacing is good , but around the end , it seemed to slow down a little too much . . . or maybe I was just tired with the documentary-like feeling of the entire film . I'm not entirely sure . The acting is mostly great , with one or two exceptions . The characters are sufficiently different and well-written , but they're not fleshed out enough , we don't understand them . The ending relied heavily upon understanding one characters actions , which we don't , which takes a good bit of the impact out of it . This film is very good , no doubt about it , but it just falls short in too many areas to be particularly re-watchable . It's worth one viewing , though , at least . Most people who either know or want to know about the Copenhagen underground should see this movie . I recommend this film to anyone who has an open mind about movies ( this is in no way mainstream ) and who enjoys gritty movies about the underground life of bigger cities . Be warned , though , it's not for the faint of the heart .
Comprehensive	I found this to be rather informational , well-done and entertaining . It definitely does have an agenda or two , here and there , and I don't know that they needed to spend as much time as they did on the military , but if you look past that , it's great . It's made up of five episodes , each the US standard of a 42 minute running time , and they all have a different and clear focus . Any one of them can be watched entirely separate from the others , with no necessary prior knowledge or later exposure . Among other things , it goes over the history ( from the earliest , simplest , think Pong , across the addition of color and characters to the massive , immersive 3D worlds that one can now log on to ) , development and growth of the medium , with stories of both success and failure throughout the show . It goes over RPG , Sim , MMO , customization , etc . It's edited well , and brings its points , the many obvious and positive as well as the handful of sneaky and underhanded ones . The very ending of this , admittedly , is a sour note , and displays a somewhat narrow-minded perspective . Still , most of the material here is objectively put forth , for the viewer to decide . And just look at the interviewees ( and I'd say the majority have something to say ) . Ever wanted to know the thoughts behind making Tetris ? How about Doom ? Super Mario Brothers ? In this , you can . The pacing is solid . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know more about video-games , past , present , and even a smidgen about the future . Those who've never touched a joystick are welcome .
Indeed incredible	I remember seeing this back in the mid-nineties . . . the funny thing is that it wasn't at a friend's house or otherwise on a computer where you'd expect to find video-games . . . but on the computers at school . This was on each computer that the students had access to at that one school , and it was popular with pupils and teachers alike , due to its great mix of realism and entertainment . A few years later , I got a copy of it for myself , and it's hardly been off my hard-drive since then . The game reminds me of the Danish drawing artist Storm P . ; in fact , for the longest of time , I referred to this as " the Storm P . game " . You get a number of normal , everyday objects ( and a few that aren't , though I believe everything seen in the game exists , and did so , when it was released nearly fifteen years ago ) , and from that , you have to build a machine that accomplishes one or more objectives ( which are mostly very precise , though there are exceptions ) , such as " move this object there " . There are a number of obstacles , and you have a limited number of the various objects you are given , so you have to try your hand and figure out how to use the tools right in order to solve the puzzle . There are 87 puzzles in total , and the first handful of them are tutorial ones , that introduce you properly to using everything in the game . Apart from the regular puzzles of increasingly high difficulty , there is also a " free-form " mode . . . where you're given a clear screen , an unlimited supply of every object in the game and you can save and load your work on them , making it possible to create countless unique machines . The game really lets you get creative , in that there are so many tools and they all behave differently . That's where the realism and , to an extent , educational value , come in ; the basketball bounces more than the bowling ball , the tennis ball weighs far less than either , and so on . The game lets you play around with tons of realistically designed tools , including electric generators , mouse-wheel engines ( a la the hamster running in a wheel to generate power ) , pipes , brick , and even several pets . Heck , you can even blow up things with ( realistically designed ) dynamite , and send bottle rockets flying . The puzzle designs are all quite nice , and occasionally even ( inoffensively , if perhaps not always entirely animal-friendly ) humorous . No two levels look or feel the same , and they are all excellent brain-teasers . Each puzzle solved gives points , and there is a countdown that will determine how many ( the faster you solve it , the more ) bonus points you will get . The game gives you a password every time you've solved a puzzle , so that you won't have to start over the next time you play . The overall design is nice , not too flashy , but not hard on the eyes , either . Adding both fun factor and further value as a tool to teach about the laws of physics is the fact that you can alter the air pressure and the gravity ( though not in the regular puzzle-solving mode , only in free-form ) , making the machine you're building be based in outer space , on the moon , or under the ocean ( though without any aesthetic changes ) . The animation is sufficient and realistic ; there's really not anything cartoon-y about the game , though some of the tools are colorful ( such as the jack-in-the-box ) . The game isn't flawless : There is midi music playing as you solve the puzzles , but it doesn't sound particularly good ( though I suppose that could be argued to be a tendency in midi music ) , so it's fortunate that they possessed the foresight to fit the game's menu with volume control . I don't think that the game has actual sound effects , though this may be because I'm playing it on a computer of today , and not of 1993 . . . actually , there might also have been better music with the game , I can't say for sure . The level design , while clever , isn't always perfect ; they did leave holes , allowing the player to solve the puzzle through an easy and direct way , instead of finishing the machine that they set up . . . and perhaps the round-about puzzles with only one proper solution for each and a strict threshold of how close you can get to the mark before you complete it was simply too much , because I found myself taking the aforementioned short-cut method on far too many levels , instead of solving it properly . Maybe the motivation was lacking ; perhaps the team creating this should have written detailed backgrounds for each machine , given us more reason to care than the points gathered and the pride that admittedly comes with solving it right . The sequel made some considerable improvements ( though also stepped straight into several pitfalls that this game widely and skillfully dodge ) , including sound effects , more color and detail , more objects ( though some seemed to be put in to make it more popular , as they were of little scientific interest ) and more diversity all-round . Nevertheless , this is an excellent game , and a fine tool . It can be played by anyone , regardless of age , gender or ethnicity . Anyone who enjoys creativity and / or brain teasers will love it . It's aged remarkably well , and is a must-have for anyone who enjoys creativity . There are just about countless hours of fun to be had with this game ; little other than your own imagination sets the limit for what machines you can create , how intricate or simple they are designed , how much or how little they achieve and how long or how short a time they'll run and / or last . You can create repetitive motion machines , send things flying , blow objects up ( to the extent of the dynamite's ability ) and much , much more ; whatever you want to do and however you want to do it . I recommend this to anyone who likes brain-teasers , creativity and imaginative machines . Yes , this is much more than just a sneaky way to teach kids about physics .
About as good as a De Palma film can get	Brian De Palma is a well-known director ; I guess what he is known for is taking a theme that , in one way or another , involves violence and action , and he puts it on the silver screen , with immense amounts of both violence and action , labeled as drama , instead of more conventional drama . We saw it with Carrie , we saw it with Scarface , and now , we see it with The Untouchables . Now , those are the only three movies of his that I've seen , but if all of his movies are like this , then so be it . If not , then please forgive me for this review , and chalk it up to ignorance on my part . The plot is very good , and mostly well-paced ; I understand that it's not entirely accurate to the original , actual story of Al Capone , but it's based somewhat on him . Personally , as long as the film is interesting , and somewhat true to facts , I don't mind the film not being the real story . Now , I said the pace was mostly good ; once the first hour and a half has passed , the film goes a little slowly for the next fifteen minutes or so , but then it picks up again , and doesn't drag at all for the rest of the picture . The acting is all great ; Costner , Connery , Garcia , Martin Smith , De Niro . . . even the supporting cast was great ; I seriously doubt that Frank Nitti could have been portrayed better than Billy Drago did . His snake-like appearance and behavior was excellent , really made the character . Robert De Niro probably gives the most impressive performance in the whole film ; unfortunately , he gets far too little screen time . Whenever you do see him on-screen , you thoroughly enjoy it . The four " untouchables " have great chemistry , which is what really makes their " team " work , together with their diverse personalities . The way they did the whole late twenties look , with the cars , the buildings , the clothes , etc . was great . It looks and feels authentic . The dialog was well-written , but the film does arguably have too many one-liners , for this type of film . The action is well-done , well-choreographed and very cool . The shootouts , the chasing . . . the film also seemed to have a very impressive amount of great , memorable scenes , for such a short gangster piece ( compared to , say , The Godfather , which is three hours long ) . The score is excellent ; Ennio Morricone usually does great scores , and this is no exception . The cinematography is pretty impressive , and De Palma makes great use of closeups , pans , zooming and long takes . All in all , a great film that is just slightly less than a masterpiece . Maybe De Palma could have made it greater , had he just toned the action down ( not that I would want that , honestly ; I'm fine with how the film and his overall style of film-making is ) , but decided to make it more " accessible " instead . Maybe he's just incapable of making a true masterpiece , due to his style . Who knows . I recommend this to any fan of gangster / mafia films , any of the actors , and / or Brian De Palma .
Wow	I don't know how many times I've sat through this . I've probably read all the original written efforts , as well . I'm hardly the loudest or most likely candidate when it comes to bragging about Denmark , but this is an aspect in which I feel pride . I will not be commenting on the English dub , nor do I intend to hear it , and I don't care for the fact that this ( our cultural heritage ) was first done to fit that , then synchronized to our tongue . This is based partially on the comic book series , the artist / writer of it helming it ( and I think he did a darn good job ) , and is magnificent both as an introduction to reading them , if one so desires ( I'd say they may very well enjoy them thoroughly ) , and as a retelling of the subject matter . This takes portions of a couple of these novels , and they fit together well . It takes us through Asgaard and Udgaard , shows us several of the creatures and people residing in them , and includes an adventure or two . The plot is well-done and develops nicely . . . it's never actually boring . The pacing is pretty much spot-on , with mood and atmosphere in a concise movie . The art and animation are great . The detail in the entire production is impressive . The tone is an interesting case . . . this could be viewed by children , and definitely does cater to them some , but it isn't insulting to other age-groups , and at times , it's fairly dark ( and it could be argued that there are hints of adult stuff ) . The voices , as provided by us Danes , are marvelous , as is quite a bit of the acting . Kaysø and Bank-Mikkelsen with their deep , booming speech are among the perfect casting . Kristensen , though you might not immediately choose him for what who he performs , is , as well . Eje adds a lot of personality through mere grunts and such . Ryskjær and Rolffes deserve mention as well , as Hugin and Munin , the ravens . The characters are reasonably fleshed out , and their traits are instantly recognizable from the source material . The score is excellent , with themes for the various groups , and more often than not , famous pieces , used well . The audience had better at the very least tolerate Quark , because he's there a lot . For my money , the " whisle scene " is rather high up on the list of the most entertaining of that type of thing . The humor varies , and there is silly , cartoon-y , but also clever , laughs herein . There are morals in this , as well , and they aren't heavy-handed . The DVD of this features three trailers , a work-reel and commentary tracks with each director , and they are informative and well worth listening through . I , myself , would jump at the opportunity to watch well-done films about the Norse myths . That doesn't mean this is anything less than masterful . I recommend this to anyone into the stories .
Amazing film , beautiful and moving	I hadn't expected to enjoy this drama so much , when I heard the basic premise ; two kids who both have just what the other lacks decide to help each other out . It may sound simple , but it is a beautiful film , and a very inspirational one . I think one of the things that made it so great was the many references to the tale of King Arthur and his knights of the round table . The two kids both have a great charisma and personality too , and great on-screen chemistry . The plot is very good , something that anyone who has ever felt like an outsider can relate to . It takes off from the very first frame and continues at a good , steady pace , that won't skip any details , nor leave you bored for a second . The acting is excellent , especially by the two child actors , Kieran Culkin and Elden Henson . Both pull off fantastic , believable performances , and really makes you care about these characters . The adult actors also portray their respective characters well . Every single character is credible and well-written , in just about any of the scenes . I really liked the way the two main characters , Kevin and Max , " complete " each other , the way they are more or less weak separately , but together they are strong and powerful . They make up for each others weaknesses , and their strengths complement each other . The film is very moving , a scene near the end nearly brought a tear to my eye , something very few movies do . The very end is the ultimate development and the perfect ending for the film ; I won't write it here since I wouldn't want to spoil the film for anyone , but I can say that it was a very beautiful , almost poetic ending . I've seen a lot of movies in my life , but few dramas have moved me as much as this did . Excellent script , excellent acting , excellent cinematography . . . the film has everything a good drama needs . I recommend it to pretty much anybody who has an even mild interest in seeing dramas , and to anyone who's ever felt like an outsider , at one point in their life .
Deliciously stylish and effective thriller	Keanu Reeves isn't really the man you look up when you want good acting or diverse characters ( he did do excellent work in The Gift , mind you ) ; however , here , he manages to hand in a fairly decent performance . . . and the better part of the main cast here are very impressive . Pacino is a given , as is , to some extent , Theron , but I was surprised ( happily so ) by both T . Nelson and Jones . The plot is interesting and involving , and the way it develops is great . The pacing is very good , I was hardly ever bored , despite it being a bit over usual feature film length in running time . The film is laced with style , and it works wonderfully to the film's advantage . The characters are well-written and credible . The film contains a select few grand parodying references to Rosemary's Baby and Scarface . Pacino is , quite literally , on fire . He's simply marvelous as The Dark Prince . The score is magnificent . The cinematography and editing are top-notch . The film is thoroughly entertaining , filled to the brink with suspense and , while somewhat moralizing near the end , highly satirical as far as religion goes . I recommend it to any fan of the actors , thrillers and / or the subject matter . Highly recommendable , and very watchable .
" Are you talking to me ? "	This movie is Scorsese's masterpiece ; it is a realistic portrayal of one mans reaction to seeing the very extreme nightlife of New York : pushers , psychos , whores , the list goes on . After seeing the movie 4-5 times , I still have to admit , there are some scenes which I don't fully understand , but I can still somewhat appreciate them . Robert DeNiro's acting is superb , as is Cybill Shepherds , and Jodie Fosters . All of them play their respective character convincingly . All of the minor characters are also interesting ; most of them are either a psycho , racist or just plain despicable , in some way or another . The transformation that DeNiro's character undertakes , from being a nice , gentle guy , to being a gun-toting self-help psycho , is amazing . It's got some slow scenes , but overall , I recommend this to anyone who likes a psychological drama , or any hardcore DeNiro fan . .
A pretty good twist of the traditional Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde story	While I can't say I ever fully understood Dr . Jekyll's actions in this film , I thought it was pretty good . Some of Julia Robert's best work . John Malkovich is also fantastic as both the mysterious gentleman Dr . Henry Jekyll and the cruel sadistic murderer Mr . Edward Hyde . It also suggests that Mr . Hyde was the evil part of the humanly Dr . Jekyll , and that we all have that evil side ; it just takes different measures to awake it . For Dr . Jekyll , it took a mixture of chemicals . For Mary Reilly's father , it took alcohol . Everybody has some evil in them , and this movie is a good perspective on that . Overall , this movie has a lot of good acting performances , and the script is somewhat interesting . There are a few slow scenes , but most of the movie is suspenseful and thrilling . This is for fans of either or both actors ( Julia Roberts or John Malkovich ) , or fans of Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde . It also presents us with a somewhat convincing presentation of life in England , in the 19th century .
A piece of my childhood that I can still enjoy . . . and that's a rarity	I remember watching this as often as I could when I was younger . When I was 11-12 years old I would get up early enough in the morning to watch it before I left for school . . . but I was interested in the show from as far back as I can remember . I collected the action figures ( not dolls , no ; boys play with action figures . . . girls play with dolls ) from a young age , as well as comics , and I even own two VHS tapes with two episodes each ( unfortunately , these were dubbed , as most filmed entertainment geared towards kids are , in Denmark ) . I write this review right after having watched all four episodes in immediate succession for the first time in more years than I can say for sure . Possibly as much as a full decade . All the fun of them came right back to me even as I thought of them . Sure , the show had its flaws . . . there are glaring continuity errors aplenty , the dialog ( packed with more or less lucky one-liners ) and plot lines are often somewhat daft . . . but when you look at the plus side ( as well as keep in mind that this is still a children's show ) , it's just no contest . The pacing is excellent . Having just watched an hour and a half of it , straight , I can say that I wasn't bored at all , in spite of remembering most of what would happen . The action is exciting , intense and downright cool . And the theme music ( which I found myself humming in anticipation before the tape was in the VCR ) . . . I doubt there is or will be anyone , whether kid or adult ( who is at least a little in touch with their inner child ) , especially male , who don't like it . The plots are often simplistic , but as far as I remember , never ( too ) obvious and usually entertaining as well as gripping . It mostly manages to dodge the Batman-esquire / James Bond-ian cliché of having Donatello produce some gadget from his belt to solve their problems . The humor is silly and somewhat childish , but it fits its audience quite well ( and I can't claim that I didn't laugh several times throughout watching the four episodes ) . The whole level of writing basically does , really . The fights are well-choreographed and fairly frequent . All in all , a pretty solid show , that provides many hours of check-your-brains-at-the-door entertainment . I recommend it to any fan of the four green humanoid heroes , and anyone aspiring to become such a fan . Turtle Power !
Not as good as the first two parts , but a good enough film	While I loved the first , thought the second was equally as good , though a bit redundant and unnecessary ( apart from Vito's back-story , and possibly the further development of Kay and Michael's relationship ) , this one just didn't reach the high level of the first two . It obviously tries , but I don't really think there was that much left to tell of the Corleone family . The cast members who were in the previous two films ( that don't appear in this one ) are sorely missed ; the first had Marlon Brando himself , the second had Robert De Niro . . . what does this one have going for it , really ? Only a few new characters , none of them particularly memorable , and only a few of them well-acted . I'll say it right now ; I do not consider Sofia Coppola an actress . I've heard she did a great job directing Lost in Translation ( which I haven't seen yet , but will see as soon as possible ) , but she can't act . Luckily , there aren't that many scenes that require her to , but still , the ones that do require her to put some emotion into it she totally screws up with her lack of acting capability . The few actors who reprise their old roles give as great performances as they did in the first two , Al Pacino , Diane Keaton , Talia Shire and Richard Bright ; all great . I liked the addition of Andy Garcia , he did a great job as well . So did Bridget Fonda , but she didn't have very much screen time to prove her talent . The script is decent enough , I just found myself questioning it a little too much ; it seemed like they were running out of ideas for starting mob wars , and just figured they'd put a lot of characters in the film , have them interact , and finally kill them off . I'm not saying it's downright bad , the script ( or the film , for that matter ) , I'm just saying it's not at all as good as the scripts of the first two parts . The plot is decent , but it halted too much , especially the last half hour ; I had almost entirely lost interest by then , and the climax was just slightly anti-climactic , at best . The actual end was good , but the entire climax sequence was far too long and confusing to be genuinely exciting or thrilling . The acting was mostly good , with the four leads being great ( Pacino , Keaton , Shire and Garcia ) . The characters were reasonably well-written . All in all , the film is worth watching , I guess , but only for those who want closure to the Godfather story . I recommend it pretty much only to the biggest fans of Godfather , as it can be easily ignored with no big loss . Also , you could watch it and just consider it a stand-alone film , with no relation to the far superior first two parts .
Simply put ; one of the best gangster movies ever made	There are many gangster movies out there . More than any one person could keep track of . I'm usually very careful with selecting gangster movies , much like with war movies . If you just pick something off the rack , you'll risk finding a romanticized version of the subject matter . With this film , I first noticed Liotta's name on the cover . Then DeNiro's and Pesci's . I started to think that this might actually be something . . . then I saw Scorsese's director credit , and I knew it was worth the rent fee . After watching it , my only real complaint is that it seems too long . I never really got lost in it , it never completely took my mind off everything else . Also , I was never entirely sure if Liotta's character really was cheating on his wife or the wife was just paranoid . I realize that some things can be left up to the viewers ' imagination , but this was a major plot point , and it was never particularly clear . The plot is very good , and it's unusually well-written for being authentic . The acting is very good , very intense . The characters were interesting and well-written ( though I guess they're mostly based on their real-life counterparts ) . All in all , it's a great film . But lets go back to the pacing . It really messes up what could be one of the very best , if not the best gangster film ever made . Instead , my vote for that goes to The Godfather . You know what happened the first time I saw that ? I chewed on my lower lip to the point where it bled . That's how strong of an effect it had on me . I could barely move . During this , I could barely sit still . The Godfather is the longer film , but also the one with the better pacing . What is great about this is the way it's based on the true story of Henry Hill . I saw some of the extra features on the double-DVD , and Hill was talking about how accurate it was . I guess that is the most positive thing I can say about this film . . . it's realistic and authentic . It also really captures the mood of the situation , the feeling of being in the mob . The way you never know exactly what is going to happen next , and the fact that many of these people end up killing each other creates some tension and intensity , as well . A very good gangster film , but not the best . I recommend this to fans of gangster films , and fans of the director and the actors .
Some minor writing flaws , but overall a great entry	It's around this point that the budget ( if not the actual number , then the effort put into making the relatively high amount shine through ) and the stakes were raised . The vaults of the ninth , the Copenhagen City Hall Clock in the tenth . . . and then this one . The gang go to Bruxelles , and there's no doubt that at least much of it was shot on location . They also hijack a tank . The first of those two expenses begets some hilarious scenes . The plot is quite good , even if the main thing at stake is basically the same as it was last time . . . Denmark's fate . Børge returns , though he's hardly in the film at all . Fie's pregnant , and some attention is placed upon the fact that Kjeld will be a grandfather , though one is left wondering what happened to the first child of the young couple ( then again , this is the series of the disappearing kids . . . just watch the transition from the first film to the second ) . The pacing is quite intense . . . not a moment is wasted , though I don't think I would say that it goes too quickly . Arthur Jensen portrays the meter maid ( Parkeringsvagt ) that he did in the ninth , in a very brief but irresistibly funny scene . Solveig Sundborg appears for the last time in one of these films . Interestingly enough , she had very small roles in exactly seven of these films . . . which makes up half of the entire series ( if one counts the ' 98 reunion film , which , I suppose , one should , as painful for us fans as that can be ) . Edward Fleming shows up again , in a smaller role , though he does have one gag . Bøffen is hardly in the film at all , though his scene is fairly funny ( though his death trap isn't as creative as some of the others seen in the series ) . As a fun piece of trivia , his character seems to dress slightly differently in each film . . . new hat , different pieces of footwear and such . . . but he always wears a blue and white striped shirt with a black leather vest over . Peter Steen has his final role in this film , and with more luck and less of a pitiful overplayed performance than that seen in the three other films ( the first three , incidentally ) that he appeared in . It's amusing to see Bjørn Watt-Boolsen - in the role of Bang-Johansen - criticizing Holm Hansens big mouth . . . the very character he played twice , just a few films back . As my father pointed out while we watched , this seems to have more coups than any of the other entries . The opening scene contains what for my money is the single coolest break-in ever committed to film , at the very least for this franchise . The humor is still going strong , in spite of this not being as funny as the former film . . . the running gag about the police force's view on reporters , the Minister's wife who has a mania to turn out her rooms and the joke pointing out the solemnity of the profession of being a guard all spring to mind . There is poked some fun at the Danes ' ( and perhaps that of many human beings , in general ? ) love of good food and beers . The police is parodied , for the umpteenth time . Not much else to say . . . it's clear that the series is reaching its end at this point , though there is still some creativity left in Bahs and Balling . An entertaining film in the series , and worth watching for at least a few great sequences . I recommend it to any fan of Olsen-Banden and / or Danish comedy in general . Having seen as many of the other films as possible first is a must .
Great collection of masterful parodies	This is a collection of videos that should be experienced by any fan of Weird Al Yankovic . It has stuff dating back to 1983 , and as recent as 1996 , and in addition to twenty videos , it also has the ( albeit sans actual credits , apparently due to legal issues ) opening credit sequence of Spy Hard , for which he did the theme ( and he performs during said sequence ) . With a running time of one hour and fifteen minutes , this has a good amount of videos . The technical qualities are top-notch , both sound and image are crisp , and the menu layout and interface are well-done . Al is an expert at spoofing . . . movies and commercials are amongst his source materials , but he really shines when he does parodies of songs , bands , music videos and song styles . You'll never look at Madonna the same again after watching Like a Surgeon . Michael Jackson will never seem quite the same after Al's portrayal in Fat . And how about UHF , the theme of the movie , the video of which he manages to include a dozen or so different bands and / or singers ? The utterly random imagery found in Dare to be Stupid should garner a reaction from even the most humorless of individuals . His material is silly , goofy , clever , bizarre and just plain funny . He seldom stoops to sexual comedy , he hardly swears at all ( and never just to cuss ) , and save for the occasional violent imagery and themes ( which really aren't that bad ) , his stuff can be enjoyed by almost anyone who finds parody entertaining . His material also shows serious research and intelligence going into writing his songs . . . quite often , he gets to understand a time , a subculture or a people before he makes a funny song out of them . Granted , not all of the gags work , at times , the effects could be better and some of the videos are now dated ( but Jurassic Park is still funny , and so are the others ) , and his more recent efforts aren't all good ( I'm looking at you , Gump . . . although he has since proved to still have the knack for this stuff , with , for example , White and Nerdy ) . . . but the vast majority is just golden . Nod at the truths found in I Lost on Jeopardy . Experience the bitterness of One More Minute , the anti-Christmas quality of Christmas at Ground Zero , clearly thought up by a man who probably ( being Jewish ) never got to celebrate the holiday , even though it's all around . But most of all , enjoy . I recommend this to any fan of Weird Al Yankovic and similar , whether or not they've seen any or all of the videos before .
Charming . . . but I don't think I " got " it	After hearing so many wildly positive comments on this film , I decided to watch it . . . and when I found it on the bargain rack ( we aren't quite as clever with sales rhymes here in Denmark ) , I bought it . While the film captured me immediately with its unique style and the interesting , amusing story-telling , I found myself lost in the plot and the various actions of the characters . This was more noticeable in the latter half . Maybe it's a cultural difference , I don't know ( it may also be because this isn't meant to be understood or analyzed . . . something I have a tendency to subject all things in life to ) . The main reason I watched this ( positive feedback sounds good , but I've never been one to follow popular opinion ) is that I'm interested in the work of the director . . . Jean-Pierre Jeunet . So far , I've only seen Alien : Resurrection , but I've heard fabulous things about Delicatessen from a man whose opinion I hold a great deal of trust and respect for , in particular when it comes to movies . Jeunet has a peculiar style and an unusual ( occasionally bordering on the downright bizarre ) sense of humor . The film clearly doesn't take place in our world . . . the line between the real and that which is fantasy is blurred to the point in which it doesn't exist . Normally , I'm not interested in fairy tales ( and that may very well be the reason why I didn't get this film ) , but I found this quite charming . Everything is pretty and has a magical reason behind it . The comedy in the film is also extraordinary . . . it's so human , so light and delightful . Nothing crude , never offensive ( except for , I suppose , to puritans ) and somehow sweet . Like the naive little girl the film revolves around . I didn't quite agree with all the actions Ms . Poulain took in effort to uphold justice , but I am known to have ( or attempt to have ) a soft spot for most anyone , no matter their actions . As I hinted at before , the film is more . . . shall we say " free " than , for example , American films . The limits for what can be shown are looser , for better or for worse . Personally , I wasn't bothered by it , but if you think you might be , you may wish to skip this one . Most everyone who can watch this should , however . . . it is a welcome trip back to one's childhood , with the imaginative visuals and soft , light tone . Now , to anyone who doesn't speak French ( including yours truly ) , you must view this with subtitles ( I haven't heard of a dubbed version , and I personally find the idea of dubbing any movie appalling , unless it is a children's film and to be viewed only by children or people who haven't been blessed with the schooling necessary to be able to read ; you should show the filmmakers the respect of viewing their work as they intended it ) . Personally , being Danish ( I read once that we in this country have had just about everything subbed since some time in the early decades of the previous century ) , I'm not only entirely used to it , I have no problem with it ( though with films like this and Der Untergang ( and of course the works of Alejandro Amenábar ) , one is reminded to read them , as I cannot understand much of anything spoken ; quite different than the case is with all works in the English language , where I only read on occasion , and often simply to pick out mistakes made by the Danish-born ( and often linguistically incompetent ) translators ) . People from other countries may experience difficulty at getting used to it , however . The cinematography is stunning beyond words . Acting , editing , score . . . basically everything seemed flawless to me . Apart from not understanding much of what goes on for the last part of the film , I enjoyed this . I recommend it to anyone who can watch a fun , light film with a great imagination . And if nudity or sexual content bothers you , you may want to ask someone who knows you and the film to either detail it or to estimate whether or not you can handle it .
Pretty good Steve Martin comedy	I re-watched this movie today after seeing it a couple of years ago . I didn't remember half of what happened in the movie , but even the stuff that I remembered amused me again . Steve Martin is his usual self , very funny , great body language . . . simply great . It's been a while since I've seen such a good , not laugh-out-loud funny , funny comedy . Most of the newer comedies have less realism , less normal subjects and plots , and try too hard to be funny . While this movie definitely has it's share in sentimentality , especially towards the end , pretty much most of the last thirty minutes , but it is still funny , and you don't lose interest in it . A great family comedy , it is pretty much funny for all ages . This is a good movie to sit down with the entire family and watch . Most people will enjoy it , and most people will find at least a few things to laugh at in it , if not Steve Martins nervous father character then maybe Martin Shorts character with the ridiculous accent . There's something for everybody in this one ; well , pretty much , anyway .
Lucas , are you paying attention ? This is the way to do a prequel	After the success of Command & Conquer , this nifty number was created . . . Red Alert . The prequel to the war depicted in aforementioned game . Each of these games bring something new and interesting to the franchise , each has a running theme , and I would say that the theme of this is time traveling . It is used for two very interesting purposes , one story-wise and one for game-play . The first is a take on what would have happened , had someone not only answered the ethical question of " if you could go back in time , would you kill Hitler ? " with a " heck yeah ! " but actually went on to do just that ( although , admittedly , the intro does leave it somewhat open to interpretation exactly what happened ) ; from the very start of the game , we are in an alternate reality . The world where World War II never occurred . However , Hitler was not the only threat to world peace back then . . . and in the story-line presented here , " The Man of Steel " ( no , not Superman ) fills the void left behind . This is where you come in . . . will you render the world " red " , and take your place at Stalin's side as ruler of the planet , or will you wipe out Communism and the Soviet Union as the Allies ? The game-play use of time travel is interesting in more than one way . . . the very idea behind the Chrono-Sphere , a machine that through manipulating the time / space continuum can instantly move a vehicle from any point in the level to any other point is an excellent piece of science fiction , and that's coming from a man who is a considerable fan of the genre , and the actual use of this in-game is a real treat , tactically speaking . I'll leave it up to each player's individual imagination what the effective uses of it are . This game takes all that Command & Conquer was and expands upon it . There's a whole slew of new features , and additions to old ones . When ordering groups of units around , there is now a new queue system , one that removes a lot ( though not yet all ) of the need of watching over your units . The few bugs that are left are now for the most part minor , and can be solved by fiddling a tiny bit with whatever is causing trouble . Keyboard shortcuts give you the opportunity to order units to guard , scatter , etc . New units include the Field Medic , which means that all units can now have their health restored to maximum in-between battles ( though said unit is only available to the Allied side ) . Fighting by sea is now an actual option , as both sides get transport ships ( think the ones that provided reinforcements in the first game , only less open , presumably for the protection of the units inside ) . The Allied get three ships of increasing usefulness ( culminating in the oh-so-freakishly-awesome Cruiser ) , and the Soviets get Submarines . The name of the game this time is " fairness " . . . where the first game had several units and special attacks that were incredibly difficult , if not impossible , to truly guard yourself against , this doesn't . There is a " Nuke " , but it's not going to level your base as the bomb of the original C & C did . The two sides are reasonably leveled , with the Soviets being big , strong and slow , and the Allied being fast , tactical and good at hiding ( quite literally . . . Gap Generators , anyone ? ) . These superior tactical opportunities are represented through , among other things , the Spy , a new infantry unit who , in spite of looking and sounding like a Lothario , can infiltrate enemy buildings and provide new features for the player , such as the Sonar Pulse acquired by sending a Spy into the enemy's Sub Pen ( the building supplying them with , yep , you guessed it , Subs ( as in Submarines , not substitute teachers ) as well as transport ships ) , which detects and reveals any submarine on the map for a brief period of time . The Spy can fool any enemy into thinking he's on their side , save for the also new Attack Dog , which is only on the side of the Soviets , and who can sniff out any enemy Spy and make short work of him . It'll also take out other infantry , but it's somewhat weak . The Allies also have the Thief , who , whilst looking like Zorro , can lift funds from the enemy's ore deposits ( both Refineries and Silos ) . The Allied also have useful mobile air defense , in the form of Rocket Soldiers . More is done with airborne units , as well . The missions are extraordinarily well done , and , by my count , almost fourteen of them have several choices of level ( sometimes with up to three possibilities ) . There are almost thirty in total , both campaigns combined . The multi-player is marvelous . There is now also a " skirmish " mode , which allows you to battle only computer enemies . The maps for multi-playing are plentiful and well-done . The music is utterly magnificent , continuing the trend of the first , but I would say improved upon . This one also has the incredible " Hell March " , one that the team clearly realized the grandeur of , evidenced by the fact that they put it on the track-list for both sides , as well as in the introduction of not only this game , but also its successor . Story-telling is improved upon , and the cut-scenes are more well-directed . The briefings are efficient ; they never fail to make you feel like you are part of this story , not just a spectator . The commando is now Tanya , and I have to admit that the role could have been better cast . The presence and attitude just isn't that strong with the actress . The in-game voice is a lot better . This is also the only negative thing I can really say about this , and it's not going to bring it down from a perfect score . The graphics are great , in-game and cut-scenes alike . The characters , apart from Tanya , are all well-cast . The game also features an excellent level designer . This is quite simply among the best RTS games ever made . I recommend this to every fan of this kind of games .
Set a standard that I've yet to see surpassed	Among the multiple noteworthy things in this is how thoroughly and well-achieved the Manga / Animé aspect of it is . Everything in this is defined by that . The style is just plain cool . There are some bugs / glitches , but no show-stoppers . . . most of them are limited to something that is not entirely aligned , and they aren't that plentiful . This starts off with brief training which goes at your pace , that teaches you just about every function in this ( the last couple are covered right after ) , and you can return to it at any time . This doesn't let you change which keys you use ( well , not from the menu ) . On the other hand , there really aren't that many to remember , and it's set up with the popular WASD configuration ( besides , if you ever have trouble remembering what does this or that , learning it is a press of a key , and a click with the mouse , away ) . Oni is third-person adventure and action , and the latter is an awful lot of fun ( which is not at all to say that the former isn't , if it isn't as advanced or as dominant in this as elsewhere ) . You can shoot as well as fight , and they are both extremely well-integrated ( and this is the best game featuring the twain alongside each other that I know ) , though there is perhaps more use for the latter . . . that doesn't mean that there hasn't been put strong focus on the weapons as well . The different kinds are . . . very much so . They're almost always unique , and fit in with the rest of this remarkably well . You can never carry more than one , and only a couple , literally , of ammo types are used for them . The martial arts . . . astounding , and entertaining , not to mention awesome . The system behind is intuitive and you get into it basically immediately . There is a nice wide array of moves , and they're simple enough to activate . . . and that is also true of your enemies , part of why battling them is not a matter of phoning it in . The other reason ? The AI . It's of marvelous quality , with quite few exceptions . The boss matches are excellent , and no two of them are too alike . While there are three difficulty settings , even on the lowest this is challenging , and some may not be able to complete it , and this can be a source of frustration . This has a great sense of humor , and whenever ( not so often that this loses it serious tone ) it goes for making you laugh , it does so , no joke or gag is forced or tries arduously . This saves at certain points , rather than allowing you to do so anytime . . . these are usually placed well , and not overly far apart ( obviously it can still prove to be annoying ) . Dialog tends to be very well-written , and equally well-delivered . Taunts , at least those of the foes . . . not always . They can be silly . Voice acting is in the favorable end of the spectrum . Sound on the whole is commendable . The music is divided into groups , the instrumental score for the emotional impact , and the techno for whenever the situation calls for something more sweet . . . and no , by that I do not mean love songs , or any tune revolving around lollipops , rainbows or bright colors . Story is interesting , and develops well , and there isn't any of it that is downright poor . The cyberpunk of it is good . It's told well , and with a continuous nod to the comic book nature of the Japanese type . There is an opening and an ending cut-scene , done in 2D cartoon ( instead of the 3D of the rest ) , of course in the manner of films of the sort . In-game cinematics are in-engine , well-scripted ( and major props to whoever programmed the cameras ) . Levels are fairly vast , and built well , however , they largely seem strikingly " empty " as far as objects in them go , interior and exterior . Design is a considerable plus in this . Every gun , attack , opponent , all things in this , well-done all-round . Futuristic , dystopian and threatening . This doesn't have multi-player . . . whether that's bad or not is subjective , but it's pretty clear that the efforts were fully directed towards single-player , and it pays off , big time . There could be more re-playability . . . no scores or ranking , not anything but the aforementioned option of choosing between Easy , Normal or Hard . Animation is varied , and it's attractive , as well . Visuals in general are well-done in this . That brings me to the graphics . . . they're magnificent . Sure , outdone by later releases , when isn't that case ? The game-play marries distinct forms of engaging excitement , firearms and meleé with such expertise that you'd otherwise have to watch movies for . Stealth is possible , and can turn out to be worthwhile . Strategy is a must . Missions are somewhat imaginative , not reinventing the genre , nor utilizing or relying upon the stand-bys of it until creativity is a mere memory . You'll infiltrate ( not the spy way ) bases , give chase , defend , sabotage , and all along undermine the plans of those you are up against . The rating on this is open . . . something that's welcome and they manage to not downplay it , it's effective and masterfully done all the same ( OK , granted , the first of those has a bit to do with the second ) . Almost anyone , regardless of age , could really play this thing . Sexuality is not an issue , there isn't any . All it amounts to is the clothing , and save for a single , nudity-free drawing , it's all sober . No language that I could tell herein . Violence is PG , PG-13 , not a drop of blood or any gore whatsoever . There is disturbing stuff , and don't get me wrong , children should perhaps stay away from this , unless they possess skin of inordinate thickness . For anyone wondering , as far as I know , this is only available for the PC . If you are at all up for this kind of thing , you'd have a tough time of finding any that are better than this . I recommend this warmly to every single fan of the Asian form of expression that I have already mentioned and / or VG's .
Made-for-TV does not need to have negative connotations . . . just look at this movie	I haven't watched too many other efforts by Frankenheimer . . . unless I'm terribly mistaken , the only ones I have are his The Hire entry and Ronin . I keep finding myself impressed by him and seeking out what he's directed . The man did some mighty fine work ( R . I . P . ) . This may be my first exposure to Gambon , but I was definitely pleasantly surprised . He really brings Lyndon to life , and there isn't a moment where he's on-screen that the audience is bored . The parts are all filled well . . . Hall , Sinise , McGill , Baldwin and Sutherland , heck , everybody , deliver impeccable performances . The editing and cinematography are remarkably well-done . The music , as with much else in this , is underplayed very effectively . The pacing is just about flawless . Coming in at almost three hours , it's never dull and almost invariably concise . So much is said through so little . Yet it never becomes overpowering , either . The writing and its high quality are consistent . From what I can tell , this is rather true to what happened , and certainly realistic . Not actually a bio-piece on Johnson , but more a drama focused on his involvement in the Vietnam war , the debates about what action to take . There is some language and dialog of adult nature . I recommend this to those interested in the subject matter , and fans of the film-makers .
A unique entry in the franchise	The most noticeable thing about this game is how different it is from all the others in the series . It's something of an attempt , and one that pays off big time . Instead of an alien environment ( planet or spacecraft ) , surrounded by outer space aliens , this finds Commander Keen in a nightmarish dream-world , where he travels through many areas , including a dark forest , a dank old mine , a rather large pond , finally making his way through the castle into the final chamber where he must face king Boobus Tuber , to free all the sleeping children that are imprisoned in this world . Oh , and did I mention that all his enemies are vegetables and fruits ? And the king , why , he's a huge potato . Now , I'm not entirely clear on when this was developed and released , in relation to the other games , but Wikipedia places it between the trilogy ( Invasion of the Vorticons ) and Goodbye Galaxy ! , which would mean that this is the first in the entire series to feature the majorly improved game mechanics ( though they were bettered even more in first episode of Goodbye Galaxy ! , Secret of the Oracle ) and other new features . These include : Keen is much easier to control , much more responsive , he can jump down " through " the platforms that he can jump up " through " by pressing down and jumping and he can climb up and down poles ( think firemen ) . It's also interesting that several things were added purely to this game ; for example , in this episode , Keen can duck . In the dream-world , Keen does not have his pogo stick , making this the only episode where his regular jumps are the only ones he can do . The story details that he uses the last two charges of his Vorticon Hyperpistol on two potatoes , for trying to move him against his will , and , more importantly , accidentally calling him captain Keen , rather than Commander . . . hey , when you go and earn yourself that title , you wanna ensure that people use it . However , he still has enemies that he needs to bypass , and some means of neutralizing them is helpful . Fear not ; the game has plenty of seeds for the Commander to use . He can throw them in any direction he wishes to ( as opposed to only attacking left or right , as in the trilogy preceding this game ) , even effectively aiming ( with a little practice which is totally worth it ) mid-jump , which rocks , and if they miss , he can , if he's fast enough , even pick them back up . The seeds turn the vegetable and fruit menaces into flowers . . . talk about your flower power . However , the effect is only temporary ( sorry , hippies ) , which is another thing only found in this game . The much more limited range and much more dynamic reaction on impact ( bouncing and such ) of this weapon makes things quite interesting . The graphics are considerably improved since the trilogy . The levels have a slanted 3D-look going on in the backgrounds , and there are a really nice touch . Other features added are difficulty levels , ensuring that anyone can find a gaming challenge in this platform title , and also helps to make the game more available to whomever should desire to try it . The difficulty levels determine how long seeds work , among other things , which very directly impacts how challenging it is to complete ( though it could be argued that there's greater difference in the later games ) . This game also allows the player to save at any time , instead of just between levels . Both of these features remain in the rest of the series , meaning , also the next three games ( through the two episodes of Goodbye Galaxy ! and the one-shot Aliens Ate My Babysitter ! ) . The AI is quite good ( whoever knew that fruits and vegetables were so smart ? ) , which makes outsmarting them , battling them and outrunning them very entertaining and fulfilling . The enemies are diverse , well-designed and creative . Potato troopers , mean-looking tomatoes and cucumbers that run back and forth , just to name a couple . The level entitled Apple Acres brings a whole new meaning to the old , " An apple a day keeps the doctor away . . . if you can hit him " . The level design is great , and they all look amazing , and several of them are vast in size . The locations chosen are cool , as well . The game-play is made really interesting through the unusual circumstances in the game , and the game is thoroughly and highly entertaining . I've played it through many times . As I alluded to earlier in this review , the game ends with you fighting a boss enemy . . . making this the other of two games in the series that feature such ( the other being the last part of the trilogy ) . Fortunately , this boss is far more entertaining to fight , and the battle is actually somewhat open-ended . The area isn't large compared to the rest of the levels , but it's big for an arena , and it allows for plenty of navigation around , as you fight off the king ( who is smarter than your average spud , and whose imposing and threatening size , appearance , and movement speed makes for a thoroughly satisfying boss fight ) . The game leading up to the fight has Keen searching the other levels ( he can walk straight up to the castle after the successful completion of the very first level ) for bombs to use on the cold-hearted , kidnapping royalty . You'll get a notification when you enter a level that has these Boobus Bombs , which are found in groups of three , and once you have a dozen , you can fight Tuber . However , you can collect at least 21 ( I've seen more in the levels , but I can't claim to have figured out how to get them all ) , so that not all will be lost if you miss with a couple of ' em . They act just like the seeds , so by the time you fight him , you'll be used to the use of them . The story is cute , if childish . An excellent game , and most definitely one that is worth playing for any fan of the other Commander Keen games . I recommend it to fans of DOS / platform / Commander Keen games .
Great gangster / crime drama	When I heard about the main actors in this film , I was already sure that it had to be good ; with names like Al Pacino and Michael Madsen , you can't go totally wrong . Johnny Depp is also pretty good , in some films , this definitely being one of them . I have to admit , not having seen too many good gangster films , I was very excited to see this , considering the great names in the cast , and the promising commercials I saw for it . It was really a great movie ; the whole atmosphere of the gangster world , organized crime , was perfectly captured in the movie . The " wiseguys " acted , talked and moved like gangsters . The plot is very interesting and captivating , and it moves along at a great pace , considering the length of the movie . It keeps your interest for the duration of the film , as it develops almost constantly . The actors all do terrific jobs , especially the three main actors . The characters are well-written and their actions are entirely credible . The cinematography is pretty good , especially when depicting violence , as it really has the effect on you that the director obviously wanted it to . All in all , a great movie about the mob and the whole environment , but it could have been slightly better . You know too little of the gangsters ' intentions and motivations , which makes it too difficult to relate to anyone else than Johnny Depp's character , and his wife's character . I recommend this to anyone who's interested in the environment of the world of organized crime , who likes dramas . I also recommend it to any fans of Depp , Pacino or Madsen .
Chilling and effective horror film , one of Polanski's best	After putting this film off for some time , mainly due to my strong dislike for any religion-related material , I finally pulled myself together and watched it . I'm glad I did . Very , very glad . From the opening credits , which feature a chilling lullaby , I was hooked . The film is effective without actually showing us anything particularly scary . . . which is quite an achievement . I don't believe I've seen something like this outside of a Hitchcock film . The basic idea behind this movie is great . The way everything is merely hinted at , never shown directly is incredibly effective , and the film is thoroughly chilling and disturbing . The plot is very good , very involving and interesting throughout the films running time of just over two hours . The pacing is great , in fact , this is arguably Polanski's best paced film . Then again , I haven't seen all of his films , but still . . . I was never bored , not for a second . The film didn't overstay its welcome . The acting was mostly great , but there are one or two performances by the supporting cast that seem . . . off , somehow . Nothing big , though . The characters are very well-written , interesting and credible . One thing that bothered me a little was how the only truly likable character was Rosemary . . . even her boyfriend was annoying , I thought . Maybe that's just me , though . I loved how the plot evolved , and really enjoyed all the little signs given throughout the film , leading up to the end . . . which still manages to surprise the viewer . I certainly didn't see that ending coming . I haven't read the book which this film is based upon , but from what I hear , it's a very close adaptation . Do yourself a favor , don't ask anyone what the film is about , because they might reveal too much , and just rent or borrow this and watch it . Any fan of atmospheric horror should love this film , despite of the few shortcomings it has ( among them is Polanski's love for long takes , which at times get tedious and some of the dialog being somewhat . . . poorly written ) . I recommend this to any fan of Roman Polanski , atmosphere in horror flicks and / or any of the actors . Just be prepared for some seriously disturbing stuff , even if it isn't explicitly shown .
Unusually good 80's comedy . . . contains a lot of sad truth	I couldn't remember much of this movie when I borrowed it from a friend to watch for the second time . . . I can't have been very old when I first saw this , because there were not much more than one scene that I recognized . Even the title seemed new to me . Furthermore , I don't recall thinking about the film . . . about what it meant . This contains a lot of sad truth . The scenes of Aykroyd's character going from the peak of America's business life to rock bottom in a disturbingly short amount of time provide food for thought . Landis presents these events without pretense or heavy-handedness . . . he gives us the facts as they are . No bias . This direct , almost indifferent tone makes it all the more scary . . . this is the way it is , and that's accepted . The movie also has some insight to prove on racism and greed . Paul Gleason , whom I have only seen in The Breakfast Club ( and Not Another Teen Movie , spoofing his character in aforementioned movie ) plays a radically different role , yet still shows some of the authority he's famous for as the principal in The Breakfast Club . That was amusing to watch for someone who enjoyed said film so much . Jamie Lee Curtis bares a lot of skin , for those in the audience looking for that . Aykroyd and Murphy are both extraordinary . They get to play with their characters a lot , to great effect . They create so many funny moments , there are simply too many to list or for mere words to do justice ; you'll just have to watch the film for itself . If you are a fan of either actor , you won't be disappointed . The language surprised me , with how uncensored it was , compared to today's standards . The plot is interesting , and based on an intelligent idea . The pacing is dynamic . The acting is all top-notch . The humor is mostly good and tasteful , with few but glaringly obvious exceptions ( the fate of Beeks being an almost offensive one ) . The film has more heart than most of its kind . . . if you watch only one movie of this type , let this be it . I recommend this to fans of the actors and / or director , and people intrigued by the general idea . If you are even considering watching this . . . take my advice and do so . It is intelligent without being preachy and funny without trying too hard . John Landis has yet again created something big .
The core is intact	I base this on the 1 . 5 DVD . One option of that is to watch this with six extended scenes ( that add character moments , and vary in quality ) and 17 behind the scenes segments ( that all automatically come on at their specific times ) , and I don't believe you can view any of these 23 ( all of which last between 30 seconds and several minutes ) without also seeing the film . This brought graphic novels back onto the silver screen , and proved to / reminded us that they can be excellent , after Joel Schumacher took unsuspecting theater-goers back to some of the worst of the 60's ( the colors , man ! ) . Taking a note from Burton's two Batman entries , Singer , who is , by the way , clearly very talented , and completely made this thing come together , chose to make the costumes less showy . In general , he made it a lot more realistic , and , whilst keeping the point as sharp , the theme as poignant , as it should be , made this accessible to a much larger audience . Those who have never opened a comic book , while they won't quite " get " everything , will still be able to understand and enjoy this . The biggest issue in this , honestly , the whole series of movies , is the amount of people . There are too many , and most of them get so little time and development , their personalities are as two-dimensional as the drawings , instead of as layered as they are , at their best , on those same pages . This probably should have been a TV series , or at least a mini , but maybe there aren't enough out there who'd sit down for that . . . meanwhile , Superman gets one , yet , the heroes where the message is one of accepting those that are different . . . I digress . The abundance of superpower-wielding ones also means that efforts have to be taken to continually explain why they aren't using them in that situation , and even that doesn't always work out perfectly . The abilities are depicted rather nicely , however , and they're written in well . This and the second one contain some of the best shape-shifting stuff in motion pictures . There are fantastic and effective reveals in this . The effects are very well-done , and it isn't that evident that the budget is slightly lower than the typical Summer blockbuster amount . The casting is almost entirely spot-on . Jackman is Wolverine , Mane could barely be a better Sabretooth ( he's got the physique , and he didn't have to do much acting ) , McKellan as Magneto . . . heck , even Romijn , who's really a model , does well and fits . There are good , strong women in this . The pacing is perhaps uneven . It should be known that this is a science fiction piece with action sequences ( they are marvelous , though , don't get me wrong ) , not the other way around . There are fun in-jokes and references in this . All of the humor is great , really . The attention to detail is incredible . There is mild violence and language , and neither are excessive . This comes with a commentary by the director , well worth listening to . The second disc has extras , including five featurettes , interviews , tests , galleries , trailers and other material . I recommend this to any fan , and anyone who likes sci-fi and / or thrillers .
Pretty good authentic law drama	OK , so Julia Roberts is not the best actress , and , admittedly , this probably doesn't contain the best acting she has pulled off in her career , but I think she does good enough in this movie . She plays a nearly totally independent woman who fights for a cause , that she feels is right , which costs her a lot of time away from her three kids . The plot is pretty good , and it develops at a good pace , keeping you interested in it for the duration of the film . The actors do okay jobs in portraying their respective characters , though I found a few of the minor characters to be played by fairly inexperienced actors , who didn't perform terribly well . The child-actors performed pretty good , though . The characters are well-written , but since it's based on a true story , I don't know how much of it had to be made up . The humor in the movie is quite well-placed and often very funny . The character that Julia plays is a symbol of independent women everywhere ; she's intelligent , she has female intuition and she knows how to use her attractiveness to get what she wants . Granted , a part of the movie concentrates a lot on Julia's curves , or , more specifically , her breasts . Personally I think that as long as it's in context , which it pretty much always is here , it doesn't really matter ; also , if the real Erin acted like that , shouldn't the movie have the fake one acting like that too ? Overall , a pretty good authentic drama . I recommend this to anyone who enjoys dramas , independent women and authentic movies .
If I hadn't already been into film-making when I first watched this . . . I would have been before it was over	Robert Rodriguez has always impressed me . He works every job he can on his productions , and manages to make fun , cool and entertaining films for much less than they look like they cost , and while his writing may sometimes lack something , his movies are almost always worth watching . The fact that he was initially inspired by another film-making idol of mine ( who also works several jobs on his films , and makes marvelous films , arguably better ones than Rodriguez does , and does so for reasonably small sums of money , as well ) , John Carpenter , is simply icing on the cake . Where many directors will come off as self-absorbed and focused only on their own work , Rodriguez seems like the kind of guy who'd be your good buddy , and he serves so many excellent tips on the art of making motion pictures in this documentary ( which , in spite of its title , is actually longer than ten minutes . . . but I'm certainly not complaining , because they fly by ) , with " you can do this , too " in his tone . Whilst he was arguably fairly lucky on his first production , with many things working out very well for him , it is inspirational . . . and he passes on the torch to young hopefuls , like he himself once was , in this visual examination of how he pulled the thing off . Describing how he shoots , how him working most of the jobs creates opportunities that no regular film-crew has and how he managed to do scenes with dialog in spite of having to record all the sound separate from the actual film footage , he hands out countless tips worth gold in the hands of people as talented as he . I recommend this warmly to anyone interested in film-making , whether or not they plan to attempt to make something themselves . Just over ten minutes packed with experience from a film enthusiast who continues to bring marvelous films in under budget .
The war has begun	I base this on the 2-Disc release . It has started , and it simply rocks . This whole thing builds on almost all of what the first set up and did , in so many ways , and in fact goes places only a follow-up could . Now that the world and the universe have been established , they could afford to do interesting stuff with what they had , and this the romance is just part of it . The new is also impeccable . . . the villain , the addition of Nightcrawler , so much is brought to the table with this , food for thought , complexity , dense , more than meets the eye . This is bigger than its predecessor , and without becoming pure fluff in the process . The action is grander , without being the main focus . The themes are the same , with a couple of different explorations of them this time around . The attention to detail is still amazing . The plot is well-done , nice script , very intriguing , and the pacing is spot-on , never standing still and not overwhelming , either . The nods to the comics are marvelous . The humor is well-done and fitting . The dialog is mostly good and well-delivered . The effects are incredible , and better than before . There are utterly stunning visuals in this . The fights are memorable and awesome . The ending of X-Men pays off majorly in this . This is quite dramatic . The orchestral score is fantastic . The powers are used well , such as the morphing ( in this as well as the entry before it ) , and they look excellent . Production design is spectacular . The costumes , the tone in general remains true to the realistic approach . Cummings is well-cast , as well as Cox and Hu . The acting is , with few exceptions , invariably magnificent . There are strong women role models in this one , too . The problem of X1 has not been solved in this , in fact , if anything , it's made worse . There is an even greater amount of characters , and far from everyone gets to be developed in this . It does tend to work and there are fairly solid arcs in this . The abilities yet again have to be written around or out of the way entirely . These don't cost it a lot of points overall , I would say . There is relatively mild and infrequent language in this , and the sensuality is somewhat present , not necessarily strong . The DVD holds extras , including featurettes , interviews , behind-the-scenes stuff , extended / deleted scenes , plenty of galleries and two commentary tracks , one of Bryan Singer , and one of various crew-members , both well worth listening to . I recommend this to fans of the graphic novels , just watch the movie series from the 2000 film , and know that these translations , interpretations , not direct adaptations with everything accurate to the books . Those into science fiction ought to enjoy it , as well . And proof that sequels can match , and , arguably , surpass , the original , is always something to take note of .
Probably " Anden " ' s best stand-up , on one single DV	After having seen each of the four stand-up sets on this DVD at least five or six times , I'm still laughing at most of the jokes . That surely defines great comedy . Anden's excellent , energetic , and somewhat aggressive style of comedy is presented at the peak of his talent in this little collection . It contains one part made for TV , one made for stand-up touring , one made up of extra material from the one that was made for TV , and finally , his very first stand-up performance . Each of them is entertaining to watch , albeit the last is for slightly different reasons than the other three ; the last one is fun to watch because you see how Anden started his career , you see a little spark of what later became the aggressive fire that drives most of his stand-up performances . The others are without a doubt among the greatest stand-up that Anden has ever done , together with his performance on Den Ægte Vare , in which he was undoubtedly the one that stole the show . Any fan of Danish stand-up shouldn't miss this excellent display of talent from Anden who is second to none , and only equaled by other great talents such as Jan Gintberg ( honorable mentions include Povl Carstensen , Thomas Wivel , Carsten Bang and Sebastian Dorset ) . The only thing that's keeping this from a perfect score of ten is the occasional joke that falls flat , and the few times where he steps completely over the line ( though it isn't very evident in this ) , and one or two jokes that , on repeated viewings , seem a little lame . All in all , it's great , and nearly perfect . I recommend this DVD to any fan of Anden , his style of stand-up , and aggressive humor in general . Get it . You won't regret it .
Grand	I was completely hooked from the first page . Obviously , this , as is the cardinal rule with adaptations , particularly from one medium to the other , can never completely match what the source was . With that out of the way . . . this gets a remarkable amount of it right . Dr . Manhattan ? Couldn't have been much closer . The Comedian ? Just about spot-on . Rorschach ? Basically so accurate that you need rather sensitive measuring equipment to find anything actually wrong with him here ( Jackie Earle Haley . . . wow ) . At its best , this hits the mark with such a bullseye that it really barely gets better at all . This gets ( some ) crucial content and meaning from the books , too . In spite of a running time of about two and a half hours , it didn't lose me , in spite of knowing what was coming . This can boast astounding intensity , when it goes for such , and doesn't overwhelm by going too fast , either . . . the pace is impeccable . The plot is magnificent , with a couple of big changes made ( and as expected , a lot cut out , there was no way to put that mass of material into a feature film length ) . The writing is great , the choosing and execution are masterful a large part of the way . Certain differences could be argued as being necessary to make this work , in this format . I'm not sure they are all good . There are clear opinions interjected . The acting is , with few exceptions ( Akerman being a notable one of them ) , marvelous . The casting is quite nicely done . The action , the fight scenes , excellent , although it can perhaps be called unfitting to add more to them , and they sure did . . . but my gosh , it sure is amazing and entertaining to watch . The comics were mainly drama . The CGI is incredible . The stylization and visuals are immensely gorgeous and effective . This does elicit emotional responses , if maybe not as many as desired . The music is full of fantastic and interesting picks . The score is composed well . If one is familiar with the original , given that it is not entirely what Alan wrote ( though it tries to be faithful , and often succeeds ) , you'll hopefully either enjoy this , or avoid it , realizing that you might not . If , however , you are not aware of it , this may confuse and not fully make sense to you ( things range all the way from being over - to being under-explained ) . They made this bloodier / nastier . This has strong ( and continuous ) violence and harsh language ( albeit fairly infrequent ) , and plenty of nudity / sexuality ( at points , less covered than what viewers might be expecting ) , of varying tastefulness . I recommend this to any fan of the graphic novel , the concept , the dark tone and / or Moore .
Excellent gangster film from a great film-maker	Sergio Leone is truly a magnificent director ; I hadn't realized the magnitude of his talent and abilities until I saw this great film . The film deals with a group of friends , who meet each other and start a partnership as children . They start out as criminals , and end up as criminals . The story is excellent , and the way it is told is great , and almost unique . The non-linear time-line in the film has been copied since this film was made , by other , mostly lesser talented , film-makers , such as Quentin Tarantino . I liked the way the first 30 minutes moved along , between present and immediate past , and then went all the way back to the very beginning of the story . The plot is excellent . The way it unfolds is truly spectacular , and while some might say that it is cheapened by the fact that we know pretty much how it'll end from the beginning , I really think it added to the greatness of the film and story . The plot also moves along at a great pace , it's never boring , despite the fact that the film is over three hours long , and it's not really an action film . I would say that it has it's share of action and suspense , though . There were sequences that rival action films that are considered as some of the best in newer times . There was at least three sequences were the suspense was nerve-wrecking , and the tension so thick you could cut it with a knife . The special effects were amazingly well-done , much better than most of the same time period . I'd have to say that effects-wise , it's probably the best movie of the 80's . The acting is spectacular . Even the child actors were amazing ; it was interesting to see Jennifer Connely , who's since become a star herself , play a role at such a young age , and playing it so well . The performances of the child actors are some of the best that I've ever seen in any movie , children or adults . All of the main characters , as well as most of the supporting characters were well-acted . The characters are well-written , credible , and rarely ever seemed out-of-character . The way gangster methods is portrayed is realistic and authentic , as is some of the plot . I would have to say that this film actually almost rivals The Godfather Part I as the best gangster film ever made . The only thing that bothered me was the plot twist at the end ; it really seemed wrong and unlikely to me , as well as my father , who's reading a lot about the mafia . We both agreed that it seemed weird and out of character . That one thing marred the ending for me , and brought this film down from a perfect score . Apart from the ending , the final plot twist , this film is great . I recommend this to fans of Sergio Leone , gangster films , and just great films in general . Fans of any of the actors might also find it interesting . Don't be thrown off by the long runtime ; it's worth every minute , up to the end ( the last 15 minutes bothered me , but nothing else ) .
It does indeed rock . . . especially when told this well	Many shows strive to both entertain and inform . Few succeed as well as this does . Full of great music and , more importantly , facts ( always told in a straightforward manner , with no sides taken , no ideologies or beliefs neither praised nor put down ) , this is quite simply one of the very best ways to learn about major events of the 70's . Meat Loaf hosts , and does so well , never coming off forced or stealing the show . The aforementioned music not only entertains and helps maintain the attention of the viewers , it also does well to underline the events portrayed ( occasionally even matching words in the lyrics up to the facts in the unobtrusive pop-up boxes that help to feed you the information throughout , jam-packing the entire special with it , without it ever being overwhelming or boring ) . The pacing is just about perfect . . . the feature lasts an hour and a half ( or two with commercials ) , and the time flies by . This should be seriously considered as a piece of supplemental material in schools , when teaching students about the 70's ( if it is perhaps mainly about the US ) . It should be noted that some of the material is not appropriate ( though it is handled maturely ) for pre-teen audiences . I recommend this warmly to anyone who wants to learn and / or teach more about the 1970's , and anyone who can appreciate the rock music made during those years . I hope more of these are made , detailing other decades , as well . Keep ' em coming , History Channel .
Hard to sit through and not terribly good ending	The only two problems with this movie are , as the one line summary states , the length and the ending . It's so long that unless you're very determined or very patient , you're not gonna sit through it to the end ( particularly not if you're watching the " redux " version which I was ( un ? ) lucky enough to see on TV ) . And the ending seems to suggest that Coppola had either run out of steam or simply didn't know how he should end it . As a war film , it's not particularly realistic , I guess , but more of a piece about the descent into madness that you experience under such dehumanizing circumstances . I found it interesting to see as such a film , but arguably not much else . . . I also found it interesting to recognize the actors , whom I , for the most part , hadn't seen in a film from , at least before the 80's . If any of this doesn't make sense , don't blame me . . . blame the fact that I'm writing this as I'm almost falling asleep after the movie . Now , let it be known , that I didn't pay attention to the entire thing ; I am neither a man of great patience nor determination ( well , not enough , anyway ) so I fell asleep once or twice through this film , and actually found myself awaking a few minutes after it had ended , and had to rewind it to catch the ending . Maybe that affected my judgment , maybe not ( it probably did ) . However , what I saw , I mostly liked . The acting is very good . The characters are well-written and nuanced . The action is well-done . The cinematography is very good . All in all , a very good film , if you have the patience and you're sufficiently interested in seeing this very well done piece of film , despite it's very long runtime ( maybe you would want to start with the original version , not the " redux " one I saw ) . I recommend it to just about anyone who really is interested in films and the media of movies . If you can sit through it , you probably should . Any Coppola fan should definitely experience this .
A hard movie to watch , but a truly great one as well	I haven't read or heard anything about the story of Joseph Carey Merrick , aka John Merrick , aka The Elephant Man before seeing this movie , so I can't say if it's accurate or not . However , from everything I've heard , it seems to be as close to the original story as it can get . I hadn't seen any other films by David Lynch when I sat down to watch this , so I was quite excited to see if it really lived up to all the hype surrounding it . It does . The film is excellent and nearly perfect . However , there are small imperfections that pull it just below a perfect rating , but it's very close . The plot is very good , and the way we learn of The Elephant Man is great . The way Lynch builds up suspense for the first few minutes , luring us with the promise of seeing something bizarre . When that promise is not kept , we are only more interested in seeing this , this creature that they speak of . But Lynch drags this even further . . . in fact , we don't get a good look at The Elephant Man for the first half hour . . . and even then , it's just in a flash . From there , we slowly see more and more of him , but somehow we never manage to truly get used to him . This is brilliant directing from one of the best directors out there , because obviously he would lose effect should we ever actually get used to his looks . The acting is great . I don't think I found one single character to be poorly performed . However , those that stand out the most are definitely Anthony Hopkins and John Hurt . Hopkins is great as the doctor who is amazed at this new phenomenon and is instantly intrigued in the physique of this man . Hurt is astounding as John Merrick , The Elephant Man . He brings such an innocence and purity to his character that we can't help but feel sorry for this man , as he is treated horribly by the majority of those he meet or who see him . I didn't cry during this film , but it was more close than I thought possible . For a film that deals with such a delicate subject , it has no actual sap or sentimentality . . . only sadness . Pure sadness . Near the ending , there is a powerful scene that shows , in a non-preachy fashion , the point of the film ; it is not his looks that make him an animal , if he ever was one . . . it was the reactions of other men . The ending is beautiful . No other way to put it . Simply beautiful . As for those small imperfections I mentioned . . . I can't quite put my finger on what it is , specifically , but it just seems like something was missing . . . maybe I just felt that the film was too sad , maybe it was that the few attempts at lightening the mood fell flat and seemed out of place . . . maybe I just wasn't prepared for this moving experience . I don't know . I am honestly not sure . But while I found this movie to be great , excellent even , I have to say that there are better films . Not far better , no . . . but slightly better . There are films where all of the elements come together more perfectly and create a better movie overall . This one is worth watching , though , and should be seen by anyone who feels they would benefit from it on a personal or emotional level . It's a masterpiece . I recommend this movie to anyone mature enough to understand it . Yes . There is no ' definite ' group of people that will get more out of this film than any other . . . except those that are intelligent and mature enough to understand and appreciate it . If you are one of those , and you have not yet seen this movie , go out and get it . You won't regret it .
A good movie , for people who can enjoy a fairly intelligent movie contains spoilers	I have to say , after watching this movie for the six / seventh time , I finally get it . Which is what is amazing about it ; you don't figure it out the first time , even though it may seem obvious at first . It is an interesting portrayal of how people who feel strongly about their views , evolve into what they hate most , in order to make the world a better place , by killing people they think are evil . The ending is the only that still is a bit confusing ; Did they fail to kill the next Hitler , who then killed them ? Did he kill them in self-defense , in order to save himself ? Did he kill them to punish them for committing murder ? Nevertheless , a good movie .
An amazing piece of film , but the length alone will discourage many possible viewers	I haven't seen any of Akira Kurosawa's other films , but I hear that this is his best , so maybe that's a good place to start ( and maybe not ) . From the very first frame I was captivated by this film , and very interested in it . Then after about five minutes of watching , I realized how slow it was moving ; " Fine , " I thought , " it'll probably pick up later on " . But it didn't . The film stays in the same uncompromisingly slow pace for the entire runtime which is about three hours ( more or less , depending on which cut / version you see ) . That's OK , don't get me wrong , but it brings the movie down . The film is epic , and truly astounding . It's a shame that it's so long and slow . The plot is great . The acting is very good , and great in some cases ( for the most part , actually ) . The film contains a multitude of interesting , well-developed characters . . . but maybe that's part of the problem ; there are too many of them . By the end of the film , I found myself being able to keep up with who was who , and as the credits came on , I couldn't really remember any of the names ( though that may have something to do with them being in Japanese ) . The film has plenty of good dialog , though several of the characters spout lines that sound like they come from fortune cookies , but given just a little thought , they are quite profound . The film is called the first actual action film , due to the use of many plot points that have later ended up being clichés . The film has so much going for it , but at the end , I found myself barely paying attention . Maybe the film is too long for its own good . . . maybe I have a too short attention spam to fully enjoy the film ( which is said to be a masterpiece , which I definitely won't argue with ) . . . I don't know . In the end , after carefully going over all of the pros and cons of the film , I find myself rating it a nearly perfect . Too many low points to it to merit a perfect 10 , but far too many high points to rate it any lower , even if I didn't particularly care for the last part of the movie ( which probably has more to do with my attention spam than the content of that part of the movie ) . The cinematography is excellent . The film is very , very well-done overall , but seems a little too long and slow , and is hurt ( in any other part of the world ) by the very obvious Japanese culture / nature of the film , which is a little hard to accept , especially for us Westerners . It is a great film , though , and I can't argue with its placement on the top 250 best films of all time here on IMDb ( it's # 5 as I'm writing this ) . As a final note ; to anyone out there who want to see the movie but are worried about violent content : everything is only implied . Much like Hitchcock , Kurosawa obviously realized the effect of only implying violence , and as a result , most people can watch the film . Most people will probably enjoy ( at least ) parts of it , but I fear few will watch the whole thing through . Since I barely did so myself , I can't really say anything to keep you watching all the way through to the end ; but I will say that the film is visually impressive , contains some great acting , some humane and credible characters that the audience will be able to sympathize and identify with . I recommend the film to just about anyone who is interested in watching it . However , if there are action / Samurai fans out there , craving for fight scenes and Katana action , I will say this ; Look elsewhere . This has very little of such , and what there is , is only implied . Watch this movie , but watch it for the drama , not the hope of fight scenes .
No one is good or bad	From the moment I heard of this film , I knew I had to see it . I could hardly wait . Luckily , I didn't have to wait for long ; now , two days later , I got to watch it . I must say , as high expectations as I had for the film , I am still thoroughly impressed and very short of in awe . The film offers no escape from the real world ; look elsewhere if that is what you seek . It doesn't force it upon us , either ; It rather shows us realism as it is . No cynicism , no ideology . Merely an unbiased look at the world of prejudice . The hate , the fear , the mistrust . . . and more importantly , what it leads to . We are introduced to these people , people of all " races " ( ridiculous idea , really , that of races ; and quite outdated ) and religions , we connect with them and understand them . . . and then we see them being prejudiced against or them prejudice against others . . . or both . And we understand . The effects of prejudice . That no one is good or bad ; everyone just . . . is . Everyone does what they believe is right , regardless of persuasion , religion and nationality . The film plays like a TV-series , meaning it changes scene back and forth between all of these characters , which works very much to the film's benefit . The plot is amazing , it develops marvelously and it keeps your interest throughout . The pacing is perfect , I wasn't bored for a second . The cinematography is beautiful . The dialog is real . The acting is astounding , with many of the actors playing against their usual character . There was no performance that I felt was the least bit flawed or poor . This is the first film that has truly ' gotten ' to me for a while . . . well , at least in the two-going-on-three weeks since I watched The Story of Us , and even that doesn't compare in quality ( though it may in emotional impact ) . It shows excellently how much of an impact ( and how negative and vicious it is ) prejudices have ; there's a scene where two characters of different races interact ; one is caught in a death-trap and the other attempts to rescue her . And the frightening and disturbing thing is . . . she's more afraid of him than of the possibility of her imminent death . The film contains much foreboding . . . many plot developments may at first seem predictable , but most , if not all , will still surprise you . The only thing keeping this from a perfect rating , the one thing that brought it a little down for me is that Asians just don't seem to get the attention that all other nationalities get here ; there are people from the Middle East , there are Latinos , there Black people and many , many white . . . but there are only two or so Asian characters , and they are the only truly stereotypical and thin characters . That derives from the greatness of the rest of the film , which is a grand example of film-making and story-telling . Maybe the film should have been longer , maybe some other characters should have been cut . . . I don't know . Another , somewhat minor , but still important complaint ; the film talks down to its audience a bit too much ; it's as if director / writer Paul Haggis expects the viewers to possess no sense of logic . Things are explained in unnecessary detail . These two things bring the film that one step back , prevents it from being completely perfect . Too bad . It was pretty darn close . I recommend this to anyone and everyone . . . just make sure to be prepared for an unpleasant look at reality . . . rather than an escape from it .
Fun , cute puzzle game	Brain-teasers are easy enough to come by . From the cross-word puzzles of varying difficulty found if you look for them to the riddles that many people ( so many that they've assembled books of riddles ) scramble their brain trying to solve . . . and yet I would have to say that Lemmings is probably the first - and fifteen years later , still about the only - of its kind . The game gives you a group of lemmings and a bunch of tools for them to use . . . and as the group of the animals of ( at least in the game ) questionable smarts walk forward until they're stopped , you have to make sure that what stops them is the exit . . . and not dropping to their death , walking off the screen or going head-first into one of the many traps found in the levels . The idea is strange , but it works , and quite well , at that . The screen shows the lemmings and the level from the side , and you can scroll horizontally to view the whole thing . To use a tool , you simply click on its icon ( which also display the maximum possible uses of the tool ) at the bottom of the screen , and then on the lemming you want to use it . That's it . Through the first bunch of levels , you'll learn what the various tools do and what they're good for , and the rest of the game has you utilizing them in order to successfully complete the many puzzles that lie ahead . In total , there are about one hundred . . . so you'd better get crackin ' . This is good for countless hours of fun and / or head-scratching . The design is great , almost every level has detailed backgrounds and nicely drawn scenery . The traps and lemmings are well-animated . . . heck , even the untimely demise ( in all its various forms ) of these poor creatures is done in great detail ( and due to the cartoon-y style , it's been completely rid of blood or gore . . . they explode in what can best be described as fireworks , for example ) . The tools all have very specific effects on the surroundings , and you must master them all if you are to have any hope of solving the entire game . I must admit I have a preference for the stair-builder . . . it's such a useful one for a multitude of reasons , and I've always liked the animation for it . Not every single puzzle is a new one ; some return later , requiring new ( more difficult ) solutions to pass . In addition to mastering the tools , you'll also need a good overview , great timing and a solid head on your shoulders . There are differing thresholds of mistakes . . . you're not always allowed the same amount of slip-ups with the ability to complete the current puzzle on that same try ( but you can of course start it over at any time you want ) , and all of them are timed . . . some give you more than enough time , others just exactly the amount that you need . Apart from the tools , the game also has a few other helpful functions . . . you can pause the game at any time , freezing the action and the timer , and simply take some time to think , and / or look over the current challenge , you can fast-forward ( which is good when you know that what you've set in motion will finish the level , and you don't want to have to wait while all the suicidal creatures walk into the exit . The original version of the game had each completed challenge grant you the password for the next . . . so that you could return to exactly where in the long line of them you were , on any computer you played it on . In 1995 , Psygnosis released a Windows version ( also featuring Oh No ! More Lemmings , which adds more than a hundred more puzzles , doubling the playing time ) , which seems to run fine on any Windows ( up to and including XP , at least , which is what I have ) , and here , the passwords are discarded in favor of a user-based system , ensuring that the player does no longer need to keep a pad of paper and a pen nearby when playing in order to play on from where he got to . This version also features a selector , making you able to choose which challenge to try next , and , thankfully , a " cheat " option , allowing you to skip any that you simply can not figure out or work your way through . . . though it does mark it with a question mark rather than a " completed " mark , on the list , to remind you that you did not actually complete that one . The game features muzak . . . each challenge plays track after track of midi versions of well-known ( and presumably public domain ) songs , and you catch yourself humming the darn things after a playing for a while . A quirky feature , but it fits in with the rest of the game . One of the great things is that this can be played by just about anyone , regardless of age or nationality ; if you can read numbers and do basic math you can play this . Understanding a little bit of English is a plus , but it's not really necessary . This is a quite simple game , and it works great as that . . . but at times , I must admit , I missed some more features . A function that could be switched on / off which automatically ended the challenge if you lost too many of the poor animals , instead of letting you save too few would have been nice , and zoom would often have helped , as they sometimes bunch up , and it is then difficult to give the right one the tool , or similar . Perhaps not the original game , but maybe the Windows version , since it did add other things , including several different screen resolutions . . . ah , then again , I suppose you shouldn't tamper with a classic . This is one of the best puzzle games ever made , and will always be remembered , seldom properly copied and never truly outdone . There are several sequels , which is something to brag about for this type of game . I recommend this to any fan of brain-teasers .
A great western , but drags a little too much , especially on repeated viewings	This , the third and final part of Sergio Leone's famous " Dollars " or " Man with no name " Trilogy was promised to be the epic chapter ; that proves to be entirely true . However , despite Leone's talented direction , the film seems to drag in some scenes , and the length is almost unbearable on multiple viewings . The plot is very good , intricate , yet simple enough for the mainstream crowd ; the way it keeps developing through twists and unexpected situations is also great . It keeps your interest , at least the first few times you see it . The pace is bad in some scenes , where the movie seems to drag on endlessly . I don't think I've been able to sit through the whole thing more than once ( granted , technically that's enough , but a film should have some re-watch value , I think ) . The acting is very good ; Clint Eastwood is the embodiment of the spaghetti-western spirit . Lee Van Cleef is excellent as well , as is Eli Wallach . The characters are well-written , interesting and credible . The direction is , as always when it comes to Leone's films , excellent . Apart from the few scenes where the plot drags , Leone keeps a great atmosphere and mood throughout the film . The action is about as good as it gets when it comes to spaghetti-western : excellent , intense and very , very cool . The dialog is excellent . The script is well-written . The soundtrack is among Ennio Morricone's best work . All in all , if you're into westerns at all , this is pretty much the western . It drags a little too much in a few scenes , though , and is probably best enjoyed if you only see it once . I recommend it to any fan of westerns , particularly spaghetti-westerns , as well as any of the three main actors , or Sergio Leone .
Very good , but too slow and overly complicated	I decided to check out this film after hearing many good things about it , among others that it was the best film Curtis Hanson has made . . . and since Hanson also directed 8 Mile , a movie I enjoyed very much and have seen several times , I thought it would be worth watching . I wasn't mistaken . What I wasn't prepared for , however , was how darn slow it was . . . it never seemed to take off . Maybe it's the fact that there are almost constantly introduced new characters , maybe it's the fact that half of the actions in the film don't seem to have much of an impact on anything , other than move the plot a little bit forward ( a tiny little bit ) . . . I don't know . It never really captivated me , and I found myself often not paying that much attention to it . The film is good , no doubt about it . . . but it's just so slow . . . and in the end , it seems unrealistic . The very ending seems to be set up to throw in an action scene . The plot is good , but the pacing is bad . The script is good . The acting is great . The characters are well-written and well-acted . The dialog is well-written and well-delivered . The film has so much going for it , and , luckily , pulls most of if off perfectly . But that pacing is horrendous . I haven't read the novel which this film is based on , but I think that the film does it justice . . . anyway , that's what the author says on one of the featurettes on the DVD . The dialog has several memorable lines , the characters are conflicted and not immediately likable , but you eventually grow to like them , the script has some great scenes . . . but the pacing just . . . no . Maybe it had something to do with how hard it was for me to tell Kevin Spacey's and Russell Crowe's characters apart , partly because they looked alike and partly because both characters acted alike . I liked this movie , but I'm not going to lie and say I wasn't bored out of my mind for about a fourth of the run-time , scattered around the film . Too long and too big , in my opinion . . . but not bad . I recommend this to fans of Curtis Hanson , neo-noir drama-mystery-thrillers and any of the actors involved in it .
Excellent cyberpunk-action-survival-horror-role-playing-game-hybrid	I just finished playing this through for the . . . what is it by now ? Fifth , sixth , maybe tenth ? I don't know , and very much to the game's credit , I don't care . It's such a giant , full experience that there's far too much for anyone to be able to take it all in on the first time playing it through . The game is immensely enjoyable . The story is brilliant and has so many details that you'll have to pay good attention to piece it together . The game-play is challenging and entertaining , not to mention open-ended . The game starts off giving you a quick taste of the different abilities you have in the game and then asks you to choose which group of abilities you'll focus most on in the game . From then on , you have to upgrade some of the abilities to your own liking . That ensures that no two people play the game the exact same way . . . in fact , the many times I've beaten it , I've yet to play through two even slightly similar play-throughs . . . I think that says something about just how open the game-play is . . . even more-so than Deus Ex , another excellent action / RPG hybrid ( and which I do , when everything is taken into account , consider to be the superior game ) , in which everything is neatly planned out . . . in this , the spawning ( for those not well versed in video-game lingo , this means " creating " ) of enemies is controlled by a randomizer ( I believe that you can turn this off , if you find it too challenging , as the game has a console and the manual tells you both how to access it and how to tell it to turn spawning off ) . The player can never entirely relax and let himself or herself think that all of the enemies are dead . . . not until he or she beats the game , anyway . The music of the game is consistently atmospheric and unsettling . . . you're constantly wondering if something is right behind the next corner . When you're attacked , it switches to a very cool rock score that fits the action perfectly . The sound and general atmosphere make for a thoroughly creepy mood . . . you'll be looking over your shoulder and checking every room twice , and you'll still jump in your seat and panic on a regular basis . The weaponry is well-selected and very cool . The abilities are plentiful and more than a little awesome to use . The story-telling is magnificent , both the few ( but great ) cut-scenes ( in particular the fully rendered ones ) , and the countless audio logs that you will find throughout the game , many of which contain a new piece ( some bigger than others ) of the puzzle . The level design is of very high quality throughout . There's even a multi-player cooperative mode , which allows you to play the game with your friends , and the game supports it exceptionally well . I myself have completed the game with a friend , and it's quite entertaining , as this allows for the players to specialize in different fields and make up for each others ' shortcomings . Now , as this review has covered just about all of the positive points of the game up to now , sit back and prepare for the negative stuff ( yup , sorry ) . The open-ended game-play also means that you won't really get a good chance to determine which abilities are better . . . meaning , you'll have to try the game several times ( which isn't bad if you do like it , but you may find yourself stuck with abilities you don't really want ) , each time choosing something new if you want to find out which weapons and abilities are more effective or fit your way of playing better . There's no going back ; once you've chosen a set of abilities to specialize in , you have to stick with them . Also , when you upgrade your abilities , you just have to guess if you can afford the level after the next . . . you can only see what the immediate level costs , not the next . You never know what the weapons or items you want to use will require in main abilities . . . not until you find them , anyway , and by then , you're expected to use them ( the game will send enemies your way that are fiendishly hard to beat without said weapons ) . The game keeps gaining in difficulty level , without bothering to check if you're keeping up with it or not . The graphics are somewhat unsatisfying for a game of ' 99 ( considering that there are plenty of games of the same year with better graphics ) . This can be helped by downloading the fan-made high definition graphics , but still . Once you know what you're supposed to do , the game is somewhat short . . . this time , I beat it in no less than 11 play hours . . . that's not even a weekend . Keeping in mind that I did know from past experience what I was supposed to do , but still . . . it's not a whole lot compared to Deus Ex , which has at least twice as many playing hours as this game had the first time I played through ( 20 , give or take ) . Near the end , the game developers seems to have run out of good ideas for missions and challenges . . . jumping puzzles ? Max Payne may stoop to that level for keeping the player occupied , but System Shock 2 shouldn't have to . Not a game of this caliber . Finally , the game doesn't seem to be as stable as it should be , and it might throw you out of the game . . . in the middle of saving , to boot . . . rendering your save game useless and forcing you to start all over , unless you made a safety save earlier . The game has pretty much the same system of loading a new area as Half-Life . . . only here , you're ( mostly ) told that the game will load . Problem is , during these loads , the game crashes all too often , forcing you to rely on aforementioned save-games . All in all , an excellent game , but not an entirely flawless one . I recommend it to any fan of RPG , action , horror , survival and / or cyberpunk . Get it ; chances are very high you won't regret it .
More gore than Night , less action than Dawn	By far the most claustrophobic of the trilogy ( and possible . . . of all time ? ) , this third and final film of George Romero's so-called Dead Trilogy takes us beyond the realization of the enemy which was Night of the Living Dead and fighting the losing battle which was Dawn of the Dead to evading and , more importantly , understanding our enemy . . . a step that should have been taken far earlier in the fight , since it may soon be too late . The most complex and satirical of the series ( and , believe me , that says a lot ) , this is seemingly the least popular of the three films . . . possibly due to the extreme gore ( especially near the end . . . yikes ) , the loathsome characters ( both preceding films had more people to root for ) or the idea that we need to understand our enemies ( and maybe not even fight them at all ) . This movie starts out with a vision so horrifying , it can only be a dream . Sure enough , the main character awakens . . . to a reality that is even worse . First , we met the enemy . . . then , the battle we knew we would eventually lose was fought . . . now , we face the consequences of a problem that wasn't met with the necessary response , an enemy that was underestimated from the beginning . Romero once again creates satire and forces us to face our own flawed humanity , our own shortcomings . Maybe that is a part of why the film is less liked , as well . The plot is great , and one must love and admire how Romero pits brains against braun . The pacing is the best of the series ( well , what I've seen of it , I can't claim that I've had the pleasure to watch the latest installment , Land of the Dead yet ) . The acting is top-notch , especially that of the character of Bub . Arguably , some of the other performances were less than astonishing , but these aren't exactly well-known , seasoned actors here . The special effects are nothing short of chilling and disgusting . Savini may actually have outdone his work on Dawn of the Dead in this film . . . and that is not something achieved without enormous effort . The final chapter of Romero's trilogy of the Dead is more than worth your time , just as the two other parts . I recommend this to fans of the genre , Romero and Savini . Be forewarned ; though it may not look like it at first glance , this has some of the most bone-chilling gore ( of the series . . . of films in general , take your pick ) , and any potential viewer should take into strong consideration if their nerves and stomachs are up for it . If you can watch this and you're into its kind . . . don't miss this for the world .
Excellent adults Christmas calendar from Anden	As a Christmas calendar , this has very little to do with Christmas , but it has just enough mentions of it to convince you that it is in fact a Christmas calendar . It's kind of more anti-Christmas than Christmas . It has a lot of what Americans would call " R-rated material " , and it has a thoroughly adult tone . The humor is somewhat aggressive and provocative , just as Anden's humor always is . Some people will definitely be offended , but I'm sure that just as many people will love it , just as I did . The plot is pretty good , but is honestly a bit repetitive in a few of the episodes , but nowhere near as much as Christmas calendars usually are . The comedic timing is nearly always perfect , there are times where fans of Anden will laugh for up to half a minute or more , at just one great joke . The comedy is laugh-out-loud material for fans of Anden , most of the time . The acting is all good , as it is the multi-talented Anden who plays most of the roles himself . In fact , he plays about 15 characters or voices all in all , and he portrays each of them perfectly . The characters are all well-written , they mostly rely on stereotypes , but that's pretty much the point , as that's what Anden relies some of his humor on , especially in this one . The " special effects " in this , I have to mention , are pretty good , when I found out that Anden was playing all the characters at once , I was excited to find out how they handled having him appear on-screen as two or more characters at once . It looks very good , and very convincing . All in all , this is the most entertaining , most funny and most interesting Christmas calendar that I've ever seen , and I've definitely seen my share . Running at just over 4 hours , all the episodes put together , it's an incredibly funny , very anti-Christmas , while still being reasonably Christmas-like , Christmas calendar packed full of controversy , contemporary social satire , stereotypes and Anden's personal brand of humor . I recommend this to all fans of Anden , and it helps to have a decent knowledge of contemporary politics and the likes .
As close to perfection as a teen movie can get , in my opinion	After looking for this film for a while , in order to see it again and comment on it ( re-view it to review it . . . heh ) after having seen it once before and really liking it , I finally found it at the library and rented it . It's the best teen love movie I've ever seen , and quite possibly the best teen movie ever made . I can only assume that the reason for it not being on the top 250 list is because too many Americans can't accept foreign movies not dubbed to their language . The plot is very good , and very easy to relate to for just about any teen . The characters are well-written , credible and easy to relate to for any teenager . The acting is top-notch , I didn't find a single character , minor or major , to be poorly acted . The film as a whole is interesting , funny , emotional and has a good morale for any teenager . . . heck , anyone , regardless of age . The thing that's keeping it from a perfect ten is that it does have its flaws . On repeated viewings , the pace seems to drag too much , for a film that's only 90 minutes . The hand-held camera and long takes get a bit dull and makes you lose interest too much , especially on repeated viewings . . . this might be common for Swedish audiences and something that director / writer Lukas Moodysson always uses , but it makes it feel too much like a documentary instead of a film , I think . The instant-zoom shots are also too documentary-like , but they're put to good use , so that doesn't bother me too much . But far too many scenes where different angles and good cuts would have made a world of difference and have added some extra impact just drag it down , I think . Yes , this does make it feel more ' real ' but it also makes the film a little dull visually , which forces it to rely on good dialog ( which the film does have its fair share of , granted ) which only really works if you speak the language , because god knows there's a hell of a lot of nuances that are lost when the film is just subtitled , instead of being in a language that you understand . And this is where it fails , this is where it drags . On my initial viewing , I didn't think too much of this , but here , already on the second viewing it bothers me . Therefore , I give this film an almost perfect rating . It's great , and worth watching for almost anyone ( teenagers in particular ) but on repeated viewings , it gets a little too dull , I think . I recommend the film to any teenager and most grown-ups as well . Well worth your time .
You really think you can trust the person at your side ?	This is a serious injection of pure paranoia . If you don't get anxious and ask important questions about what exactly happens that we don't get to see , and when , during the course of this , then you , my friend , were not properly engaged , and , let's be brutally honest here , this film probably wasn't meant for you ( and hey , that's no problem , nothing is for everyone ) . A lot of debate is possible over the answers . And that's part of why this is so enormously terrifying , and what keeps this working for the audience , even with many viewings . It's difficult to be certain . The plot is marvelous , and its progression feels natural without being predictable . The concept is well-thought out , interesting and fascinating , and the execution does not disappoint . The pacing is spot-on , there is not a misplaced moment to be found in this . When this intends to be , it is rather intense . The atmosphere is expertly crafted , and builds at the proper speed , never rushed . The tension is so thick you can practically see it . The gore is plentiful , and while quite frightening , it isn't the point , nor does it ever feel like it is . And whether you like them or not , ya gotta admit , they look pretty darn good for when they were made . All the special effects in this do , almost entirely on account of Rob Bottin , the newcomer who literally exhausted himself creating them . The key is the balance , how far you push the shocks , and John's got that down to a science . The humor is of the same type and close to the same amount as his usual efforts . The acting is average or above . The characters are sufficiently developed and varied . The dialog is well-delivered and well-written . The mood is helped by the brilliant composer Ennio Morricone , who applies his talent , and puts together music that fits Carpenter perfectly . If your nerves are not in tattered rags before this is over . . . see the beginning of this review . All of these things together . . . the isolation of the people and the setting , the long , claustrophobic hallways , the genuinely successful scares , the gruesome violence and the haunting , unsettling score . . . it creates a strong horror piece which still holds up today , and which manages to get jumps out of yours truly , after having watched it around a dozen times . The DVD holds a feature-length behind-the-scenes documentary and a commentary track with Kurt Russell and the director , who are cool to listen to together , and which is both entertaining and informative . The menus are a tad flat , and one can tell that the release was done years after this hit theaters . I recommend this movie to fans of all that were involved in making it . . . in particular the man who helmed it .
Effective anti-war film . . . they don't call it the best of its kind for nothing	The original anti-war film and visualization of the Remarque novel . If this doesn't make you hate war , it is safe to say that nothing will . I watched the remake of ' 79 before this , and that allows me to draw comparisons ( something which the high quality of both films demands ) . Certain decisions were made in the case of either film being produced ; creative calls . Both versions have something that the other doesn't . On the whole , I'd say that this includes more of the most important scenes , apart from two major decisions ( in the field of editing and revealing of information . . . how much the audience is allowed to know and at what point ) at the end . Also , one scene close to the end wasn't included in this one , and it proved to be powerful in the later version . The plot is great , and it evolves at an excellent speed . The pacing , in general , works much better than that of the latter film . It's dreary when that works in the context of what's going on , intense when it needs to be and you're never bored . I couldn't take my eyes off the film for a single second . The acting is for the very most part exceptional , though there is some noticeable overacting ( almost certainly due to the fact that this was so soon after sound came to movies . . . the actors simply weren't that accustomed to speaking yet ) . It hurts the film a little bit , but it's easily ignored . As is the comedic aspect of the film , which is just a tad too dominant and bears evidence of the humor of the time ( that of The Three Stooges and the likes ) , though it does harm the serious tone some ( if only slightly ) . The film is amazing . The effects are incredible . There's no Hollywood in this ; no fireball explosions and no heroes . Just realistic effects and real people . The tone is bleak and unpleasant . This comes as close to how real war must feel like as is possible through the film medium ( at the very least at the time it was made ) . The battle scenes are noisy , chaotic and unsettling . The time spent in a bunker is claustrophobic and echoes of uncertainty . . . what will come next ? The writing is fantastic . Though lacking the story-telling crutch of voice-over narration that the later-produced film utilized , the points are made perfectly and the story well-told . The cinematography and editing are practically flawless , and work astoundingly well . The details are magnificent , so much is covered herein . I cannot help but admire the sheer amount of planning that went into this . All in all , I'd rate this a bit higher than the remake . . . but I urge for anyone watching one to watch the other and decide for themselves . Both are marvelous films , and both have something that the other lacks . As an anti-war film , as a piece of well-rounded film-making , and as an accurate and effective account of war , I consider this the superior of the two . The other has more steady acting and better build-up of some important plot points ( the human beauty in the main character , most noticeably ) . I recommend that anyone who has the chance and who believes that they have the fortitude to sit through such strong and painful films watches both . Not to be missed .
Had an impact when it was released . . . and it hasn't lost it over the almost three decades that have passed	The first thing you see in this film is a static angle ( one which will be repeated later in the film ) , depicting the chaos going on ( unseen to the audience ) in a studio that airs news . Soon after , Fonda's character's typical story is shown , in that same angle . Don't let this mislead you ; the film is not about a female reporter , a woman struggling to succeed in a male-dominated profession . That is merely a lead-in , a way of starting the film ( though it's used later ) . The actual point to this production is revealed gradually , and the first we see of it is in a deliberately long scene early on . The entire film has that pace ; not slow or drawn-out , but deliberate . It's never really fast , even in the few sequences that one would normally expect to be so . This pacing ( especially because it seems to slow down further as the plot is revealed , as the disturbing , unsettling nature of the film is unraveled ) is strong , almost painful to the viewer . It inspires you to , if it had been possible , jump into the screen , grab the people responsible by the collar and yell at them to do something about it , to remedy the situation . Never once did I feel like getting up or even taking my eyes off the screen for a moment . The subject is extremely important to be aware of , and it's handled perfectly here . No over-dramatization ( well . . . very little , anyway ) , just an accurate presentation of the issue . The direction is astounding . The empathy felt for Lemmon's character is profound . The editing is masterful . . . one scene near the very end illustrates that perfectly . The editor , judging from his filmography , is vastly underrated . The writing was excellent . The acting was great , in particular by Lemmon , Fonda and Douglas ( who also produced it ) . The lack of a score is perfect ; no music is needed to enhance . The ending is sublime and effective . The movie does have a few negative points . . . among them , some of the dialog is obviously and undeniably mainly exposition , one particular part of the film , whilst dramatic , doesn't seem to mesh with something that follows it . Not everyone will watch the film because of two features of it which are commonly ( and rightfully so ) attributed to bad movies ; the pacing ( which can be mistaken as being slow ) and the ( lack of ) score . One could argue that to be a negative thing , as everyone ought to consider the points it presents , but maybe it's better this way ; handling the heavy subject with the intelligence and respect ( for the topic as well as the viewer ) . . . something like this , maybe it shouldn't be spoon-fed . I was mesmerized with the film , and left very taken aback . I recommend this to anyone who believe themselves strong enough to handle it .
Cinematic excellence	I haven't seen too many Oliver Stone pictures ; JFK , Scarface ( which he wrote , not directed ) , and this one . I don't know too much about his directorial style , but if any of his other films are like this one , I'll have to watch more of them . The visual style is amazing . The whole film has sort of a psychedelic visual style , and utilizes constant cuts and constant change in color scheme , often changing between powerful green , blue , red and even black / white . Of course , none of this is random . It's there to project symbolism and keep the mood intense and constantly evolving , and , believe me , it works perfectly . With many references to popular media ( television , mainly ) , demons and the desensitizing effect of television . The effect of half of the imagery being seen through a television screen or hallucinated is amazing . The film is experimental and psychological . As Stone puts it in the documentary , it's a film about two people breaking the rules , so it's only fitting that the film-makers are also breaking the rules . It's chaotic and wild , insane and mentally exhausting . It's a film about pain , violence and giving in to cravings and desires . But it in no way romanticizes the aforementioned three points . Quite the opposite . I believe someone once told me that the film makes killing and violence look appealing . I can't even explain how wrong that is . This truly is an amazing film . If you can sit through this , and you ( honestly ) think of yourself as perceptive and intelligent , you have to see this movie . It's not just recommended or a good idea to watch , it's mandatory for anyone that ' get ' it . The plot is great and well-paced . It's never boring . The acting is great . The characters are well-written , credible and so easy to understand and sympathize with that many will hate the film for it . The whole film is amazing on so many levels . I recommend it to any person who believes himself or herself to be hardened and intelligent enough to sit through it , and , more importantly , understand it . I recommend you get the directors cut , as it keeps everything that the other released version cut off . Highly recommendable .
Simply put : a classic	I remember playing this as a kid . . . in fact , compared to how much I played it ( which was considerably less than Commander Keen 4 , due to availability ) , it is the game that has stayed with me the longest . After a brief text introduction , this game has you playing as an unnamed stranger . . . thrown into a dungeon , with nothing more than three life potions , your wits . . . and a quest : Save the princess from the evil Jaffar . The first few levels let you familiarize yourself with the controls and the interface . . . both of which are simple and easy to get into . After that , the game takes the relatively few things that it has established , and plays around with it in every imaginable way . In this game , never expect something to act the exact way you'd think it would ; it takes place in the real world , but magic exists in this , and the person who constructed this prison knew a thing or two about traps . The game-play consists of you finding your way through the dungeon ; there are wrought-iron gates to open , secret passages to find and the aforementioned traps ( including tiles of the floor that fall out from underneath you and spikes that emerge from the floor ) . As the unnamed lead , you run , jump and fall your way through them , in each level working your way to the door which will take you to the next floor of the prison . . . a door that you also need to open , like the gates . To add pressure , there is a one-hour time limit . The level design , whilst at first glance may come off as linear , is amazing ; massive halls , either in dark , dreary metal or bright , vibrant colors , with hidden passages and danger lurking around every corner . After finding a sword in the very first level , you will find quite a few equally armed guards throughout . . . of growing skill , and with increasingly more life-potions . The fighting system is extraordinary ; in spite of it being quite simple . . . you can retreat , charge , block , and attack with your sword . Any attack may be blocked , and very often , there are dangers on either side of the immediate arena in which swordplay commences . . . making these fights games of chess , and requiring increasingly better reaction and coordination skills . Charging blindly at your opponent will get you killed . . . and since they tend to guard ( hence them being called guards , as opposed to simply " men with swords and knowledge on how to use them " ) the area that you are headed towards , simply retreating or running isn't necessarily an option . The fights range in excitement and entertainment level , but they never grow dull or predictable . The later ones are intense , and the very last one is quite simply monumental . The last level is , as another reviewer puts it , epic . The game only lets you play for one hour consecutively , but after the first couple of levels , you are allowed to save your progress , including how much time remains . . . and my hat goes off to the man who manages to complete this without having tried it before and without saving . When you die in the game ( and , trust me , you will ) , you will be returned to start of the level that you are in . . . now , this can prove frustrating in a few levels , due to having to start all over after committing a single lethal error . . . but the game more than makes up for that in immersion . The moment after you see your character get spikes jammed through his body or take the final , definite blow from another man's sword , you want to try again . Not out of competitive reasons . . . but to get just a little further , to see the next interesting use of traps , the next challenging jump , the next dazzling fight . The game is a tour de force of creative energy ; the elaborate levels , the skillful and intuitive sword-fights , the sound ( while relatively limited , it is highly effective ) and , last but most definitely not least , the animation . Employing rotoscoping in bringing the played character to life , every single move looks and feels real . And the high quality doesn't stop there . . . fire looks exactly as it should ( going by what could be achieved in animation almost two decades ago ) , for example . The graphics , while they won't impress many today , were grand , and still don't disappoint . And the level of detail put in them . . . seeing the lead impaled on sharp spikes , while it is by no means a pretty sight , convinces the player and feels " real " . That is something that should be noted , for any younger or more easily affected players ; this game is not for the young ones . There is death , blood and gore . Depending on your skill , you can to a degree control how much of it you see ( unlike more recent games ( and some contemporary ones ) that deliver such , this doesn't shower you with images of carnage ) , but this is for mature audiences . Maintaining a certain level of innocence , the game has no sexual or sick images or ideas . . . instead , it has a bleak atmosphere and lots of deadly situations . The action-adventure games of recently owe a lot to this game . It was one of the first of its kind , and probably the first real pioneer in the genre . The game already has several sequels , three of which were in very recent years . This game didn't come up with the concept of fighting your way out of captivity , or solving puzzles . . . but it certainly made it entertaining . I can't think of a thing that I would change in this memorable game ; one thing that people should be wary of is that it isn't exactly an easy game . It starts out quite simple , but the levels grow increasingly more challenging . . . you'll need good reflexes , patience , and a good deal of smarts to complete the levels . I recommend this strongly to any fan of action and adventure ( with emphasis placed upon the last-mentioned genre ) , as well as anyone who like the culture and the exotic qualities within . An excellent game on all points .
A tale of love , war and power	While this is , in my opinion , not the best of Kubrick's films , it is in no way a bad film of his . . . some have claimed it is overlong and dull , but I don't think so . From what I've heard , it does the novel justice , and I believe that is what Kubrick went after , more than anything else . That is admirable , for a man who throughout his career was known for making unfaithful film adaptations of famous and popular novels , much to the dismay of the authors . The film perfectly presents everything from the time period in which it takes place . . . something that few , if any , other films have accomplished . It deals with the life of Redmond Barry , his ups and downs . The first half has us feeling sympathy with him , and shows his rise to a high position and gain the name Barry Lyndon , and everything that entitles . The second seems to turn us a little more against him , as he goes through the expected downfall that must always follow an unexpected rise to high life . Through the film he gets desensitized and careless . We follow him through most of his life , and an uneventful one it is not . As all other Kubrick films , the visual side is probably the most prominent one of the film , as he grants us several long looks at the beautiful sets and locales , and there are more than a few of his trademark shots slowly zooming out from the focus point to display the surroundings . The plot is great , and almost constantly developing . It is narrated with a good sense of irony and clever social satire on the time period . There's plenty of humor in the film to make the three hour run-time seem less long . The pacing is good and thorough without the film being slow ( though I do admit that it isn't a film for those who are not used to long , visual films ) . The characters are well-written and credible . The acting is excellent all the way . Not even the child-actors seemed less than perfectly convincing . The costumes and sets are great . From what I understand , there is no detail in the film that is even slightly historically inaccurate . That is quite impressive for a film that takes place about a century and a half before it was made . I have heard of great deals of work done to keep many films accurate , but I don't believe one exists that manages to do so with such perfection as this . Even the very language that they speak is accurate . The special effects in the film also deserve mention here . . . for a film that is almost thirty years old , it's impeccable how believable and convincing the effects are . . . I couldn't tell how most of them were done . Kubrick was indeed one of the most brilliant directors ever . . . he was not only a master at his craft , he was also one of the most innovative and inspiring film-makers to have ever lived . I recommend this great piece of cinema to anyone who has an interest in the time period the film is set and any fan of Stanley Kubrick . Don't miss this one . Not his greatest , but a truly great one nonetheless .
There's a reason this is so appreciated	Let it be said right away : There is at least one obvious issue with this . That doesn't have to include the fact that this is one of those sequels that are so much like the original that one could argue that it's partially a remake . What I'm referring to is that going by the first , it technically shouldn't exist . I am not aware of anyone who considers the predecessor of this to be the only film in this series ( I've experienced many who , with good cause , deny there to be a third movie . . . heck , I am one of them ) , but I could see why there could be . However , if you look past that ( and you ought to at least consider doing so , as this doesn't come off as one of those follow-ups released to cash in on an earlier success ) , you're in for an undeniably enjoyable and well-done cinematic experience . The plot is interesting and well-told . The pacing is solid . The acting is great from all , Patrick is an incredible addition , and neither Arnie nor Linda have forgotten how to portray their role . The action gets bigger , and still consists of fights , shootouts and car chases , all of which are marvelous and exciting , and never degenerates into stupidity . The guns are still impeccably well-chosen and handled . Really cool . The new concept or two herein are very smart and well-thought out . The science fiction remains well-done . This holds an appropriate amount and volume of self-irony over the title character ( though I did not mind the seriousness of the previous silver screen effort ) . While some of the dark tone is maintained , it is less violent and disturbing than the 1984 piece . There is also no nudity ( well , just about ) or sexuality in this . I have more points against this , meanwhile , they all give stuff away , and this will remain a spoiler-free review . And even with them , it's hard to argue with the quality of this , even if you prefer The Terminator to it ( and I do ) . I recommend this to any fan of sci-fi , intense scenes , James Cameron , the others who made this , and / or food for thought wrapped neatly in celluloid .
How on Earth does this manage to be the pure , unspoiled chunk of excellence that it is ?	What can I say ? This , I kid you not , hooked me right away . It gets going immediately , without skipping on development , of characters ( all of which are credible and plenty of which are memorable ) , of plot ( the best new sci-fi I've seen on a visual representation in recent memory , and moves rather well ) and , well , just in general , it's all very thought through and well-accomplished . The pacing is equally swift without being overwhelming or impossible to follow , every episode ( all but the last of them also end in a nail-biter of a cliffhanger ) moves so fast you'll wonder where the time went , and be left yearning for more . The cinematography is magnificent . The writing is amazing , from start to finish . This has a marvelous sense of humor , that fits the tone perfectly . There is genuine drama in this . The acting is just about flawless , and the cast are quite well-chosen . Krause is fantastic , for on one hand , he is convincing in emotional scenes . . . and on the other , he is solid as a bad-ass . And he's just part of the awesomeness also found herein , and even if you aren't big on that , you could still enjoy this a whole lot , and be thoroughly entertained by it . The action is intense , and definitely among my favorite of that , as far as what's been put on the small screen . This can also be suspenseful , and the atmosphere and mystery are spectacular . The special effects are incredible . I won't detail what the concept of this is . . . it's too good to reveal outside of the show itself . I'd suggest giving it a chance if you think you'll like it , and you'll probably know before long . The very finale may not satisfy all , but after a couple of hours of that quality , really , what could ? I recommend this to anyone who is a fan of either one of the following , and at least tolerates the other : science fiction and cool , fun , action .
In one word : Spectacular	This movie is amazing . I honestly went to see it because of the fighting scenes , but the rest of the movie was great too . Definitely Tarantino's best work ever . The way the story is told is typical for Tarantino , but it works better here than in Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs . It makes the characters actions a lot more understandable , and makes you sympathize , not only with the main character , but with several other characters too . It also makes several of the fight scenes better , as you know the characters a little more than the usual action movie . Tarantino's choice of music is also good ; some of it enhances the situation , some of it just fits perfectly with the scene . The humor in the movie is also a very nice touch ; it's somewhat rare in the movie , but when it's there , it's also completely fitting with the scene , and not trying too hard to be funny . The violence is , as always with Tarantino , surprising . When you least expect it . This is the best movie I've seen since the first Matrix . Watch this if you can stand violence . .
How is your depth perception ?	Repeated viewings of this is part of the requirement to fully appreciate this . Also included are genuine effort to get into it , thought applied to putting it all together , and obviously sufficient attention span . Reading the FAQ and visiting the site for it , and working through the puzzles found there , also help . I don't mean to scare people away from this , more to inform . This is like a jigsaw puzzle , and not a simple one at that . When the pieces do all come together . . . well , I imagine that it's satisfying , I honestly can't claim it's happened for me yet . But I really can't find anything in this to criticize . The plot is interesting , and develops throughout . The pacing is deliberate , nothing is rushed or dwelled upon in a manner it shouldn't be . The acting is flawless . The philosophy and food for thought are well-done . Editing and cinematography are excellent . They're experimental ( that , in fact , is a word that really applies to this entire film ) without being flashy or over-stylized . The music is amazing and always well-chosen . The production never shows that its budget was little by today's standards . The effects are astounding in every case . Kelly definitely deserves his work being noticed . The overall concept is well-thought out , and while this is certainly not the first depiction of it , even on the silver screen , it is the most " realistic " and consistent one , and it's near the top of the list as far as how engaging it is ( The Butterfly Effect does , for me , beat this in that respect , but I will admit that the writers of that did do stuff that was more cool than it was sensible , if not very often ) . I understand that the Director's Cut is the version that largely explains what happens , whereas the Theatrical ( which is the only I've seen thus far ) , to a wider degree leaves it up to individual interpretation . There is a bit of disturbing content , and there is some language , as well as dialog that should perhaps not reach younger ears . In any event , this is hardly meant for children . I recommend this to fans of Richard Kelly , the others involved in making it , and dark science fiction that you , when or if you watch , must be an active participant of .
Surreal and truly beautiful	Wow . . . this movie had me spellbound . Deep , intimate film . If one wasn't already convinced that Jim Carrey is an actor , not just a comedian , one would be so after watching this . Winslet does great , as well , as does everyone else that I can think of ( Dunst also impressed me ) . This is the third film of Charlie Kaufman's that I've seen , and by far my favorite . Anyone who has ever loved can relate to this . I can't promise it'll be pleasant , in fact , it's much more likely that it won't , but the film is absolutely absorbing . I haven't seen any other work by Gondry , but he directs this magnificently . Masterful visuals , and somehow apparently with little to no CGI . The editing and camera-work are excellent . The story-telling and characterization are of such high quality that I'm not sure words can do them justice . The ambiguity of the final moments is perfect . The special effects are amazing . The film pulls you in , it is thoroughly engaging throughout . I'm not sure you can watch this and not be affected . You may not recognize every scene as something from your own life , but the feelings , the impressions . . . they're universal . I don't remember when I've last been this into something I've watched . Anyone who can watch films that are personal , with surrealism and deep emotion should consider this . I recommend this to anyone , really , at the very least those who are in the aforementioned group . There is some language and sexual content , as well as drug references and the like . The commentary track is also worth your time .
Beautiful . . . an amazing mix of old cinema with new , in a film about perception	Having been a big fan of Anders Matthesen for years , and having enjoyed his acting ( and hoping he'd do more than the sparse amount seen in his stand-up performances and the Christmas calendar he created ) , I was excited to see if he could pull off a lead . . . if he could carry a feature production . I'm very happy to say that he does so , and does it perfectly . The film plays out drawing strong emotion and manages to grab you by surprise on more than one occasion . The plot is well-written , and grabs you and doesn't let go until the credits roll . The acting is flawless in all cases . The pacing is deliberate and takes the time it needs to tell the story . . . no more , no less . You're never bored , and you're never overwhelmed . The direction is marvelously understated ( and at times contains an almost cynical deliberateness to the events . . . we can tell what's going to happen , but nothing can be done to prevent it ) , making for many thoroughly effective and strong moments in the film . The film inter-cuts with Pure Hearts , the old movie ( which was created for the film , and rather immensely well-done , one might add . . . they captured the essence and feel of such films perfectly ) that the two leads love watching , and does so to perfection . It adds a lot to the film , and is important to understand the main character and his motivation . The cinematography and editing is masterful . We aren't watching Kriss . . . we're experiencing the world as he sees it . As someone diagnosed with a weak form of Autism , I'm always curious as to how anyone with that syndrome is portrayed in films and the like . Often , we are subjected to attempts at an analysis by people who don't understand us . Occasionally , we are the butt end of the jokes . Here , it's done perfectly . All the details are spot-on , and the word " Autism " is never even mentioned . Anyone who knows about Autists watching this film will surely , as I , find the presentation to be accurate . I gained a lot of respect for Anders Matthesen tonight . . . and that says a lot , considering how much I already possessed . He does a perfect job of performing the role . His movements , his mannerism , his voice and vocabulary . . . astounding . Had one never seen this man act before , one would probably have sworn that he was Autistic . The writing is excellent . It takes you inside the mind of this man , and I dare anyone to watch this film through and not feel sorry for Kriss . . . in spite of his actions . One thing to note is that , apparently , the film is quite different from the book upon which it is based . The film is about good vs . evil . . . and perception . It provides good food for thought , and delivers its beautiful message perfectly . What that is , however , I shall not reveal here . . . I want each viewer to discover for himself . Also , I urge anyone who hasn't read the credits for the film here on IMDb to hold off on it until you've seen it . . . and if you already have , try your best to forget what you read . I glanced at it before I saw it , and luckily didn't remember any of what I read . This is an amazing film , and should be viewed by anyone old and mature enough to understand it , as well as hardened enough to take the tone and nature of some of the events . Kudos to Matthesen for not playing it for laughs ( though his famous eye-twitch makes an appearance or three ) and for displaying his talent in such a serious and demanding role . I recommend this to fans of Matthesen ( for his talent , not the laughs we're used to him providing ) and anyone intrigued by the subject matter .
A worthy contender for ' greatest horror film ever '	I don't know why it took so long for me to watch this film . . . I think it's the fact that I've always been told that it's a gore-fest and not really anything else . I can tell you now ; I have been grossly misinformed . This is one of those films that everyone who's into the genre should see . If you as much as ' like ' horror , you should see this film . Look past the less-than-stellar acting , the dubious dialog and the thin character writing , and you will see one of the greatest horror films ever created . The plot is hardly worth mentioning . The pacing is top-notch , you're not bored for a second through the entire film . Not one second , throughout the whole film . Seriously . The acting is mostly unimpressive . The characters are daftly written , and so hard to tell apart due to vague personalities that I was never completely certain how many men or women there were , or who was who ( well , apart from Campbell as Ash , but his face is a pretty recognizable one ) . The dialog , as mentioned earlier , is quite dubious . Just about all characters ( including the demons / Evil Dead , in-between moans and ' join us ' ) get at least one really bad line . Delivery isn't exactly perfect , either . The effects , though some cheap and a few outdated ( but not noticeably so ; none of them looked fake or were easy to figure out ) are very good . The real strength in this film , however , is the buildup to the horror and the editing . The way " The Evil " , this unseen , abstract force of true evil is hinted at through the film . . . impossibly effective . The POV shots originating from said force are incredibly creepy . The editing is tight and excellent . The cinematography is by far some of the best I have seen in my entire life . A few shots were off , but there is no doubt that Raimi knows exactly where to put the camera or how to move it , even when he doesn't have the money to get a hold of expensive rigs . Now , as mentioned earlier , many have told me that this is a gore-fest . . . while everything I have put in my review up to this point still stands , let me make one thing clear ; there is plenty of gore in this film . For better or for worse . Plenty . Limbs are torn off , bodies are maimed and blood is dripping by the truckloads . However , even if you don't like gore , if you don't care for blood and violence , you should watch this film . . . if you are into horror and you can take the gore ( which is graphic and intense , make no mistake about that ) , you should definitely watch this film . One to watch for everyone who is into horror . I recommend this film to every horror fan who believes he can stand the violence and gore , and to everyone who is into both horror and gore . . . you've probably already seen this film , but if you haven't , go do so now . You won't regret it .
Amazing film	After hearing nothing but critical acclaim for this film , and the book it was based on , I finally got to see it . I am quite amazed at how well done this film is , and how timeless the theme is . I haven't read the book , but I'm considering it , just to see if there are any details that were left out . The story is amazing and exceptionally told . As far as I know , the film is as close to the book as it could possibly be ; some call it the most accurate book-to-film conversion ever . The plot is very good , it takes a timeless problem and presents it to us , through the innocent eyes of a naive child . The pace is very good ; apart from The Godfather ( the first one ) and one or two other exceptions , this is the only drama where there was truly not one single moment that I found dull , boring or unimportant . Nothing seemed trivial in the film . The perspective that is forced upon us is that of a young child , naive and innocent . This is a brilliant idea , as the eyes of a child is without a doubt one of the most impressionable things in the world , and the film handles this perfectly . What really makes the film , apart from the brilliant and possibly unique perspective , is the fact that the children are likable , credible and charming . You couldn't help but like them ; believe me , normally I really dislike children . I find them annoying , loud and egotistical . But with this film , I couldn't , for one second , muster up any tiny amount of aggression , or even annoyance . They come off as so likable , charming , and , most importantly , real . Almost every kid in any Hollywood movie is either a completely ridiculous stereotype / cliché of a brat , who does nothing but destroy things around him , or the exact opposite , a little angel . Everyone knows that no child is the latter all the time , and even I will admit that there probably doesn't exist too many children who are the first , either . In this film , the children are completely real . They are naive , innocent , they disobey what their father tells them , but ultimately , they obviously love and respect their father , and they never do anything , anything at all , with the intent to hurt or harm someone or something . That is what a child is ; innocent . They do what they do because they do not know better . This film provides a perfect view into their world , or , rather , their perspective of it . The acting is excellent . The child actors exceed all expectations . I was amazed at how professional and convincing they were . The other actors all give great performances as well . The cinematography is excellent ; once again , it gives a perfect perspective on what your surroundings look like when you're a child . The characters are well-written , credible and well-casted . The dialog was well-written . The script was excellent . A very memorable and beautiful film , should be viewed by almost anyone . I recommend this to anyone who likes dramas , and just about anyone who for one reason or another might enjoy this . Don't be scared off by it being over forty years old , or it being black and white ; it's an excellent film , and just about anyone would enjoy it . Don't miss this perfect film .
A chillingly accurate portrayal of Der Führer and the fall of The Third Reich	Adolf Hitler . The very name is enough to send a chill down your spine . Not because of what it is or was , but because of what it stands for , what we involuntarily and immediately think of when we are reminded of him . The deaths of so many people and the cause of so much evil . Now , almost sixty years after his death , we finally get a chance to see his downfall , his last hours and days . . . and this turns out to be a very revealing portrayal . Oliver Hirschbiegel takes what so many people have tried to turn into a monster and makes it human again , makes us believe that this man actually existed and was a man , not a beast . We see Hitler's frustration at defeat , his kindness to his employees , his refusal to accept the truth . The plot is very good , and almost completely authentic . I could only find two historical inaccuracies in the film , and that is incredible , compared to the amount of stuff that was as if taken directly from the history book or another equally reliable source . The pacing is great . I was hardly bored at any point during the film , despite it being quite long and the language spoken was one I couldn't understand ( thank god for subtitles ) . With that said , I have to applaud this film's realism and authenticity . Every single German character in the film speaks German . There are a few scenes with Russian characters as well . . . and they naturally speak Russian . Not English with a poorly faked accent , like we generally see in Hollywood films . In fact , there is not really any Hollywood in the film . Just gritty , hard realism . No heroic acts that are rewarded . No ' fireball ' explosions . No holding back on injuries , even when it comes to ' our heroes ' . Actually , that's probably what impressed me the most ( when it comes to non-Hollywood stuff in this film ) ; there are no heroes . No one is raised above the rest , no one is pure , good and true all the time . . . no one is a hero . Everyone is a human being . The acting is flawless . Bruno Ganz is a perfect choice for Adolf Hitler . No , scratch that ; THE perfect choice . You forget that you're watching an actor . You're completely absorbed by his performance . The casting was mostly spot-on , with most of the historical characters looking and acting just like they did in real life . The details are another thing that raises this film to a new level . The tiniest little things in these people's lives , the most human and typical things are presented as they are or were , in the film . Hitler's Parkinson's disease , Goebbels ' slight limp , etc . Smaller details include a soldier quickly rubbing his eyes of soot and gunpowder before looking through binoculars and a brief dialog showing Hitler and his promises ' effect on many Germans , even children . This is just so talented directing , it's hard to say anything negative . The editing is sharp and the cinematography is perfect . Not one shot lasts too long or ends too early . A few things were changed ( from the historical record of what happened ) for dramatical reasons , but it didn't bother me and probably won't be a deal-breaker for anyone else ( it really shouldn't , anyway , except maybe for historians who go for nothing but authenticity and accuracy ) . The one thing I will say is that no one should go see this movie unless they are absolutely certain of what they're in for , when it comes to violence and realism . This is gratuitous and detailed , no holding back . Not for the faint of heart . Definitely not . Also , you will need somewhat extensive knowledge of Hitler and the people around him in that time , or you won't really understand what is going on . Read up on him or watch a Discovery Channel special first , then watch the film . I recommend this to just about anyone who can tolerate the language ( I don't know if there is a dubbed version of this film , but in my honest opinion , you should stay away from any other version than the original ) and the violence , and , most importantly , the idea that Hitler was a human being , not some supernatural , cold-hearted monster .
A true masterpiece	Just like the summary says ; this movie is truly a masterpiece , a modern work of art . The movie is a modern retelling , or a modernization of the story of Jesus . While I never have been , and never will be a Cristian , something in this movie really spoke to me . It had a wonderful message , one that is hard to retell by mere words . To truly understand the wonder of this movie , you have to see it , to experience it for yourself . The plot is excellent , though I thought it moved a little slow at times , but that's mainly because the movie is nearly three hours long . Considering how long it is , it's incredible . I never lost interest in it . The acting is fantastic ; especially Tom Hanks and Michael Clarke Duncan give amazing performances . Normally I hate Stephen King , but for the first time , I'm actually considering reading one of his books , out of my own free will . If I got the chance , I would probably read the book , just to find out if it tells the story any better , though that is nearly impossible . I recommend this to any fan of dramas , in fact , pretty much all movie fans . Everyone should at the very least get a chance to see this masterpiece .
Poignant piece on hate	This movie has left me speechless . Now , to fully grasp how gargantuan ( yes , I like Kill Bill ; sue me ) this effect is , you must understand how fond I am of talking . I can talk for hours . You may find yourself listening to me and wondering if and when I ever stop to breathe . Sidenote , that happens almost seamlessly while I talk , a common habit that comes with an affinity for rap music . . . but I digress . Getting back on topic ( if I still have your attention ; I imagine many readers gave up on this review the moment they realized that I have enjoyed the work of Tarantino and the music genre of hip-hop ) . . . this movie affected me strongly and deeply . The credits rolled nearly an hour ago , as I'm writing this , and the movie has not left my mind one single time since ( to be fair , neither has my fiancée . . . but she never leaves my mind ) . Such an amazing film . The plot is magnificent , and the way it's told is an example of incredibly talented storytelling . The acting is all top-notch , not one single performance was disappointing . The characters are well-written , credible and well-developed . The cinematography ( done by Tony Kaye , the director , himself , quite impressive ) is just a touch unusual , with what I would call some very tight close-ups , though I suspect the picture of my borrowed copy of this film to have been customized towards a different type of screen than my TV is , since there were times where the camera cut it a little close , removing parts of text visible on-screen and much of the characters ' heads in close-ups . The pace is excellent ; not once during watching was I bored or drawn towards any other activity than watching . There is time to take in what you see , but the movie never moves slowly . As my father commented after it was done , you find yourself nailed to your seat . Alternative methods of crucifixion aside . . . The editing is great , with a very fitting use of speed and perspective , and an interesting use of flashbacks . The direction is nothing short of masterful . The very ending of the film is such a perfectly set-up and astoundingly executed ' last word ' on hate and the effects of it . The underplayed direction that makes this scene have its impact . . . I must admit , Kaye has made a fan of me , and I will be sure to watch any other effort he releases , theatrically and otherwise . The score of this film is beautiful . I don't think it is possible to watch this film and not be emotionally involved . It's not that it's terribly manipulative ( all films are somewhat manipulative ; few forms of art aren't , and some movies are truly art . In fact , in my humble opinion , most movies should be ) , it's that it's true . Refreshingly free of an ideology , an agenda . It simply presents the truth . Hate begets hate . Violence spawns violence . Fighting fire with fire merely increases the burn . This movie truly got to me . Do yourself a favor ; let it get to you , too . Watch this if you get the chance to , and if you can take the harsh truth of it ( and , lest we forget , the rather aggressive and at times fairly graphic violence that it features ) . I urge you . This should be seen by anyone who can take it .
Fantastic Hitchcock , one of his best	This is Hitchcock at his best ; just when you think that you've figured everything out , you are treated to a twist that completely turns your perception of the film around . This isn't the twists of modern movies , where you're immediately awe-struck by the sheer unlikeliness of them , but rather twists that send a chill down your spine and turn the movie in a direction you wouldn't have imagined possible . There is almost more suspense and tension in the entire last half hour than there is in the collective amount of supposedly suspenseful films of newer time . This is thriller , as it's supposed to be . Don't give us the husband - suddenly - turned - psychotic out to kill his wife , keep the face-less killer devoid of any real motive away , and please spare us the old cliché of the psychopath who rarely ever has a reason for his / her behavior . This is what a thriller is supposed to be like . Constantly hinting at something , hidden in the past , keep us guessing what it is , and just when we think we've figured everything out , pull the carpet out from under our feet . The one complaint I could come up with for this film is that the first half doesn't accomplish much , apart from build-up and character development , but , the more I think about it , the more I realize that that's what makes the impact of the second half ; we think we know these people , these secretive and hidden people , we think we've figured out what they're hiding , why they are so secretive , and then we hear how different the truth is from what we had expected , and it is devastating , in a good way . To use a metaphor : Just the moment you're sure you've put together the puzzle , someone points out that you've missed a fourth of it , or , rather , points out that the picture is , while it seems logical at its current state , far from the real picture . The plot is excellent , and the way it slowly unravels is perfect . It keeps you guessing and watching , patiently and attentive , and once you're treated to the mind-blowing final half hour , full of twists , tension and suspense , you will not feel that you have wasted the time up to that point ; quite the opposite , actually . The film has a very good pace , and is thoroughly interesting . The acting is great ; Laurence Olivier as the mystical yet charming Maxim de Winter , Joan Fontaine as the nameless heroine who is humble and submissive , George Sanders as the sleazy , creepy Jack Favell and Judith Anderson as the cold character of Mrs . Danver , who is seemingly devoid of emotion . The characters are well-written and credible . The cinematography is defining of Hitchcock , with plenty of play on shadows and long , lingering pans that only increase the chill down your spine . The dialog is well-written and surprisingly sharp . The whole thing is just amazing as a film . Defining of Hitchcock and worth watching for any competent film viewer . One final note ; the last few scenes involve so many twists , so much suspense and tension , that it puts just about every single other non-Hitchcock thriller to shame . I recommend it to any major fan of film in general , as most should find something enjoyable about it , any fan of Hitchcock , and big fans of the following genres : thriller , mystery , drama and romance . This certainly deserves its place on the Top 250 ( as I'm writing this , it's # 105 ) , and should be viewed by any major fan of films in general .
Intentionally cruel . . . a film you cannot watch without being emotionally involved	I had not heard anything about this film , before seeing it ; nothing about the plot , nothing about the actors , not even anything about the general idea of it . . . all I knew was that it dealt with drug addiction . I had not seen Darren Aronofsky's first film , the highly popular Pi either . I bought it , for a reasonably cheap price , simply because I had heard that it was worth watching . That is definitely the best decision I have made for a while . The film revolves around the four main characters , all of whom have some connection to each other . They start out being relatively satisfied with their lives , but all of them are also addicted to something . As the plot develops , their addictions grow stronger and stronger , and they come closer to their unfortunate but unavoidable destiny . What impressed me about this film was the sheer number of groundbreaking new film-making techniques , but what moved me was how the film , despite my initial hatred towards the junkies ( never knew one myself , never understood drug addicts . . . and as we all know , what we hate the most is that which we do not understand ) , the film made me care about them , about what happened to them . Aronofsky makes them human , takes these drug addicts and turns them into real people , with dreams and hopes . That's what gives this film its impact ; we're not exactly like these people , but we very well could be . I honestly can't imagine anyone seeing this film and not be at least slightly affected by it emotionally . The four main characters are so diverse and well-developed that it's highly unlikely for any member of the audience to not relate to at least one of them . The film is fairly stylish , and Aronofsky definitely uses pretty much everything that seems effective , as far as different techniques goes . None of it seems ' tacked on ' or ' thrown in ' , though , there are good reasons for all of it , and it all works really well . It's been a long time since I've seen such an intense and directly cruel film , and if what Aronofsky wanted ( which is what I suspect ) to make the audience avoid addiction , then he succeeded . I can't see anyone seeing this movie and going out to shoot up right after . As another reviewer points out , this is what needs to be used to deter possible or current addicts . . . definitely . If there has ever been any tiny amount of curiosity concerning narcotics in my mind , it's gone for good . A truly great film , should be seen by just about anyone . Use this as a deterrent if a friend or acquaintance is talking about trying drugs . If this doesn't work , nothing will . I recommend this film to anyone even mildly interested in the film media . Actually , scratch that . I recommend it to everyone . Just make sure you have the stomach for it .
Excellent , but not for everyone	This is the second movie by David Lynch I've seen ( not counting The Elephant Man , his only non-surreal movie ) . The other one is Lost Highway . Because of this , but not only because of this , the following review will contain a lot of comparing between the two . As someone brought up ( on the message boards or in a review . . . I can't remember exactly ) , this seems like Lynch wasn't satisfied with Lost Highway , so he made this to improve on it . Of course , it could that all his films are like this . . . I don't know . This seemed to have a more cohesive plot and it made more sense than the aforementioned film . In spite of this , I still didn't fully understand until I read a very good interpretation on the message boards . The idea of this seemed more vague and harder to figure out than Lost Highway . It seemed easier to follow , though . . . but maybe this is because this was the second time I saw a typical Lynch film ( not to mention how similar in basic idea this was to Lost Highway ) . I found myself sympathizing more with the characters in this film , as well as finding their actions plausible and credible . The movie made much more sense to me right after watching than Lost Highway . In conclusion , this very well may be a revisit / remake of Lost Highway . The plot is very interesting , and vague as it may be , it can be pieced together if you pay close attention and watch it more than once . The pacing is very good , you're rarely bored . The acting is perfect . I didn't find any performance to be anything but stellar . I didn't see Lynch playing around with lighting in this film as much as he did in Lost Highway , but maybe it was just more subtle this time around . I recommend this to fans of Lynch , surreal films and film as an art form . Excellent film , but won't be to everyone's liking .
A highly creative piece of film-making	I have seen this film more than I've bothered to keep track of . That's not to say that I've seen it an unusual amount of times ( it's probably not more than three ) , just that I've never bothered to keep track . Anyway , my point is , every time , it's like seeing it for the first time . I keep discovering things that I must have noticed before , but don't remember seeing earlier . Tonight , I finally realized why ; I'm blocking them out . I'm blocking out almost every single second of this film , and here's why ; it reminds me of everything I hate about Denmark and being Danish . Everything strangers automatically associate me with , because I'm Danish . Not only does it remind me of it , the film flaunts it , without ever even considering holding back . The way we drink , how superficial we are , how dependent the typical grown male is of women , how racist and ignorant we are . . . everything . The film effectively airs our dirty laundry to the audience . On this latest viewing , I actually couldn't stand sitting through ( a self-contradiction , I know ) more than the first half hour . . . after which I casually followed the rest whilst sitting at my computer , from where I can see the TV screen . . . when I bother to stretch , so the computer monitor isn't blocking the view . Needless to say , I didn't catch an awful lot of it this way . . . but what I got was more than enough to disgust me . I can't think of any other movie I have this kind of relationship with . . . and I know why . I also know why this film has such an impact on me . It's because it's real . True . This is the kind of stuff you don't find in fiction . . . but in the newspaper , in your own family , in your own people , wherever you're from . . . the ugly side of us all . The shadow side . What we keep hidden from the outside world , but what we ultimately succumb to if we don't indulge it every once in a while . I chose to center my review for this film around this , because I think it's what really stands out about it . Also , I think we all , by now , know how great the acting , writing and direction is . And , being a Dogme film , it's very creatively filmed , too . So there you have it . A very creative film that puts so much focus on the shadow side of us all , of Danes in particular that is so effective that it actually makes me sick , me , a person who's been watching violent movies since I was twelve and was hardly ever affected by it . I recommend this to anyone who believe they can take it . Definitely not for the faint of heart or very sensitive people . Most people will probably have as strong a negative reaction to this as I did ( unless they're far more grounded and at peace with who they are than I am ) , but don't let that deter you from seeing it . Chances are , you'll love it . If nothing else , you can't claim that it was fake or untrue .
I am speechless . . .	Having just seen this fantastic film , I'm left puzzled , amazed , impressed and in complete and utter awe of Kubrick's cinematic genius . I had not expected anything to impress me as much as A Clockwork Orange , but I was pleasantly surprised . While I do find A Clockwork Orange to be a better film , I must say that this comes incredibly close . . . and what determines this might be the fact that , while I fully understood A Clockwork Orange ( at least after my second viewing ) I'm quite confused by this film . I don't entirely understand the ending , and a few various things throughout the film , but that doesn't lower my score . Not the slightest . Do you know why ? Well , partly because Arthur C . Clarke , the co-writer of the screenplay once said : " If you understand 2001 completely , we failed . We wanted to raise far more questions than we answered . " And partly because the very visuals of this film warrant a perfect rating of 10 . I would be lying if I claimed to ever have seen such beautiful visuals as the ones throughout the film , and in particular the very end . . . stunning . Simply stunning . Something that I found interesting was how many times Kubrick simply used the visuals to tell the story ( as opposed to dialog ) and how often he simply let us enjoy the sight of the spacecrafts or the planets . . . instead of giving us a few unsatisfying quick cuts like a typical Hollywood director would have done . Kubrick is in no hurry to tell us this story . . . in fact , he wants us to relax and just be whisked away on this journey . He sets a mood like no other director has ever done , and he never breaks this mood . His use of music , while not as deliciously ironic as it is in A Clockwork Orange , is great . There are two scenes which have been referenced so many times , both content-wise and music-wise , in so many different mediums that I doubt anyone can keep track of how many parodies or references there are to them . . . this is , of course , the famous Dawn of Man scene , and a recurring external space scene . The plot is great . The pacing is good , considering that it's Kubrick . . . usually , his films are slower , but this one never really felt that slow . The characters are well-written and credible . The acting is all great . The music / score is great . The visuals of the film are amazing . I know I'm praising every aspect of the film here , but I truly think it is that good ; it's one of the greatest films I've ever seen , and definitely the best visually . Finally , I'll just mention that normally I hate science fiction that deals ( even slightly ) with extraterrestrial activity / life and space travel . I recommend this film to any fan of high-quality science fiction and any fan of Stanley Kubrick .
Without comparison , the best game I've ever played in my entire life	I've heard a lot of people say about a lot of different games that they think that one particular is the best they've played , and sometimes they even play it through several times , because they like it so much . One thing never fails about most other games that are called the best , though : they get outdated . The players find a new game with better graphics , and forget the very existence of the first game ; why ? Because most games , wait , scratch that , most new games only have one thing to offer ; better design than the previous game , which only means better graphics , better sound , better weapons , etc . And such games are always beaten sooner or later , by the next big hit . Deus Ex isn't one of those games ; it's one of a kind ( yes , I realize that a sequel to it has been released , but I've seen some of it , and I have chosen to ignore its existence , much as I do the third Terminator film ) . The only other game I've played that has even a fraction of the gaming possibilities and excellent game-play is System Shock 2 , which doesn't even come close to this ( it has its own strengths , different from those of this game ) . Granted , it is a good game , but nowhere near as complex and , quite honestly , huge this game is . . . there hardly seems to be any limit to the number of areas , and how vast they are , there are for you to explore . You know how you usually , in an action game , get to run around and shoot at people ? How would you like to be able to choose exactly how to attack them ? In Deus Ex , you'll find yourself questioning what is the most effective attack ; climb through the grate in the floor , turn up between the enemy soldiers and surprise them , go right at them by simply opening the front door and shooting at them with an automatic weapon , or , simply hacking the security system and having their very own turrets shoot them . You can also modify your weapons , through little boxes called " weapon mods " which you find plenty of through the game . They can reduce recoil , improve accuracy or give the weapon a longer range . They can also add very strategic elements . How would you like a pistol , equipped with a silencer , scope and laser-sight ? You also have some cool augmentations , which are implants that give you different , interesting abilities . Some of the more basic include healing , improved resistance against radioactivity , and improved damage dealt with meleé weapons , while some of the more interesting include invisibility , infra-vision ( heat-vision ) and the ability to make grenades and rockets explode before they hit you ( ! ) . The game also has a very interesting , and , as far as I know , fairly unique skill upgrading system . We've seen similar in RPG games , but in this , you're actually training yourself for which regular abilities you use in regular situations , including how well you fire weapons , the ability to hack computers , and how well you use the various kinds of equipment ( including lock-picks , multi-tools used for overriding keypads and the likes ) . Every single weapon can be upgraded to a great extent , which is an amazing feature , because it allows you to adapt your arsenal to do exactly what you want and / or need it to , since you do not have the resources to upgrade everything , so you have to choose which weapons you want to improve and in what ways , as well as of course which weapons you're going to keep , as you have a limited carrying capacity ( another feature very successfully lifted from the RPG genre ) . You might be thinking that the game is just a typical action game with a bunch of features lifted from RPG games ; that could be true , if it wasn't for the fact that it has the innovative quality that in any given situation or mission , you can choose between several different approaches , and play it exactly like you want to ( well , almost ) . From the very first mission you're told exactly what you're supposed to achieve to defeat the mission , and presented with at least two or three possible ways of doing it , each of them as correct as the other ( s ) . It's entirely up to you . Even at the very end of the game you can choose your ending ( ! ) , between three possibilities . The whole game is based around decisions , and pretty much everything you say or do in the game has consequences , maybe not immediately , but later in the game . Everything has consequences , just like in real life . The story is excellent . The writing is brilliant throughout . . . not everything is as it seems . The characters are incredibly well-written , deep and real . Another fantastic thing about this game is the environments ; introducing a breathtaking post-apocalyptic science fiction world , with a story that could easily be considered to be one of the best within the genre of Cyberpunk . The voice acting is probably the best I've heard in a game , definitely high up there . The atmosphere is great . The scenery is amazing too ; and the locations . . . New York , Paris , Hong Kong , etc . The graphics engine is outdated now , but the graphics look great nonetheless ( and the requirements aren't too hefty , either ) . This is definitely the best game I've ever played , as well as the least linear . The game-play is amazing . You can do some incredibly cool things , which makes it very enjoyable , and the non-linear game-play and the amount of different possibilities and outcomes of the game makes it almost infinitely re-playable . I've played this game through more times than I can keep track of , but I know that it's definitely more than four times now , and I know that I haven't played this for the last time . The AI is also some of the best I've seen in a game , second only to that of the Hit-man games . What can I say ? Everything about this game is incredible . I recommend it to any fan of RPG , action or FPS games , science fiction , non-linear game-play and Cyberpunk .
As big a masterpiece as the first was	I was very excited when I got into the theater to watch this . I had reasonably high expectations , from the fact that I found the first to be so magnificent . I must say , all of my expectations were met , and I was very pleasantly surprised . It is as much a masterpiece , a work of art , as the first was . The first one had heavy focus on old martial arts movies , and the revenge was the most important , most obvious part . This time , old westerns are also added to the mix . The revenge is still a very big part , probably still the biggest . The plot is excellent , and the non-linear time-line works just as well as it did in the first part . The acting is all top class , I can't name a single character , not even one , who wasn't well-played . All of the characters are well-developed , their actions , and reactions , are perfectly credible . The movie isn't as action-packed as the first one was , instead it has more back-story . That doesn't mean that this is more boring than the first , nor does it mean that the first had too little back-story . It simply means , that this one ends , what the first began . Nothing else . The movie has all of the typical Tarantino traits ; great score , surprising violence , great script , great dialog . It doesn't lack anything , in my humble opinion . Nearly everyone should see this , as long as they've seen Vol . 1 first . I recommend this to pretty much anyone who can stand to watch it , especially fans of Tarantino , and people who loved the first . Anyone who enjoyed the first will also enjoy this , on some level . Highly recommendable .
Still laughing , long past the end credits . . .	Who'd have thought that Kubrick had such a great sense of humor ? I mean , in most of his films , there are snippets of humor , and Barry Lyndon has a definite irony , but I hadn't expected him to be able to direct such a hilarious and thoroughly entertaining comedy . I had known for a while that this was the highest rated Kubrick film here on IMDb , so naturally , I was excited to find out if it was really his best film . Even though I haven't seen Lolita , Spartacus , Eyes Wide Shut or his first few films ( the shorts he made before his feature ) , and even though I thoroughly enjoyed his other films , this very well may be his best film . Made in a period of time where the thought of nuclear war was a terrifying idea , that was believed to be a reasonable fear , the film takes this idea and turns it around , makes us laugh at it . The film was made during the Cold War , which must have taken quite a lot of guts on Kubrick's side . . . then again , he did start out , intending to make a thriller / suspense film about the subject , but ultimately realized that a comedy with a lighthearted look on the situation would be a better idea . So , he turned the idea of impending doom from nuclear holocaust into a black comedy . Personally , I think he did a damn good job of it . I haven't laughed that hard and for so long at any one time for quite a while . . . in fact , I might never have . The comedy isn't overplayed , in fact most of it is presented in a dead-pan , matter-of-fact-like type of way . . . what's even more hilarious is that the better part of it is completely accurate . No dumb stereotypes , no old clichés . . . just logic and simple , good old-fashioned observation . The plot is excellent , and very well-paced . In my opinion , Kubrick's most well-paced film . The plot takes off almost immediately and moves at a great pace throughout the film . The acting is flawless . Absolutely flawless . Not something completely unusual for a Kubrick film , but still . George C . Scott and Peter Sellers are amazing . Normally , I'm not too fond of Sellers , but here he was brilliant . The characters are well-written , diverse and interesting . The cinematography is great . Just like Kubrick's other films , this one has some very memorable scenes , one of which ( the bomb-riding sequence ) has been referenced and spoofed a huge number of times . . . possibly more times than any other sequence in Kubrick's films , which is quite impressive . The dialog is well-written , well-delivered and memorable . Plenty of quotable lines . I can't really say much more about the movie without ruining one or more of the innumerable great jokes . . . so I'll just suggest you see it . Seriously , if you enjoy Kubrick's sense of humor as seen limited in his other movies , you're going to enjoy this film . Maybe not as much as I did , but you'll most likely laugh . A lot . I recommend this to any fan of Kubrick , black comedies , Peter Sellers or just comedies with a dark basic theme to watch this . I can't praise it enough . See it , unless you are offended by the themes the film presents . You won't regret it . I know I didn't . Not by a long shot . Hilarious film with a provocative plot and basic idea .
The best of all six	Where the first was an introduction to this vast universe , this is a further adventure in it , and an expansion of it . New worlds , creatures and technologies . Like its predecessor , this has something for everyone , and this is a stronger film . . . perhaps the most so , of the entire series . Kershner is undoubtedly at least part of the reason . . . he worked to make the characters realistic and credible beyond what they were , and it pays off . The various relationships are more believable than in the others , and the developments are very natural . This offers an emotional connection to the material , for the viewer , in addition to all the entertaining aspects . The plot remains interesting throughout and it never stands still . The pacing is spot-on , there isn't a boring moment in the two hour running time . The effects are impeccable , and Lucas had the crew push themselves to the limit , and it shows . . . big time . The score is yet again fantastic , Williams adds to what he created for IV . The acting is good , and seldom poor . The tone gets darker , setting up a sequel . The episode before this was a solid story even if it would be the only in the franchise , and this is a perfect middle part . This has by far the greatest light-saber action in the Original Trilogy . This is exciting and masterful with dialog and tension of high quality . The DVD features a commentary track well worth a listen , with several speakers , including Irvin . I recommend this to fans of Star Wars ( regardless of what exactly you take that to mean ) , science fiction and movies .
The Force is strong in this one . . . it's loved for a reason	I think what makes this so rightfully popular is that it has something for everyone . It's fun , exciting , epic , with strong characters and clever lines . It manages to integrate all of the elements without anything feeling like it was just stuck in there , and doesn't talk down to anyone . There's no upper or lower age limit on enjoying this or taking it in . If you've got eyes and ears and you have spirit , you're likely to find at least one thing to care for in this , as well as be entertained . The plot is well-written and develops throughout . The pacing is pretty much spot-on , the movie never overwhelms or stands still . There are so many fantastic worlds , vehicles , creatures , languages and designs in the universe that this was the first look into , and it's clear that a lot of care and creativity was the basis for it . Also worth noting is the fact that this could easily be the only Star Wars to be made . . . it's self-contained , and had no others been done , this would still be a satisfying full story , albeit there would undoubtedly be a vocal demand for more . The action is entertaining and well-done , and certainly intense . The special effects broke new ground , actually inventing techniques for this . Some are dated , though new releases cover much up with CGI ( but not to the point of it being obnoxious , or , really , particularly bothersome at all ) . The scope is amazing , and Lucas somehow pulled it off . The acting varies , but it's never too poor . My fiancée points out that Ford does seem a tad young , considering one of the main personality traits of who he portrays . The cinematography and editing are both top-notch . The score by John Williams is incredible . The sound is unique and aids in the setting of distant planets . There is a little violence , and some disturbing visuals . The DVD holds a commentary track which makes for a good listen . I recommend this to any fan of George Lucas , adventure , science fiction and the medium of film .
Incredible	This accomplishes two things : It reinvigorates the excitement of the best of these , after the less-than-stellar " 3D " . And it succeeds in doing what that one intended to : bringing them into the third dimension , maintaining the fun and smarts , and even updating it some . Don't get me wrong . . . they had the right intentions . They may have lacked the tools and technology , and there was an important lesson that this one proves well : You don't need to make the follow-up a carbon-copy ( to the extent you can , anyway ) to not stray too far , the key is to stay true to the feel . At its core , this is an upgraded Prince of Persia , by which I'm referring to the original that started the franchise . This is faster and more dynamic than the previous ones . It is also , in ways , bigger . They fit in quite a bit , without this being overly long ( it took me around 12 hours ) . The amount of enemies that you fight through all the first three are reached and surpassed not very far into this . The majority of the battles are multi-combat . That's one of the numerous places where this shines : The fighting system . It's amazing , speedy and efficient , and available right at your fingertips . That goes for the acrobatics , as well . While you can move like lightning , and the functions respond the same as that , the swordplay ( this guy is kick-ass , he has exceptional skills , and he's got defending himself down ) and tasks are still the combination of thrilling and demanding that they should be in this series . Let me tell you right now : If you do not have patience that is almost unlimited , finger coordination and reflexes like a cat ( this takes longer strides of the latter two , on a regular basis , and split-second timing en masse ) , this is probably too much . It can be mighty frustrating . This Prince can run across and up walls ( I don't believe this is the first game to utilize those two from The Matrix , but it's one of the ones that did it with the most luck ) , but he's still the same where it counts ( . . . and he continues to go unnamed ) . The puzzles are intuitive and cool brain-teasers . There aren't too many of them , the large part of this is navigating , the fencing second . It all evens out well , I was never tired of any of it . The plot is magnificent and interesting , and goes somewhere new ( thank goodness . . . how often do you need to have someone else cast you out , typically straight into a dungeon , attempting to marry your princess , before trying something else out ? ) . . . just for the record , I don't see much relation between this and the earlier entries , as far as this goes . The concept is rather well-thought out , and also helps supply you with a couple of powers at your disposal . The idea of time is explored . The camera is fantastic , and in addition to the regular one that you can turn and zoom somewhat , you have a first-person one that you can use provided you're standing still , and the panoramic angle which can aid , as well as put in perspective where you currently are . These are all great , and the only negative to this is the fortunately relatively rare occasions where the . . . let's call it " course correcting " , happens . You do need to work with the way the directions change when the view does , which is something you won't always see coming . This only takes you through one overall location , basically , the plenty of areas of that , and all the enemies , whilst all done well and using sufficiently different attacks to be entertaining to face , are essentially variations on the same type . That isn't necessarily bad , it depends on what one wants from this . I would say it all comes together well and the choice can be argued as the right one . The difficulty is fairly high , and there are no settings for it , save for perhaps making the Tutorials ( letting you know how to do the things that Mr . P . is capable of , as they come up ) be active or not . It does start out soft . The graphics are astonishing . A few cut-scenes are CGI , and simply gorgeous , however , all others are in-engine , and this doesn't hurt them at all . This allows for remarkably articulated and smooth facial and body animation , and there's not a thing in this that doesn't look excellent . The lighting is beyond reproach . The realistic water and dust effects are impeccably well-done . This has next to no bugs or glitches . Saving takes place at checkpoints , with a number of " main " ones , where you choose to , and can return to that spot , and some " auto " ones , where you lose the progress if you quit . The AI is nice , programmed well . Replayability is based on personal preference , there is no High Score table , I don't know of anything that you get by going back to this , other than the experience . Storytelling is nice , you get " flashes " and some narration ( that makes the whole thing come together well ) . The voice acting is spot-on . Sound in general is another strength of this . The music goes towards rock , without forgetting the beautiful Persian-style score . The characters are well-written , if arguably not the deepest ever seen . The dialog tends to be clever and well-delivered , and certainly all goes for being both . The level design is unbelievably well-done . This does have little in the way of Bosses to defeat , but they are awesome . As far as censor-worthy material goes . . . this can be enjoyed by any teen , and there's not exactly a ton keeping it from being OK from even younger audiences . There's barely any blood , no gore ( compare this to the ' 89 version , and The Shadow and the Flame , for example ) . The nudity , however , well , there's technically none , but they sure go as close as humanly possible . I recommend this to anyone who enjoys a challenge , in the form of an intense ( note : Not as a result of violence ) , thoroughly well-done and through and through expertly put together adventure action title .
Someone found the fountain of youth and doused this baby in it , ' cause it sure ain't getting old	I couldn't tell you how many times I've watched this . I can say truthfully that me and my father have sat down and seen it together for over ten years . And I can assure you , it never seems less enjoyable . Every scene ( honestly , find me a single one that should be taken out , and I will be utterly baffled ) is great , and holds something to look forward to , most even something to reference and quote . The acting of the band members , and possibly some of the musicians ( though , for my money , they do pretty darn good jobs ) , aren't necessarily the best actors , but it's seldom that obvious or annoying , and , come on , what kind of performance are you looking for in them in this , a role to take on , or some fantastic music ? This is a movie that should be viewed by anyone who loves one or more of the following : Blues , car chases ( this held the record in the number of vehicles crashed in a film , until , I believe , it's less impressive sequel ) , Aykroyd , Belushi , Landis and their work and comedy , all three shine . Heck , no matter what , this is likely to entertain you , thoroughly , continually and masterfully . The pacing is amazing , off the charts action and speed , yet it never , for a second , overwhelms or leaves you exhausted from it , and this has the rather important " buffer " portions , where you can relax . The script and plot are excellent . The songs are well-chosen , well-done and set up well . Brown , Charles and Franklin are incredible in this , with very different pieces . The cinematography and editing are spot-on . There is a little language , and it does get harsh . There is no real eye candy , this doesn't stoop to that for more than possibly a few seconds . The Collectors ' Edition DVD holds 18 minutes of new footage , of varying quality , but I'd say it's worth attention of those who already dig the film . It also has a theatrical trailer , cast and crew listings , production notes and a making of . I recommend this to anyone , especially those who are either already familiar with ( and into ) the kind of tunes it's packed with , or those not , who are open to them .
This film is a masterpiece . . . and I don't use that term lightly	My father has often told me about this movie . It's been available for next to nothing at the local DVD / CD shop here for longer than I can remember , and not long ago , I finally pulled myself together and bought it . Today , we sat down to watch it . I must say , this movie astounded and impressed me . From the first frame , it had me . It gripped me and didn't let go until the ending . . . if even then . If I'm not still in its clutches . The plot is excellent , and the way it's told is very interesting . It develops constantly , though never too quickly ; the film never stands still , yet never moves too fast , either . The pacing is among the best in any of the films I've watched . . . and that list count nears one thousand titles ( as I'm writing this , I'm nearing my way to 700 written reviews . . . but I've got a good 17 years of watching movies prior to my starting to comment on them ) . The acting is incredible . I can't think of a single performance I found anything less than flawless . The characters are well-written , credible and interesting . The cinematography is nothing short of amazing . The way they created all those great shots , be it stationary or those with movement , at that time , with that equipment . . . magnificent work . Fritz ( either Lang or the cinematographer , they share a first name ) knows his way around cameras , and knows when to use movement . . . and , perhaps more importantly , when not to . This film has its share of both kinds of shots , and both work perfectly . The film uses the art of hinting to the fullest ; something Hitchcock , the very master of suspense , would later employ , in huge thrillers such as Psycho . Shadows , suggestive camera movements , a tiny movement in body or face . . . things that , in a film of today , would be simply not be found . The silent and unclear would replaced by loud and obvious . One of the most important things to note about this film is how little it says outright . . . and how much it merely . . . hints . A careful , subtle remark , presented casually . . . in place of an absolute . Having recently watched Scarface , a film from the same period ( it was released about a year later ) which leaves little to be pondered over by the viewer ( and much to be desired in that very area ) , the contrast between an open movie and a closed one is blatantly obvious . There is much to debate over and consider in this film . It reminded me of Alejandro Amenábar - a man whom I very much admire - the Spanish director who also employs few definite truths in his films . It's not up to the director to decide what is right . . . but rather us , the viewers , the movie-going audience . Alejandro knows that . So did Fritz . I will have to watch more films of his . Another thing is the level of detail in this film . . . reminiscent of Kubrick , another master of the art of film-making , this film is packed with detail . So many seemingly meaningless , but endlessly insightful little things . A scene that shows shady types idle . . . a subtle touch that would be edited out as early as during the script-writing phase of most newer movies . . . characters that are seen once and then never again . . . the examples are endless . Fortunately , this review isn't that , and on that note , I'll refrain from further listing of them . The dialog is well-written and well-delivered . If you can , get a original version of this film . . . not a dubbed one . No matter how awful you are at the language , it just fits better in German . Just make sure you've got good subtitles . . . I myself am rather hopelessly poor at the language , and I noticed that many times , the lazy Danish translator skipped entire sentences ( though I noticed it to be prominently used words and sentences , that , when uttered and translated once , were from then on left to only be heard , and not seen , which I guess is at least more acceptable than the worse alternatives ) . This film is full of suspense , and some of the best I've ever seen . Again , I would guess that Mr . Hitchcock took a lesson or two from Lang and this film . I was on the edge of my seat for just about all of this , and I couldn't have taken my eyes off it had the house been on fire . Well , I might've gotten up , once my chair was caught in the flames . Last but not least . . . the film-noir qualities . The interplay of light and dark , the dreary atmosphere and the tone . . . all spot-on . The film deals with several very difficult subjects . . . not to be mentioned here . I suggest you watch it for yourself and make up your own mind about each of them . Lang won't force his opinion on you . For such an old film , this is really not terribly dated . . . apart from some things that have obviously changed over the 75 years , three generations , yes , three quarters of a century that has passed , but they're really not that obvious . Had this film been made today , little would have to be changed . Sadly , it would not get made today . . . for many reasons . Unless it was on the indie scene , this simply would not be made . I can't see any studio accepting it as profitable . By today's standards , it's event-less , tame and , well , black and white . Of course , that says quite a lot more about today's standards ( which , in my humble opinion , are far , far lower , and , indeed , too low ) than the quality of this film , which is impeccable . I recommend this to any fan of Lorre , Lang and noir . Heck , crime , thriller and suspense fans will enjoy it as well . As would most anyone , really , who aren't too used to the films of today to enjoy an old great work .
A great piece of cinema , a magnificent example of storytelling	I've heard so much told about Citizen Kane and Orson Welles , so I finally decided to get the film , and find out if it really is all that it's cracked up to be . . . I must say , it's great . The plot is great , and the way it's told is amazing . The story is first summed up in a matter of minutes , about 15 , to be more accurate , and then the rest of the film has characters telling the story through flashbacks and retelling . We hear just about every opinion about Charles Foster Kane , apart from his own . The story is told after his death , and we see everything important that leads up to it , and only in the very end do we understand him , only then do we fully understand who he was , and what made him so . The ending also reveals one of the very most important things in any man or woman . . . one thing that everyone needs and knows of . I won't reveal it here , as it would almost be a crime to spoil the experience of this film to anyone . The acting is excellent ; Welles himself is stellar as Kane , and his impressive appearance , along with his commanding voice , makes the character a forceful sight , nay , experience . The characters are well-written and credible . The character of Kane is probably the most well-rounded and perfectly built up I've seen in a movie , ever . The cinematography is excellent . . . the editing is great . I can't praise the angles , pans , zooms and transitions enough . . . it just has to be experienced . Now , for the one thing I can criticize in the film ; the pacing . It's only two hours long , but it feels like much , much more . There were portions of the film where it felt like it didn't move at all . When there weren't great dialog or something equally as good in the film , it dragged terribly . There were too many scenes where the dialog seemed pointless , as well , I think . It didn't seem to be leading to anything . However , this criticism is so minor , due to the ending more than making up for it , that I still give this film a perfect score . I can't do anything but agree with its placing at the top of the top # 250 films of all time , here on IMDb . As I'm writing this , it's # 11 . That's pretty much what it deserves , in my opinion . Not higher , not lower . Not the greatest film of all time ( that pretty much still belongs to The Godfather , I think . . . at least , I haven't seen a better film than that , yet ) , but definitely far up there . I recommend this to any fan of film in general , and anyone who thinks they can understand it ; it has a truly profound point that any man ( and woman ) should know of ( preferably through seeing the film for themselves ) . Don't let the fact that it's old and black & white deter you from seeing this masterpiece . A true cinematic masterpiece , in every sense of the word .
A disturbing and unsettling piece of truth and cinema	Ten years after the atrocities and genocide in Rwanda , Africa , a movie is made about the man who helped lessen the loss . The man who gave everything he had in order to save complete strangers . Who put his life on the line for his fellow human beings . I couldn't possibly put to words how hard it was for me to hold back the tears for almost all of this movie ( which I had to , due to the crowd I saw it with ) . Some of these tears weren't ones of sadness . . . they were at the beauty inherent in this person . This humanitarian . With everything to lose and nothing to gain , he selflessly helped people who had nothing to offer him in return . This movie reminded me of Schindler's List . However , as one of the other viewers pointed out to me , it's far easier to distance yourself from that . . . with all possible respect to any and all victims of it , World War 2 ended over 60 years ago . What this movie depicts is just over a decade ago . Genocide . Which took place while us in the West sat far away , comfortable and not affected by it . . . and we did nothing . No UN , no US forces , nothing . This film is incredibly touching . I can't see anyone watching and not being emotionally involved . The plot is well-written and intriguing . The pace is perfect . It never moved too slow or too fast . It started adequately slow , but moved intensely later on . The acting is all spot-on . The writing is excellent . A great film that everyone should see . I recommend this to everyone who can sit through . Watch it if you get the chance and you're hardened enough to take it .
Could this possibly have been any better ?	I base this on the Ultimate 10-Disc Set . An entire decade after this came out , it still holds up incredibly well . It simply has so much to offer . . . all that food for thought , different beliefs , tons of themes that are explored and such immense room for interpretation , with very little in this being certain or definite . The plot is excellent , develops well , and combines various interesting ideas ( and no , they weren't original , they weren't meant to be . . . this puts a lot of fascinating concepts together , and presents them all for the mainstream audience ) . Granted , it spawned a ton of suddenly enlightened pocket philosophers with little doubt as to their own prowess , but with anything this influential , there are going to be some negative results . The pacing is spot-on , not a moment of this is too long or overly short . The action is astounding , exciting , fun , entertaining and awesome , and they manage to do amazing and memorable sequences . No , perhaps it does not dodge all of the clichés . The slow-motion ( and bits clearly inspired by John Woo ) and other tools appeared before this , yes , the point isn't that they were new . . . it's the way this uses them , and creates a unique style . Mixing Noir , Animé and countless allusions , and doing so with expert-like skill is an impressive feat . The Bullet-Time was invented for this , and it is fantastic . The martial arts , the choreography , the moves , magnificent . The effects are stunning and seamless , to this day . The cinematography and editing are perfect , and enormously well-planned . The mood and atmosphere is masterfully achieved . The acting is quite good , Reeves fits , Moss and Fishburne are marvelous , and Weaving is utterly impeccable . The dialog is almost completely invariably well-written , and well-delivered . There is no nudity or sexuality , at most hints thereof . There is language , moderately harsh , albeit not too bad in frequency . The DVD holds a text introduction ( to the following ) by the Wachowski's , that makes for a great read , as well as two commentary tracks , one of philosophers who enjoyed the film , Dr . Cornel West & Ken Wilder , and one of critics who did not care for it , Todd McCarthy , John Powers & David Thompson . These are worth listening to . I recommend this to any fan of science fiction , and anyone who wishes to be encouraged to think by what they watch .
One of the greatest Hitchcock films , but not his best	While Psycho is still my favorite Hitchcock film , this comes very , very close to that . Having only seen the made-for-TV remake starring Christopher Reeves , I was quite excited to see this , as it's referred to by many as one of the ( if not the ) greatest Hitchcock thriller . Now , while I still prefer Psycho over this , I must say that it's a very well-done and effective mystery-thriller , and most of the second half had me almost biting my nails from suspense . The plot is very good , and its theme appeals to some of the most base instincts , including the tiny little voyeur that we all have . The pace is great , I was never bored during any point of the movie . The acting is great , Stewart and Kelly give excellent performances . The characters are all well-written , credible , and , as they almost always are under Hitchcock's direction ; very human . The cinematography is excellent ; most of the camera angles are from inside the main character's apartment , which creates a very effective and scary feeling of claustrophobia and adds to the suspense . The mystery keeps you guessing throughout the movie , but the ending seemed a little like a letdown . . . there's no definite answer to the mystery . Then again , maybe that was Hitchcock's intention . . . to any true mystery , there is no real answer . And Hitchcock probably wanted to have each viewer make up an answer for him - or herself . The film has some great suspense , and a few of the scenes will have you sitting at the edge of your seat . The ending was very close to being anticlimactic , but it managed to make up for it by having one of the most thrilling and nail-biting endings in a Hitchcock film ever . The main reason I rate Psycho higher than this on a personal scale is that the theme works better there . . . the killer is more easily understandable , while here he's just . . . well , sloppy and arrogant , half of the time . That was my one complaint while watching the movie , and it won't bring down my rating , not even a notch , because I'm positive it was the way Hitchcock intended it to be . His characters are always human , and what is more human than failing ? I recommend this film to any fan of thriller , mystery and / or Hitchcock . You won't be disappointed . Great film .
Breathtaking	It's rare to see a film of such quality . Polanski has been directing marvelous films for decades , with effective editing and his seemingly unique cinematography . When a brilliant director goes to work on a very personal project , it is almost invariably a certainty that their heart and soul will be put into making it . When a film is made about a major historic event , in particular when countless films have been made regarding it already ( and one would be quite hard pressed to find an event that has had more films made about it than World War 2 ) , it needs to make a point or to offer something that we have yet to see . A new perspective , an idea that hasn't been explored before . Benigni gave us Life Is Beautiful ( La Vita é Bella ) , which had one such idea , a beautiful , sweetly naive one . Polanski offers another , one that is at least as heart-warming and life-affirming . He brings the history to life , and does so with such effective direction that the film holds you in an iron grip . You feel compelled to refrain from watching more , yet you cannot look away . Such pain , horror and despair is depicted without flinching , without holding back , without censoring the worst parts out . You see all the cruelty of the Nazis , the degeneration of the health , lives and dignity of the Jews , and the slow but inevitable destruction of Warsaw . All from Szpilman's point of view . That was part of what made this so strong and affecting ; he was there . Every single one of these situations , countless of times that he could have been killed . . . he was there . And at the end of it all , when you hear this man's beautiful music being played , one can't help but think ; if war , hate and the rest of the world's evils are a result of the flaws of human beings . . . then the fact that this man , this creative being , this artist , made it through seemingly impossible odds , and came out of so many potentially lethal situations alive , must surely be proof that in spite of aforementioned evils , in spite of how hopeless it all may seem at times . . . there is still hope and beauty . It may be beaten down , it may be injured , but it shall never truly perish . The plot is well-written , and develops nicely throughout . The pacing is perfect , there's not a boring or overly fast moment to be found . The effects and design are flawless , it's all extremely authentic and realistic , as are most of the scenes . The cinematography is amazing . As my father commented while we watched : " You really feel like you are him ( Wladyslaw ) . " A beautiful film , that takes you through arguably the worst historic event of the latter half of the previous century . I recommend this very highly to anyone who believes that they are strong enough to sit through it . It's most definitely not pleasant . Not to be missed .
One of the best romantic comedies of all time	For being such an old film , this was hilarious . It's especially filled with little nice touches , things than the moment when you see them , you can't help but laugh . A lot of the humor makes fun of the mob , a little of it is even black humor . When I sat down to watch it , I had no idea it was so unbelievably funny . The humor is pretty much constant , there is mostly something to laugh at every single minute of the entire movie . Something that's great about the humor is that it comes off as naturally funny , it doesn't try too hard to be funny . Tony Curtis was great , so was Jack Lemmon ; even Marilyn Monroe was pretty good in this movie . This movie has some of the funniest moments ever seen on film , and should be viewed by pretty much everyone who's into romantic comedies . I've only seen it once so far , but I have a feeling that I'll watch it many more times . It's one of those films that never get old . I recommend this to anyone who takes just a little pleasure in watching romantic comedy and don't mind that it's black and white .
Interesting and unsettling , possibly David's finest hour	I haven't read the novel , nor do I know how good this is compared to it , but the author has said that this made him ashamed of the book , which can only really be a positive thing in this case . It's quite difficult to comment on this without giving something essential away . Being a fan of David Fincher and having heard nothing but positive reviews for this film , I eventually bought it . Having just finished it , it's hard to determine what to think of it . I had kind of heard the twist already , and I picked up on many of the hints towards it , so that had less ( but still some ) effect on me . . . I urge anyone who is even considering watching this to forget everything they've heard about it , look at no promotional material and just get , borrow or rent a copy of it and see it for yourself , without trying to figure out how it's going to end . The plot is intelligent , and very stylishly told . The whole production has an edge to it , but doesn't come off as pretentious . The satire and critique in the movie is smart , but it should perhaps be noted that no arguments are presented for the opposing view . The acting is all excellent . The visuals are slick and often undeniably disturbing . The whole thing has a rather dark tone . The cinematography is grand . The soundtrack fits like a glove for every scene . The dialog is clever and in-your-face . I've heard it said that this inspires anarchy and violence . . . that may be . But just because art is misunderstood does not mean it should not be made . Creative expression is one of the few things that make man great . Magnificent work , Mr . Fincher . . . keep it up .
About as good as the first one , but mainly because of De Niro	It's rare to see a sequel that is as good as the first ; it's even rarer to see the two acting veterans , De Niro and Pacino , together in a film . This is the only film that delivers both . I loved the first Godfather film , for it's acting talent , for it's cinematography , and for it's fantastic story . The acting is every bit as great , and the cinematography is about as good , but the story wasn't exactly as good as the first ; had it not been for the flashbacks that showed Vito as young ( beautifully portrayed by De Niro ) , it wouldn't have gotten a perfect rating from me . He saved the film , that was otherwise slow and a little bland , due to the story not being as great as the first . The first showed us a mafia war ; this just shows the aftermath , and Michael Corleone's further rise to power , after the fall of Vito in the first . However , the film has a number of flashbacks , that show us Vito as young , and here De Niro perfectly shows us the entire range of his talents , by mimicking Brando's performance to perfection . The plot is good , but not as good as the first ; it's saved by the flashback sequences that show us how and why Vito Corleone came to power . The acting is every bit as great as the first . Al Pacino still gives a great performance , like he did in the first , and the other cast members who came back from the first , including Robert Duvall and Diane Keaton , also give as great performances as they did in the first . The new actors also give great performances , though the following stand out as the best ; Robert De Niro , Lee Strasberg and Michael V . Gazzo . The characters are as well-written as they were in the first . The mafia is portrayed as menacingly in this as it was in the first . The film , like the first , has it's share of memorable quotes , but not really any scenes that were memorable , like the first one had . All in all , a great film , but mainly because of De Niro and Pacino . De Niro fills Brando's part fairly well , but overall , the film isn't as entertaining and exciting as the first , though it does reach about the same quality overall . I recommend it to fans of the various actors involved , and of course anyone who enjoyed the first , as they should enjoy this one too , but possibly to a lesser extent .
Touching and moving , a great cinematic experience	Jack Nicholson is a great actor . No , not a great actor , a spectacular actor . This is a film from fairly early in his career , as well as it is for several other actors in this film , who later have had long , great careers too , including Danny DeVito , Christopher Lloyd and Brad Dourif . The film has some unforgettable moments . . . who could forget Louise Fletcher's icy stare , Jack Nicholson's smart-aleck remarks or Will Sampson's impressive , almost entirely silent performance ? The film portrays the horrible truth about how patients were treated in mental institutions back then , and tells the story of someone who desperately wanted to break out , to rebel , to change things , for himself and for the others . I was compelled by this film , from the very first frame . I never took my eyes off it , and I will definitely be thinking about this film for a while . I thought it was great the way one of the very first frames depicted the institution as something far more similar to a prison than a hospital . Milos Forman did a great job of making that contrast very powerful to the viewer . The film is very moving and a truly beautiful cinematic experience . Every single actor gives a stellar performance , every single character is perfectly written , every single line , every single frame is absolutely perfect . I wouldn't change a thing in this film . It has a great pace , you never lose interest , but it never seems to be rushing to get through it , either . It's simply perfect . I have not read the original book , but if I ever come across it , I might check it out . I have only seen this film once , but I will definitely watch it many times in years to come . I recommend this amazing piece of great cinema to anyone who has at least a slight interest in the drama genre , or any fan of any of the actors , as they are all in their absolute prime in this film .
Provocative and thought-provoking , though somewhat biased	I haven't seen any other feature film length documentaries of Michael Moore's , nor have I read any of his books . I mainly watched this because the subject interests me , and because I had seen one or two short documentaries by Moore , and I enjoyed his direct , provocative and uncompromising fashion of making documentaries . When I found this on DVD at a fair price , I bought it immediately , and watched it as soon as possible . It's a fair argument to claim that this documentary is somewhat biased and one-sided , since Moore ( apparently ) has a reputation for only showing his own opinion and stand on the subject , but he makes up for it by being very well-informed and only using facts to present his argument . I liked the way he presented the subject , by showing , for example , just how easy it is to get a gun , and how , despite not being terribly different from many other major countries , the U . S . has a far higher murder rate than most of its neighbors . The various clips that were edited in were obviously carefully selected , and mostly has exactly the effect on you , the viewer , that it's supposed to . The interviews are well-done , though arguably presenting a fairly stereotypical view on the pro-gun interviewees , while making the anti-gun interviewees seem intelligent , and having more sense , and better arguments for their opinions . Overall , the film is ironic , provocative and thought-provoking , but it's also at least a little biased . I recommend it to anyone who is interested in the subject , the subject being gun control and the right to bear arms ; despite your opinion on it . Excellent documentary , more than worth your time and attention .
The cleanest shave you'll ever know	This is the third musical by Burton I've seen , and I've thoroughly enjoyed all three . This is the first live-action ( I shall leave you in suspense no longer : the other two are The Nightmare Before Christmas ( granted , he didn't direct it , but still ) and The Corpse Bride ( which may be the only other two musicals he's done ) of his I've seen , and it's by far the best ( but all three are of high quality , and very much worth watching ) . The themes are interesting and there is food for thought ( meanwhile , you may not want to eat close to your viewing of this , in fact , you probably shouldn't ) . The plot is well-written and well-told . I'm not usually up for musicals , and had Tim's name not been attached to this , I doubt I would have granted it a second glance . I cannot deny that this was spectacular . The trademarks , his style , are very much present : the Gothic visuals , the stylized and at times comical violence , the grotesque , the macabre , and so forth . There is little , if any , gore , but there are bucket-loads of blood . . . it is too red and doesn't come off as horrifying as that of other films ( this would appear to be entirely intentional ) . The pacing is marvelous . The acting is flawless , as is the singing . . . in both cases , the performances are quite simply excellent for every actor-singer . The characters are fleshed out expertly . The songs are well-written , and composed well . The cinematography and effects are magnificent , and the editing is as sharp and effective as one of Todd's razors . As the FAQ suggests , pay attention to the lyrics , not only will you miss out on delightful word-play , but important , perhaps crucial , details will also evade your attention if you do not . The humor is black , at times pitch black , and any potential viewer should consider if they can take all the contents . There's no actual sexuality , but some is implied . Language is not pervasive , and what little there is really isn't as strong as it easily could be . I recommend this to any fan of Tim Burton , Johnny Depp , and possibly of the play ( I haven't watched it , but hey , the composer of it not only was involved with this , he's since said that he likes the movie , a lot , even ) .
Amazing	This may very well be the best of Amenábar's work to date . I've seen all he's completed thus far , as of and including Tesis . I've yet to truly dislike or find myself unable to see genuine value in what I've watched that he's helmed . They are all movies of questions , not answers , as he , himself , puts it . And they all deal with life and death , often among other philosophical subjects . This perhaps in a different way than the others . At its center is the following for us all to ponder : Is living a right , or an obligation ? No lectures , no dictating , nothing is claimed as fact , but rather stated , and it is up to the individual to decide where they stand . The deliberate , eased pacing , with some use of sudden , startling shifts in intensity that he has employed before is evident here , and it's a perfect fit . This is very well-directed and effective . It can be strong , but never tasteless . In his make-up , Bardem is almost unrecognizable , going by what I've gotten of a look at him outside of it , which , admittedly , is not much . The editing and cinematography are masterful . Not a single moment is off . The acting , as well as I can judge it , not yet speaking the language , is spot-on , throughout . Javier , especially , seems to lose himself entirely in the role , and comes off as believable . The characters are well-written and credible . There is a little humor , and it is good ( do note that among it is relatively dark jokes ) . As with the previous releases by the man I mentioned at the beginning of this review , this is not a mainstream , easy-to-take-in flick . If you are seeking entertainment ( I'm not passing judgment , I don't only go for this kind of piece ) , you will probably do better to go elsewhere . The DVD holds three deleted scenes that are well worth the time ( and they're also subbed , so that helps ) , and a behind-the-scenes featurette that I will write about on its specific page here on the site . I recommend this warmly and eagerly to any fan of true film , of drama and of the people involved in making this , Alejandro in particular .
In a word : awesome	The Evil Dead series evolved from being cult , low-budget horror to comedy . . . medieval adventure comedy , to be precise . The first film was basically pure horror , the second was horror-comedy with a nice slice of action . . . now , third time around , the slice is thicker , the horror is nearly absent and we've got the all-new setting of a medieval castle instead of the secluded house in the woods . I understand that this has been met with some hostility from the fan-base . . . too different from the first two , they say . Interesting development , I say . With the only real changes between the films being in tone , there needs to be some genre changes and major character development . Ash is the only character who's in all the films ( since he's basically the only survivor ) . He goes from being a dull background kind of male romantic interest and kind of coward to a bit of a tough guy in the first . . . in the second , he goes tougher and cooler . Here , they let tough , cool Ash roam free for a whole movie , and let me tell you , it is not boring to watch . The first film was magnificent horror , the second was pretty good horror and very cool action . . . how else to proceed than to basically drop the horror and go for ultra-cool action ? That's what they did , and let me tell you , they most certainly succeeded . This film is even more ' guy ' and entertaining than the second film , though I didn't care much for all the slapstick and Three Stooges . Ash's one-liners are multiplied from the second . . . there's seldom more than a few minutes without him saying something corny and really , really cool ( and / or doing something of the same nature ) . The plot is vacant , but this is an Evil Dead flick ; if you were searching for anything more advanced , you should have kept on looking . The acting is better than that of the first two . The characters are well-written and credible . The humor is excellent , though a tad too much of it was slapstick , for my tastes . But when it's not , it's hilarious . The cinematography . . . what can I say ? Raimi is a genius as far as that goes . Put that man behind a camera and he'll make dust collecting on a grandfather clock exciting to watch . The special effects are great , for what they are . The film is even more cool than the second one ; remember the chainsaw ? It's back . So's the shotgun . And Ash gets a new addition , too . . . something medieval . I won't reveal any more , but trust me , it's cool . Very . I'm very , very impressed with Raimi's vision not to mention his ability to achieve it . First he brought us a great work of horror ; then a action-horror flick that rivaled the top ones in the genre ; and now a medieval action-adventure . It's almost a pity that he completed the story ; it would be interesting to see where else he'd take us , take Ash . What times , what genre's . But I digress . He created an amazing film here , a breathtaking atmosphere , a lot of entertainment and loads of cool action . I watched the Director's Cut of this flick , containing the so-called ( and aptly named ) Apocalypse Finale , after which I watched the S Mart Finale . I can definitely recommend the Director's Cut complete with its ending , but the S Mart one definitely ain't bad , either . Get it and watch it if you dug the second , or even the first . Any version . Chances are you'll love it just like I did . I recommend this to fans of the franchise , Raimi , Campbell , cool action or medieval adventures . Any guy will most likely enjoy or even love this movie . Check it out . You'll certainly not regret it .
Great unusual action film	Very intelligent action movie , about two Irish brothers who kill ' sinners ' to punish them . The movie is a bit different from the typical action movie , as it doesn't have car-chases or explosions . The action consists of stylish shooting sprees . It also has a fairly original idea that is utilized in nearly every action scene in the movie , and that should be used more often in action films ; first you see the aftermath , the crime-scene , the police investigating , counting bodies , etc . After / as the police come up with theories to the crime , we see the actual scene , of the brothers punishing criminals . It's a different kind of vigilante movie . It's particularly gory and bloody , but this just makes it all the more realistic . In real life , there is a significant amount of blood when someone is shot in the head . The movie has some Christian subtexts , I think I've heard about five major theories about the whole movie's meaning . This shows , in my opinion , that there was obviously a lot of thought put into the movie . I'd recommend it to anyone who can stand the gore , even if they aren't Christians .
Compelling plot , black & white , with plenty of sharp dialog and interesting characters . . . everything a great noir film needs	This is one of the first real noir films I've seen , and I must say , it was every bit as good as I had expected . I have been interested in the genre for a while , after seeing many attempts at noir , and quite a few neo-noir film that impressed and entertained me . Still , nothing beats , or even matches , the real thing . I had also been wanting to see a film with the famous Humphrey Bogart , so when I found this film at the local library and discovered that it perfectly fit the criteria , I naturally borrowed it immediately . I was surprised by how interesting and entertaining this film was , and the incredibly sharp ( not to mention equally well-delivered ) dialog impressed me greatly . You just don't get that with modern Hollywood cinema . The plot is exceptionally well-written , although quite complex , which will surely discourage some potential viewers . There are a lot of characters to keep track of , something that seems to just be a problem with some of these , as well as neo-noir films ( particularly L . A . Confidential ) . The pace is kind of slow , but not overly so . . . not like many other films of this period . Also , it seemed more laid-back than slow , kind of like American Pie ( but , of course , there's nothing else that this film has in common with that . . . at all ) . The acting is top-notch . Bogart and Bacall are wonderful , and they compliment each other perfectly . They have great on-screen chemistry . The rest of the cast all give convincing performances . . . I was impressed with Martha Vickers , who was only about 20 years old at the time , and this was apparently her first role that was bigger than a smaller supporting one . The characters are well-written and interesting . I thoroughly enjoyed this movie , and I believe that just about any fan of classical cinema will , too . I recommend this film to anyone who can watch a good movie , even if it is almost 60 years old . It's especially recommended to fans of noir , Humphrey Bogart and / or Lauren Bacall .
At a loss	How to describe in words all there is in this ? I'm not sure , but I will give it a shot . This is the first piece by the director that I've seen . I don't know much about Russia , their history or the culture ( which , I've come to realize , may be a prerequisite to follow it , at least being informed about the time and the place ) , and I haven't learned the language , but the subtitles ( though I understand that apparently not everything is translated ) certainly help . The plot is well-told . There is impressive imagery in this , both in the visuals and in the dialog . The latter holds truth and is well-written . Deep , poetic , haunting . The acting is magnificent . There are universal themes herein . The editing and cinematography are excellent . Neither leave much of anything to be desired . The war-scenes are an achievement . . . so much chaos on the screen , yet when we're meant to focus on something , we do , and anything that's supposed to be noticed , is . There is violent and / or disturbing , but none that felt gratuitous , material in this . There is some nudity in this , and it is not captured in a way as to conceal it . The Andrei Tarkovsky Collection DVD has several features , including interviews , and they are worth watching . I recommend this to anyone interested in the medium of film as an art form .
Amazing	A biographic short , Vincent is haunting , eery , and to those of us with even a hint of a macabre sense of humor , laugh-out-loud funny . Burton details what certainly comes strongly across like it were his own childhood , or his perception thereof , the story of a boy who dreams of being Vincent Price . . . made deliciously ironic by the use of Price as a narrator . The short is hard to say much about without spoiling it , but it is haunting , visually stunning , imaginative , and powerful beyond words . An instant classic , this should be viewed by anyone who considers themselves even remotely interested in Gothic style and / or Tim Burton . And a word of advice ; do not read the memorable quotes before viewing this , as the page gives everything away . I luckily only glanced at it before watching . I recommend this strongly to fans of Tim Burton .
A noir masterpiece , possibly even a timeless classic . . .	While I don't care too much for Roman Polanski's style of direction ( maybe I'll grow to like it eventually , maybe not ) , I can't deny that this is a truly great film . Jack Nicholson really shines through in his role , and his acting in this film perfectly fits the character . . . his shark smile , his voice , his tone . . . all of it , perfect . I always thought , when watching films with Nicholson , that he'd make a great lead in a noir film , so when I found this film and discovered that it was indeed noir , I naturally saw it as soon as possible . I found the film to have a slightly slower pace than what I would have preferred or expected , but apart from that minor detail , it was flawless . The plot is great , and thoroughly interesting and involving . The pacing , while not fast all the time , is more than acceptable . There are sequences that are really intense and exciting . The acting is great . . . like I said earlier , Nicholson shines through and really takes this character and makes him his own . The characters are well-written and credible . The special effects are well-done and still hold up pretty well . The dialog is very well-written and memorable . There are quite a few quotable lines , as well . The cinematography is good , and even when the plot doesn't move a lot , Polanski keeps our interest through interesting angles and sequences . I liked that there was often something subtle going on in the background , while we're focusing on what's directly in front of us . While Polanski certainly doesn't possess the attention to detail that Kubrick does , he manages to put a good bit of detail into many of the shots , and there is fairly little left to coincidence or chance , much like Kubrick . The film has a few twists that are quite good , and they come as surprises . . . I don't think I really saw them coming , and I doubt anyone would be able to . Of course , some might not find the twists to be that impressive , but the story stands on it's own nicely as well . This is a great movie , which should be seen by just about anyone who can take it ( it's more than just casually adult in nature , even though there's not that much violence or sex in it ) . I recommend this film to anyone who enjoys film noir , watching Jack Nicholson in perfect shape in a role that was tailor-made for him , a good mystery , Roman Polanski's direction and just a good movie with a more adult tone that many others .
I concur with anyone who argues this to be the best superhero film	Why hasn't Favreau been directing all of them ? I can't claim to see much of anything to criticize in this . I'll just quickly say that I am not an actual fan of this hero , but I do like him , and enjoy reading comics featuring him , even the ones centered on him . Based on what I do know of him , this largely nails the source material . The suit . . . the colours are spot-on , as is the design ( and I am not complaining about the weaponry ) . The plot is great , and well-told . Pacing is just excellent , it never moves wrong . . . it's mainly fast ( or at least seems to , that could also be attributed to how much fun I was having in the cinema ) , but it does allow for breathers , without ever slowing down enough that you'll be bored . The writing is just so fantastic throughout , in fact , even the few things I knew beforehand or figured out before they occurred , worked . The comedy . . . I'm not kidding , even the AI in this has a sense of humor . Jokes and gags are everywhere in this , and somehow it still manages to be serious ( not to mention that they are all funny , timing , delivery , perfect ) . Emotion is garnered , without ever slipping , even for a second , into actual sentimentality or sap . Tension is also built , expertly so . I've read that as far as the dialog , Jon allowed for improvisation . . . so I don't know how much of the stuff was ever on the page , and how much the performers came up with , but whatever exactly took place , they had the recipe for total success . I couldn't think of a bad line found in this no matter how bad I wanted to ( I have tried , I try to dispense a healthy amount of criticism upon everything I watch ) . The acting is flawless ( and let's be honest , Robert Downey Jr . is the choice for the role ) . This is probably the first and thus far only case where I've cared for what Paltrow's gave in a piece . The action is awesome , plain and simple ( and quite impressive in amount , for an origin story ) . The effects . . . astounding . I couldn't tell where the real footage ends and the CGI begins . There is a lot of realism herein , so even those prone to shying away from stuff like this are likely to have a wonderful time . The music is amazing , and fits impeccably well . Please do not be scared off by the PG-13 rating . . . to provide an example of how cool it can still be , think of Hellboy . And it does take skill to accurately portray Stark without more suggestive content than this has ( for a full rundown , why not sneak a peek at the Parents Guide here on the site , from what I can tell , it covers it all ) . Finally , if you are into this stuff , do yourself a huge favor and stay until after the end credits . I recommend this to anyone who even remotely is into movies like this , and / or the title character .
Do horror games get any better than this ?	Right from the long , fully animated intro which marks the very first time you are treated to the game's haunting and nearly hypnotic score to the very end of the game itself , Silent Hill had me . I was fully immersed and completely into it . The plot is interesting and well-written , and it develops very nicely throughout the entire game . The game-play consists of the player traveling around Silent Hill looking for clues to where his daughter is , to uncover just what happened there . . . and what is now happening to the small town . There are puzzles to solve . . . some by logic , other by figuring something out . . . and enemies to fight , but the main thing about this is the atmosphere . When you play a Resident Evil game ( one of the good ones , in particular . . . to a lesser extent , something like Gun Survivor ) , it's somewhat like being in one of George A . Romero's " Dead " films ( the series formerly known as his Dead Trilogy , which it is no longer , as of 2005 ) . There are zombies all over , and if you want to have any hope of surviving , you'll need a plan , good reflexes . . . and a lot of ammo and weaponry . Playing Silent Hill , however , is a lot like finding yourself in a John Carpenter horror film . . . the atmosphere , not so much the scares , are what keeps you on the edge of your seat . Yes , there are enemies to fight , and they certainly rank high on the list of " the creepiest creatures ever " , but what will really leave you unsettled is the constant sense that there is something out there . . . you're not sure what , and you're not sure how you know , but it is out there . . . and it can leap out of nowhere to attack you at any time . The sound is amazing . The ambient sounds will have your heart pounding , dreading to find the source of them , and every weapon , enemy and item sounds exactly like it should . The music is incredible , and it will leave your nerves torn . The animation is all very good , and it holds up well . There are quite a few cut-scenes in the game , and some of them are fully animated , which gives great depth and makes for very realistic-looking features and movement on the characters . The characters are all interesting and credible , and help to make the game and story easier to take in without taking away from the horror-laden mood . The voice acting's quality is high for a PlayStation game , meaning it's very , very good , but with a few slightly overacted parts ( the majority , however , is incredible and thoroughly effective ) . There are several boss enemies , each of them chilling in design , movement and method of attack . All of the game has excellent visuals , with many dark , dreary areas to explore . The camera angles do a lot to help make this feel like being in a magnificent atmospheric horror film . . . with prime examples such as the purposefully and effective shaky , " hand-held " camera in a very early area of the game , and the slow , steadily ascending camera that follows you up a long spiral stairway . You can also control the camera some yourself , in most areas , if you wish to look around , examine your surroundings closer ( which in this game can prove to be a marvelous idea ) . The control is done in a manner which , at least I feel , compliments the cameras perfectly as well as let you always have full control of where you are going . The up arrow moves you forward , back moves you backwards and right and left turn you in those directions . No matter where the camera is , you can always move Harry Mason , the distraught father , in the direction he is facing , instead of having to change which arrow keys to press to move ( which works very well for other games , but I doubt it would for this ) . The vibration feature of PlayStation joysticks is also utilized rather well , with an emulated pulse when Mr . Mason is wounded . Never overdone , like everything in the game . Just exactly enough to leave you feeling unsettled . The game has several endings , depending on how well you do , and upon completion you will be told in fairly clear terms how well you did and why . I have only completed it once so far , but I will most definitely be going back . On my first try , the game took me about 8 hours , according to the game's clock ( which doesn't reflect the amount of time spent on the game altogether . . . I'd add at least four hours to that count before calling it an accurate depiction of how much time I spent on this game ) . With multiple endings and the rating system , people will be ( and have been ) going back to this game to complete it several times . Since you often have to explore a large area at a time , you will mostly be able to find a map . . . and I urge anyone who plays this to look for the map each time , because from experience I can tell you , it is almost always not easy to find your way without one , if the game lets you have one . The map system works extraordinarily well , with the game automatically marking off blocked paths , important areas and such , as you discover them ( I tell you , it is a mighty good thing Harry brought his red marker ) . It also tells you exactly where you are on the map , which direction are facing , and even provides you with a compass . The level design is great , providing a plethora of areas of very different construction to explore , each soaked in mood and just generally really eerie . The storyline is simply excellent ; the way you are left in the dark on whether what you experience in the game is a nightmarish reality or a real nightmare is perfect . This is a must-have for any fan of atmospheric horror who owns or has access to a PlayStation , and / or is a reasonably seasoned gamer . I recommend this very warmly to any fan of horror video-games .
Incredibly funny and clever	I don't think I've ever laughed so much during two minutes , as I did watching this clever little short . It's about two people who go on a date , and while we hear the talk , we see what they're really saying to each other . Considering that this was probably animated in a pretty short amount of time , it's astoundingly funny . Once again , Adam Bertocci proves his wit and his talent for writing comedy . Keep it up . Just about anyone who enjoys a good laugh will find this animated short very entertaining . I recommend this clever and funny little short animated piece to any fan of comedy . It's not even the least offensive , but there is a good bit of truth in the dialog .
Excellent western drama	Clint Eastwood makes very good films . He's a good actor , but an even better director . This drama takes place in the old wild West , and it presents a fairly accurate depiction of life in that time . The sets and the costumes are perfectly convincing . The plot is good , and it moves along at a good pace . The characters are all very well-written and their actions are understandable . The actors all do perfect jobs , especially the three main ones , Clint Eastwood himself , Gene Hackman and Morgan Freeman , all of which is well-known for their previous excellent performances . They all do perfect jobs at portraying their respective characters . The cinematography is also excellent . The visuals are impressive , while remaining dirty and unattractive . The violence in the movie is especially made to be everything but attractive in any way , shape or form . There are moments where you will literally be shocked at the way the violence is presented . I also thought that the prologue and epilogue of the film was an excellent way of telling how the story begins and ends . For a drama , it can't get a lot better than this . I recommend this to anyone who likes Clint Eastwood's directing style , and people who like dramas that take place in the old wild West .
The best fantasy movie ever made , and probably the only one I've ever liked	I really loved this movie , which is impressive since I usually can't stand fantasy / adventure movies . It affected me on a nostalgic level , as I had seen it once before , when I was about 7-8 years old , and seeing it again ( now 17 , soon to be 18 ) brought back a lot of memories . The movie is like it's made up of hundreds of kids ' imaginations . It brings you some of the most memorable and fantastic creatures ever seen on film . Of course the effects seem awfully dated , especially now , where practically every new movie has CGI effects ; but they're still good enough , and they were very good in their time . The plot is great , it evolves at a perfect pace , and keeps your interest from the very first second to the very last . I never took my eyes off the screen . The acting is also great , which is quite an achievement , considering the fact that a lot of the cast consists of child actors , but they all portray their respective characters well , and pull off believable performances . The characters are well-written , and , considering that they mainly consist of fantasy creatures , they're all perfectly credible . There isn't really anything in this masterpiece of fantasy / adventure that I would change in any way ; even the few things that are corny have their own charm . I recommend this to any kid , and any person of any age who enjoys fantasy / adventure . It's definitely worth watching .
The best thriller ever	This is the best thriller David Fincher has made , and most likely the best thriller ever made . The suspense , the atmosphere , the gruesome theme and basic idea of a serial killer killing people by the seven deadly sins is fascinating . The plot is great , you never lose interest , and it keeps evolving for every passing minute . The pacing is great . The acting is great , the actors all do their job perfectly . The characters are believable and their actions are understandable . The whole movie is a cinematic masterpiece , and it truly deserves the praise it is getting . The ending alone has become history in modern film-making ; never has an ending been more perfect , more intense or more genius . The whole movie is extremely well-thought out , but the ending alone is a masterpiece . It should be used as an example ( and probably is ) in film schools , to teach film students how to master true cinematic power . I recommend this to anyone who has just a little interest in thrillers , and who can take the violence . Truly a masterpiece .
British humor , love , and christmas . . . quite good actually	I have to say , I've never been too happy about British humor , I've always been more fond of the American humor . This movie has turned it around ; while not always being laugh-out-loud funny , it is persistently funny , throughout pretty much the entire thing . I can't say I was bored at any point in the movie ; even when it isn't funny , it isn't boring . And this is definitely the best movie I've ever seen about love . At the beginning , a lot of the characters are alone and lonely . At the end , most of them are with their love , having found the ' one and only ' . I enjoyed every aspect of this movie , Hugh Grant being his typical British charming self , Keira Knightley being her adorable sweet self , even Rowan Atkinson's small , yet funny character amused me . This is not only for couples , or people who have found true love . It is most likely enjoyable , at least a little , to everyone . Whether you like British humor , wonderful music , or romance , you won't be disappointed . This movie has all three , and plenty of each . This is for anybody who likes funny movies , romance , and isn't too easily offended .
Definitely deserves its high rating	I haven't seen all dramas , nor have I ever seen all movies made that revolve around the mafia , but this is the best drama I've ever seen , and the best movie that revolves around the mafia , by far . Marlon Brando is a fantastic actor , and while I haven't seen any other films with him , I can't imagine that he's done much better work than he did in this film . Al Pacino was also great in the film , and I think it was fairly early in his career . The film is character and plot driven , which is a welcome change from the action-driven films which is the dominant genre today . The film is never predictable , and is free from the typical cliches that pester most dramas . For a crime drama , it's very entertaining and interesting , for a drama , it's very well-paced , and for a film it's just damn good in pretty much every way . The plot is good , very well-written and interesting ; I don't think I've ever payed so much attention to a drama , let alone one that takes almost three hours . It just grabbed my attention from the very first frame , the very first words that were spoken caught my attention , and didn't lose it for a second . It has a good pace , it doesn't rush through the scenes , yet it never gets stale or boring either . The acting is great , all the way around , every single actor does a great job . There weren't any that I felt gave a less than great performance . The characters were well-written , credible and well-developed . There weren't any of the characters that I felt I knew too little of , like it is with most new films , even dramas . The direction and editing is great , some of the cinematography is magnificent . The dialog is well-written and well-delivered . The film has some very quotable and memorable lines . The violence is well-made and not overdone in any way ; it shows the ruthless killings that were , in fact , being committed by the mafia at the time period that the film takes place in . The film shows , with brutal honesty and without censoring details or violence , how the mafia worked , and how big their influence was in the 1940's . A truly great piece of cinema , worth your time if you have at least a vague interest in crime dramas or films dealing with the mafia . I recommend it to pretty much everyone , especially fans of any of the actors , the director or crime dramas . Also recommendable to anyone who is interested in mafia films .
