Dickweed . Dickweed . Dickweed !	There was absolutely no way that I was going to approach this film as a comedy . Anyone who dresses like Larry the Cable Guy cannot possibly be funny . Pathetic ? yes , I'll give you that , but not funny . I saw that it was filmed in Orlando and it was about a Florida Health Inspector . So , I looked upon it as a documentary about checking out all those folks that sell boiled peanuts on the side of the road . Have you seen those things ? People actually put them in their mouth ! 89 minutes of farting , bathroom jokes , and a whole bunch of derogatory remarks about women , those with developmental disabilities , gays and lesbians , you get it . This is the same thing that you find in the small minds of people who watch NASCAR . I am sure they are the biggest fans of this movie . Not one laugh in 89 minutes . Ties with Beerfest as one of the lamest excuses for use of film stock that I have ever experienced .
What a stinking ripoff !	I bought this movie with Denzel Washington on the cover and a title of License to Kill . It even says " full screen " and the back said " unrated . " Well , it was unrated all right , because it was a TV movie and Denzel Washington had a minor part in it . All I can say that Denzel must have had some time to kill before he started A Soldier's Story and made this in a day . It was certainly a complete ripoff by Echo bridge Home Entertainment to package the trash as it did and take my money . It should be sold at the dollar store for a buck . It was a Lifetime movie , pure and simple , and there is nothing I can say that is worse that that . These people ripped me off .
Zombies for kids	This has to be the worst example of a zombie movie ever . I cannot believe that they made four or five of these . The entire movie was marred by these screaming girls . They just would not shut up . One even let her dead boyfriend eat her brains . How dumb can you be ? This movie had veteran actors like Dana Ashbrook and James Karen , who had to be really hard up for a paycheck to appear in a movie that is as bad as this . If you are looking for good zombie , I suggest staying away from this series .
Yes . Yes . Wow . Ooh !	Jay Chandrasekhar ( Beerfest ? Super Troopers ? ) is the worst director I have come across , and John O'Brien ( Starsky & Hutch ? ) has written the worst screenplay , which makes this one of the worst pictures I have ever seen . I never even liked the TV series when it was on , so a sequel is absolutely unbelievable . The highlight of this movie came in at 11 minutes into the film with the appearance of Jessica Simpson . The only bad thing is that we have seen her and her " Daisy Dukes " so many times on the Direct TV commercials that she is starting to feel like family . I would think that Burt Reynolds did enough damage in 2005 with The Longest Yard . Why would he want to hurt us more ? I won't even mention the so-called " stars " of this travesty .
A Christmas present for the naughtiest of the naughty .	The first thing I had to do after watching this was to re-rate Beerfest . I had to up its rating to make room for this , the absolute worst movie I have ever seen . To be completely honest , my first reaction after watching this was to immediately take it outside , run over it with my car , put it through the chipper , and burn the chips . However , I paused long enough to realize that this film and the companion Feeders on the same DVD would quite possible serve a purpose that was in the National Interest . I contacted the CIA and told them that they could stop worrying about water-boarding and all those other torture methods that were getting them in trouble . I had the perfect solution to their problems . They just needed to get this film to Guantanamo and all their secret locations . I am certain that their prisoners would be screaming to talk after watching it just twice . I am waiting to hear back before I destroy it . The " aliens " in this film are the most ridiculous things I have ever seen . They look like they are made of papier-mâché , and their arms and legs are like stick people . The dialog is painful and there is no acting at all . But , the worst offense of all - Santa with a plastic ray-gun ! Bah Humbug !
I want my time back !	I have seen some bad movies before , but this takes the cake . 90 minutes of my life wasted - gone forever - down the drain . What I thought might be an interesting story about a serial killer was so bad that it was painful to watch . Shannon Lucio ( from the OC ) and Brent Taylor gave totally uninspiring performances that appeared devoid of feeling . What little dialog they had was useless . This film could have been made as a silent and it would't have mattered . I should have know something was going to be wrong when the two met in December and he is getting yelled at in January for getting her pregnant . " She's as big as a house , " yes her father . I kid you not . Finally , the chase scene at the end was absolutely the worst I have ever seen . I could have beat them on a bicycle . He was going so slow that even though he had the window down , he was able to light one of his Strikes . Starkweather kept trying to pass on the right when there was no oncoming traffic ! I want my 90 minutes back !
Oh my god , I can't believe I watched this !	I am waiting for my copy of The Wizard of Gore to arrive in the mail , so I thought I would check out this Herschell Gordon Lewis work . Having on seen Blood Feast and Blood Feast 2 : All U Can Eat , I wasn't prepared for the total lack of anything worthwhile in this film . So bad it's good ? No , this film is just plain bad . The dialog was laughable , the fights were pathetic , and the orgies ? Well , I imagine a room full of middle schoolers would put on a better show . If this was someone's imagination of what a female biker gang was like , then I will skip them in the future . The worst thing they did in Hedley , Florida was take a soda away from a little girl . Some tough broads ! They wouldn't last five seconds there today . I am so disappointed at Lewis . I sure hope that The Wizard of Gore is not as bad as this film .
Worst writing I have ever seen	This is probably the only review of this film that will ever be written . I struggled mightily to get through it and I seriously doubt that anyone else would have such stamina . An obscure yet tame women-in-prison / revenge flick from Asso Asia films starring Susan Lee , Stella Jone and Laura Sode-Matteson . One " Black " woman is actually an Asian actress in black makeup with an afro wig ! The technical quality of this film is really remarkable . The lighting and camera work were impressive . However , the writing was absolutely atrocious . I can only be thankful that the writer and director and main stars , except for Laura Sode-Matteson never got another film to ruin . This is a perfect drive-in flick as there would be nothing on the screen to distract you from what you are doing in your car . Laura Sode-Matteson actually played Jack Lord's secretary on Hawaii 5-0 for seven episodes and then went on to a long career as a location manager , most recently for Pirates of the Caribbean : At World's End .
Out of the Fog comes zombie clowns	I've seen this before at least twice . Many have seen the Fog and the premise is basically the same , but the Fog was much better . Zombie fans may have also seen Zombie Lake . A Jesus Franco production that was not much better , but it had features this film could only dream of . I only watched this to see Debbie Rochon . It was also nice to see Brinke Stevens , as I will delve more into her later . Fans of either Scream Queen will be disappointed , but if you are not a fan of either , you will be disgusted at the low quality of this film . Zombie clowns eating body parts , but that's it .
Run ! Run ! Run ! Run ! Run ! Run !	I am probably the only person in the world that has never watched The Simpsons . I thought that I might get a glimpse of what everyone was excited about by watching this movie . If this is what it's all about , then I haven't missed a thing . Some say that the earlier years were great satire . Well , maybe that is true , and there were a few satiric anti-corporate and anti-government bits in this film , but way too few to sit through the really stupid bits that are only funny to a Middle Schooler . My only exposure to the Simpsons before this bore , was looking at the x-rated cartoons on the Internet . I'll take them anytime .
Glitter without Mariah Carey	Most of the people who give this movie a thumbs up comment on the music . In fact , all the awards this movie has won relate to the music . Are we talking about a movie or a music video ? When you strip away Prince's music , you basically have another version of Glitter without the only redeeming factor - Mariah Carey . Honestly , that is the only reason we watched that movie . Prince cannot act , and only Olivia d'Abo saved Apollonia Kotero from being named the worst new star of 1984 . Of course , she was not really new as she had her first named role in 1980s Sex Beach , which was infinitely better and provided more exposure . If you want to hear the music , buy the CD .
I like the name Anya .	I need to say something positive about this movie . Anya is a good name . I like the name Anya , and I hope she gets some better directing assignments in the future . That is just about it . I can't say anything about the writer . I mean , look at these memorable lines : Jay : Look , If We Stay Out Here We're Gonna Freeze or Josh : What Is It ? Jay : I Don't Know or Karen : What Was That ? or Jay : Where Are We ? or Karen : What Are You Doing ? Jay : Opening The Door . . . They don't get any better . I don't recall seeing Tara Reid in another movie . She might have been in something I've seen , but I don't recall her . Some say this movie is a step up from Alone in the Dark . Thanks for the warning . I will definitely stay away from that one . Please , find something else to do . Clean your closets , wash the dog or car , just don't waste your time here .
I watched it so you don't have to .	Out on video at last ! One of the original video nasties that were banned by Britain . It was finally released uncut in 2003 . Obviously , the Brits don't like cannibal movies as they banned five of them . This film was really bad on so many levels . It seemed as if time and distance were totally disregarded . For example , Monsieur Danville ( Olivier Mathot ) left for three days and seemed to come back in 30 minutes . The jungle must have been in Southern Spain , as it took everyone so little time to get there . If you are looking for titillating scenes , there is only one : Pamela Stanford taking a bath . Other than that the rest focused mainly on the eating of people's guts . Yech ! They really didn't need to ban this as it is too awful to watch .
Casey LaBow's first film	What to say about a formula that has been used over and over with just a change in actors and settings . Something is in the woods . No , it is not a grizzly as the Deliverance-like poacher claims it is . And , no , it is not Casey LaBow . She hasn't arrived there yet . We all know what it is because we have seen so many of these films . So why are we watching this one ? Maybe we are just hoping for something different . Next thing you know Richard ( Dylan Purcell ) and Jay ( Brandon Henschel ) are assigned to work together on a report for Biology class . We don't really know why , but it is crucial to the plot so they do it . They bring along Jay's girlfriend Shea ( Casey LaBow ) and his cousin Jenny ( Chelsea Hobbs ) , who has a thing for Richard . Now , we may have a reason to watch this film . Jay is just what we expected . The only contribution he makes is to take a shot of Shea ( Casey LaBow ) as she is changing closes and put her in Mr . Skin's database . That's all for the movie as it follows a predictable path from here on out . 10 seconds of excitement out of 85 minutes . Boring .
Early Mel Gibson	Before The passion of the Christ and Apocalypto , there was this film . Probably the first with native dialog throughout . Unfortunately , we hear the cavemen grunting and groaning , but there are no subtitles . I can imagine that many tuned in to see Raquel Welch in her early years . The needn't have bothered . This piece of Grade Z garbage is not worth your time . Giant spiders and turtles are funny enough , but only someone in the Creationist Society would have dinosaurs and men living together . And , even then the men are almost as tall as the T-Rexs ! If that is not enough , they fight the T-Rexs with cheap spears and win ! What a load of hooey ! Stay away ! Stay far away !
Grindhouse Experience	Bruno Mattei , often called the Ed Wood of Italian cinema , started his directorial career with Nazi exploitation films , then moved to women in prison movies , and now directs zombie movies . he actually acted in Lucio Fulci's Zombie 3 ; I guess to learn the genre . This is his second attempt at Nazi camp films , and it is poorly made . The lighting is absolutely atrocious and that is better than the acting . The effects are non-existent , so the experimentation they were doing has no effect . It is just an interesting look at the sickness the Nazi's were working on , like transplanting a uterus , or reviving frozen pilots with women's bodies , or poison bullets to make people suffer more . Naturally , since this is an exploitation film , you see a whole lot of full frontal nudity , degenerate monsters who rape , and some really creepy Nazi commandants and wardens . It is funny in that I have seen a lot of girl fights in movies , but in this film , they always manage to get totally naked when they fight .
Hot babes and hot lead .	Sistas in da hood . Looking for revenge and bling bling . Except da hood is a wild west town in the late 1800s . I do not remember any westerns like this when I was growing up . What would Randolph Scott say ? If he saw Lil ' Kim , he might say , " Alright ! I have to admit that I tuned into this just to see her . Bare midriffs and low cut blouses are not the staple of the usual cowboy flick , but these are the cowgirls , and they are fine . Now , don't go looking for any major story here , and the usual stuff of ghetto crime drama are here in a different setting . And , when's the last time you heard John Wayne call someone , " Dawg " ? And , I don't remember the Earp brothers hugging and kissing before they marched to the OK Corral . I watch this on BET , so I missed the action that got it an R rating , but I doubt if I will buy the DVD to see it unless I can be assured it was Lil ' Kim in that action .
Do the dead have blood ?	This German horror film has to be one of the weirdest I have seen . I was not aware of any connection between child abuse and vampirism , but this is supposed based upon a true character . Our hero is deaf and mute as a result of repeated beatings at the hands of his father . he also has a doll fetish , but I cannot figure out where that came from . His co-workers find out and tease him terribly . During the day a mild-manner accountant , and at night he breaks into cemeteries and funeral homes and drinks the blood of dead girls . They are all attractive , of course , else we wouldn't care about the fact that he usually tears their clothing down to the waist . He graduates eventually to actually killing , and that is what gets him caught . Like I said , a very strange movie that is dark and very slow as Werner Pochath never talks and just spends his time drinking blood .
Hey . . . I'm drunk , you're drunk . . . everybody's drunk !	I initially tuned into this because I mistakenly thought that Jay Chandrasekhar , the writer director and one of the actors , was from Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle . I need to get my Indians right . Any movie who has a director and stars whose credits include The Dukes of Hazzard has to be a complete waste of time . That would be an understatement . There just wasn't anything funny in this movie . It was an insult to all countries involved , and I cannot imagine why anyone would make it much less watch it . I did it so you don't have to .
Oh well , at least I got to see Debbie Rochon again	The townspeople thought they had killed the Bonesetter , but here he is again hunting children . How original ! We have lots of scum hunting down children all over America , why do we need this guy ? And , here's that " R " word again ! The real " town retard " is the person who is so stupid to use that word . Gather family and friends to make a home movie and put Debbie Rochon in it for two minutes to suck in people like me who are obsessed . Way to go Brett . You got me . I really hate it when you rely on deux ex machina more than once in a story .
House on Haunted Hill remake	Hey , I've got an idea . Let's put five luscious babes in a haunted house and pay the one who lasts $1 million . Oh , we won't waste any time having then undress or anything like that , and we'll include a sex scene that is off camera . It'll be a reality show hit - I guarantee it . So , we bring in the girls and lock one in the closet , and pour bugs on another , and then the ghosts who inhabit the house will rip them up and we have blood and bones all over the place . They still don't show us anything , and all they basically do is whine and scream . If you are going to rip off another movie , at least show us something original . Not even scary .
Wake me when it's over .	When is a Limited Collector's Edition 2-Disc Set not a bargain ? When one of the movies is this one . Ronnie Sortor wrote , directed , edited and acted in this low budget indie flick . He also uses the same cast in all his movies , so if you like them in this film , they will likely be in another . Unfortunately , I couldn't find anything to like about any of them . Action got hot an heavy for a couple of minutes during the robbery , but then it died . Too many shots of actors just standing there supposedly thinking . The worst part of it all was the dude with a gut shot . Now , I have never had a gut shot , but i would imagine it to be very difficult to be running through the woods , and up and down stairs in a house with a bullet in my gut . Just seems stretching things for me , and it really bugged me throughout the film to see the guy doing it .
Italian cops and robbers	I sure that fans of Hostel Part II this year paid no attention to the Italian detective ( Luc Merenda ) in the film . He was part of the Italian trend in the 70s to make movies that followed the trend of Dirty Harry and The French Connection . In this film , a man's movie to say the least , he was a cop that had no hesitation in killing criminals even when they had their hands up . He went undercover and participated in a robbery where an innocent got killed . Not a problem as his goal was to get Mr . Big . Of course , like Dirty harry , that meant anyway he could regardless of procedure . The DVD was of particular poor quality - the interior lighting was terrible . Except for two really good car chases , there isn't much to recommend this film .
I want a License to Kill	Flashback ! Flashback ! I remember when I bought License to Kill with Denzel on the DVD cover . He made a very brief appearance in the movie . That was nothing compared to seeing Mulva on the cover of this DVD and thinking it couldn't be too bad if she's in it . Well , the Mulva in the Movie is not the girl on the DVD cover . She is butt-ugly and jonesing for chocolate , which is always on her face . What a ripoff ! Now , that I am finished ranting , I will tell you what I really thought of this homemade production . Maybe Chris Seaver was hoping for an Oscar in some category , as he writes , directs , edits , shoots , and does the makeup . Maybe , he even brings the donuts . I endured this to see Debbie Rochon as Lady McPouchsweat . As usual , she acts way above whatever she is in , and she does that again here . As for the rest of the cast : let's just say it was stranger than anything I have ever seen .
What I do for Danny Trejo	OK , I love seeing Danny Trejo in films . I didn't actually see him in this one , as he was the voice of El Charro . El Carro ( Andrew Bryniarski ) was too busy swinging a machete to speak , I guess . Maria is a neurotic mess whose sister committed suicide and is being stalked by El Charro because of some wrong done by an ancestor . She joins her friend Christina ( Heidi Androl ) and two other girls on a trip to Arizona . Good that they had Tanya ( Kathryn Taylor , Miss Kansas USA ) along to handle the cop when they got a speeding ticket . Best performance in the film was definitely KellyDawn Malloy as a goth chick who did a shower duet with Tabitha Stevens . Great looking slasher , but the appearance of Archangel Michael and the ending left a lot to be desired , as did the rednecks the girls hooked up with .
Oh Thrill !	The only thing that saved this from a total waste was the presence of Leslie Easterbrook , who made two very interesting points throughout the entire film . I especially liked her " Ride of the Valkyries " yell as she sped up in the swamp boat . Of course , parts of her arrived long before the boat . I was glad to see her return as well as G . W . Bailey along with the regulars : Bubba Smith , David Graf , Michael Winslow Leslie Easterbrook , and George Gaynes . Most of the movie was unfortunately focused on Easterbrook's breasts and Bailey's bumbling attempts at gaining attention . Tackleberry was funny as usual with his over-the-top gung-ho attitude . But really not worth the time .
Now I've got you , bitch !	One of the 74 video nasties banned in Britain , this film was released in 2007 uncut . One would have to question why it was banned in the first place , unless the film board just wanted to save viewers from a bad film . I really felt I should get a Merit Badge after having to listen to the lectures of surviving in the woods while waiting for something exciting to happen . The electronic music was irritating at times , but the scenery was sure beautiful . I bet that artist didn't plan to have so much red in her painting . Lots of bodies pile up as the psycho killer in the woods tromps on . Not much gore , just blood .
A real load of crap	Another entry from the golden age of sexploitation ( 1965-1968 ) . A real load of crap . I can't believe people actually paid money to watch this . Three brothers start a skin mag and one of them slowly goes crazy with guilt . Something like Reefer Madness . There was so little sexploitation in this it was unbelievable . After one brother tries to have sex with his wife , the crazy one kills him . He ends up killing his other brother , too . If this is what passed for entertainment in the sixties , they were really hard up . They would have been better off watching an Ed Wood production .
The incredible bath towel !	What could be the greatest feature of this movie ? Could it be the creepy performance of Robert Englund ( soon to be seen in Zombie Strippers ) ? He is always enjoyable . Could be be the wacky performance of Jenny McCarthy ( soon to be seen in Wieners ) ? She just can't seem to keep her head on straight . Could it be the interruption of a lesbian camping trip by something long and mysterious ? No , the best feature of this movie was the towel that Theresa ( Sara Mornell ) somehow got and wrapped around her after the Python did a Psycho and interrupted her shower . When baby shampoo and a rubber ducky didn't stop the snake , which no one else seemed to be able to escape . She manges to grab a towel and get it wrapped around her while the monster was attacking , get by the snake , run through the basement and the house , get in a car , drive speeding down the road with the snake on her tail , crash the car and run into the rocks - and she never lost that towel ! Other than that , it was pretty lame and predictable .
Don't mess with old crones	Interesting little Spanish horror flick that promises much more than it delivers . An old crone ( Tota Alba ) is abused by the police ( Fernando Sancho ) and enters the body of the young daughter of the police commissioner ( Ángel del Pozo ) . There really are not the special effects that you find in another possession movie that is more familiar ( The Exorcist ) , even though that is what they want you to think . The young priest ( Julián Mateos ) performs a short exorcism to drive Satan out . No real blood or violence except for a castration where you don't really see anything .
Don't waste your time	This was so bad that If it hadn't included a hot tub scene with Jennifer Hill , it would have been one of the worst movies of all time . It has a good monster in The Ice Queen , but she was wasted with her incessant screaming , and the set just didn't allow her to really develop . The battle with Audrey ( Tara Walden ) was set up for a promising scene , but it just didn't develop . There was really no one you could care about in this film . It really didn't matter who came out . The pair that did were probably the least likable . Despite giving us her all in that hot tub , Elaine ( Hill ) didn't fare too well .
Same shite , different toilet	Ho Hum . Just another flick with Steven Seagal pretending to be some spiritual being , but bashing heads and killing like it was nothing . He , of course , justifies it in the end by donating the money to an orphanage . , How sweet . Lay the world to waste and we'll ignore it if you take care of a little girl . Jeesh ! This time , he is partnered with Ice Cool ( Anthony ' Treach ' Criss ) . Gotta have someone to lay all those cringe-inducing lines on , man , and there are plenty . The dialog is pure crap . They go after bad guys Nick Mancuso and Kevin Tighe , two people that were born to play the scumbags . He's squeezing Mari Morrow and impressing soap star Sarah Buxton . How cute . I guess if you gotta have some July Force excitement , this may suffice . If nothing else it will help you get your degree in Seagalology .
I did it for us .	If a tree sucks you up in a haunted forest , would there be a reason to watch it ? There really wasn't much to appreciate from this film . Three friends go into a forest in search of a haunted tree that one of the groups grandfather had written about . Forests are scary by themselves , but you never really felt that in the film . Even the moments that were supposed to be scary , weren't . The actors were very forgettable , and the pace was as slow as a tree growing . IT just didn't deliver . It just seemed to be so many leaves in search of a tree .
Did that old cannabis charge finally catch up with me ?	Do you love a good mystery / thriller ? How about one that is supposedly based on fact ? How about one that takes place in Paris and the UK ? If you do , then this film has every thing you could be looking for in a movie . Ron Howard and Tom Hanks had an impossible job . Making a credible film on the tail of a hugely successful book . They managed to make a film that was interesting and exciting , and it had a great score , and superb sound and visual effects . Yes , I read the book , and I even knew about the Templars and Opus Dei before I read the book . I also read the book that The DaVinci Code was based upon . I knew the premises and that did not spoil the book for me , just as reading the book did not spoil the movie . Tom Hanks did a great job , Ron Howard did a great job , Audrey Tautou was delicious , and , of course , Sir Ian was fantastic .
A Dead Film	I was looking for something dark , and I got it . It plays like a Japanese horror film , and there is a slasher in it , but there was little else to hold my interest . Except for Sid Haig , of course . I just watched him the other night in his clown makeup , and he really was funny as a regular father in this film . He was " Father Knows Best " with an affinity for guns . He really made me keep watching until the end . His wife was Leslie Easterbrook . This was their third movie together after Halloween and The Devil's Rejects . Of course , many remember her from the Police Academy films . Also from Halloween , The Devil's Rejects , and Grindhouse was Bill Moseley as the sheriff . This must have been the fourth or fifth Michael Feifer film I have seen . He does a lot of serial killers . His films are usually worth watching , but nothing to write home about . If you like the genre check it out on cable sometime .
Not as good as the last one	I am not hampered by the memory of the original Pumpkinhead , so I have only Pumpkinhead II as comparison . It excels tremendously over this one . The Doctor ( Doug Bradley ) and his family are selling body parts and have a barn full of uncremated bodies . It reminds me of the 339 bodies found at Tri-State Crematory in New York . When the town finds out , and sees that the law will probably not do anything , they go looking for the local Marie Laveau , a witch that lives in the wood and can bring back Pumkinhead . There are serious consequences to doing that , but they have a taste for blood . They must be from Texas because they like killing people so much . Actually , it was filmed in Romania . There just wasn't as good a story as Pumkinhead II , but the killing were a lot gorier . There was less eye-candy , too .
Action in the pool	I cannot believe that this film was not shot in a swimming pool . Every bit of the action seemed as if they were just splashing around acting like the ends was near . They even made some stupid comments about something being out there or this was for nothing . Well , it was for nothing and they really ripped us off . I can't say for sure that I have ever seen any of the actors in this film . What I can say is that we have six naked people in the water and we get to see nothing . The only one who made it had her underwear on ! What's up with that ? If you want to see six people splashing in the pool , then this is your film . It didn't even have any sharks .
We're not weird , honey . Everybody else is .	I am the one who is weird . I want to get prepared for Black Devil Doll , so I am immersing myself in classic doll / puppet stories starting with this one . First , you have Corey Feldman ( Gremlins , The Lost Boys ) as the mad scientist type trying to find his great great Uncle's formula , his cute daughter , Danielle Keaton ( " Beverly Hills , 90210 " , Pinocchio's Revenge ) , assists . Add the evil corporate CEO , Vanessa Angel , with her demon partner Bael ( Anton Falk ) , and you have the makings of a good story - especially when they squeeze the blood out of the virgin to bring Bael to life . OK , it has the usual cheesy dialog , but watching Feldman wasn't a total waste . He did save the world and get the girl ( Silvia Suvadova ) .
A freak of life ! And , a freak of death !	Another mad scientist movie , but grounded in science yet to come . A doctor ( Jason Evers ) seeks to advance science by attaching limbs to bodies that have lost them . He has made many mistakes , and they are all present in one body ; a hideous , gruesome monster ( Eddie Carmel ) that has mutated . He is on his was to his country house with his fiancé , when an accident occurs . he save the head and rushes to his lab to keep it alive . This is where I found it fascinating , as his lab partner starts moaning about the heart and the soul and love , not realizing that love and other emotions exist only in the brain . So , the good doctor ( Ha ! ) goes in search of a body . Now , where do you think he looks ? Of course , burlesque house and beauty contests . He finds a perfect body with a facial deformity and brings her back to replace his fiancé's head on the body . But , she is aghast at the thought of what he is about to do and controls the monster with her brain . B movie fare , but fun to watch .
Do not fear the heart of the snake .	The Sci-Fi Channel would not have the budget of Snakes on a Plane , so they could only afford one snake . But , it was one huge snake ! I was not expecting anything fantastic when I tuned into this . I was surprised , however , that it kept my interest . I really like the part where the dude looked up and the snake just sucked him in by the head . I also liked seeing the Barney Fife deputy getting it , as well as the rednecks . It had it's Jaws moment when they mayor wouldn't shut down the county fair and the snake had a smörgåsbord of delectable goodies . Of course , having a small town deputy with a PhD in zoology was just a little far fetched , as was having the guy who was afraid of snakes saving the day and his girl , but what the heck , it was a movie . Not the greatest , but it was worth the time . No big stars , but I'll be looking for John T . Woods in Zombie Strippers out soon .
This is an atrocity . This is a travesty !	With the writers strike continuing , we might just be in for some schlock like this to fill the air until it is settled . I am not , of course , referring to the movie , although it is pretty bad , but to the concept that has a real murder trial on TV for three hours and then , for only $19 . 95 , you can actually watch the execution . Of course , there will be an execution , as TV cannot resist the $250 that they will bring in . It is interesting that they picked Jerry Springer to lead this show , and that it is set in Florida , second only to Texas for their blood-lust . They gladly spend $1 . 99 to vote to execute . After all , that saves them money that would be spent on wasteful things like health care and education . Amand Assante just seemed to drift through the film until he is called upon to make a rousing speech at the end . It is wasted breath , as this would be an easy sell these days . I won't recommend it , but you might want to watch it to see where we could end up if things keep going like they are . bring back the writers !
She doesn't know any more . Anything else would be lies .	If they had released this movie in Britain , it would have likely become one of the infamous video nasties . It has all the elements : low production costs , natives in various stages of undress , animal abuse , shark attacks , cannibalism , torture . It just didn't really cross the line , however . The torture was not overtly explicit , the cannibals were never shown eating their victims , the undress was not excessive . If it had come out a month later and starred Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman , instead of Jim Brown and Christopher George , they might have named it Papillon , and given it an Oscar or Golden Globe nomination . But , this is a Roger Corman production , so it is the R rated version of Papillon . Paul Richards , as Major Marteau , the head of Devil's Island , gave the best line after they tortured a woman to get information on the escaped prisoners : " She doesn't know any more . Anything else would be lies . " He knew even then the uselessness of water-boarding . Great ending !
The wrong kid died / The wrong kid died . . .	I have only walked out on one film in my life . This almost became the second . It was that bad . John C . Reilly has to be given credit for delivering the lines in this film with a straight face . I couldn't have done it . The dialog was plain cringe inducing . Only a tweener boy would find the lines remotely funny . The only thing resembling humor were the drug lines , and a tweener wouldn't have gotten what was so funny about them . This film ranks with Beerfest as the lowest of the low . Raymond J . Barry as Pa Cox , and Jenna Fischer as Darlene were the only redeeming lights in this otherwise unfunny movie .
Bad shite always happens inside the creepy farmhouse .	There is no doubt that seeing Tiffany Kristensen flash the Butcher is the highlight of this film . Everything else has been seen before in other horror movies . Obnoxious frat boy , token African-American , lesbians , and , oh-my-gosh , a chainsaw . How original ! At least it was put to good use getting rid of the most irritating characters . Oh , that flash in the beginning , that's it for the nudity . There really isn't much gore in this film . I would have given it a PG-13 , instead of an R . Stay on the main road , people .
Nobody rocks the cock like Cyndi Pinziki !	What in the world did I just see ? Why in the world would anyone make a movie that is part 2 of a story ? I want to see a movie without having to read a comic beforehand to understand why things are happening . Is that too much to ask ? That being said , Dwayne Johnson was riveting in an over-the-top performance . The music was great . Wallace Shawn was fascinating . Bai Ling was as hot as ever and worth the price of admission . Seeing John Larroquette get zapped was precious . Seeing the two hummers making it was a great statement on the fcking we all got from the Bush administration , the oil companies , and the car manufacturers . May they all rot in hell . Basically , this is just a collection of YouTube videos strung together , visually stunning by themselves , but making no sense together . When the sht hits the fans , it all smells the same .
Purgatory is over , you go to hell .	There were only two things that kept me interested in this film : I was waiting for Owen Wilson to die , and Catherine Zeta Jones . This was basically a one woman show . Catherine Zeta Jones was just there to provide eye-candy . Liam Neeson was totally wasted in this film . Like Jones , he had no role at all . The film was all Lily Taylor ( Ransom , Ready to Wear ) . She was the only one that had any real part in this crappy script by David Self . OK , it was his first one and he did redeem himself with Road to Perdition . I don't know what director Jan de Bont's problem was . he did a great job with Speed and Twister . he really fell down on the job here . Maybe he was still recovering from the disaster Speed 2 : Cruise Control . He should thank his lucky stars for The Wild Wild West , else this would be the worst picture of 1999 . Avoid at all costs .
Not Wood's worst	There is a tendency to underrate Ed Eood's films due to the fact that he is considered one of the worst writers and directors out there . I will challenge that by saying that I consider William Allen Castleman and Robert Freeman to be worse than Wood . Having said that , you can't give this movie a high rating because it really is poorly done , despite the fact that Bela Lugosi does a credible job . I like Tor Johnson too , but that doesn't make him an actor . This movie has too many obvious flaws to be rated highly , but as a camp classic it should be viewed just so you know the history of movies . You can't call someone good unless you can point to someone who did it wrong .
My fcking dick was cut off !	You don't usually expect a lot from a " B " movie , but this does have the Queen of Horror , Debbie Rochon , and Lloyd Kaufman , one of the founders of Troma . Conrad ( Michael Rodrick ) finds out that the love of his life , Jennifer ( Rochon ) has a sordid past . When he breaks it off , she breaks it off - literally ! So , he has to find her and it . What a story . You are not going to find great acting or fantastic sets or much of anything here except a few laughs and a fantastic look at Debbie . Maybe you want more , but maybe this is all you need to get you through the night .
45 Days in Jail	It should be no surprise that this was the best selling and best renting video of 2005 . 62 minutes of Paris Hilton gets up the curiosity of many . Who else gets 45 days in jail for a parole violation and it makes national news ? The best part of this film is seeing the " deer caught in the headlights " look of Paris . Other than that it is just a typical porn tape . Don't waste your money as the whole thing is available on the internet for free .
Only so many ways to show a monster	If you are looking for a creepy show on a Saturday night , then this one that could fit the bill if you catch it on cable . I would certainly be more inclined to believe that Big Pharma has something like this in the basement than some creature from space . Trina Brink makes her debut performance ay Maya , the mutant . She doesn't have any lines , but she is a scary presence that will creep you out . No great performances by anyone else , but I did like Ellen Furey and Andrea Lui . The setting was perfect and the movie was at least more interesting than the NASCAR race on the other channel .
A documentary would probably be more interesting .	Ever since he played a goon in Lone Wolf McQuade , actor / stuntman Kane Hodder has been busy . His film , Hatchet , got all the publicity last year , but he still makes a couple of more films every year . He should have skipped this one . Hodder seems to be the king of the slashers . he has played Jason Voorhees from 1988's Friday the 13th Part VII : The New Blood ( 1988 ) to Jason X ( 2001 ) . He is working on a new film that appears to be a Halloween remake . He is very much what I would call the serial killer type with his methodical , expressionless thirst for blood . However , there wasn't much blood in this movie and very little action occurred on camera . It felt as if I was watching an episode of real law enforcement on A & E . I won't put the blame entirely on Hodder's shoulders , as the rest of the actors didn't contribute much either . Michael Berryman ( The Hills Have Eyes , The Devil's Rejects ) just ran his mouth until Gein shut him up . Adrienne Frantz ( " The Bold and the Beautiful " ) was cute . Veteran actress ( " Three's Company " ) and Penthouse Pet , Priscilla Barnes did a credible job . I am sure there are other horror favorites , but they all just seemed to run through their roles .
So much bush , you'd think you were in a jungle .	This video nastie was banned in Britain and never released . No , it wasn't for Jesus Franco's propensity for plenty of full frontal nudity , including his own wife , Lina Romay . After all , they have made over 100 films together , and I am sure moviegoers know her as well as he does . No , it was the application of the old " Tucker Telephone . " I don't know if Franco got the idea from the Tucker prison farm in Arkansas , or from Generalissimo Franco , but the application of electrical wires to his wife's vagina and the electrical current was too much for the Brits . Yes , there is a poorly done lesbian scene ( only one ) , and the women in prison all slept naked , but that gets to be a bore after a while . Mostly people just smoked and talked . Pretty boring .
Go see what the devil can do .	If I had wanted to see an A & E Biography on Richard Speck , I would have tuned into A & E . I got this DVD because of Debbie Rochon , and it was an extreme disappointment on so many levels . First , Debbie played a prostitute and was only in the film for five minutes . No . she didn't get naked . In fact , the only titties you see in this movie are on a video of Speck in prison . That is really creepy . Secondly , the Chicago Police Department , as portrayed in this film , must be equal to the Keystone Cops . Andrew Divoff ( " Lost " , Wishmaster ) played the lead investigator , and he was in a bar with Speck , knowing what he looked like , and lost him . His boss , Tony Todd ( Wishmaster , Candyman ) was more concerned about keeping things quiet and protecting Mayor Daley . It was so bad that two cops , after they had Specks name and description , interviewed him on a complaint by Rochon and looked at his ID and still walked away . BOLO anyone ? ? ? Thank goodness for Chicago that the emergency room doctor was on the ball . The actual murders had nothing more that a little blood spatter and off-camera horror . Ther were no rapes , unless you count the time Speck supposed raped on girl WITH HIS PANTS STILL ON ! Neat trick , if you can do it . I have to give Corin Nemec props for his performance . He really did a good job in playing a slime-bucket . I wonder if he is so good because he has experience in portraying murderers ( Boston Strangler : The Untold Story , Bundy : An American Icon ) . He was the best thing about this movie . The camera-work was terrible and the flashbacks to Speck's earlier life were way too short and obscure to give any insight into the man . Did he hate women because of his stepfather ? Was it just low self-esteem that made him a wife-beater , drunk and all-around jerk ? Did he just think he could get away with anything ? Unanswered questions abound . Don't waste you time here . There is nothing to see unless you want to see a man with titties . Yech !
I was talking to the vampire .	Estrella ( Nerea Inchausti ) is a good student , but she is a loner . She reads horror novels , and watches horror movies , like the Spanish version of Texas Chainsaw Massacre , and keeps a statue of Nosferatu in her room . The chainsaw killer is a friend that only she can see , unlike her " vampire " friend that can walk around in the daylight . Her mother , Angela ( Goya Toledo ) , is a nurse , which leaves the child alone much of the time while she works on rotating shifts . She also engages in kinky sex at the hospital and in the apartment garage . Her daughter catches her and is very upset . She brings the " vampire " home and mom has to face some hard realities . There is no real horror in the film . What we see is surreal - a figment of the girl's imagination . This is made clear in the final scene , and I am not sure what the whole point of the movie was . Unsupervised children may be reading and watching inappropriate material , but a parent has to work , so what are you to do ? If that was the point , then it was lost on me . I certainly won't be staying awake because of this film . It was hard enough to stay awake through it .
Rumble in the jungle	It is a story as old as man . The jealousy for another man's wife and possessions . There are even commandments against it . In this story , Raymond Burr ( " Perry Mason " , " Ironside " ) is the manager of a runner plantation who lusts after the owners wife and feels that he isn't treated with respect . The wife , the starlet Barbara Payton , who was trying to make a comeback after a string of sordid affairs , was lusting after Burr , who killed her husband , Paul Cavanagh . But , lurking about was a strange woman , the housekeeper ( Gisela Werbisek ) who sees everything , and who was capable of some voodoo to avenge the wronged , which also included another young woman ( Carol Varga ) to whom Burr also professed love . Burr is poisoned and becomes , or thinks he becomes , a gorilla . Payton will have to mate with Kong if she ever wants her marriage consummated , as he goes into the jungle every night . The end is predictable . But , the stirring question of this film is why Payton would ever be afraid . With those sharply pointed missiles jutting out from her chest , no animal could get near her to do harm .
No winner here .	Rebecca De Mornay - yes ! Vincent D'Onofrio - yes ! Delroy Lindo - yes ! Michael Madsen - yes ! What more could you want in a movie . Put them in Vegas and give us a story about robbery , and you got me . yes , you got me - with a movie that just didn't seem to go anywhere . It just jumped all over the place and had no consistent theme . Wendy Riss is just not a scriptwriter , yet . Work some more and get it right . I expected much more from director Alex Cox , especially after the job he did with Rosario Tijeras . I was so disappointed . Not a winner !
Wars come and go , but my soldier stay eternal .	He's no Vin Diesel , but Ice Cube gives a credible performance in a predictable action flick . Samuel L . Jackson is back as the boss , and Willem Dafoe is the bad guy , a part he plays well . She is no Asia Argento , but Nona Gaye provided the eye candy for the movie . I imagine that Gaye got the part in The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix Revolutions that was to go to Aaliyah before her untimely death . This is a perfect movie for those who like to hear a lot of rappers . Unfortunately , the action sequences just keep getting more and more unbelievable until they come to a crescendo with a out of this world train sequence . Come back , Vin !
What ? A Zombie movie without gore ?	I am not a " Survivor " fan . I find all those game boring . But , come up with a " Survivor " episode where you have to escape a bunch of zombies to win the prize , and I'll be glued to the set . Forget the story here , what there is of it has so many holes it looks like Swiss cheese , and the dialog is rehashed from other low budget films . In fact , halfway through a hot girl called looking for a shoulder to cry on and I muted the sound and read the subtitles while we talked . I guess everyone else was out partying , and I was the only one left . I didn't miss a thing . That's how heavy this was . Bottom line , the only person in this film with any experience was Mary Christina Brown . But the fact that there was no nudity , and no gore made this one zombie film to pass on - even if you see it free .
Fck off , douchebag !	If I wanted to see a story about John Wayne Gacy , I would tune into A & E , as they do biographies . I was looking for something that had more horror and thriller than biography . The horror was that I sat through the whole thing . Forget the " stars " in this film . All of them are forgettable , including the one that played Gacy . It was a slow story that had so little horror that it could have been rated G . Gacy was someone who went after young men . He had sex with them , killed them and buried them in the crawlspace under his home . All you saw in this movie was him dragging bodies to the crawlspace . Exciting , huh ? Maybe Gacy had a bad father , but you only get one incident in the film . That's not enough to make a decision . I want to know about his wife also . Why did she marry him after coming out of prison for molesting a boy ? Serves you right , dummy . Fine something else to watch .
Not bad for a bunch of queens .	Tony Parker : Well , actually , I'm a bisexual lesbian in a man's body . . . but it's more complicated than that . Now this is an Eddie Izzard moving worth watching . Not a great film , mind you , but a bit funny . Izzard was precious as tony parker . i can't get the image of Joey out of my mind when I see Matt LeBlanc , so seeing him as the tough guy was a bit odd . Nicolette Krebitz was actually the best actor in the film . No one does a British Officer better than Edward Fox ( Ghandi , A Bridge Too far )
Still looking good at 40	I haven't seen a Cynthia Rockrock film in a long time , and it only cost me a buck , so what the hell . besides that she shows some skin in this movie . I have to say that she still has some good moves at 40 and still has one hot bod . Just seeing her smash some bad guys is worth the buck . But , she has slowed down considerably , so don't expect Jet Li action , and the schoolgirl giggling at 40 is really off putting . Don't expect anything in the way of dialog in the picture . The premise is as corny as Ghost Whisperer and the acting is terrible . She needs to get a scriptwriter that has graduated from high school and knows more that BIFF ! POW ! BAM ! The attempt at humor several times in the pic were lame , and " I'll show you mine , if you show me yours , " is bad even if it is karate they are talking about . Hell , it was just a buck .
The young Wizard boy	Since Harry Potter first appeared in Joane Rowling's books in 1997 , this must be the first boy wizard , Harry Potter , Jr . , some nine years earlier . Harry Potter ( Michael Moriarty ) moves his family into an apartment and his daughter Wendy Anne ( Jenny Beck ) manages to get herself turned into a troll . This troll starts turning everyone else in the building into trolls ( Sonny Bono ) , and fairies ( Julia Louis-Dreyfus ) , and elves ( Phil Fondacaro ) , with some spectacular results in special makeup , I might add , and it is up to Harry Potter Jr . , to learn from a witch ( June Lockhart ) who also lives in the building , to use magical powers to save his sister . Not a blockbuster , but interesting from the Harry Potter standpoint .
Paris has a headache	I will not lie to save face . I actually went to the theater to see this film on the first day it was out . I wanted to see just how far Paris Hilton would go in the film . It was a real disappointment as she flashes more to the paparazzi that she gave people who paid money to see her . Elisha Cuthbert ( Love , Actually ) was great for a horror movie and really earned all four of the stars I give it . The rest of the cast followed the horror formula OK and kept it from being a total waste . Bo / Vincent was just plain stupid . Why do these horror flicks waste the girls ? Even a crazy person wouldn't do that to Paris .
If a small taco is a taquito , then a small judge . . . must be a Judge Ito !	I am sure that there is someone out there in movie audiences that like Pauly Shore . I mean , he has to have made something worth watching , right ? Well , it certainly wasn't this movie . Except for Tia Carrere , there really isn't anything to see here . The concept is innovative , I have to admit . Made homeless , he gets on jury duty in a murder case to get sequestered , and he keeps the jury going ( Spoof of 12 Angry Men ? ) to keep a roof over his head . But even the murderer ( Sean Whalen ) gets irritated . I got irritated long before that . Well , let's just wait for the next Pauly Shore venture with American Idol , Ruben Studdard . I am sure it will be as good as this one .
We are both outside the law .	I was looking for zombie films and came across this . I couldn't resist the title . A film from a director that gave us such classics as Billy the Kid versus Dracula and Bela Lugosi Meets a Brooklyn Gorilla . I can't wait to see those . The sound on my copy was terrible . Lips moved out of conjunction with words , and sometimes it sounded as if a woman was speaking when it was a man . When the sound got better , it was out of sync with the picture by several minutes . Terrible , but I suffered through it for art's sake . Jesse's ( John Lupton ) friend ( Cal Bolder ) gets shot and he is searching for a doctor , while running from the Marshall ( Jim Davis ) . Guess who he finds ? What it's the granddaughter of Dr . Frankenstein ( Narda Onyx ) . Also stars Cuban-born spitfire Estelita Rodriguez as Juanita . She dies mysteriously a month before the film was released . She and Maria Frankenstein are both after Jesse's affections . After sending Jesse on a wild goose chase , Maria kills his friend and turns him into Igor ( the zombie part ) . A sad ending for a truly horribly funny picture .
Cheap tribute film	There is no doubt that this is a cheapie . Director Anthony Hickox admits that had little budget and time to do it right . But , sometimes cheapies can be worth watching . Sometimes . In this case , if he had more money he could have gotten Burt Lancaster instead of Robert Miano . Gen . James Mattoon Scott is the preeminent wacky military type that leads a revolution against the government . Miano just does have the passion . Maybe he could have gotten Arnold Schwarzenegger to lead the charge to stop the revolution and get his daughter back . Dolph Lundgren is OK , but when you want the best , you get Matrix . Yvonne Zima is no Alyssa Milano , but she did a good job as the daughter . I would keep her . So , we have Seven Days in May and Commando . I am sure we can come up with others that we used to make this film , but why bother . Just watch the originals .
Hostel for Dummies	This is a movie for all those teens who can't figure out how to see Hostel . It is not recommended for anyone over the age of 18 unless you just like seeing young girls run around in bikinis . First , why would anyone set a movie in Brazil without showing any Brazilian beauties ? Maybe , because those who are attracted to this film don't even know where Brazil is , or they think the girls in the film are hotter . That's like comparing a hot dog to prime rib . About those " stars " : " Las Vegas , " " Alias , " " The O . C . , " Grange Hill , " " Crossroads . " Not exactly Oscar material . And , puleese do those guys like to whine : Finn ( Desmond Askew ) : I hate this ! I don't like it at all . I like beaches , and drinking and girls . In all the ads , they say " Come to Brazil . We've got beaches and drinking and girls . " They don't say , " we've got vicious angry mobs that chase you into the jungle . " Over 50 % of this film was swimming in the water . It would only requires 60 seconds of cutting to play on USA . There was absolutely nothing scary about it .
Neo-con Nightmares	I have only seen Gretchen Mol in two other films ( Girl 6 , Donnie Brasco ) , and don't really remember her , but she did a great job as a naive girl who posed for pictures because it made people happy . She really didn't think what she was doing was wrong , even when she left the business and found her religion again . The photos she made were certainly tame by today's standards , and it is funny seeing men with cameras get all excited , and politicians pontificating on the evils of pornography . David Strathairn ( Good Night , and Good Luck ) played a super part here . Mary Harron ( American Psycho ) wrote and directed an outstanding biopic of the most famous pinup girl ever .
Finish it !	I am at a distinct disadvantage here . I have not seen the first two movies in this series , although I have seen a lot of Larry Cohen films . Fans of the series seem to think this is a good film . Judging it on it's own , it was pretty boring . You never get a real good look at the maniac cop's ( Robert Z'Dar ) face , but what I did see was pretty grim . The death scenes seem to be staged to eat up the most film , not to give any thrills . Maybe if I saw the NC-17 Director's Cut , I may be more impressed . The ending with the car chase with Z'Dar , Caitlin Dulany , and Robert Davi was pretty intense . best part of the movie .
Didn't I just see you outside baying at the moon ?	The story is not an important as the chance to see Bela Lugosi acting . He played Professor Leonide , a strange character , in his only color movie as a star . Former Olympic wrestler Nat Pendleton provided the comic relief as a dis = graced police officer desperately hoping someone would get murdered so he could solve it and get back on the force . There were no really scary moments , as the film is mainly concerned with who is causing havoc that eventually leads to murder , and the list of suspects includes just about everyone . Oh , we know that there will be a murder as the story is told in flashback .
Santa , you sleigh me !	OK , this is probably the absolutely worst Christmas program ever ! No , it is not as bad as Feeders 2 : Slay Bells , but for a Christmas show it is pretty bad . Hulk Hogan may have been a good wrestler , but he certainly cannot act . Here he bumps his head and thinks he's Santa . He is up against a group of real clowns led by Ed Begley , Jr . Steve Valentine from " Crossing Jordan " and more Grade Z actors . The only redeeming performance was little Aria Noelle Curzon , who was nine at the time . Cross this one off your Christmas list .
It's not about doing the things you love , it's about doing things with the one you love !	I have avoided this movie for a long time . I must have picked it up 20 times and put it back down . I had to see it as I am one of those who is in love with Jennifer Anniston . I have loved her ever since she broke on the scene as Rachel in Friends . She so disappointed me in going off with that jerk Ross instead of Joey , but I still love her . She tends to make movies with losers like Ben Stiller and Jim Carey , and now Vince Vaughn . The movie did have Cole Hauser and Vincent D'Onofrio in addition to Aniston , so it wasn't a total loss . But , girlfriend , look at who you are starring with ! Losers ! No wonder they sit on the couch and play video games . They will never be in a mature role . And , what is this nepotism ? Little boy putting his mommy and daddy in his movie ? EWWW !
I've never failed to complete	I loved Kurt Wimmer's Equilibrium , and I hear that the DVD of this movie will have 30 more minutes that were cut from the theater version , but I am not sure that is enough . The movie is just too cartoonish for me . I know it comes from a comic book , but I really felt like I was playing a video game rather than watching a film . There has to be a limit to capability . Even Superman is felled by kryptonite . Ultraviolet seems to always come out on top without getting a scratch . A back story would have greatly improved the film , and maybe that is what is in the 30 minutes the studio cut . I enjoyed seeing Milla Jovovich , but 88 minutes of her in the same outfit is a bit much .
Just makes me salivate at the thought of " Mark of the Astro Zombies "	I just wasn't sure that I could watch after seeing that beautiful white 65 0r 66 Mustang convertible splattered with blood after the zombie killed the heavenly beauty that was riding it . I was just hoping he wouldn't put any dents in it . Most of it was a major snooze-fest with lots of time spent showing people driving or riding , the mad scientist John Carradine , and the requisite topless dancer with the Ken-doll looking government agents watching . Watching Carradine explain his experiments to his Igor-like assistant was a real hoot . This guy couldn't understand George Bush . It was really funny watching all the fakeness in this film . It was like something Ed Wood would do . But , hey , I watched this to see the sultry Tura Satana . She was smoking hot !
Zombi 4 : Watching it is like death	This one is really a snooze-fest after the great ones I saw this weekend . It starts with a High priest who calls on the zombies to come from hell and exact revenge for the death of his daughter . The last thing we see is a little girl running away as her parents are killed . In the very next scene the little girl ( Candice Daly ) is back with some mercenaries and some dumb woman that is cruising through the jungle in a skirt and heels . What's up with that ? And how about the hero trying to light twenty candles with a bic . Have you ever lit a candle with a bic ? Good luck lighting one without burning your fingers ! Meanwhile , some expedition is trying to find out what happened years ago . They also have a dumb woman that whines constantly . Why did you come along ? I do have to say that the makeup was very good . This had one of the most butt-ugly zombies I have ever saw . Kudos to Franco Di Girolamo . This is only recommended for hard-core zombie fans .
No , it's not Mandingo	Trading on the success of the 1975 hit , this film is a cheaply made story of a plantation where Massa gets down with the slave women , and the Missus gets down with the big black stud , and with massa'a son also . In fact , there is so much getting down going on , that I really don't know why anyone bothered to get dressed . So , if you want to see white women rolling their naked bodies all over tied up slaves , or you just like a movie with tits on display every five minutes , then this one is for you . There is a funny / sad story in here , but it only comes at the very end so as to not interfere with all the hot sweaty sex going on on the plantation .
High School slasher	An interesting slasher film with multiple suspects . Includes typical girl flashing her breasts ( Denise Cheshire ) as she changes into her swimsuit , creepy suspect - any one of them could be doing the deed , expected breast baring to get a passing grade ( Linnea Quigley ) , a very unusual forward pass , more bare breasts , a track and field event that will NOT be in the summer Olympics , and a ghoulish secret . It all comes to a crashing ending . No , there's more . Won't this guy die ? I bet Anne ( Patch Mackenzie ) doesn't plan any more visits home anytime soon . If you like teen slasher films , can you possible be a pervert , even if all the actresses are over 18 ?
I don't care if the whole world is coming to an end , I'm not stopping !	I wouldn't either if I was laying on top of Bernadette Perez . There just wasn't anything going on that was more important at the time . I can't wait to see her again in Werewolf in a Women's Prison . But you are not here for that . What about the movie ? It seems to be a remake of Dawn of the Dead / Night of the Living Dead , except this time in a prison , where they hid someone who was infected . The whole prison goes down , including the favorites . Now , that is just a crying shame , as you have to root for Perez , Bay Bruner , and the cat-burglar . No tears for the dude who's " top of the food chain . " Maximum vomiting and entrails all over the place . If you like blood , you'll love this one .
Another chance to see Christa .	OK , I am consumed with Christa Campbell . I have read and reread this month's Playboy feature on her . OK , I mainly looked at the pictures . I even ran down to get Scars when it came out to see her one picture in it . She is a MySpace friend and I cannot wait until her new film is out on DVD next month and the 2001 Maniacs sequel comes out next year . I am so obsessed that i would watch this movie just to catch a glimpse at her . But , I stuck with it until the end because it was interesting . I do live in Florida , so I thought I might get a tip on how to kill mosquitoes . No , the bug zapper doesn't work in real life . I did get to see three things : One of the most ugly creatures I have ever seen in a horror movie - I mean I hate those things at actual size , why would anyone want to see one seven foot tall . Ugh ! Two , they used buckets of blood in this film . There was some real carnage in the hospital scenes . You were totally unprepared as the prior scenes were relatively mild . And , three , Musetta Vander is hot . She was a siren in O Brother , Where Art Thou ? , but I didn't know here name . She has only been in two other pieces of crap that I have seen , so I didn't really notice her as I was retching . Not a great movie , but not a total waste either .
Another Night of the Living Dead ?	" Virus " is the original Italian title of this video nastie , which was one of the infamous 74 banned in Britain as " Zombie Creeping Flesh , " and released in 2002 without any cuts . It is also known as as " Zombie 2 " , " Night Of The Zombies " and " Hell Of The Living Dead . " A chemical plant in the jungle releases a poison gas and turns all the employees into zombies . It spreads to the countryside infecting the natives . ( For history on chemical plants in the third world and the culpability of colonial powers google Union Carbide and Bhopal ) . We join the worst SWAT team in the World as they are assigned to do something - I'm not sure what . They pick up Lia ( Margit Evelyn Newton ) and her cameraman as their companions are killed by zombies . The only titillating shot comes as they approach a native village and Lia takes off her top and goes native to approach the tribe . One would expect some hoot and crude remarks from the SWAT team here , but they are strangely silent . Some of the grossest scenes occur in the village . It is not for the timid viewer . They battle zombies on the way to the river and her is where we see that one member of the SWAT team is certifiably nuts . We see another member go bonkers in a house they are investigating as he dons a tutu and top hat to search for zombies . But at least nutso knows how to kill zombies . The rest of the team just keeps shooting their bodies even after they see the only way is a head shot . They finally arrive at the plant and I still don't know what they are supposed to do , as they brought no equipment . Lia's eyes bug out at the scene and she is strangely silent after screaming at the top of her lungs . What could have happened ? Gross overacting and stock footage to set the location marred what could have been more than a remake of Night of the Living Dead .
If I go back to jail they gonna make me a woman !	The Eagles were thumping the Cowboys and the Jaguars wanted us to watch them lose again instead of letting us see Miami beat the Jets , so I checked out this film knowing that I probably wouldn't like it . Now , I was totally satisfied watching Malinda Williams ( Idlewild , " Soul Food " ) trying to keep from spilling out of that form fitting outfit she had on for the entire 96 minutes , so it wasn't a total waste . Other than that , it relied too heavily on stereotypical humor and " Jesus is the answer to all your problems " thinking . Even Jesus doesn't have enough jobs to keep everyone happy , even if they managed to get more than a little education . But , there is always Malinda to save the day .
There's no such thing as safe sex with a werewolf .	Big whoop ! This was a real disappointment for a werewolf film . Safe sex ? There was NO sex . I mean the beast can tear a woman in half , but she still keeps her top . The lovely Mya ( Chicago ) was attacked , wasn't she ? We wouldn't know because we didn't see . And , this was the " Unrated " version . Christina Ricci is always a joy , but she spent most of the movie running around with her brother in denial . And , this whole " gay " thing ; what a joke . This movie was a ripoff from start to finish and it is a shame that Wes Craven put his name on it . A kid could watch it without being scared . very little blood and only one quick gross out . Portia de Rossi , who gets top billing was in it for , what ? , two minutes . Lame .
Lots of waiting	Poor Danielle ( Cerina Vincent ) . While she waits to return to the house on Haunted Hill , she is stuck in a ranger tower in the woods of British Columbia . Maybe she can pass the time with that weed they are famous for up there . But no , she takes solace in a bottle of vodka and agonizes about driving drunk and killing her friend . In the meantime , there is an alien-like creature stalking the wood killing people . We get lots of screaming and heavy breathing from Danielle while the creature attacks her . But It never kills her as it does every other person . Why ? Who knows ? The best aspect of this film is the scenery . I have to admit that it was absolutely beautiful . But , I wanted a horror movie , not a nature film .
Hand job	Being an actor must be hard sometimes . I would think that someone as good as Michael Caine would not have to take jobs like this . It really is beneath him . He lost his hand and the hand has a mind of its own - or does it ? It may act separate from it's owner , but apparently it's owner is directing it . It was creepy and violent , but just didn't grab me . : - ) I remember Viveca Lindfors from Stargate . She was interesting as the psychiatrist , but that was five minutes . Andrea Marcovicci , who played Caine's wife was just flat . Nothing there . The only thing that was really interesting was the action with Annie McEnroe . I have not seen here before so I'll have to check out Howling II . I would imagine that Oliver Stone and Michael Caine would like to erase this one from their resumes .
Ghastly , just Ghastly	This film was released in the UK under the name Blood Rites . It was banned outright and never submitted again for release . As The Ghastly Ones , it was supposedly a hit with the horror hungry denizens of New York City's famed 42nd Street Grindhouse circuit . If you are looking for some bloody horror , then you will find it in this film . Unfortunately to see the developmentally disabled Colin ( Hal Borske ) chomp down on a live rabbit , you have to put up with shaky 16mm camera work that makes Ed Wood look positively marvelous . Three sisters are to spend three days in the family homestead with their husbands before the old man's money is disbursed . Naturally , in such a situation , people start dropping dead . Family secrets are exposed and lots of blood is spilled , especially during a gruesome dismemberment . Maybe it was the bunny bit that the Brits objected to , I know I did .
Truth or tooth ?	Our favorite dentist ( Corbin Bernsen ) escapes from the loony bin and sets up shop in a small town . It isn't long before he is drilling again , since he is possessed by the demon dentist . He is in love with Jaime ( Jillian McWhirter ) , and that green-eyed monster rares it's ugly head again . Bev ( Susanne Wright ) starts snooping around like they do in all small town , and the doc's game of " Truth or Tooth " will scare you from the dentist forever . Brooke ( Linda Hoffman ) , his ex , shows up for revenge , but it is Jaime that nails him good . Unfortunately , he may return for Dentist 3 . Not nearly as fun as the first one .
From now on you'll have a lot of wedding nights .	The golden age of sexploitation was between 1965 and 1968 after the Supreme Court ruled on I am Curious Yellow . This sleazy film is laughable now as a pseudo documentary about how four girls came into the clutches of the syndicate and became prostitutes , or " zero girls " as they called them . It is filled with stock footage of the Cuban Revolution and the bombing of London as a background , and there is a lot of exotic dancing that one might have found at old carny shows , complete with pasties . One can imagine the hunger men must have had to sit through all this just to get a couple of glimpses of flesh at the end .
A clever way to keep your friends close .	Now , this is a strange little man . Mr Franz ( John Hoyt ) makes dolls . But , in addition to his regular dolls , he has some very special ones that look oh so realistic . Left by his wife for an acrobat , Franz has found a way that one one he loves will ever leave again . Sally Reynolds ( June Kenney ) , his new secretary found out the hard way that Franz can't bear to part with those he loves . But , the best laid plans of mice and men often go astray , and so do the plans of Mr Franz as Bob ( John Agar ) save the day and his love . A strange film .
I can't work with those guys playing that loud music .	" Unfairly maligned " " A hit " A gem " Who writes this stuff ? This film was a real waste unless you are a punk rock fan . It is notable because it was the film that ignited the whole " video nastie " brouhaha in Britain . It was initially banned in Britain and Germany and then released with cuts in 1999 and re-released uncut in 2002 . It is now in the public domain so you can see it for free . Don't bother . The actual horror portion doesn't some until 40 minutes into the film . 40 minutes of punk rock to see someone use a drill to kill some homeless guy . He only picks on homeless guys . Why in the world didn't he go after that punk rock band that was keeping him up all night ? The only thing worthwhile in the entire film was Carol ( Carolyn Marz ) and Pamela ( Baybi Day ) having fun in the shower . Too bad I have two more Abel Ferrara movies in my queue .
Show me that world , baby !	OK , Debbie Rochon made some real cheapies on the road to the title of Scream Queen . This was definitely low budget . Absolutely nothing was spent for extras . Hey , can't you get free ones ? I would be happy to sit at the bar next to Debbie . She was just in for a quick drink , but Maria Ortiz had other things in mind and wouldn't leave her alone . The movie then jumps to Jenny Wallace and her adventures . When Natasha Zlobina said she could show me a world of ecstasy and rubbed Jenny Wallace's head into her breasts , I was ready to come along , too . Vampire Zlobina makes Wallace her bride , and we get to see the two of them in one of the most uninspiring romps on the bed I have ever seen . Zlobina actually looked as if she was bored ! How anyone could be bored with Wallace's body , which we had previously seen in all it's glory with her boyfriend , is beyond me . The main problem with the film is transitioning . Things go from one scene to another without any apparent purpose . This wasn't director Donald Farmer's first film , but it had the feel of a cheap porno flick with the amateur way it just jumped from scene to scene . And , what was with all that time wasted in the theater watching another movie ? Well , Wallace and Zlobina just disappear and we are back with Ortiz and Rochon . Did the story work ? You'll have to watch and see .
Bound to cause boredom	There are two classes of people who will love this film - Stephen Baldwin fans and Gladys Jimenez fans . All others are bound to be bored . Baldwin plays a cop ( Max Garrett ) who is dangerously close to being kicked out . He is assigned to watch Laura ( Kristy Swanson ) and protect her from a crazed killer . You'll know who the killer is in the first five minutes , so there are only two questions to be answered : will the killer get Laura , and will Baldwin get Swanson , who continues to remain nudity-free after 55 films . Well , there is a third question that begs to be answered : why the heck would Garrett want Swanson when he has Gladys Jimenez at home ? She has no problems showing us what made her famous in films like Blowback and Secrets of a Chambermaid . She gave that up to become a soap star , but we get another view in this film . We know that Garrett is not gay like we suspect Dr . Doolittle is , but he certainly has his priorities crossed . Get home , jerk , Jimenez is waiting !
French horror director takes a break	Jean Rollin ( Caged Vampires , Queen of the Vampires , Zombie Lake ) takes a break from the dead and directs an adventure of the living . Two girls ( Gilda Arancio & Joëlle Coeur ) travel the countryside enjoying each others company and bodies and company of whomever they manage to hook up with . They find a small-time mobster hiding in an abandoned house and have a night of fun before moving on . However , they manage to get caught up in some jewel theft and the mobster's bosses have him kidnap them thinking they stole the jewels . This was just an excuse to begin torture and show some more breasts in this silly yarn that drags on and on until the real thief is uncovered .
You're the disease , and I'm the cure .	This film was nominated in practically every category for worst film of 1986 . Of course , Sly Stallone gets those nominations regularly for his totally emotionless performances . He was no different here . I cannot believe that Madonna took the award away from Brigitte Nielsen . She , too , went through this film like a zombie . You are paid to act ; let's see some acting . I do disagree with the criticism of Brian Thompson as Worst New Star . I thought he was typecast as the psycho slasher and I would run as fast as I could should i ever meet him on the street . Bad acting , bad direction , and bad dialog .
I'm not Crazy !	You may not be , but I certainly am thinking that I was going to get something extra with a R-rated " Killer Kut . " When you make a PG-13 teenspoitation movie with the usual suspects ( Melissa Sagemiller , Wes Bentley , Casey Affleck , Eliza Dushku , Luke Wilson ) and put out a supposedly unrated or R version , you will not get anything more for your money . Stupid to think I would . I just got ripped by the makers of this trash . Yes , it does seem like a Carnival of Souls remake with some damn obnoxious music - a goth rave , for god's sake ! It just seemed to go every which way and never made any sense . Needless to say , there wasn't much blood , and certainly nothing to make it R Rated . Be warned .
The all-time worst film	It is amazing what you see when you can't sleep and turn the TV on at 2 am . No . it wasn't Plan 69 From Outer Space , a later Ed Wood movie that feature more than ghouls and vampires , but the original . Using some of thew same actors that he used in earlier films like Tor Johnson , this time a police inspector that made a good zombie , and Bela Lugosi , who was dubbed in and had to be replaced because he died during the filming , and a new addition - Vampira , a late night feature used to promote B films in the fifties . This is a camp classic that must be seen to be believed . The usual Ed Wood cheesy effects are present , as well as the worst acting that anyone could imagine - and I have seen some great examples to compare to .
I mean the way the world is today . . . what counts as a crime anymore ?	If you don't have a budget for name actors or special effects , then you need a good script . Now , I don't know if I would call Scott Phillips script good , but it was certainly different enough . Matool ( Kurly Tlapoyawa ) is a Rock look-a-like that doesn't use guns because he says bullets are hard to find . He isn't nailin paylin , he is nailin zombies with a hammer and long nails . Long nails aren't hard to find ? Hmmm . He manages to escape and ends up with a strange house full of people - Nathan ( Ross Kelly ) , Dexy ( Diva ) and Sassy ( Kristin Hansen ) . Nathan likes to watch , so Mandool is soon nailin Dexy , while Sassy spanks him with a plastic ruler . Sassy must be a siamese twin , as she had the face of her sister in her side . Yech ! Nathan obviously doesn't have any skin mags , so he keeps a zombie naked and tied up Jesus-like in the shed to visit whenever he needs a kick . Unfortunately , he decides on day that he wants to do more than just look at her decomposing body . Big mistake , Nathan . Some soldiers manage to get to the cabin and soon they are all nailin Dexy . She even manages to get a little lesbian action with a female that shows up . All the while these kinky things are going on the countryside is crawling with zombies . If you like bloody body munching , and kinky sex , then this just might be your thing .
What's it all about , River ?	I only tuned into this film to see Ione Skye . Denise ( Ione Skye ) and Jimmy ( River Phoenix ) had an interesting thing going on . Outside of her , I am really not sure what was going on . Jimmy seemed to be trying to find his own way and not follow what others wanted him to do . Sort of a slacker , he was in constant turmoil with his father until they managed to find something in common to bind them together . : - ) He totally screwed things up with his girlfriend , but one suspects that he might have decided to try again as the movie ends . Who Knows ? I really was hoping for a film that would give me an idea of what River was like as an actor . This wasn't it . It really didn't have much going for it except Ione .
Dogs on crack !	I like those movies with the little dogs , and this one was worth watching just for the presence of Michelle Rodriguez ( " Lost " , Bloodrayne ) . It's not Cujo or Rottweiler , but it did feature some ferocious animals and a bitchin ' ending . Besides Michelle , it also featured Taryn Manning from Hustle & Flow , and Lisa-Marie Schneider for a short while . Yeah , there were some dudes ( Hill Harper from " CSI NY " ) there , too , but who was watching . Chomp chomp .
Black juice runs through your soul .	This film was very hard to rate . For a low budget horror flick , it wasn't bad , but it could have been so much better . First , it spent entirely too much time with the actors just acing stupid . Lots of hot girls running around , but the guys were just plain dumb . It wasted a lot of time that could have been spent on horror . After all , it is a Halloween slasher film . The old man was one of the best parts of the film . Now , he was really creepy . Lance ( David Austin ) and his buds were just like Draco Malfoy and his crew . You just wanted them to get their due . The pissing on the head bit was certainly original - and funny . Less silliness and more slashing .
A great book done an injustice	I am not a Stephen King fan . Works of his that I have read over the years can easily be counted on one hand . It just so happens that this is one of those and I thoroughly enjoyed it . I was anxiously awaiting the movie , especially as i felt that Anthony Hopkins would be great for the role . I was mistaken . The book became a disaster as a screenplay , Hopkins came off as a creepy pedophile , and a wonderful story of growing up amid strange circumstances became a movie not worth watching . I just wish they had done a better job . Even the score sucked ! I have never been so disappointed in a long-awaited movie .
Lesbian action and real x-rated sex	The action starts hot and heavy after a murder in the prison yard . The fire hoses are tuned on , and soon the skimpy prison uniforms look like a wet T shirt contest at Bike Week , with boobs flying out in some cases . This isn't your ordinary prison . The warden and guards don't bother with bras and only button the bottom button of their uniforms . Maybe it is just too warm in Brazil . The warden ( Maria Stella Splendore ) makes a little on the side selling prisoners to wealthy women ( Meiry Vieira ) , and the prison nurse ( Marta Anderson ) gives massages , focusing on the breasts before she brings out her toys . The prisoners manage to amuse themselves in the showers and in their cells . I have never thought a shower could be so much fun . Every tussle with guards results in clothes being torn off . They should be more careful . Three of the girls eventually break out , and that's when some really hot and heavy action occurs as they don't just have girls to play with .
Into the bowels of Hell .	Gore Hounds will love this movie . There is more gore in the first two minutes than almost all of the " video nasties " I have seen to date . A group moves into the house to search for evidence of paranormal activity - or maybe something more . It does get funny at times when four zombies , including scream queen Zoe Moonshine , appear when one of the ghost hunters is stealing some jewelry . But , it was Ketchum ( Jim Coope ) who got to meet the first succubi - in the flesh - and enjoy some hot sex before he was dispatched rather gruesomely . Oh , what a fantasy ! The young girl with her toys is met by another member . Unfortunately , he must have ate something wrong for dinner as he manages to vomit his entire insides . Didn't Fulci do that in some movie ? The real reason this group has been hired is becoming apparent , and it all is in the hands , or visions , of Erin ( Jennifer Litsch ) . It is in one of those visions that scream queen Caroline Munro appears . We do get to see Litsch in full bloom as one of the succubi takes her form to dispatch quick draw Monks ( David Runco ) . Then all the succubi ( Caroline Hoermann , Ruby Larocca , and Barbara Joyce ) dance around and chow down . Yum . There is plenty here for those who love FX , blood and gore and lots of full frontal . A great ending to a story that puts writer / director West in the giallo camp for sure .
It didn't ask to be born .	Was this a story of Mary Shelly's inspiration for Frankenstein . It could be , but that is not what makes it interesting . It is not your usual horror film . It is more for those who dwell in the surreal world fueled by opiates . Shelly ( Julian Sands ) , Mary Shelly ( Natasha Richardson ) , and her half-sister Claire ( Myriam Cyr ) travel to Lord Byron's ( Gabriel Byrne ) estate where his biographer ( Timothy Spall ) is staying . They enter into a realm of drug-induced fantasy , where they conjure up their greatest fears . It was a mess , wandering all over the place , but it certainly kept my interest .
I just wanted to see Christa Campbell	Sometimes we watch movies for the strangest reasons ; at least I do . I tuned into this movie about a bunch of aging mobsters for one reason - and it wasn't to see Richard Dreyfuss , Burt Reynolds , Dan Hedaya , or Seymour Cassel , who played some aging mobsters trying to stop the development of their South Beach hotel . I do have to say that the mob needs a retirement plan , as it is pitiful seeing old wise guys flipping burgers or dancing with old widows for $3 . 50 an hour . The mobsters came up against the Columbian mob led by Miguel Sandoval when they accidentally whacked his father . They didn't really , but that part of the humor in this film . It was nice to see Jennifer Tilly and Carrie Ann Moss , and Jeremy Piven as a sleazy mob-connected detective that was always trying to hit on Moss , but they are not the reason I tuned in either . This story has been done before in different ways with different characters . There was noting especially funny about this version or the actors involved . So , why did I watch it ? I wanted to see Christa Campbell , who was on the screen for maybe five seconds . I could have waited for next month's Playboy , or October's Scars , or the release of Death by Engagement , but I just couldn't wait . It wasn't worth the five seconds .
What ? A prison movie with no shower scene !	I first saw Cynda Williams in One False Move and i was hooked . She is a raving beauty and can act too . Naturally , I grabbed this DVD as soon as I could . Unfortunately , like Greed , it didn't live up to the potential . The main problem was the lack of real support for Williams . James Russo ( you might remember him as Mikey Tandino in Beverly Hills Cop ) hasn't really gotten any better in a lead role . he just didn't display any real emotion in this movie . Yeah , he looked energetic enough when he was getting it on with Williams , but she can inspire the best in all of us . Outside of that , he was just a drunken prison guard who liked to beat on people . I am sure there are thousands of those available for casting . The back story for Williams was also weak . It was there , but it just wasn't fleshed out enough . And , the ending . Oh , the ending is a mess . Who in the world could believe that a prison guard with a drinking problem would have enough money to flee to Mexico ? What was he going to live off ? His looks ? I'm not buying it . Watch it for Cynda Williams because there is nothing else here .
Drive that stake between those heaving bosoms !	One would imagine that this film came out of those pocket books so popular with the ladies . It is a Gothic romance from start to finish with sumptuous sets , heaving bosoms and formal attire . Graziella Granata is absolutely gorgeous even in black and white , and she falls into the vampire's ( Dieter Eppler ) trap immediately . Here husband ( Walter Brandi ) is absolutely clueless at what is happening right under his nose . Don't worry , the fearless doctor knows what he is dealing with and chases the vampire and his minions to extinction - or , based on current HBO programming - to Louisiana .
Perfect for the raincoat crowd	I think this will be it for the exploration to see what played in Times Square grindhouse in the sixties . This is perfect grindhouse fare . The drug-induced orgies that are part and parcel of the photographers and models who seek pleasure in whatever form . It's all her for those who enjoy boobies and asses and fruit fetishism ( Oh ! what that girl did with a banana ! ) and a little S & M thrown in for the folks that get off on that . All comes to a crashing end as one model turns on two others with a meat cleaver . Did she pick that up at the store on the way or does she carry it around in her purse ? No dialog , except for the narrator ; this was just pure bodies in motion for your enjoyment .
" Unrated " my ass !	There is nothing like an old prison to add to the creepiness of a horror film , especially if there is some old murders that are at the root of the horror . Looking at this from just a detective thriller , it is very interesting as Michael Paré looks into a couple of suicides related to the prison . He hooks up with the prison psychiatrist ( Jenny McShane ) to investigate . Lots of creepiness and excitement for those that like Ring-type horror . Always love a chance to see Danny Trejo . They had to add that irritating rap during the credits ! Biggest disappointment : Just who in the world runs out of a shower screaming at the sight of the ghost and takes the time to put on a bathrobe ? You have to be kidding me !
Stop him ! He's a vampire !	I am not familiar with the Hammer Draculas , but this was a fairly watchable film , even if it had little action . It begins with a cultish ritual with a naked girl . The assemble men seemed to be licking their lips over her body more that they were focusing on their rituals . A British agent escapes with the secrets and revels them just before he dies . The secret Service wants no part of this investigation once they find out who is involved . They farm it out to Scotland yard and Inspector Murray ( Michael Coles ) , who enlists the help of Professor Lorrimer Van Helsing ( Peter Cushing ) , who once again enters the battle against the Prince of Darkness himself ( Christopher Lee ) Cushing and Lee have about 35 joint appearances , so I imagine this will not be the last fight . Add some mad scientist development of the plague and you have the makings of an interesting story that really didn't live up to it's potential .
You're going to ruin Christmas forever .	Once upon a time there were three little girls who went to the police academy - two in Los Angeles , the other in San Francisco - and they were each assigned very hazardous duties . But one married a geologist and his company was dynamiting near North Pole City . Now she works for me . My name is Santa . A new assignment for the former member of " Charlies Angels . " Jaclyn Smith has to save Christmas from the greedy oilman , Mason Adams , from " Lou Grant . " Her husband played by Paul Le Mat ( American graffiti , Melvin and Howard ) doesn't believe she met Santa . He doesn't really care about anything but bringing in that oil for his boss . Art Carney ( Harry and Tonto , " The Honeymooners " ) is Santa , who really doesn't do much other than moan about the dynamiting that will destroy North Pole City . In fact , no one does much in this film , and no one really save Christmas . It just so happens that they discovered oil seconds before they were going to destroy Santa's home . But , what the heck , we don't watch these films for great acting . They are just for fun and to get into the spirit .
B-Movie Argento , but highly watchable .	One of the the great things about giallo is the blood and nudity . The serial killer takes the time to undress his victim before tossing her in the water , so we get to see everything . A little Saw and a little " CSI " / " Criminal Minds " ; this film features a new gimmick . We'll play cards for the life of a girl . As the game progresses , the killer ups the ante by capturing the Police Commissioner's daughter and forcing the police to play for her life . As the police close in on the Card Player , he manages to get Anna Mari in his clutches and forces her to play a game for her life . It was something of a silly ending .
Being a cop gave me a chance to make a difference .	Another story about a cop ( Bo Dietl ) that tries to do his job while still hanging on to his friends from the neighborhood . The fact that they are all mobsters gives the FBI an opportunity to blackmail him into working for them . He refuses and almost loses his badge . Stephen Baldwin ( The Usual Suspects ) play Dietl , trying to stay clear of the slime played by Amy Irving and Victor Slezak . Why she would take that role is beyond me . It stunk ! Of course , we have to have a hot babe , and who better to play that role that Gina Gershon ( Bound , Love Matters , Sweet Revenge ) . It was interesting seeing Captain Jim Brass ( Paul Guilfoyle ) playing a gangster role . Based on a true character , it was OK , but you can probably find something better to watch .
Something seems to be missing	You never know what you'll find when the dogs wake you at 3am . This interesting film-noir thriller was not as good as it could have been . I like Michael T . Weiss as Jarod in " The Pretender . " Of course , I liked Andrea Parker more . He tended to overact in this film and his haircut was atrocious . Normally , I wouldn't comment on something like that , but it was a definite distraction Peter Coyote played his partner who went to jail for murdering his wife and her lover . I always like Coyote and he was the best thing about this movie . Maureen Flannigan ( A Day Without a Mexican ) as the hot daughter with a secret , added immensely to the action . It was Flannigan's character that should have been built up more . We were not provided enough motivation and it left gaping holes in the story . It was OK for 3am .
Sleep in the car !	You are lost on a lonely Italian road . A storm is coming up . There is no motel around . You spot a castle . Stay away , you dolt ! Sleep in the car . Do not enter the creepy castle . Alas , our group does not heed the warning and end up in a castle . The owner , Count Gabor Kernassy ( Walter Brandi ) , tries to shoo them away , but there seems to be a connection with one named Vera ( Lila Rocco ) . She even knows where the smokes are kept , even though she has never been there . Despite warnings , one of the girls ( Maria Giovannini ) goes wandering and surprise , she's found dead the next day . I guess the story would have ended too soon if they all obeyed the Count . There was not a lot of blood in this early Italian classic , and there was only a brief flash of nudity . The girls did , however , do a lot of running around in their see-through nighties . I always though castles were cold and damp . I guess this one had central heat . For true vampire aficionados only .
Christmas with the family , eww !	Oh , Santa , you are just so out of date . I mean that suit is so last century , and a beard , Eww ! You just have to quit stuffing those cookies and milk in your stomach . Brooke Nevin ( I'll Always Know What You Did Last Summer ) is a superficial teen who wants to go skiing on Christmas and makes a deal with Santa . She'll make him over and help him deliver presents , and he'll help her with her problem . She makes Santa over into George Hamilton and they work on each other until the predictable ending . The only thing that was really bad about this movie was the mall security guard . He was a real nut case . Who knew that Mrs Claus was so hot . Donna Mills from " Knots Landing " played Santa's missus .
For the Audie England fans	Long before day After Tomorrow , there was ice in Los Angeles and the rest of the world . A group of intrepid Angelinos , including Audie England ( Julie ) , made the trek to find a ship hoping to escape the cold . Little did they know that the evil Dr . Kistler ( Udo Kier ) lied and the ship was only coming for him . Life does have a way of balancing things , and , with Julie's ex ( Grant Show ) leading the group , they manage to reach the pick-up point . Will a ship arrive ? Will Audie be saved from freezing ? You have to tune in to find out .
Not much lesbian and very little vampire	I am attracted to vampire movies . They are my favorite type of horror . Adding lesbian to the title is a sure attraction , but there was very little of either lesbian action or vampirism in this Franco film . Now , Jesus Franco may not be familiar to everyone . Possibly because he had over 50 aliases . He directed over 180 films , wrote just about the same amount , acted in almost 100 , and composed and edited many . You would think someone so prolific would be better known . With all that work , he only won one award , and that was for a short . This is considered by aficionados to be one of his more famous works . It is pure B sexploitation and of interest only to those who want to watch every vampire film , or every lesbian film , or every Euro trash film ; in other words , a completion fanatic . Sure , Ewa Strömberg , Soledad Miranda , and Heidrun Kussin were worth looking at . Miranda is considered the Queen of the European Vampire Flicks , and displays full frontal in just about all her films . Her untimely death before the release of her most famous films certainly adds to the legend .
You're obviously mistaking me for someone with potential .	Is this what a college education in America has become ? 20 years old and college educated and heading to Harvard law , and no one shows her any respect ? No one values her or her opinions ? She is left to the lecherous machinations of someone old enough to be her father ? Sarah Polley ( Dawn of the Dead ) is cute . of course some older man is going to hit on her and maybe fulfill his life's dream . heck , I was leaching after her the entire movie . Stephen Rea swings , hits and scores ! He shows her respect for her opinion . Pulease ! She is a college graduate . How did she get through ? I was really disappointed in this film . I thought it had potential and evidently someone else thought it did too , or they wouldn't have given it all those awards .
All muddled up	I couldn't quite bring myself to give this film a " watch " recommendation . It fell just short , in my opinion , of a good film . Oh , it had promise . There could have been a lot more done to make this film interesting . As it was , it seemed to always be missing something . Now , I understand Jane Eyre fans know all about Edward Rochester ( Nathaniel Parker ) and the " mad women who lives in the attic " ( Karina Lombard as Antoinette Cosway ) . But , not having read the books , I have to rely on the movie to tell the story . In that it fails . There are just too many unanswered questions and the ending was most unsatisfying . Maybe I could go read Jane Eye and come back , but I doubt I will .
You'd let both of us die just to keep your secret ?	This time the Razzie's got it wrong . This movie was no where near as bad as made out to be and was , in fact , a fascinating movie . Let's get the major complaint out of the way first , as I happen to agree with it . If you are going to take a role that calls for you to be a stripper , then you damn well better be willing to strip . The fact that Lohan wasn't really detracted from the film . There that's it . She was the wrong choice for the role . But , she really did a credible job playing Dakota Moss and being Aubrey was just a natural for her . I really enjoyed her performance and could totally see her as this girl with a terrible childhood . The movie was also well written as a neo-noirish mystery that had some clues , but also did not make sense . How could she be the same person ? How could she not be Aubrey ? When the secret is revealed , it should come as a surprise . It did for me . This film was enjoyable , and if Lohan ever decides to play a role for real , then she may gain some credibility .
I'm above all their laws !	I really don't know if this was supposed to be horror or sci-fi . In fact , I really don't know why I got it . There had to be some reason , but I forgot . Maybe I thought it was the nunsploitation angle as Karin Kernke is referred to as " Sister " Sanders . I have really forgotten . It came out three years before the cult favorite The Brain That Wouldn't Die , and it certainly featured much better acting , but it just didn't have anything to recommend it beyond that . Much of the action takes place in a strip club , but you don't get to see anything . You really can't compare the two bodies of the girls involved , even though Kernke in her first film was obviously larger in the chest than German sex symbol Christiane Maybach . Horst Frank , who has done some 150 films , including Argento's The Cat o ' Nine Tails , really did a good and very creepy job as the mad doctor . There was a certain sensuality in the film , but it basically got lost in the constant fades that made it seem as if it was made for TV with spaces for commercials . Those who have seen The Brain That Wouldn't Die may want to check it out for comparison .
You're just a sht-stain on the panties of life .	Taking time out from the John Wayne Marathon for a public service . In anticipation of our favorite heiress going to jail next month , I wanted something that she might watch to give her an idea of what to expect , I found this movie with some bizarre characters like Wendy Williams , lead singer for the infamous 80s punk rock band , ' The Plasmatics , ' who committed suicide a few years ago . She was absolutely beyond belief as she paraded the entire movie in leather or panties , and even a thong at the end . Of course there was Sybil Danning , from the Grindhouse segment Werewolf Women of the SS as the bible-spouting Warden , who looked the part of an SS She-Wolf . Pat Ast was the 350-lb matron who burned a bunny , stomped on a kitten and got justice for her evil laugh . There were two shower scenes and one Rambo-type fire hose scene that was way more cool that Rambo : First Blood . Food fights , girl fights , riots , and bra and panties for most of the movie . Our little heiress should get a good taste of prison life with this film .
People like you and me don't need to compensate .	My first impression of this movie was that the casting was brilliant . I must have been right as I see they were nominated for a casting award . Dennis Quaid was a perfect pick for a burnt out , pompous professor , who was self-absorbed to the point of nausea . What Sarah Jessica Parker saw in him was completely beyond me . The fact that she would even speak to him after their " date " was incredible . Thomas Haden Church was brilliant as a loser brother reminiscent of The Dude - get him a bathrobe . Now , Miss Page , while channeling Michael J . Fox in a Growing Pains performance , was a disappointment . No , not her performance , but having Juno with a picture of Ronald Reagan on her wall was just too much to stomach . Ultimately , the great casting couldn't make up for an over-worn story that left me as cold as a Bush farewell address .
Things are certainly not as they appear .	From the cover of Playboy magazine to the bowels of hell as Nurse Charlotte Beale ( Rosie Holotik ) takes a job in a private insane asylum in backwater Texas . The doctor in charge had some strange ideas . He thought that he could help patients take out their aggression on a log with an ax . Too bad he turned his back . This film is more commonly known as Don't Look in the Basement , and was one of the video nasties banned in Britain , but released uncut in 2005 . The gore in the film is tame by today's standards . Bill McGhee , as Sam , the lobotomized patient who just wants someone to float his boat , does an incredibly good job .
The Idiot's Guide to Serial Killing	" I don't trust anybody who doesn't smoke . " Is that the first requirement for becoming a serial killer ? If so , I am on my way . Truly , watching Ariauna Albright learn from Butch ( James L . Edwards ) was very interesting , and a bit funny . When they went into action as a priest and nun , I almost lost it . How funny ! When Ariauna turned the tables on the psycho chemist , it was poetry . But , the best comes at the end . It's to die for ! Quality ? Sorry . the story and the lines , are much better than the acting , but it was still interesting enough . Now , you've seen it , what do you want , a serial killer diploma ?
Dishonorable	Rome ( Robert Patrick ) : Morgan , see if you can go find the generator . Morgan ( Anthony Ray Parker ) : Why me ? Rome : Why not ? Morgan : What if there's some guy up there with a hockey mask and a hatchet ? Or . . . or a group of country ass crackers cravin ' some man-love ? Rome : It'll be fun , like summer camp . I was watching this and I wondered what it would be like if the WWE made a movie using their wrestlers . hey ! This is a WWE movie using a wrestler , and it makes about as much sense as watching Monday Night RAW on TV . John Cena , who wrestled Britney's ex KFed this year , is an ex-Marine who can't hold a job and goes on a rampage when his wife ( Kelly Carlson ) gets kidnapped . Ho hum . The fireworks were spectacular , but that was all that captured my interest . I clipped my toenails so as to not complete waste my time while I watched this .
Visually stunning and a bit unusual	I was tempted to give this only four stars , but I added a fifth because it was an unusual presentation . The photography and visual effects are great and Brad Turner , who seems to have done a lot of Sci-Fi TV and Species III , did a good job directing , even if we didn't always know where it was going . But , maybe that was Douglas Bowie's story , which was certainly an unusual approach to a Santa story . There was a lot of religious symbolism evident in the film . The whole idea of Santa being a " regular Joe " and Santa at the same time is reflective of the divinity of Jesus , a man / god thing . There was also a lot of redemption in the story . This was all framed with Christmas music that was more religious than secular . Not only is the basic story unusual , but the idea of an Africa-American Santa ( Arnold Pinnock ) , who falls in love with an angel ( the lovely Deanna Milligan ) is also different . Dabney Coleman was around to provide comic relief . Miligan made this a pleasant experience even if it was so unusual that I could not completely enjoy it . Maybe they were afraid to push too hard with the elements that were taken from The Santa Clause .
Name's Buck and I'm rarin ' to fck .	This video nastie is not Robert Englund's first film , but it is close . He is a young buck , named Buck , that jumps on anything he can . It is director Tobe Hooper's third film , done right after Texas Chainsaw Massacre . He gives us something weird , yet compelling . It was initially banned in Britain , where it went under the name Death Trap ( there are a lot of other names ) . It was released there in 2000 with no cuts . I imagine they initially objected to the death of Snoopy . It was painful for me to watch also , Funny how you can watch a crocodile / alligator chomp down on a human , but to see a cute little dog in it's jaws can be disturbing . Neville Brand was Judd , the owner of the Starlight Motel . I really never could figure out his problem . He just went around babbling all the time , making absolutely no sense , and throwing people to the croc . Oscar-nominee Stuart Whitman was the sheriff ; and William Finley , who we will see again in Hooper's Funhouse , was a strange man that was given to delusions and barking . Fortunately , all those who gave us a view of their chest treasures managed to avoid the croc . Too bad for Snoopy , but I was thankful for that .
Not my cup of tea	The title is a bit wrong . It should have simply been The Loss Of innocence , as there was not always something sexual involved . It was a strange movie - an art film with absolutely beautiful music and charming scenery - but , it would definitely not be for everybody . I am really not a fan of non-liner stories . This one showed the director ( Julian Sands ) as age 6 , 16 , and currently . It jumped back and forth and had some really strange camera work at certain points that was very distracting . There was a lot of symbolism to interpret . I am sure that not everyone could understand the loss of innocence as two twins ( the gorgeous Saffron Burrows ) gaze upon each other for the first time . In the middle of the three stories was an unrelated story of Adam and Eve ( Hanne Klintoe fully naked in her only film appearance ) . Watching them romp through the Garden of Eden until they ate the forbidden fruit ( at least it was figs instead of an apple ) and discover sex was a welcome distraction . It was funny as they innocently explored each other's bodies . I tuned in to see Kelly Macdonald ( Trainspotting ) . I was satisfied with that , but not with the movie overall .
Attack of the ( put monster name here ) .	Mansquito , Mega Snake , Ice Spiders , and now a big squid just waiting to be turned into delicious calamari . Tibor Takács has a lot of experience giving us the latest dangerous creature , and he doesn't do anything different here . Not only do we have a giant sea creature , but it comes with an interesting story about Greek mythology and a Snidely Whiplash character ( Jack Scalia ) that plans to steal the treasure and kill everyone . You already know how he ends up . I was most interested in having some long-held beliefs dispelled in this movie . I was always under the impression that large breasts and IQ were inversely proportional , especially if the large breasts came with blonde hair . I was wrong . We see here two large-breasted blonde's doing scientific research with sophisticated equipment . Only one of them - the student intern ( Kristi Angus ) - spends a lot of her time attached to the closest hunk ( Cory Monteith ) . The scientist , Victoria Pratt from " Mutant X " , is interested in proving her theory , so the interested hunk ( Charlie O'Connell - Cruel Intentions ) will just have to wait until the mission is over . I only tuned into this to see Christa Campbell , who managed to get eaten without saying a line .
The rent was due	This was really a disappointment after watching The Magnificent Seven . I know sequels are usually disappointing , but this one had nothing going for it compared to the original . The only character returning was Yul Brenner . he looked as if he was going through the motions to collect a check to pay the rent . The outstanding cast that made The Magnificent Seven what it was was not equaled in any measure by the replacements . Even the addition of Steve McQueen couldn't have saved this film . And the bad guy ? Give me a break ! Eli Wallach was a consummate outlaw and I don't even know the name of the baddie in this film - he is so forgettable . This film should not have been made . It shames the memory of The Magnificent Seven .
Oh my God , it's a necrophiliac's wet dream !	With Dennis Miller , you can expect that this will not be the usual Vampire movie . He makes constant references to movies , TV stars , and other personalities throughout . It is hard to believe that he didn't get writing credit as i imagine many of the lines were his . That's just a guess . Dennis certainly has his eyes on Erika Eleniak ( Under Siege ) throughout , as do we . She can't hide behind that uptight Christian persona , and she gets to come out of her shell and deliver what all of us that despise Deniss Miller wanted to see . It also features Angie Everhart ( First to Die ) as the head vampire . The first fire-top on Glamour magazine , Angie didn't give us the display she had in Jade , but she was hot hot hot throughout . Unfortunately , she was really hot towards the end . Lots of gore and sexual innuendo . Despite his best efforts , Miller did not completely ruin the film .
If you want a guarantee , buy a toaster .	You've seen it all before . There just aren't any new ways to tell the story of the veteran cop and the rookie . Even Clint Eastwood has done it before as Harry Callahan . So , if you like Clint Eastwood ( starred and directed ) and Charlie Shhen , then maybe this is worth your time . I tuned in for a chance to see Raul Julia and Sonia Braga . This is at least the fourth film they have done together , and they are all worth watching . It isn't Moon Over Parador or Kiss of the Spider Woman or The Burning Season , all of which got Braga and Julia Golden Globe nominations , and one actual win for Julia , but they are so good together , I just can't miss the chance to see them . So , I'll watch another veteran-rookie film where I know the ending before it even gets started . I'm just a sucker that way .
It ain't no M . A . S . H !	This is an interesting military comedy about a G . I . ( Jason Biggs ) who is misassigned to Greenland instead of Hawaii . What is even worse , it that he is supposed to be a Public Information Officer , and the CO ( Jeremy Northam ) wants a newspaper . Being that I have been on remote bases ( Hofn Iceland ) and have also produced a base newspaper as an extra duty , it was of interest to me . The cinematography was outstanding , although it was actually Iceland in the film , not Greenland . Biggs ( American Pie ) , Northam ( Gosford Park , Happy Texas ) , and Natascha McElhone ( Solaris , Ronin ) all gave good performance that kept you interested , but not completely satisfied . Biggs certainly enhanced his credibility as an actor in this film . Guy X ? well , that is something for you to discover .
Florida politics on display	I am a big Carl Hiaasen fan and , while this may not be his best work , it certainly exposes the flaws in Florida politics for all the world to see . While certain environmentalists are celebrating Governor Charlie's transfer of $1 . 7 billion to Big Sugar , you can see in this film , even in a comical way , how they have out congressmen in the bag . Demi has come up against DCF and has to do anything to get her children back . Unfortunately , she has come into the clutches of Congressman Burt and his evil henchmen . I really didn't think her performance was all that terrible , and I certainly appreciated the new work she had on display in a very skintastic moment , just as I appreciated seeing the lovely Pandora Peaks , Rina Riffel ( Candyman 3 ) , another skintastic performance by Dina Spybey , and that snakey performance of Barbara Alyn Woods . Let's hear it for all the fine performance that took our attention away from , well , I guess there wasn't much else . Ving Rhames was good as usual , and I did enjoy Armand Assante . But , that aside , it was the performance on stage that really stand out .
What's that , Russian for " jerking off " ?	Two Walter Hill films in one day . How lucky can you get ? This one wasn't any better than the first one ( Streets of Fire ) . At least that one had good music . This one was just a reprise of Hill's 48 hours , except it is a Russian ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) and a Chicgo cop ( James Belushi ) . It had the requisite bureaucratic police commander ( Peter Boyle ) , and the lieutenant who wants Belushi's butt ( Laurence Fishburne ) . Formulaic all the way . More talk than action and a total waste of Gina Gershon . Hill has done some good stuff ( 48 Hours , The Long Riders ) . This wasn't one of themOh , well , it pasted the time while I ate .
I could tell you . But then I'd have to kill you .	I just didn't get it . I have no idea why Greg McLean was so celebrated as a writer and director on this Austrailian film . I can see when Quenton Tarantino thinks John Jarratt is one of the finest stars out of Austrailia , as he did a great job in his role , but that is all there was to the movie . Face it , the bulk of this movie was three people driving on the wrong side of the road . Big whoop ! When it finally got to the action , it was a real let down . There was very little gore - mostly shooting . And , don't steal great lines that belong to someone else : " That's not a knife . ' That's ' a knife , " belongs to Nick Dundee . Cheesy . Not worth the time .
Middlin ' basketball picture	OK , so it is not the best basketball pic I have seen . That honor goes to Hoosiers . I can watch Gene Hackman over and over in that film and never get tired . But , having said that , it is not a bad film either . Rhea Perlman , whom I haven't seen since what , Officer Honey in that Canadian Bacon flick , really didn't ad much to the film . She knows nothing about basketball and just took the job as a stepping stone to another losing career . The real star of the film is Fredro Starr , who gets the team together . The team is talented so the coach Doesn't have to do much more that get them playing as a team . She is more social worker than coach and it all comes together as the team starts winning . It also stars Terrance Howard , who went on to do some great work after this ( Best Man , Hustle and Flow , Ray , Crach ) . Not a great film , but not a complete waste of time .
Culture Clash	A couple of baseball flicks on tonight . This was the first and , while it is no great picture , it was worth watching . Tom Selleck plays the predictable Ugly American that thinks he knows it all . He can't accept that , if he really knew it all , he wouldn't have been sent to Japan . Dennis Haybert from 24 , The Unit , Jarhead , and Breach tries to help him realize that he needs to get with the program . But , it is the manager's daughter that turns him around and , guess what , he starts to be a team player . Yes , I know that that was so predictable , but is still worth your time . It's no " Natural , " but it's OK .
Straight to video sequel	I should have known . Sequels are rarely as good as the original . This one is no exception . As a Texan-in-exile , I would be interested in it purely as a travelogue , except that it was filmed in Canada . You can tell that as they add " eh " to the end of Yee Haw ! Just kidding . C . Thomas Howell is back all grown up as Jim Halsey . He is traveling back to Texas to see his old friend Capt . Esteridge . He is on the same road with Kari Wuhrer , who is just a totally hot 40-year-old that I want to see more of . She is in Stephen King's Thinner next Sunday , so I will be tuned in . Gary Busey's son , Jake , is the bad guy . Howell is killed off rather quickly and it becomes a duel with Busey and Wuhrer . The usual cop-killing and lots of noise . No plot whatsoever . I would not hesitate to say " skip it , " were it not mean of me to deprive you of an opportunity to see Wuhrer .
Their available food on ze island is nearing depletion !	Killer shrews ! mad Scientists ! Lover's quarrels ! All this and more ! I just knew that I have seen James Best somewhere before . He has been in 177 films and TV shows , but Istill didn't remember because I have only watched " The Dukes of Hazzard " once or twice . he's Sheriff Rosco P . Coltrane ! You just can't hide that face . Here he is a simple boat Captain delivering supplies to an island with crazy scientists doing genetic experiments . They created some killer shrews that looked just ghastly . The teeth were four or five inches long ! Worse than that , they used some poison that didn't kill them , but will certainly kill you with just a scratch . A horrid night with the shrews attacking and the Captain trying to save sultry blonde Ingrid Goude , not only from the shrews , but from Ken Curtis ( Festus Haggen from " Gunsmoke " ) who wanted her for his own . Innovative escape and lots of rabid shrew action .
Look at that guy . . . he probably gets more ass than a toilet seat	I seem to be on a slasher kick today . This one is about a clown named Bobo that targets phone-sex girls . Karen Black , Oscar nominee and Golden Globe winner for Five Easy Pieces , Golden Globe winner for The Great Gatsby , and Golden Globe nominee for The Day of the Locust ; along with Geoffrey Lewis , Golden Globe nominee for " Flo " are featured , along with Divine in his / her last film . At least this one had some interesting points of interest , especially Lynn Danielson-Rosenthal as Kristi Larson ( no relation ) . Nice ending .
A tribute to a popinjay !	If this was supposed to be an epic war movie , it failed miserably . I was really hoping to see the defeat of the rebels in Sudan , much as one would hope for the defeat of the Janjaweed and the rescue of Darfur . I was sorely disappointed . The photography was magnificent , the music excellent , and the battles that were fought were impressive , but you are talking about 10 % of the time spent on this film . The rest of the time was Charleton Heston just talking . he had nothing to back up his talk and was relying on rescue from the British Army . What a few hundred soldiers were going to defeat a rebel army of 20 , 000 ? Laurence Oliver was unrecognizable in makeup and a beard , but you could see the power of his acting in every word and gesture . he was magnificent . Not worth the time invested .
Why did they make this movie ?	There was nothing special about this movie . Dirty cops and mobsters and murdered prostitutes and crooked politicians have all be in many movies and at the same time . There just wasn't any reason for this movie to be made , especially considering that it was made so badly . Austin Pendleton ( A Beautiful Mind , The Notorious Bettie Page ) was just about the most evil mobster I have ever seen . There just wasn't a good bone in his body . He seriously seemed to enjoy being evil . I have to admit he was fun to watch , but it still didn't make the movie worthwhile . Georgian actress Nutsa Kukhianidze was also good and I fully intend to look for more of her films ( The Good Thief , A Trip to Karabakh ) . Tip for filmmakers : If your film is going to be crap and you are going to get an R rating , make it truly worth an R .
I must have missed something	I was anxiously awaiting the chance to see this movie . I had only seen Viggo Mortensen in Hildago and A Hostory of Violence . I can't wait for Alatriste to come out on DVD as it will probably never play in my theater as I am a huge Perez-Reverte fan . I was really disappointed . I know this is early stuff , but it just did't seem to have much point . Infiltrating the mob to catch them is old , and the Japanese-Italian angle is interesting , but this just had a few interesting moments in between a lot of shooting . Mortensen did not get much good dialog . The only really good part of the movie was the culture clash . Maybe a second viewing will make a difference , but I doubt it .
It is a bus that has come from hell .	The Golden Age of sexploitation in the late sixties gives us another feature from Something Weird . This one is towards the end of the era and it shows . There is actually a story here and much more action that would satisfy viewers . The production values are still really poor , but there is enough to keep your interest . It concerns a group of hooligans - four males and a female - that break into a house and rape a housewife after giving her heroin . A saleslady comes to the door and they giver her a sugar cube , presumably with acid , and rape her too . They then steal a bus , kill the driver , and pick up two more women . Lots of action ensues , including rape and a really hot lesbian scene at the end . This is definitely a film that earns the genre of sexploitation .
I'm not at all sure about this !	I am really not sure what I was watching . There are writers listed for this film , but I saw no evidence of continuity or purpose . There is a movie being made and , at the same time , a documentary about the making of the movie by Salma Hayek . And , of course , all the acting around the movie . Try keeping all that straight . John Malkovich appears in the beginning and leaves after a very strange scene . A prostitute ( Stefania Rocca ) dips her tits in what I presume to be milk while the financier ( George DiCenzo ) for the movie talks on the phone . he then drinks the milk . What is that all about ? The producer ( David Schwimmer ) is barking like a dog to calm down the director ( Rhys Ifans ) . But it gets stranger . Someone shoots Ifans and he falls down into some kind of an awake coma which no one realizes , and they think he is just taking a break ; at the same time two women are having sex ; at the same time the prostitute is meeting a client , but she is really meeting a business partner of the financier , who arranged for his wife to meet with him while he tended to something else ; and at the same time the wife meets the john who she thinks is the client . All of this is going on in four split screens . If that isn't strange enough there is much more in this surreal film . I really didn't see the point of this mess . Sexual intrigue , cannibal vampires , a movie and a documentary all competing for the same screen time . It may work for some , but I'm not one of them .
Feets don't fail me now	Poor John Carradine . He made a fatal mistake in thinking that he could turn his wife into a zombie and that she would obey his every command . Even dead , the wife is always right . Carradine starred as Dr . Max Heinrich von Altermann , a NAZI scientist that was trying to develop an army that would not have to eat and would be impervious to bullets for Hitler's army . He should have stuck to men and not tried to use his wife to prove his success . It proved his undoing . The film also featured the famous Mantan Moreland who , when he wasn't sniffing after the lovely Sybil Lewis , was engaging in the oft criticized stereotypical behavior that he was famous for , including the famous line " feet don't fail me now . "
To know death Otto , you have to fck life . . . in the gall bladder !	It's very hard to recommend this film , but it is also hard to dismiss it as Criterion saw fit to issue it in their collection . Udo Kier ( Halloween 2007 , Grindhouse , All the Queen's Men , and all of Lars von Trier's movies ) is the strangest Baron Frankenstin I have ever seen . He gets a certain glee out of playing with internal organs . He is into incest and necrophilia , and has plans to create a Master race obedient to him - sound familiar . Of course , his plans go awry when he selects the wrong head for his Frankenstein . His sister / wife ( Monique Van Vooren ) is more concerned with the stable-boy ( Joe Dallesandro ) . Funny and strange , Paul Morrissey has written and directed a decidedly different version of Mary Shell's story .
Small Time Movie	I am not a Woody Allen fan . He just seems so neurotic all the time . He wears me out ! I tuned into this because of Hugh Grant . I just can't get enough of him . Too bad there wasn't much of him here to make this venture worth my time . But he did play his usual smooth and funny character . The beginning of this movie was funny , but it went down hill after about 30 minutes . Once they got rich , it just seemed there was nothing left . Tracey Ullman was good , but I just couldn't wait for this thing to end . I am not convinced that a die-hard Woody Allen fan would enjoy it .
Would it be . . . possible . . . to open with a pair of hearts ?	Not the best horror film that you will watch , but it is significant as Robert Englund's director debut . It's a typical story of a nerdy teen ( Stephen Geoffreys ) with a whacked out mother ( Oscar-winner Sandy Dennis looking a lot heavier than I remember her ) , who keeps getting his head shoved in the toilet by the school bullies , and just wants to be cool like his cousin Spike ( Patrick O'Bryan ) . He manages to find a way to reach out to the dark side and get revenge on everyone - well , almost everyone . His goofs in his first attempt to scare his cousin's girl ( former Cowboy's cheerleader Lezlie Deane ) and kills her . If you have a thing about spiders , you may want to fast forward through this part . He perfects his craft as he changes into a satanic beast . The makeup and special effects were really good . The only problem I had was the length of time that it took to get here . The movie was pretty boring up to this point . Maybe Englund will do better as he directs himself later this year . Of course , there is a sequel where Spike returns to battle the evil .
Flesh disappearing , bones that walk , you call it what you want . I call it Sandmother .	Dr . Zack Straker ( Scott Bairstow ) , geek squad adventurer travels to the Nabib Desert on a service call after some mining techs go missing . They find bones stripped of all flesh and , eventually walking bones . This South African horror film is worth watching just for the desert scenery , although I cannot fathom how the beautiful Rachel Shelley ( " The L Word " ) manages to come out of a sandstorm without a mark when she was walking with bare arms . Sorry , guys and gals , but nothing else got bare . Jason Wulfsohn's first feature indicates that he may have a good future in horror . The creature was awesome , and the composition will blow your mind .
Be careful what you wish for . . .	OK , so it wasn't some blockbuster that had a chance at an Oscar , but it did win a couple of awards at film festivals . You won't see brilliant acting or compelling dialog , but it was worth watching just to bring into focus the contributions of Latinos to our daily lives and our economy . You may be feeding on a steady diet of Lou Dobbs ' anti-immigration screed and not realize just how important Latinos are to the United States . Their contribution to out food supply and their presence in every aspect of our lives , not to mention the great Latino actors that we would miss . It was the documentary part of this mocumentary that was satisfying and worthwhile . Check it out on the tube - you won't be disappointed ; and you'll get a few laughs with your information .
It was a regular fck-o-rama at my place last night .	One thing is certain . Carl Weathers did not age one bit from all those Rocky films , and he looked as good as ever in this action film that features a really bad guy that got what was due to him . Craig T . Nelson was evil , evil , evil . Of course , Sharon Stone was hot , hot , hot in a pre Basic Instinct film . I would even guess that she might have had some work done in the intervening four years , but I could be wrong . Maybe I'll have to go back and stare some more . Vanity ( Wasn't she with prince at one time ? ) didn't need any work , and i though she was unfairly criticized for her performance . Her singing was great and she really wasn't that bad an actress . Well , it wasn't a wasted 90 minutes , but look for it on cable .
Hunting and killing babies doesn't seem to be my specialty .	The first of a trilogy by Larry Cohen , and apparently he wants a do-over as this film is currently in post-production , having been remade with a new cast , and probably scarier effects . It's scary enough as Frank and Lenore ( John P . Ryan and Sharon Farrell have a baby that is a little bit abnormal . Frank tries to kill his baby , but has a change of heart at the last minute . This is truly a baby only a parent could love , and they do . I remember Ryan back from Death Wish 4 : The Crackdown , as some wacky drug dealer . he is a little more controlled in this film , and it is a fair watch .
Fk em if they can't take a joke .	I am not a Woody Allen fan . I consider it significant that he has only one Oscar nomination for acting and that was 30 years ago . All of his other many nominations and wins were for writing and directing . If you like Sacha Baron Cohen , then you will like Woody Allen and vice versa . Maybe they should do something together - with nude wrestling , of course . This is not an Allen project . He only acts here . The director is Alfonso Arau ( Like Water for Chocolate ) , and the writer is Bill Wilson in his only project ( maybe this is a ghost name ) . So , if you like Allen's acting , then you may find it interesting . There are a lot of interesting characters in the movie : Sharon Stone as Tex's ( Allen ) adulterous wife , whom he dismembers , and whose hand becomes a religious icon ; Sicilian beauty Maria Grazia Cucinotta as the town whore and the local priest's ( David Schwimmer ) babe ; Elliott Gould , Andy Dick and Fran Drescher as church authorities ; Cheech Marin as the Mayor ; Kiefer Sutherland as a dumb Texas cop that gets a real ride in the end ; and many many more . You get to see such miracles a a 3-foot schlong , la tortilla get humongous chi chis , the blind see , the lame grow new legs , and everybody just acting as crazy as they can . If you enjoy rubbernecking at traffic accidents , you will enjoy this .
Girlie , I take what's warm and close .	Vince Hackett ( Victor French ) : You won't be needing my tender care anymore You're free to go , Jess . Anywhere where the Mexican law or Mexican federales can't find you . Or any place north where the American law or the American cavalry can't run you down . You're a famous man , Jess . Don't ever forget it . Jess Wade ( Elvis ) : I won't . This was the King's last dramatic role . He seemed a bit stiff , but maybe that was the script he had to work with . It's just not right to have an Elvis movie where he doesn't sing . He's not Clint Eastwood , for gosh sakes , so why try to put him in a spaghetti western ? Victor french , whom you may remember from " Highway to Heaven " or " Little House on the Prarie , " did a much better job of acting than Elvis . Maybe the film would have been better if that actually added the Hootchie Kootchie girl , Charo , to the cast .
Hot showers frame a cold story	There are two shower scenes where we are treated to incredible views of my favorite psychologist ( Anne Heche from Prozac Nation ) and the lovely Ione Skye . This was definitely not a CBS Schoolbreak Special with Missy Crider and TV regular Bahni Turpin . Outside of these shower scenes was the cheesiest dialog that I have ever heard . I cannot believe this movie even had a script . I am sure the actresses were told just told use whatever cheesy prison dialog you can think of . It was painful to listen to . They threw in dialog about the Korean War and McCathyism to set the times , but it was just terrible . It would have been a much better production if they had 80 minutes of shower scenes and 3 minutes of dialog , instead of the other way around .
That Felissa Rose can sure scream	It seemed like a stereotypical dysfunctional family , presumably Italian-American , on a trip through the woods in New Jersey . They break down and , like the back roads of Texas , they come upon things they should have left alone . Felissa Rose seemed more like the daughter than the wife , but I'll play along . If Frank ( Salvatore Paul Piro ) can get a wife like that , there is hope for me . Major screams from Felissa Rose , putting her at the head of the class as a Scream Queen . Creepy , bloody , suspenseful fun makes for a good scary pic with some very weird characters .
He's a little irritating , if you know what I mean .	Cute little story with music by Harry Connick Jr . That should be enough for most people to tune in , but there is more . Carol Kane ( Hester Street , " Taxi " ) plays the best friend of Eubie ( Rob Paulsen , who has seven Annie nominations and three wins for his characters ) . One of my favorite comedians ( even though he was in that awful Farce of the Penguins ) Lewis Black also has a major role . Kevin Michael Richardson ( The Matrix Revolutions , " Clerks " ) sings the blues . Mickey Rooney is Santa . There is enough here to make even the adults happy and the story is funny and really in the spirit of the season .
About 3 fries short of a Happy Meal .	I decided to stay in British Columbia and watch another Lock Ness movie . This time the star is a little girl Sarah Wayne , in her only film . She was absolutely adorable , and made the experience pleasant . I wish I could say the same for Mark Harmon , but he just didn't do it . It's another story of a dad who is " forced " to spend some time with his two children ( the other is BC native Joshua Jackson from " Dawson's Creek ' ) and leaves them to find their own entertainment while he writes a book . His daughter discovers the magic in the lake and he becomes infected , causing him to forget the book and do some bonding . They manage to save the creature from the evil toxic waste dumpers with a little help from and old Indian played by Frank ' Grey Wolf ' Salsedo .
You should see yourself right now , a grown man with his hand down his pants .	As slacker movies go , this was disappointing . It just doesn't seem funny to me seeing losers like Jeremy London and Jason Lee whining because they lost their girlfriends . I just can't imagine Claire Forlani with either of these two slackers anyway . Living a life of video games and comic books does not prepare you to be a winner , and the formula that Kevin Smith ( writer and director ) has developed was cute in Clerks , but is old now . Throw in Jay and Silent Bob , the Force , potty humor , and vicious threats from Ben Affleck , and you reach a new low . Well , maybe Jersey Girl was lower . This one just doesn't do it .
Even with a big clue , I didn't see it coming .	Bernadette ( Lesleh Donaldson ) is almost strangled and relieved to see someone she knows . But , it is a short relief as she is slashed with a razor . So opens a classic slasher film . This is Little House on the Prairie's Melissa Sue Anderson's first starring role in a film , and , ignoring Skatetown U . S . A . , her first film outside of TV . Someone upsets Virginia ( Anderson ) and he is dispatched quickly . By whom ? Is it the creepy guy Alfred ( Jack Blum ) that hangs around the Top Ten ? Soon another gets a weight dropped on his balls with disastrous results . Well , at least we know who the murderer is with a little pruning , a tasty shish kabob , and a quick dip , as we saw who did two of them - or did we ? It is certainly a mystery why there are no bodies . The shower scene was very unsatisfying .
A fun romp with the zombies	This film was interesting in a lot of respects . First , I immediately thought of Zombie Lake when I see the zombies going underwater . That shouldn't be surprising as zombies can't breathe anyway . Secondly , the story may have inspired Pirates of the Carrebean , as the premise is that the zombies are the crew of a sunken ship loaded with a million dollars worth of diamonds , and they can't go to eternal rest as long as the diamonds can be taken . This is the story of another expedition to find those diamonds , and , of course , they have to fight the zombies for them . Lastly , I have not seen the stereotypical moll in a zombie movie . 50's beauty and B movie star , Allison Hayes , played the moll and also a zombie in a creepy scene with candles . Not a bad flick to get you in the Halloween spirit .
Interesting cop thriller .	Not one for the awards shows , but still an interesting thriller as Wesley Snipes is a good guy this time and he is after the one who killed an undercover cop . Need a sleaseball ? Just whistle and here comes Dennis Hopper . Hopper as a con man is the most believable character he can play . For a partner , he has the young Viggo Mortensen . There was a lot of support from some beautiful women like Lolita Davidovich and Valerie Perrine and Christine Elise . Just a little eye candy when the film dragged a bit . Fair Snipes vehicle .
No longer children , but not yet women .	This is a curiosity in that it is Catherine Deneuve's film debut . She is the little one that sneaks into the pantry at night pretending to be sleepwalking . I understand that most of her shots were removed from the film when it was sent to America , but this copy has all of them restored . O course , the interest is in the moody and mysterious Catherine ( Marie-Hélène Arnaud ) , who joins the school late in the year . She looks more adult than school child . Sylvie Dorléac plays the part of Adelaide , Sylvie is actually Catherine Deneuve's sister , as La Deneuve was Catherine Dorléac when she appeared in this film . This film has been altered in another way . Georgina Spelvin ( The Devil in Miss Jones ) and , I'm guessing Yvonne Monlaur were added for American audiences . The luscious breasts and bodacious bootys were spliced in and the actresses appear no where else in the film . Their scenes are well lit also . You would think it daylight instead of night .
Thriller with a supernatural twist	Take a decent script and you can cast a bunch of unknown actors and it will still work . It did here except for the ending . Columbia University is having a rash of rape / murders . The killer is looking for innocent looking blonds . Senior Cassidy Clarke ( Tyler Hanes ) is looking out for Freshman Jessica ( James Katharine Flynn ) , his sister . ( Who names their daughter James ? ) . She is being pursued by Michael ( Robert Dionne ) , who aims to relieve her of that virginal innocence . Is he also the murderer ? One thing for sure is that he is a total sleaze . Who takes a girl to the gym to seduce her ? How romantic ! Cassidy has issues of his own . He is struggling with his sexual identity and , after failing with a gorgeous co-ed , realizes that he has to hook up with Victor ( Carlos Alberto Valencia ) . Why ? Well , that would be a spoiler as it relates to the supernatural aspect of the movie . This was certainly an interesting twist . Something I have never seen before . Not the gay sex , but the reason why he had to have sex . Everything comes to a head after that and we are hoping to find the rapist / murderer . However , the writers must have gone to sleep or tried to be cute , as we are left shaking our heads . The ending ruined a very interesting movie , and kept me from rating it as " good . "
For those who like Hitchcock	One of the the things you can do as a new director is to get a great Director of Photography . He can help you avoid mistakes and save your butt . Raoul Ruiz is not a new director , he has over 90 films to his credit , but he is fairly new to the United States . This is supposed to be his " official " debut film . So , he gets Robby Müller to do the cinematography . Great choice , as directors like Wim Wenders ( 13 times , including Paris Texas ) and Jim Jarmunch ( Ghost Dog , Way of the Samauri ) like to use him on their pictures . Unfortunately , the great cinematography and a sexy star , Anne Parillaud ( La Femme Nikita , Innocent Blood ) , can't make up for lousy music and bad " B " movie dialog , even if the story is somewhat interesting . Yes , I hung in there to see what happens , and , no , I am still not sure . It did have Graham Greene ( Die Hard with a Vengeance , The Green Mile ) and that made it more palatable through the bad parts . Don't rent , but you may want to catch it on cable .
Trading off Chow Yun Fat's fame .	At least this wasn't as bad as the Denzel Washington ripoff , License to Kill . Still , it was deceptive advertising as Chow Yun Fat was still a TV star at the time of this movie and had only a very minor part . However , the DVD has him prominently displayed on the cover , just like they did with Washingto . Lots of chop socky as an aging Triad leader ( O Chun-Hung ) tries to rehabilitate himself in retirement and a policeman ( Dick Wei ) is determined to put him away for his past crimes . Director Billy Chan is no John Woo , so don't expect much other than a little fork and hibachi action .
Your 15 minutes are up .	Well , it wasn't a total waste of time . Never before have I seen a movie with over 60 recognized celebrities and as many more that I probably would never recognize . It's like watching an awards show . Pauly Shore , with a splendid resume that includes such Razzie favorites as Encino Man , Jury Duty , and Bio-Dome , decides that he is better off dead . Only then does he get recognition . It is so much easier to say nice things about the dead . There are some laughs hers , and you get to see Pamela Anderson , but that's about it . Shore doesn't do much more in his directorial debut that he does in his films .
No real action here	This episode starts of a la James Bond , as Zero Woman ( Mikiyo Ono ) is swimming , apparently alone , then all hell breaks loose . The diminutive beauty appears to meet her match with a character taken right from the WWE . But , she manages to prevail . As she does with a really dumb hit-man who lets her get all the way across the room to get to her gun . Dude , you really should find another line of work . The big drawback to the film is that the action comes rarely and the time is filled with dreams and flashbacks to others . Do we really need to spend valuable film stock watching someone eat noodles and look out the window ? We get the impression that Zero Woman is a really unhappy agent . But , that is not surprising when a guy she is having sex with gets blown away before he can finish the job , leaving her high and dry . You really felt for the waiter that tried to cheer this babe up . Even he couldn't get a smile out of her ; and he couldn't bring home the bacon , either . I do have to say that I really enjoyed the photography of Hiroshi Takase . The picture was incredibly beautiful .
Village of the 30 Days of Night	You have all probably seen this before . No , you have seen this before . If you have seen Village / Children of the Damned , there is no difference . A few hours vs . 10 years . Same thing . Once the children come out of their coma , then it is more 30 days of Night as they are zombified ( not zombies as they never really died ) and they start killing off everyone . The violence escalates as they learn to anticipate and use weapons . I thought James Van Der Beek did a fairly good job , and I also liked Ivana Milicevic . Tom definitely redeemed himself as everyone could certainly empathize with his actions that sent him to prison .
I knew I was a hopeless fool .	Sometimes a Korean film really grabs me , like Il Mare , which was remade into The Lake House . It was a beautifully romantic film ; just what this wasn't . The dialog throughout was superficial and boring . It never really rose above the level you would expect in a bar or nightclub . Superficial is a good term to describe Director Kim Jung-rae ( Seung-woo Kim ) . he was really self-conscious and a bit misogynist . He was only interesting in bedding whomever he could ; not in anything resembling a relationship . After he had Kim Mun-Suk ( Hyun-jung Go ) he was ready to move on and get rid of her . He immediately started looking for someone that looked like her ( Seon-mi Song ) to bed . It was a big disappointment , and , for a comedy , it wasn't even funny .
Kung Fu Jesus shows some love .	Low budget doesn't have to mean tacky . This is obviously a " B " movie in everything you see , but it has a certain charm . Sometimes , it is a musical , but it certainly isn't Jesus Christ Superstar . Sometimes , it is a Kung Fu movie , but it's nothing like Jet Li . I was hoping that Jesus would get it on with Mary Magnum , looking as hot as Cat-woman in her red latex , and maybe give some credence to The Da Vinci Code , but no luck . Jesus was too busy stopping the harvest of lesbians by the evil vampires . Of course , he was pathetic until he enlisted the help of Nacho Libre , well , really Santo Enmascarado de Plata . But , even then things got a little tight before it was all over . Irreverent dialog makes for one crazy movie .
Waste of time	I don't know why I gave up the only show I enjoy on TV to watch this . It was Van Damme , and it was his directoral debut . I was just curious . Well , you know what they say about curiosity . They seemed to spend an interminable amount of time getting to the action in this remake of Bloodsport . When they got there , it did not seem as if Van Damme thought we were there to see some fighting . The matches were almost an afterthought . Was this in deference to Roger Moore ? Were they trying to make his role seem more important than it was ? James Remar and Janet Gunn - boring ! Everything about this movie just said payday .
My face ! Look what you did to my beautiful face !	AKA The Horrible House on the Hill , a five children survive a rollover in the snow-capped mountains of San Bernardino . They were on the way to a mental hospital , so you can imagine what comes next . One of the children thinks she is a nun , complete with habit . One of the children is teen pop idol Leif Garrett , whose mommy , Carolyn Stellar , shows off her lovelies very early in the movie . We'll see those lovelies again later when Sister Hannah tries to baptize her . Getting rid of the man who was taking them to the asylum in a long attack in the basement , they proceed to terrorize the rest of the house . Not very bloody , but good use of piranhas , and watching Sister Hannah give the last rites was a religious experience .
Madman Marz . He's real .	Reportedly a slasher classic , I am appreciative of Fearnet . com for providing this for free . Check it out . The Friday the 13th campfire tale comes to life . Everyone was warned not to go into the woods alone , but one by one they succumb by not heeding the advice . Really , they were looking for Richie ( Jimmy Steele ) , so he is responsible for all their deaths . I can't figure why the Madman only went after the camp counselors , and not the kids . Gaylen Ross , from Dawn of the Dead , is Betsy , who gives us an oh so brief skintastic moment getting into the hot tub with TP ( Tony Fish ) . Stacy ( Harriet Bass ) always seemed to be lucky , just missing Madman . But even her luck runs out . Like Dave ( Seth Jones ) , she ends up losing her head . Ellie ( Jan Claire ) provided more screams than one could stand . And , that darn Richie survives it all .
Oh God , please let her die soon . Oh , let her die soon . And let me die soon too , please .	There is the 85 or 86 minute version shown in South Korea and the UK . Then there is the full 93 minutes that caused this video nasty to be banned in Britain . It was re-released after those cuts in 2000 . Giovanni Lombardo Radice , who started his film career with Cannibal Apocalypse , and went on to the 2006 version of The Omen , after Gangs of New York , leads this jungle adventure with some incredibly bad overacting . He does manage to spend considerable time with Zora Kerova , who is in films I am waiting to see : New York Ripper , The True Story of the Nun of Monza , and The Grim Reaper . Most of the movie , we are just shown normal animal hunting behavior and some disgusting bug eating . We soon find that Mike ( Radice ) is a coke-snorting sadist , who only cared for himself , and it was he that is the danger in this jungle . But , Paybacks are hell , and things do get ugly at the end .
This is Santa Claus , not Dear Abby .	How can you watch a movie with Thora Birch and not just want to eat her up for being so cute . I am not referring to the lovely Thora in American Beauty , but the really cute one in this film . She just wants Santa to get her parents back together . Her brother Ethan ( Ethan Embry ) doesn't believe in Santa , so he tries to help make his sister's wish come true with the help of the lovely Amy Oberer . Now , I don't know what mom ( Harley Jane Kozak ) sees in Kevin Nealon , when her ex is Jamey Sheridan ( Syriana , " Law & Order : Criminal Intent " ) , so he must have screwed up big time . Anyway , Ethan comes through and all is well . Or , was it Santa ( Leslie Nielsen ) ?
Interesting little flick	It's not going to win any awards , and the acting is not the greatest , but the story is interesting in a Stepford Wives / Wicker man sort of way . TV director / producer Michelle Maxwell MacLaren did a good job of presenting a story by new writer Michael Kingston in his sophomore effort . The actors are not the thing here , but the story , and it has probably been done before , but I found it captivating . If this town voted in this year's primaries , it would be a 100 % vote for Huckabee . It's that kind of town , and you better conform or they have ways of making you do so . The " doctor " has no medical training and doesn't need any as he has perfected the necessary procedure for dissidents . They don't need jails , because they will have your complete cooperation once they are done . Besides voicing concern , wanting to leave is considered a sign of sickness , and will be dealt with . The town's population has remained at 436 for over 100 years . They have elaborate rituals to make sure it stays that way . Like the Roach Motel , once you check in , you can't check out . It is the thinking behind this number that was the really interesting part of the film . I know people like this , and you do too . The existence of Rockwell Falls in America is very believable .
You're like a life support system for a cock !	This is definitely one for the Rose McGowan ( Grindhouse , The Black Dahlia ) fans . She is in various stages of undress throughout the entire movie . She and her boyfriend James Duval ( Donnie Darko ) take a trip and pick up a passenger Johnathon Schaech ( 8MM 2 ) that definitely has a dark side . McGowan alternates between the two of them when Schaech is not blowing someone's head off . The talking head in the platter of chili cheese dogs is a must-see . The film is definitely different . I detected a strong undercurrent of bisexuality throughout , and the ending may be hard for some to take , but this is definitely the most you will ever see of McGowan .
Oh no , Marti . I'm going to kill you during .	OK , I do not recommend this movie unless you have 90 minutes to waste and just want some mindless action in the background while you are doing something else . I like Jean Claude Van Damme , Sylvester Stalone , Steven Seagal , and Wesley Snipes when I want vicarious thrills , loud noise , and furious action . No plots , little dialog to ponder , just action . They all do a good job . Snipes was his usual self , Bruce Payne made a good terrorist , and Elizabeth Hurley was easy on the eyes . ' Nuff said .
Enjoyable Yakuza adventure	Goro Kishitani was a thrill to watch as the main character of this film . He was a totally amoral gangster that was inducted into the Yakuza by saving the godfather's life . In that sense he had no knowledge of the rules of the family and made some mistakes - one fatal . The rest of the film deals with his run from the family and the attempts of his prison brother , a high family member , to protect him . It just keeps getting more bizarre as he manages an escape from prison in a way that I would describe as vile and gross - but it worked ! His treatment of women was the lowest . There are two or three rape scenes . There is certainly a lot of violence , but not gross violence . It was a fascinating story directed by Takashi Miike ( Ichi the Killer , Hostel ) .
I am going to cut your heart out and EAT IT !	OK , so this is not award material - well , except for a Razzie for star Linda Blair - but , it was an entertaining flick for the times . Blair did a credible job as the local tough at school , but she had this protective side when it came to her deaf-mute sister , played in what has to be Linnea Quigley's sweetest role ever . I mean she was cherub sweet , and not just because of her disabilities , but she radiated an angelic aura . That made her violation at the hands of the local toughs just that much more devastating . In a Charles Bronson reprise , Blair goes after the scum who did her sister , and gets her revenge . How she managed to evade arrest when the police finally make an appearance in this movie is a real mystery .
Dark , but not particularly nasty	This was a very dark film , with nefarious happenings as the countryside swept by . I really expected more from one of the infamous video nasties that was banned in Britain . It was released uncut this year . They needn't have bothered as there are only two objectionable scenes in the whole film . They are pretty bad - a rape by a stranger ( Franco Fabrizi ) , and a murder with a knife as a phallus . The scum that performed the night train terror were Flavio Bucci from Suspira , and Gianfranco De Grassi , with help from Macha Méril from Deep Red . Director Aldo Lado set a good mood and I was intrigued with his contrast with what was going on and the celebration at home . It was a holiday movie , after all , as one name is Xmas Massacre . Five-time Oscar nominee Ennio Morricone did the score . Watching this , as good as it was , one cannot but help thinking that there was so much more that could have been done to make this a true video nasty .
A man walks into a talent agent's office . . .	I watched this to hear the joke . No , I've never heard it . George Carlin gave what is probably the original or basic version and I almost left right then . If I had , then I would have missed the variations . I am not saying that any of them were worth listening to , but I guess you have to know . It's like looking at a car wreck . Why ? Just because . The most telling bit was Lewis Black : That's , that's actually , a really great idea to pitch to a network . I can walk into NBC tomorrow and say I have a dysfunctional family idea . So dysfunctional , it defies description . We have guys fcking and sucking , blowing armadillos , diddling like an 11-year old cheerleader . We can bring in people from the past , because we can do that now you know they got those commercials with Humphrey Bogart and all that other bullsht . And bring back fcking major world leaders of the past 60 years , like Hitler . Mussolini . Genghis Kahn , for god sakes . I just thought of that and that's unbelievable . This is not a joke , this would go on TV . And we blow Hitler , then next episode , we bite his dick off , ha ho ! See what happens to Hitler's dick . That'll be turning it on . Phenomenal . With the trash that they have on TV now , it would not be so weird .
Quite an experience to live in fear , isn't it ? That's what it is to be a slave .	There is no disputing the fact that this film was visually stunning . The contrast between the rich and poor , the bright lights and the crumbling buildings , the constant rain and darkness ; all made for a beautiful picture . In addition , the music of Vangelis was more than appropriate for the film . It was a treat to the ear . But , that said , the story itself was a disappointment . There really just didn't seem to be much there that would qualify this film to be considered a classic . I watched as a tribute to Harrison Ford . He had that same edge that he had in Raiders of the Lost Ark , released the year before . He had a maturity that was missing in Star Wars . He was totally believable in this role . But that was it . A minute or two of Joanna Cassidy to titillate , a clownish Darryl Hannah , and a conflicted Rutger Hauer did nothing to make this anything more than a showcase for Ford . It was an enjoyable experience , but still a disappointment .
I don't make social policy .	Any episode of Law & Order is worth watching , but some are way above others . With the exception of Sam Waterson , this is the worst cast of the series : Dennis Farina , Michael Imperioli , and Annie Parisse are all the least of the characters in their respective roles . The case was interesting in that a man tried to commit suicide and 12 people ended up dead instead . His lawyer , capably played by Giancarlo Esposito , tried to indict the social services not provided by the State for his client's condition . It turns out , however , that he was just an alcoholic loser .
I gotta get that bastard !	I tend to be attracted to any movie featuring Sid Haig ( The Devil's Rejects , House of 1000 Corpses ) . Add vampire to the theme and you have me hooked . This isn't a traditional vampire tale , but more a film noir thriller where a group of vampire hunters is seeking the brother of a rich CEO ( William Snow ) . The brother was bitten in Romania . Meanwhile , the vampires themselves are hunting the same brother to prevent the resurrection of " Vlad Bossei " a super-vampire who lived in the 12th century . There film is definitely nonlinear as we jump from today , where Carrie ( Pratt ) is a captive of Pashek ( Haig ) and Fork ( Wes Ramsey ) ; to yesterday , where they are trying to get information out of Stanis ( Ken Foree - Rob Zombie's Halloween , The Devil's Rejects ) ; to last week to get the full story . Victoria Pratt ( " Mutant X " , Kraken : Tentacles of the Deep ) is the leader of the vampire hunters , and does a very good job in this film . I also enjoyed Wes Ramsey's performance . The twist at the end screams sequel .
I was here for Asia	This film will not be to everyone's tastes . It is a tale of corporate intrigue and , frankly , even I was bored at time with the pace . But , I have to remember that I was here for Asia Argento . Yes , she has a body to die for , and she is definitely on my top ten list of babes with guns . She gets caught up in corporate shenanigans between two lovers ( Michael Madsen and Carl Ng ) . One is trying to unload his shares , and the other is trying to make a lot of money . People die , there are some kinky sex scenes , and there is Asia doing an incredibly good job of trying to get through everything and stay alive . You never really know whether she will make it , and you are not sure why she does what she does at the end . Love is stringer than hate ? Maybe . You just have to love that bod !
I actually prefer non smokers	I have to wait until October to see Christa Campbell in Death by Engagement , and have to wait until next year to see her in the sequel to this film . I guess I'll have to be satisfied with her spread in this month's Playboy until then . This movie everything that you would expect in a horror flick . The characters were set up for the kill in funny and ingenious fashion . There were plenty of golden globes flashed throughout the movie . There was a whole lot of inbred creatures singing about the glories of the South , and there was lots of blood and gore . Robert Englund ( Freddy Krueger ) was outstanding as the town Mayor . Lin Shaye as Granny was to die for ! The ending was brilliant ! Director Tim Sullivan did a great job . This movie was so trashy that it was funny and worth watching .
Makes me think about teaching	I have spent the last year working to get my teaching certificate . Watching this movie makes me wonder if I really want to keep going . Teaching in the inner city is a dangerous profession . Yes , I imagine there are a lot of teachers like Dave ( John Heard ) who are just in it for the money . I can understand why someone like Trevor ( Samuel L . Jackson ) can give up on the dream . Watching this film will cause you to question just what the limits are and whether you can deal with them . It was a strong performance by Jackson .
Boys ! Avenge me ! Aveeeeenge me !	This film has so much right-wing propaganda that I felt I was watching the Republican Convention . A group of teens with deer rifle takes on crack combat troops and we are supposed to believe that . I am sure glad that Patrick Swayze grew up in the five years before Road House . He did reunite with fellow cast member Jennifer Grey in Dirty Dancing . She was cute as a button in this movie , but could not save it for me . If you some some red meat propaganda , then you can sure find it here . I have seen the film more than once , and it gets worse as I grow older .
Do you know what it's like to remember everything ?	H . G . Wells story of the time machine is familiar , and this version is not as good as others and maybe better than some . The 1960 version won an Oscar for special effects . The effects here were great also , especially the Morlocks . You have to remember the Morlocks and the Eloi , especially if you saw Gary Sinise in Ransom . he was obsessed with them . This version was directed by H . G . Wells ' great grandson Simon , who also directed The Prince of Egypt and An American Tail : Fievel Goes West , wrote Chicken Run and worked on Shrek 2 . He did a good job . Vox ( Orlando Jones ) was an especially great character and I loved seeing Sienna Guillory ( Eragon , Love Actually ) again , even though she had a very small part . I was enchanted with Samantha Mumba , an Irish-Zambian beauty in her first film . Will be looking for more of her . Good film , but then to me there is no such thing as a bad time travel movie .
The day of reckoning - the day the curse grew stronger in the Red and the Black . Sisters united in blood , together forever .	I haven't seen the first two films in this series , but that is unimportant as this third film takes place 200 years before the first one . I am always drawn to films about werewolves and vampires . The shapeshifters have always intrigued me and the overt sensuality of the films is a plus . I say sensuality , as there is not sexuality in the roles of the two sisters , Ginger ( Katharine Isabelle ) and Brigette ( Emily Perkins ) . They just exude sensuality in their every move and manner of dress . Other than the two stars , and some Native American legend , this is pretty much just the same werewolf film you have ever seen in a different package . I am now ready to watch the first two .
It is your moment to be clean .	There is a great story in there somewhere , I just had difficulty finding it . Lasse Hallström's direction was lacking , in my humble opinion , and the story of the greatest hoax in publishing appeared disjointed . I was drawn to the film for one simple reason , much as I imagine many were drawn to see Richard Gere , to see Julie Delpy . She had an extremely small role as Nina Van Pallandt , but that was still the juiciest part of the film . Richard Gere and Alfred Molina were spectacular in their performances , and that is what makes the film worth watching . Gere as Clifford Irving was extremely fascinating and a perfect choice to play a smooth con man . Molina , as his friend and co-conspirator , was equally fascinating as he look as if he would have a heart attack at any moment . To think that this could have went as far as it did is incredible , and anyone wanting to see a piece of 70s history done by fine actors should give it a go .
Why does everyone who has a penis have to be a dickhead ?	It's Salma Hayak's birthday and i wanted something to watch . I found this unknown romantic comedy that looked interesting . Hayak and Russell Crowe have been together for two and a half years . The only time their relationship works is when they are having sex . The rest of the the time they argue until one leaves . They can't understand why it doesn't work , no matter what they try . That's it . 90 minutes of them breaking up and getting back together to have sex and breaking up and getting back together . It was funny and interesting , and , since Salma was not out of my sight for more than 30 seconds the entire movie , it was satisfying . Not prurient , just satisfying . What was most interesting is the fact that it was directed by Robert Greenwald . I have everything he has directed in the last four years : Iraq for Sale : The War Profiteers ( 2006 ) ; Wal-Mart : The High Cost of Low Price ( 2005 ) ; Outfoxed : Rupert Murdoch's War on Journalism ( 2004 ) ; Uncovered : The War on Iraq ( 2004 ) ; and Uncovered : The Whole Truth About the Iraq War ( 2003 ) . I have even seen films he has produced , but not directed like " The ACLU Freedom Files " . I always thought he did documentaries about things that were wrong with America . I had no idea that he directed movies like " The Burning Bed " or Xanadu . Now I do .
I am , in my own fashion , also a lady of the night .	This movie has as much life as the Countess's zombie housekeeper . Even Rosalba Neri's hot body couldn't get things exciting . But . then the housekeeper ( Rosalba Neri ) bathes the Countess in hot blood , and it gets a little steamier . But , the real deal in this Italian classic is Dracula's ring . With it , the Countess summons young maidens from the village to fulfill her needs . She is a real hero to me in that she doesn't seek power or glory or riches , just young maidens to frolic with before she drinks and bathes in their blood . Bwa ha ha ha . And it's not just a single serving for the Countess , she orders in a five-pack , then does the funky chicken , and , voilà , 10 perfect breasts , extra spicy Italian-style . Yum . Now , she must just avoid the evil Herr Schiller ( Mark Damon ) , who wants to take her hand for his own purposes . They don't make them like this anymore .
Here's a treat for you .	One cannot imagine Troma making a family film , but here it is . Don't pay attention to the image of Toxie in the logo , this is a kid-friendly pic . The main doggie , Lucky , looks just like my Muffins . Of course , we are here to see Roxy , voiced by Debbie Rochon . Lucky took to Roxy right away . It seemed like he was trying to get underneath to see her boobs . Lots of sing alongs for the kiddies . This was a fun pic and you will not get tired of watching - I mean your kids will not get tired of watching . Hey ! It's educational , too .
Anybody check out Pie Man ?	I remember this guy ( Holt McCallany ) . It was from " Mr . Monk and the Three Pies . " He killed his wife and was looking for a shell casing . He surmised it fell into one of three pies . I didn't like his character then , and I am very suspicious of him here , even if he is a cop . A cop is killed and Detective Lennie Briscoe ( Jerry Orbach ) and Detective Rey Curtis ( Benjamin Bratt ) go after the usual suspects . They are not guilty . of course , and suspicions falls on another cop ( Ellen McLaughlin ) . Despite the fact that they are almost through with the trial , Dr . Skoda ( J . K . Simmons ) is not so sure she is guilty . What next ? Find another suspect ? Hey , try the Pie Man . I don't like him anyway . Did he do it ? I'll never tell . Another chance to see Jerry Orbach and Angie Harmon . What more could you ask for ?
Satisfying Chop Socky	If you are looking for pure chop socky , then this film is for you . It doesn't waste a lot of time with meaningless dialog unrelated to fighting . It is basically Chinese " I'm gonna kick your ass , sucka . " I heard the other day that QT is planning a similar type movie in his grindhouse vein with badly dubbed dialog or subtitles . He should watch this film for guidance as it epitomizes the genre . Fei Meng gives a great performance as the son out to avenge his father . He takes two brutal ass-kickings before he gets his stuff together . ( Reminds you of Rocky ) The only problem is that you will be hungry for more an hour later .
You may not think you'll like it , but you will .	I know , another Van Damme picture , but don't write it off too quickly . Despite the fact that it went direct to video , it really is a good movie , and probably the best job of acting that Van Damme has done . It has a great supporting cast , too . Remember Steven Berkoff as Lt . Col . Podovsky in Rambo II ? " I don't know who you are yet , but I will ! " He has the same accent here . He may just be a sergeant now , but he still has that presence . Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje ( Mr Eko from " Lost " , The Mummy Returns , The Bourne Identity ) also adds greatly to the story of those seeking a new life in the Foreign legion . Also great jobs from Nicholas Farrell , and long-time Van Damme film actor , Kamel Krifa . Sure , it's the same story you have heard many times about the Legion , this time being carpet-bombed by the Berbers , but it still is worth your time . And , the music was great , too .
Fascist country . I told you that France was ten years behind the USA . Here it comes - finally we have our George Bush .	A right-wing government is elected in France , and there is rioting in the streets . Soon , they will have their own Gitmo . Four Muslims ( Yaz , Alex , Tom , and Farid ) are on the run with a bag full of stolen money . Farid ( Chems Dahmani ) and Tom ( David Saracino ) find a motel that seems to offer them everything they want . There is something about Goetz ( Samuel Le Bihan ) though . Things only get worse when they meet Karl ( Patrick Ligardes ) . Alex ( Aurélien Wiik ) and Yaz ( Karina Testa ) arrive later to find their friends gone . They are taken to an abandoned mine , where they meet the head of the family Le Von Geisler ( Jean-Pierre Jorris ) , an old Nazi that is trying to create a master race . Procreation is not the only things on their mind , as Farid discovers when he escapes and ends up in their meat locker . A real bunch of wackos , but that shouldn't be surprising . Powerful blood-soaked ending .
Rivers of blood will never bring peace .	Here we go again with The Rock . As Mathayus ? a highly skilled assassin on a quest for vengeance against evil tyrant Memnon ( Steven Brand ) ? he sort of looks like he does in the ring . But he whips ass with flair and exhibits a mercury-quick wit . A few love scenes , but mostly smack downs . The Rock has proved his ability to do a fairly good job . Witness his performance in The Rundown . And , this is campy fun . The Scorpion King is aimed at anybody who likes their adventure uncomplicated and their battles by the barrel-load . And , there is Kelly Hu ( X-2 , Cradle to the Grave ) , and Sherri Howard .
Well , don't worry . I'm not going to bite ya !	For men , this is the horror movie of horror movies . This is one mythological story that I would probably been better off not knowing . The story line and acting were nothing to write home about . It started off slow , and didn't pick up until it was almost over . Jess Weixler did a credible job in the lead as someone who was cursed , but confused . It definitely caused some Freudian anxiety as the castration occurred and the penises lay on the ground . The incident with the dog was particularly funny . You better watch out because now we have someone out there that can turn in on at will and if you pss her off . . .
Read like a Marvel fckin ' Spiderman comic book .	Rodney ( Delroy Lindo ) : If God created anything better than crack cocaine he kept that sht for hisself . A Martin Scorsese / Spike Lee film directed by Spike Lee that tells the story of life in the projects and the actions and attitudes of the police . It was really interesting to hear the comments of the police as they investigated murders of young black men . It is painfully obvious that life has become so cheap that they really can't care anymore and joke about the bodies . Harvey Keitel as Det . Rocco Klein gives what I consider to be his best performance as he tries to solve a murder , not knowing the man he has ( Isiah Washington ) is really the killer , but was put up to it by his brother , Ronald ' Strike ' Dunham ( Mekhi Phifer ) , a small time drug dealer who is into model trains . Delroy Lindo ( Ransom ) is Rodney Little , the main drug supplier and one not to be messed with . Of course , Strike makes that mistake and has to leave town - on a train , of course . Emmy-winner Keith David is André the Giant , a Housing Authority policeman who tries to keep the young ones away from the drug dealers ; especially Regina Taylor's son . He really shines in his performance , especially at the end . Great soundtrack featuring Seal and Chaka Khan , among others . Of course , the film has to have some rappers ; so we get Sticky Fingaz and Fredro Starr from Onyx . They don't rap , but there is plenty in the film . Spike Lee gave us a great picture of life in the projects - the good , the bad , and certainly , the ugly .
Infernal Affairs 4 ?	I am not ashamed to be a fan of Infernal Affairs , and consider it superior to the American remake . This film is just another version , but it does have some charm of its own . The basic premise is the same . The cops are infusing 1000 police into the Triad to break them up . After one is found , they must rush to get arrests done before any more are found . Both Andy Lau ( Inspector Lau Ming ) and Tony Leung's ( Yan ) names were mentioned in this movie . I thought that to be funny . The movie includes Shawn Yue as " Killer . " Yue played young Yan in the Infernal Affairs trilogy . In addition , Eric Tsang is back . he played Hon Sam in the trilogy , and is a Triad under-boss here . He is the best part of the movie . The movie itself has some very funny moments and doesn't seem to take itself too seriously . There are only two or three killings - they are done with a machete . Jim ( Tsang ) is a boss that seems to be so good that he could easily be your uncle . Of course , he does order people killed . The most interesting , and non-Triad film part , is when he falls in love . I'm sorry , I just cannot image Tony Soprano or Don Corleone falling in love , but Jim does . I am talking about love , too , not even a kiss , and he is head over heels . The object of his affection is Sonija Kwok ; someone I am definitely going to look out for as she was darling . The fact that she was Miss Hong Kong of 1999 doesn't play into it . Remember , there wasn't even a kiss between . This was pure romance , and it was touching to see him IMing love notes to her just before he . . . ( a great scene ) . They certainly set this up for a sequel as the mole ( Francis Ng ) is blackmailed into continuing when Superintendent Mok ( Yuan Nie ) takes over after Superintendent Wai ( Kiu Wai Miu ) has a crisis of conscience . An enjoyable film .
The battle to save Earth	It is hard to imagine that my attention would be directed away from Christa Campbell , but Farscape star Gigi Edgley managed to do just that . Campbell ( Death by Engagement , Revamped ) was very evident in the first part of the film , but Edgley took over and saved us from the evil aliens . Well , Jason London ( Dazed and Confused ) helped her a bit . It was the aliens that really stole the show . The good alien ( unnamed on IMDb ) was trying to stop the evil alien , with massive tricks up his sleeve , from destroying Earth to harvest our spent nuclear fuel . We would have gladly given it to them ! The alien battles were very reminiscent of the Terminator . References to Area 51 and the crash at Roswell in 1947 made this more interesting for conspiracy fans .
Hella Burger is Hella Good !	Initially , I did not have a good feeling about this film . Two white boys talking like they were ganstas turns me off . However , it really turned out to be a good movie . First , the lines throughout the film were really funny . They referenced a lot of things that were familiar and were delivered spot on by some really good acting featuring Leighton Meester , Nicholas D'Agosto , Lola Glaudini from " Criminal Minds " , Melora Hardin , Trudy from " Monk , and my personal favorite , Larry Joe Campbell from " According to Jim " , as Detective Crackers . Secondly , it had a really good story that made a lot of sense . It wasn't particularly gory , but had plenty of blood . The only thing it was missing was a horror staple - breasts . If you like horror , you really need to check this one out .
You can help me Sister . You can help me get better .	Not a surprise that The Last House on the Left would have remakes . This is one of them with a twist - it is also a nunsploitation film . Florinda Bolkan ( Flavia the Heretic ) is Sister Cristina , who has some Catholic schoolgirls in a beach house rehearsing a play when some dastardly evildoers crash the party . The maid ( Isabel Pisano ) gets killed almost immediately and this serves to terrorize the group . When they strip the nun and make her put on her habit , the camera is on everyone but her . They even rape her off-camera . They did brutally rape one of the schoolgirls ( Sherry Buchanan - Zombie 3 ) , and raped and killed another with a stick . Sister Cristina has had enough . As one of the thieves is suffering and pleading for help , she put him out of his misery . She then shows her capability with his gun . All the girls join in and have their fun with the last one . Not nasty enough to be banned by Britain , but nasty enough .
He'll kill again . . . he enjoys killing	I saw the two sequels before I saw this and I am glad to finally see the one that started it all . Robert Z'Dar is the Maniac Cop in all three , and he really has a creepy presence that will strike fear into anyone coming up against him . Bruce Campbell and Laurene Landon play lovers that try to find out what was going on and catch the killer while being blamed for all the deaths themselves . Richard Roundtree and Tom Atkins added to the excitement , but seeing Sheree North , who has been in so many TV shows and movies , was a treat . It's mindless entertainment and just a lot of fun .
Terrapins Rule !	It's nice to take a break from Godzilla and still have the same formula , except that the hero is a Terrapin . We don't get too far away as the director , Shusuke Kaneko , is a Godzilla ( Godzilla , Mothra and King Ghidorah ) writer and director , too , as well as director of two more Gamera movies . One of the main characters , Shinobu Nakayama , was also featured in Godzilla vs Mechagodzilla , or Godzilla and the Transformers as I like to call it . The special affects were fantastic , and the military blows it again by fighting the wrong monster as Gamera is a friend . The evil monsters , no not Florida State , but the Gyaos , huge birds , are defeated . of course . and Gamera can safely go back to the sea until Gamera 2 .
Better than Capote	How unfortunate is it that two films come out about the same time telling the same story . If this film had been released before Capte , I am certain that it would have won all the awards it richly deserved . Toby Jones was magnificent as Truman Capote . Sandra Bullock did her best work since Crash . I am glad that I have not seen Casino Royale yet , as it might have ruined the part Daniel Craig played as the killer , Perry . I even forgive Jeff Daniels for The Squid and the Whale . He was great as the District Attorney . Infamous played much lighter than Capote in its setting in New York society , and it really focused on the agony that Perry was going through . One can understand from this film why Capote never wrote another novel .
Definitely some things I have never seen in a movie	This video nasties was known as Prisoner of the Cannibal God in Britain , and banned until they cut 2 minutes and 6 seconds . They re-released it in 2001 . The cuts were presumable some of the killing of animals to satisfy PETA , but they still managed to gut an iguana . or , maybe it was some of the unnatural things done to a pig once they reached the mountain . There is a lot of animal killing in the film , but it is the same stuff you would see on Wild Kingdom , but maybe for a little longer than you are used to . There is also Ursula Andress . Not like you remember her in Dr . No . No , this is the real deal . All her glory is revealed to us . Be prepared for some real gore and sex in the mountain kingdom , as well as some strange action . Claudio Cassinelli , last seen in Flavia the heretic turns out to be the hero in this movie of deceit and horror .
You were born with an asshole , Doris , you don't need Chuck .	The disadvantage of having a long movie queue is that you forget why you put a movie on there in the first place . this is one of those that I just can't remember . Maybe it was on a list of zombie movies someone recommended . This must be Houston with all the big hair . Oh , it's the eighties . Well , the comet has come and everyone outside seems to have disappeared , except for some who were only partially exposed . they are the zombies ( or " infecteds " to purists ) . Regina ( Catherine Mary Stewart ) , her sister Sam ( Kelli Maroney ) , and a trucker , Hector ( Robert Beltran ) , are apparently alone except for some scientists in the desert they reached by phone . They decide to do what all teen girls do - the go to the mall . They find four others there , but they have evil on their mind . Things get interesting when the scientists show , including B-Queen Mary Woronov and Geoffrey Lewis . OK , just a couple of zombies , no tatas , and no gore . Cute look at an eighties horror spoof .
The Holocaust continues	I have no particular affinity for the Isralies . I just happen to believe that genocide is evil , no matter who the victims are . Wheteher is be Israeli , Darfur , or Sunni Muslims in Iraq , it is evil . This film did a credible job of showing this evil by giving us another picture of what happened in Munich in 1972 . It should be seen by all to know how morally bankrupt those people are that practice genocide . William Holden gave a great performance in one of his last films as the police chief . Franco Nero ( Camelot , The Virgin and the Gypsy ) was equally good as the terrorist leader . Check this out when is shows on cable .
A girl like you can stab a man's heart without a knife , huh ?	This Japanese pink film is no video nastie , as it lacks any sort of a story other than a prostitute wanting continual sex with a married man . Of course , he will take it from anyone he can , and she will leave him to make money , but the rest of the film , over 80 % is the two of them engaging in numerous bouts of sex and perversion - sado / masochism , food perversions , whatever , until the story gets so boring she has no other choice but to end it permanently . It is a dark film about sexual obsession with lots of obsessive sex . Art or porn ? That debate will go on forever . There was just nothing erotic about this film . It's value is only as a curiosity .
I'm not a tough guy - I'm just careful !	Bennie Harper ( Melora Walters ) : You sure are a tough guy . Arthur Banks ( Kiefer Sutherland ) : What are you talking about ? Bennie Harper : You talk like a tough guy , you walk like a tough guy , you even order drinks like a tough guy . . . Arthur Banks : I'm not a tough guy - I'm just careful ! Bennie Harper : Careful of what ? Arthur Banks : Of pretty women . . . Well , he wasn't careful enough , but I can't say any more that that without giving it away . Suffice it to say that this was a very interesting story about hit-man Banks , and a girl he picked up ( Harper ) to help him complete a job . The two acted like an old married couple as they haggles , and argues , and generally got on each others nerves until the job was done . In the meantime , they are being chased by the FBI in the persons of Rachel Ticotin ( Con Air , Total Recall ) and Jamey Sheridan ( " Law & Order : Criminal Intent " ) . But the film belonged to Walters ( Boogie Nights , Magnoloa ) and her gorgeous breasts , and to Sutherland ( " 24 " ) .
Took too long to get anywhere	I won't lie . I wasted this because of Jennifer Lopez . It was before i knew to despise Vince Vaughn , and I had not started to appreciate Vincent D'Onofrio , so it was just JLo that I was here to see . Of course , she was great , and her makeup and costumes were fantastic . Other than that , I wasn't much impressed with what I saw . I don't like special effects just for the sake of special effects . Now , if you are into Rodriguez / Tarantino violence and blood , then there is some stuff here that you will find to your liking . I won't spoil it and tell you what they do to the women , children and dogs . Nasty stuff . But is really didn't have a credible plot ( what science fiction does ? ) so it just dragged along until the ending .
A Slacker Christmasd	I could just sit and stare at Lauren Holley for 100 minutes and never complain . She is just so cute ! She was cute as a button in the charming tale of Santa , Jr . ( Nick Stabile ) , a slacker that couldn't understand the meaning of Christmas . She almost ended up spending Christams stuck in the house with him after he was placed on house arrest , but Judd Nelson comes to the rescue , and he and his partner ( George Wallace ) manage to keep her occupied . Santa Jr , and his elf ( Ed Gale - O Brother , Where Art Thou ? and Chucky's stunt double ) get it together in time to save Christmas , and the slacker learns that the Christmas spirit is not about Christmas , but exists any time you do something for someone else with no expectation of reward .
Christa Campbell's lips	This film premiered at the Ft . Lauderdale Film Festival and then dropped out of sight , not opening in theaters , but going straight to video . Probably a wise choice . It is good enough for video and TV , but not quite good enough for the screen . It just doesn't have that something extra to make it a great film , but it is not a total waste of time , either . I have to admit that I tuned in to see Christa Campbell , who plays the President's mistress . I didn't get to see anything more than her lips talking into the telephone . Big disappointment , but hey , it's Christa . It will keep me satisfied until my copy of Death By Engagement arrives . It is the first I have seen of Cuba Gooding , Jr . in a long time , and he did a good job . Plenty of action as he goes after those responsible for the assignation of the President . Angie Harmon , one of the best Assistant DAs on Law and Order , was great as his partner in solving the mystery of who killed the President . Certainly an interesting twist to the usual assignation plot . Always like seeing Anne Archer , and she was classy as a First lady . James Woods and Burt Reynolds had small but interesting parts .
The misfortunes of war !	You had to know that after Norris saved all the hostages from the terrorists , he would be sent back to ' Nam to save the POWs . Here he goes back to battle with an old nemesis . This is mindless , escapist , macho B-action from the 80's featuring Chuck Norris in the same vein as Steven Segall , Charles Bronson , Dolph Lundgren or Jean-Claude Van Damme . Don't think , just enjoy him as he kicks ass and takes names . James Hong makes the perfect Vietnamese bad guy . Lenore Kasdorf and Norris have good chemistry . If you like Rambo , then you will like this one .
Not the Coen Brothers	This Icelandic film has a feel of Fargo , but comes up short despite the stars attached . The scenery is bleak and depressing , just like Iceland in the winter . It adds the right atmosphere to a murder / insurance scam . There are some obvious plot holes , and it seems to drag a bit at times , but the story is fascinating and the characters are favorites . Forest Whitaker ( The Great Debaters , The Last King of Scotland ) is a claims adjuster and tries to wring the last dime out of his clients , just as his boss ( Peter Coyote ) does . They are ruthless about the fine print in a contract . Whitaker is investigating a crash where the victim burned to a crisp . He is like Columbo the way he asks questions and keeps hammering until he gets at the truth . Julia Stiles ( The Bourne trilogy , The Omen ) is supposedly living with her husband and son , and it is her brother that is supposedly dead in the crash ( we all know different , but she doesn't ) , but Whitaker ferrets out the truth . Of course , he falls for her - who wouldn't - and this leads to a strange Coen Brothers ending . It was a nice ride getting there .
Corn is good .	I woke up in the middle of the night and knew it was useless to try to get back to sleep immediately . This was on . Yes , it stars Owen Wilson , who is definitely a minus man for me , but it was shown at Sundance , so I gave it a shot . It was certainly different . Not the usual serial killer type of movie . He also just arranged things and watched them happen . he never really seemed engaged in killing and he often fantasized about getting caught . So , why , you may ask , did he do it ? Good question , and , no , I don't really know the answer . I did get to see Janeane Garofalo , so it wouldn't be a total loss . I was worth watching , even at 2 am .
We really didn't need a remake	OK , so the only reason I watched this was to see Emmy Rossum . I grant you that a disaster film will not let anyone shine as an actor , but I don't care . I can't get enough Emmy . She is certainly much more watchable than Shelly Winters . There was some great visual effects , and stunt work was super . Besides Emmy , Kurt Russell . Josh Lucas , Jacinda Barrett , and Richard Dreyfuss gave good performances that kept us interested until the predictable ending came . There are only so many ways a disaster film can be done . This isn't the best , but it's not the worst either .
Guilty ! Guilty ! Guilty ! "	I watched Daughter of Horror , not the original version called Dementia . Of course the newer version has a voice over by Ed McMahon of Star search / Johnny Carson fame . Dementia had no voice over . Neither film had dialog . The only thing you heard was the music of George Antheil . You watched as the faces of the actors gave the story . A woman ( Adrienne Barrett ) possessed by madness ; the daughter of a philandering mother and a drunken father who murdered her , even as she murdered her father . It was Luis Buñuel and Orson Welles throughout . Even the character of the rich man ( Bruno VeSota ) was channeling Orson Welles . It is a bohemian rhapsody wrapped in madness . A strange but compelling film .
Hot Naked Women ! Action in the bush ! Splendor in the grass !	Maybe if they used different tag lines to advertise this movie , it would have greater appeal . While all of the above is true , it was a small part of a wonderful film about George Adamson ( Richard Harris ) and Tony Fitzjohn ( John Michie ) . Those familiar with Born Free know about Adamson . This film is about his life in Kenya after wards , and the relationship with Fitzjohn , who went on to do the same work in Tanzania . It has a documentary feel throughout and absolutely stunning cinematography as they interact with the lions in the bush . It is sometimes bloody as the natives revolt , and the battle between men and animals will get your blood boiling , especially when Terrence ( Ian Bannen ) discovers his precious elephants destroyed by ivory poachers . A film for all animal lovers , and an outstanding performance by Harris .
There's a bald maniac in there , and he's going bat sht !	This movie would be primarily of interest to those who grew up in the late sixties and early seventies and knew what LSD was . I remember a friend who was using the stuff and he warned us that it had different effects on different people . I stayed away from it . Well , maybe it wasn't the people that were the factor , but it was bad LSD like the batch in the movie . I watched it primarily because I remembered Zalmon King from the Red Shoe Diaries and Delta of Venus . Other than that , I can't imagine why I watched this DVD . He did a good job in a mediocre movie . Deborah Winters , who played his girlfriend was also good . No gore ; it was people going crazy 10 years later . I guess you better be careful or your past will come back to haunt you .
Not always better the second time around .	Love may be better the second time around , but movies usually aren't . There are exceptions , but this isn't one of them . Tibbs ( Sidney Poitier ) is back home and out of that hellhole in Mississippi , but the excitement of In the Heat of the Night is missing . He is doing his thing as a detective ; trying to solve a murder where the chief suspect is his preacher friend Logan Sharpe ( Martin Landau ) . The problem is that Gordon Douglas is no Norman Jewison and his direction does not have any magic . The acting is good , but the movie just seems to plod along , switching between Tibbs ' home problems ( And , I have to mention , his child abuse regarding his son . ) and the murder . The fast pace of Jewison's effort is sadly missing . It's a fair murder mystery , but the pace makes it one to skip .
Best Superman I've Seen	I am not a Superman fan , which is why I've taken so long to get around to this film . Since it's release , I have probably watched Batman and Spiderman several times each . So don't talk about the best Superman movies , as I am not interested . I look at this on its own merits . First , I was immediately grabbed by the titles . It is not often that I see great titles anymore , but this one was definitely a cut above . A big shout out to Kyle Cooper , who did the title design . The sound and visuals applied in the titles and throughout the movie were superb . Secondly , I was really impressed with Brandon Routh as Superman . I had not really seen him before and the only thing I had heard about him was the discussion of his " package " in the Superman costume . He IS Superman and I really enjoyed his performance . Kevin Spacey as Lex Luther - brilliant casting . Spacey is brilliant in everything he does , and he really shines in this role . I am not real familiar with Parker Posey , but I was fascinated by her performance as Kitty . She really seemed to be in a moral quandary throughout the film . I will look for more of her work . Sam Huntington did not work as Jimmy Olsen . Maybe it was the script . Jimmy just didn't seem to be the same character I remember . Kate Bosworth as Lois Lane ? Not impressed there either . All in all this was a great film and I will keep it on my shelf to watch again and again .
Government shenanigans	Many of us are too young to remember the McCarthy era , but that doesn't mean we should not be aware of it because many of the actions occurring during that time have been going on the last seven years . Kelly McGillis , who did a great job in Witness with Harrison Ford , is Emily , a woman caught up in the witch hunt that occurred during that era . Quite by accident , she stumbles on a plot by these same people in power to smuggle Nazi war criminals into the country , using the names of dead Jews , if you can believe that . Mandy Patinkin plays a great evildoer in the government , and he even looks like the former President that made his reputation during this time . Jeff Daniels ( The Squid and the Whale , Good Night and Good Luck ) is very good a a farm-boy turned FBI agent who falls for Emily and helps her uncover the plot . In the absence of CGI and FX , it was great acting that really made this an enjoyable movie .
What happens in Vegas . . . . .	OK , so it isn't a great movie . Who cares ? It has Maria Bello and that's enough for a peek if you have nothing else to do . She plays a con artist who takes advantage of the saying , " What happens in Vegas , stays in Vegas . " In this case , it's what happens 100 miles from home doesn't matter . Businessmen at a corporate training trip taking advantage and getting caught . The movie spends a lot of time filming the trainer . Time wasted that would have been better spent film Miss Bello . Our loss . Also stars Dawn of the Dead's Jake Weber , and The Ring's David Dorfman as father and son . There are a bunch of others in the movie , but hey , I'm watching because of Maria Bello so i really don't care about them .
Really creepy horror film	I have not seen the original film , so I can't make any comparison . Supposedly this " sequel " contains 40 minutes of the original and just 36 minutes of new material . No matter to me , as this is one of the creepiest films I have seen . I was literally jumping out of my seat at times . The mother and child really creeped me out . People dying all over the place due to some curse that resulted from a murder by a father . Creepy music , and some bizarre deaths make this an interesting movie . The non-linear style may put some off , but I really enjoyed it . There are apparently four of these films , so I will be looking for them all . Of course , I can also check out the American remakes which feature the mother ( Takako Fuji ) and the father ( Takashi Matsuyama ) .
What do you think I look like , Dirty Harry ?	I have been soaking up a lot of vicarious aggression lately with Van Damme , Stallone , and Ahnuld . I bet a lot of Arnie's fans have missed this little gem . No , we don't look for quality here , but Schwarzenegger does a credible job of acting and he keeps throwing out these funny lines that keep you in stitches . Nothing original here - failed FBI agent , now small town Sheriff ( think Bruce Willis in Hostage or Striking Distance , Tom Selleck as Jesse Stone , or many others who are out in the cold because of their screw-ups or someone's evil deed - called to infiltrate the mob and bring them down . You know Arnie's going to get the job done with muscle and firepower . He even manages a little romance - damn little - with Kathryn Harrold . Paybacks are hell !
There's been enough tears , no more , league rule remember ?	You know I like sports movies even when I don't like the sport ; The Flying Scotsman is one example . I expected more from a football movie . Maybe it was the fact that it was PG that took the edge off ; it just didn't seem to have a spark that made what should have been a great movie . Maybe I just got tired of the " poor me " song that Brian sang for over half the movie . This was before he got sick . He just kept whining about others being better than him in high school , college , and the pros . That's life , Brian . There is always going to be someone better . Sean Maher and Mekhi Phifer did a good job as Brian Piccolo and Gale Sayers , but neither set any standard for excellence . They always just seemed to be speaking their lines instead of feeling them . I did like Ben Gazzara as Coach Halas . Quite frankly , the best actor in this film was Paula Cale as Brian's wife Joy .
He works in mysterious ways .	31 movies , and Elvis ' film career ends with what is probably his most serious role . He might have made a really good actor , had he the chance . Instead , we get all those picture where he starts singing every five minutes . Mary Tyler Moore , Barbara McNair and Jane Elliot play nuns that were sent to the streets to do some 60s style social work , and , in a couple of cases , some social justice . They tried it undercover at first , but then had to put their habits back on . As you would expect , they did make a difference , as nuns have made a difference all over the world . This was Elliot's first movie and she went on from here to a long career as a soap star . Seeing Edward Asner play a soft cop was really funny . It's simplistic , but it was fun to watch , even if it makes you wonder if Elvis could have been a contender .
How much blood do I have to bath in , to get clean ?	Samurai flicks may be considered a guilty pleasure , but this one is well worth watching . It is not a Toshiro Mifune classic , but it features plenty of Samurai action and lots of blood is spilled . Christopher Lambert ( Highlander I , II , and III ; Mortal Kombat ) plays an American businessman who picks up an extremely lovely Joan Chen ( Lust , Caution ; Xiu Xiu : The Sent-Down Girl ) in a bar and they have a pleasurable time before ninjas arrive to kill her for a transgression . The leader , John Lone ( The Last Emperor , Year of the Dragon ) is identified and the hunt begins . The businessman enlists the help of super Japanese actor Yoshio Harada and Yôko Shimada ( Shogun and " Shogun " ) . What he doesn't realize ifs the Samurai isn't really interested in helping , he just wants to do battle with the Ninja . It's fast paced and exciting with enough exploitation to make it special .
Zombies as science	The more zombie movies you watch , the more twists you come across . I am currently reading Zombie CSU to see if forensic science can discover and / or combat an outbreak of zombies . Andrew Parkinson , writer / director / producer / cameraman / editor / actor in this indy film , presents us with a documentary-style approach . The individual infected was doing research and continued that research as he deteriorated . He logged his mental and physical deterioration , and we saw his emotional deterioration as well . There were some funny and interesting things in the film . He managed to consume his victims with wine and a cigarette afterwards . he maintained his full faculties until the end . The physical deterioration is something to see and quite amazing . I would not spoil it for those who want to see this film , but is does get hilarious . If you are looking for something different , then this is it .
I'm willing to do anything you want to make this relationship work , but first please - if it's okay please - untie me .	OK , it does sort of remind you of The Shining , and you can find bits of other films here , but are there any truly new ideas today ? Very few , I am afraid , so let's see what Sebastian Niemann does in his first feature film . He won an award for his first film , a short . I thought that Amanda Plummer ( Pulp Fiction , The Fisher King ) did a really good job as someone who was slowly going crazy with those daily reminders of her impending death . Sean Pertwee ( Equilibrium , Renaissance ) did an excellent job of channeling Jack Nicholson . The rest of the cast was support , and there was , of course , the requisite special effects to give the film a great ending . It seemed to drag in the middle , but you didn't dare leave until you saw what was going to happen . I have to say that I thought this was a British film when Pertwee said he " . . . needed to take a fag break . " I was surprised that it was German . I don't remember fags in Germany .
Good selection of horror and dark humor	Starting off with an effort to replicate the grindhouse use of " coming attractions , " complete with grainy , scratched film , we expect the cheesiness to continue as the feature is not one , but nine separate horror shorts . I am sure everyone will find their favorites in the collection , but I was particularly impressed by " Alone " with Mandy Amano as a sorority girl alone in the house with a killer on the loose . The sets and costuming were excellent and really gave a 50s feel to the story . It had a nice twist at the end . " Mental Distortion " with Kim Sønderholm , who also wrote and directed this short , as well as the first one shown ( When John Met Julia ) stars with Maja Muhlack and the voluptuous Danish model Barbara Zatler . The story is really open to multiple interpretations , and I am sure each viewer will have their own . " Disconnected " is the story of bloody brutality , but it is the twist that will have your mouth dropping open - totally unexpected . Those are my three favorites , but the other six shorts are just as interesting and others are left to find theirs .
C'mon ! You've seen Dog Day Afternoon ! You're stalling !	This is a great caper film . You are kept guessing throughout the entirety of this movie . You find the actions of the bank robbers to be very cleaver - dressing everyone alike so the police will not be able to distinguish thief from hostage - but , there are enough misdirections that you never really know what is going on . Did it fail or not ? Will they get away ? Is it the perfect crime ? You just have to tune in to find out . Brilliant . Spike Lee gave us a great film that is a departure from his usual fare . Denzel Washington and Clive Owen were absolutely on target with their performances . It is all low key and methodical . Youare kept interested every step of the way . The only criticism I have of the film is the waste of a fine actress like Jodie Foster . She could have been written out of the film and not be missed . That is a shame .
Do you know how to ski ?	The silliness continues with Besson and Krawczyk and the usual gang with the addition of a couple of new faces . In an opening number that is a parody of James Bond titles , Sylvester Stallone is featured . They go a credible job of presenting the Bond music and girls in this tribute . Another addition to the cast is the incredible beautiful Bai Ling ( Anna and the King , The Lost Empire ) , who is ostensible writing a story on the police department and has tongues hanging all over the department . This time they are looking for the Santa Claus gang , who taunt the police by telling them when they will strike . While this is going on Émilien fails to realize that his wife Petra is pregnant and Daniel is so busy with his cars , that he doesn't have time to spend with Lilly again , who is also pregnant . That is just too hard to believe ! Despite references to Bond , and a story taken somewhat from Lethal Weapon 4 , it is another funny romp , this time through the streets of Paris , and over the mountains to Switzerland . I can't wait to see what they come up with in Taxi 4 .
An Irish Seagal / Stallone	You have seen it before in The Specialist or in films like On Deadly Ground or The Fire Below . Tough guy goes against the evil corporate empire that is out for profit and the people be damned . Of course , Steven Seagal or Sly Stallone may be quicker to jump into it that was Pierce Brosnan . He was battling his own personal demons , and just wanted to live a quiet life in the village of his birth ; well , as quiet a life that can be lived by a bill collector . You know , make a little money , drink a little whiskey , and once in a while a pretty girl comes along like Alison Doody ( Dr . Elsa Schneider in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade ) . But , this is Pierce Brosnan and he is infinitely more watchable that the others .
A delightful look at Rock Hudson	Not a great film , but it did garner three Oscar nominations : Best Costume Design for Donald Brooks and Jack Bear ; Best Song , " Whistling Away the Dark " with music by Henry Mancini and lyrics by Johnny Mercer and Best Score by the same two . Of course , The Beatles beat them out for son score with " Let It Be . " Julie Andrews as the spy was terrific , and Rock Hudson as the WWI flyer was equally good . They were supported ably by Jeremy Kemp as her handler . It was funny and romantic and one of the most delightful films of the period .
Run Jenny Run . . . I'll coming to cut your fcking heart out .	The first thing I noticed was the cast . it had some interesting actors , and that alone gave it possibility . Of course , there is Stallone , who can be up or down . maybe this is an " up " performance . Charles S . Dutton , with almost 100 performances is always watchable , and there is Tom Berenger and Kris Kristofferson , Robert Prosky , and one of my favorite " bad guys , " Robert Patrick , as well as A . D . A Carver , Courtney B . Vance , and someone named Mif . I'd watch just to see someone named Mif . Now , a film that starts off with drills through eye-holes might prove interesting . Someone is out to kill cops and those that they love ( Dina Meyer ) . Stallone falls to pieces and ends up in the middle of nowhere to D-Tox with these other characters . But , his troubles follow him up there , and someone is killing off the patients one by one . Time to get his act together and become a cop again . A new woman , the Psychiatrist ( Polly Walker ) becomes a target that Stallone has to save . The film is really dark . It takes place in an old SAC Command Center in the middle of a blizzard . Sometimes it was hard to see who was winning the fight . Nothing like getting back to doing what you do best to drive out the demons .
If you want someone to save the world , make sure it's someone who likes the world as it is .	Yes , I know that this movie is a little over the top , but it qualifies as one of those guilty pleasures we visit from time to time when we want mindless entertainment . In that sense , it excels . I was just looking for a Danny Trejo fix until Machete comes out and found this and Nightstalker . Trejo was only in this for a short time as the Columbian Army swept in and blew everything up . That's OK , it satisfied me for a while . During that raid , we got to see some of the best stunt work with a vehicle as drivers maneuver motorcycles around exploding buildings . During this stunt , helicopters fire at the motorcycles , a motorcycle jumps an exploding vehicle , a stunt driver on a motorcycle jumps through barbed wire and a stunt man jumps over barn as it explodes behind him . AWESOME ! This movie features action sequences and sound work that makes the best Bond movie seem tame . You see a stunt man harpoon a moving boat while in a car traveling parallel to the boat . Using a parachute , the stuntman attaches himself to the moving boat and flies behind it . As a bridge approaches , the stunt man unhooks himself from the parachute harness and slides down into the boat . You also see a stunt man drive a Corvette off a bridge and escapes the inevitable crash by parachuting off the car and gliding to safety . Lots of explosions , shootings , fantastic Bond-type equipment , and a great GTO . So , Vin Diesel will probably not win any awards outside of MTV , Blockbuster , or Teen Choice , but he is fun to watch . And Asia Argento , daughter of the famed Dario Argento , has been thrilling us ever since she burst out of her bra as a topless seventeen-year-old in Trauma ( directed by her father ) . We get a little nip slip here ( don't want to upset the teenies ) , but nothing like her skintastic performance in Scarlet Diva , the movie she wrote , directed , and starred in . I also got a Samuel L . Jackson fix that will hold me until I can catch Black Snake Moan . All-in-all a good night .
We are never going into the woods again !	I loves me a good horror movie , even if it is one that I have seen before with another title . Running through the wood to escape some inbred cretin is so overused , but at least they did this one in West by god Virginny , rather than another in Texas . Do you think that maybe , just maybe the word has gotten out now to stay on the damn highway . Do not go into the wood looking for trees where they hung the devil , or shortcuts , or places to have a nice picnic . Stay on the highway people ! Well , they didn't listen again , and they get to pay the price - the ax in the mouth was precious . Eliza Dushku certainly made this worth watching . I would gladly follow her into the woods . No , stay out the woods , even if she is going in , you fool . Can't wait for the sequel . You never did see dem hillbillies die did you ?
Thanks Rev . Roy , you've been a real pain in the ass .	This is the one that started it all for young Brad Renfro ( Apt Pupil ) . he was 12 at the time . I remember this as a great movie by Sarandon ( Dead Man Walking ) , who got an Oscar nomination out of her performance in a year of great movies , the best being , of course , Four Weddings and a Funeral . Tommy Lee Jones ( The Fugitive , JFK ) was super as the Rev . Roy , and the lovely and talented Mary-Louise Parker ( " Weeds " , " Angels in America " ) was great as Mark's mom . There were many other great supporting performance - too many to mention . It was a great movie and a great start to a too-short career .
Call the Fremonts , fast ! And for Pete's sake , don't let them eat anything !	This was one of the 74 video nasties that were banned in Britain . Considered the first " splatter " film , it was re-released uncut in 2005 . One does not look at the acting ability or plot , but at the level of gore and blood in this film . From ripped out tongues , to brains splattered all over , it was a pioneer . Despite the fact that the lead , Connie Mason , was Playboy magazine's Playmate of the Month for June 1963 , there is no titillation in the film . It is pure blood and gore . Mason will return for the second of director Herschell Gordon Lewis ' Blood Trilogy , Two Thousand Maniacs ! , the following year . Mason completed the trilogy with Color Me Blood Red , the following year . For cinematic history , you have to see this film .
I just don't see it	This British film about a warrior that chucks it all for a life of peace was nominated and won many awards . IExcept for some outstanding cinematography , I don't see it . At first , I thought it might be an " Unforgiven " as the warrior that gives it up comes back for a final job . But the truth is that the warrior ( Irfan Khan ) never really gave it up at all . At the first opportunity , he takes retribution on the warrior that is chasing him . This was not some noble act , but clear revenge . And that ending ! What was that all about ? " She said you would come . " So what ? Maybe you just had to speak Hindi to understand , but that would't help much as Khan doesn't say 100 words through the entire film .
Good Italian spaghetti crime flick	Everyone is familiar with Lee Van Cleef from the spaghetti westerns - Return of Sabata , For a Few Dollars More , The Good , the Bad and the Ugly - but , he also made spaghetti crime flicks , too . This one , produced by Dino de Laurentiis and directed by Michele Lupo , also stars Tony Lo Bianco , who is a familiar movie name on both sides of the law . This was in his younger , thinner years , and he plays a small-time hood that is infatuated with big boss Frankie Diomede ( Van Cleef ) , who pays him no attention until he saves his life . Neat car chase down the mountains and lots of killer by gun , drill and freezer . And skintastic display by Edwige Fenech ( Hostel II ) , who has many many skintastic moments to her credit .
You can see things before they happen ?	The fact that magician Chris Johnson ( Nicolas Cage ) could see a couple of minutes into the future was not the most amazing thing in this movie . What completely stretched the limits of credulity was the fact that Liz Cooper ( Jessica Biel ) would give him the time of day . Cage may be 10 years younger than me , but he looked 10-15 years older in this movie and it just would not be possible that Cooper would be offering a ride to someone that looked like a loser . That aside , the movie was interesting and kept you wondering what would happen next with his skill / curse . Julianne Moore ( The Hours , Boogie Nights ) was exceptionally good as the FBI agent trying to catch Johnson and use him to prevent a terrorist act . It might have been more useful in the movie to build a little back-story into the terrorists motivations instead of wasting the time with the highly improbably relationship between Johnson and Cooper .
Well-paced thriller	Writer / director Nick Willing did a very good job of keeping the action moving in this thriller ( also known as Close Your Eyes , and Hypnotic ) that kept you enchanted throughout . Of course , the premise of the story is a bit far fetched , that doesn't detract from a good mystery involving a Doctor ( played perfectly by Goran Visnjic - " ER " ) , and a cop ( Shirley Henderson - Moaning Myrtle in two Harry Potter films , and Jude in the two Bridget Jones films ) . I really liked the way Henderson played the cop . She was believable in a story that didn't make a lot of sense outside the chase for the murderer . Sophie Stuckey in her first film did a really good job as the object of the search .
I did not inhale .	It is amazing what you come across at 2am when you have trouble sleeping . The fact that this film is directed by Michael Radford ( Il Postino ) is an indication that it might be more than just a T & A film . It is , after all , about pole dancers at a strip club . Yes , it is loaded with T & A . Charlotte Ayanna ( Jawbreaker ) dances in just a thong . TV regular Kristin Bauer ( Everybody Loves Raymond , Just Shhot Me ) goes even further . Even at 40 , Daryl Hannah shows her stuff and it is hot stuff , indeed . Just a photograph in Mike Myer's hands in So I Married an Axe Murderer , Shiela Kelley practiced at many bikini bars before she showed her stuff here . Even Grey's Anatomy's Sandra Oh gives us her first notable skin scenes . Lastly , Jennifer Tilly is un-Bound , and gives a show to remember . If they gave an Academy Award for this category , it would be Breast Picture , hands down . But , there is more . This is not Showgirls . There is actually a handful of stories going on as we examine the lives off the stage . Sandra Oh gives a super performance . I wasn't too thrill by Daryl Hannah as she acted as if she had an IQ of 30 . Jennifer Tilly was just plain impressive and well worth the time .
Ah , you'll die all right !	I like Burt Reynolds ( Boogie Nights ) playing a cop , and he didn't do too bad as a director here either . He had a great supporting cast of cops and criminals : Vittorio Gassman makes a great crime boss ; Henry Silva ( Ghost Dog : The Way of the Samurai ) makes a great psychopath ; Brian Keith ( " Family Affair " ) , Charles Durning ( The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas ) , Bernie Casey , and Richard Libertini ( A Grandpa for Christmas ) all make great partners ; and , there is , of course , Rachel Ward ( " The Thorn Birds " ) , who got a Golden Globe nomination out of her performance . Lots of action , superb performances , and a great story .
I'm not in the mood .	Let's just make one thing perfectly clear . When Howie ( Kevin G . Shinnick ) turns over and passes on his wife ( Debbie Rochon ) , you know that things are screwy . Give me a break ! Passing on Debbie for Julian Wells . I mean , she is nice , and she did spend most of the film showing her nice boobies and generous booty , but hey dude , nobody passes on Debbie . This was , as far a I know the first time that Rochon played a real zombie , as she came back from her death to take revenge . It wasn't as bloody as I would have liked in this type of film , but it was good . Misty Mundae also appeared briefly as a hooker , but we mostly just got to see her head bobbing up and down before it was cruelly jerked too far to the right . Poor Misty was just with the wrong people . This was a first film for writer / director Justin Wingenfeld , and he has talent . It is hoped that he continues to improve .
Not for Saw fans	I wasn't sure what to expect out of a horror film produced by George Clooney and Steven Soderbergh . What you get is not " torture porn , " but old fashioned horror that uses techniques like surprise and creepy settings to send a wind chill up your spine . Emily Blunt ( My Summer of Love , The Devil Wears Prada ) is hooking up with Ashton Holmes ( A History of Violence , A Peaceful Warrior ) to get a ride home for Christmas . He has been stalking her and set up the ride pretending to be from the same area . They end up in a snowbank on a lonely highway . That's when the ghosts start to appear , and the rest of the story is an attempt to stay alive in freezing whether , and escape the treat posed by otherworldly creatures . There is not blood to speak of . It is a ghost story . A lot of people don't like the ending , but you have to pay attention to the dialog to understand . What you are seeing is Nietzsche's " Eternal Recurrence " ( not to be confused with reincarnation ) , and having philosophy creep into a horror movie can be a turn off . So , just enjoy another take on horror , and wait for next year when Emily returns with Benicio Del Toro in the new Wolf Man .
I knew what he was , but I never knew why .	I haven't seen all of the Halloween films , but this one was definitely worth watching . Some people may complain that their favorite actor was missing , and that the director really must have hated the franchise , but I feel that Joe Chappelle did a good job of keeping the story moving . And , there was a story . It wasn't just slash , slash , slash . There was actually something going on and it made it more interesting . Paul Rudd did a very good job as Tommy Doyle and Marianne Hagan was a string Kara Strode . I like the fact that Donald Pleasence is still around . Looking forward to seeing the rest .
The PTSD virus ?	Oh , yes , let's start with a double ax murder to set the mood . Not happy campers are we ? Soon , we get to the gratuitous sex and full nudity , courtesy of a new actress , Maria Kil . But , that soon stops for an off-screen death , followed by yakking at the firehouse and a great shower scene that ends with a pike right between the luscious melons . Yummy . Tits and carnage , real and dreamed , continue continuously . The wost part of the movie is the fact that you have to wait 48 minutes before Debbie appears . But , Oh , was it worth the wait ! Unfortunately , lazy Jim O'Rear won't get his butt out of bed , so Debbie strikes out . That leaves him free to save the day and jump in another bed ( Lanee Landry's ) . There wasn't a lot of gore , but there were plenty of good shows .
I'm not going anywhere unless something is chasing me .	Wow ! I get to see Tchéky Karyo ( The Patriot ) two days in a row . I just watched him with Nick Nolte in The Good Thief , and now here he is as a ghost hunter ( yeah , right ) with a beautiful assistant Megahn Perry . But , they come in later . First , there is the grave dancing - and grave pissing . I am sure everyone has at least thought about pissing or dancing on someone's grave . Well , you might want to rethink that after seeing this film , especially if you are the type that watches " Ghost Hunters " on TV . Hee Hee . After doing the drunken deeds , our heroes : Dominic Purcell ( Primeval , Equilibrium ) , Josie Maran ( Van Helsing ) and Marcus Thomas ( Edmond ) , are getting their reward - crazed spirits after them . This spooky film has it all : creaky sound , apparitions , super special effects , blood and gore , and perversion in what i would call a traditional horror film . There is enough to keep your interest throughout , and certainly enough to keep you jumping out of your seat . And , hey , I wonder who did the casting here as I see a couple of more people from The Patriot ?
You are disrespecting all the sisters in the room .	Those looking for classic blaxploitation will find it here : pimps and rug dealers in fancy furs , shooting galleries , naked chicks packaging heroin , black men and white women , and the mafia controlling it all from the shadows . Paul Winfield had received an Oscar nomination for Sounder the same year as he made this film , and he was to make one of my personal favorites , Conrack , the next year , so this was probably the peak of his acting career . He is a Vietnam vet who comes home to tragedy and vows to do something . He gathers some friends and starts a private war against the drug dealers . It was an interesting film with many familiar faces in the blaxploitation genre . Despite the weak ending , it was a good example of a positive blaxploitation film .
Getting to the heart of the matter .	I am reminded of the time that Homer Simpson decides that he will stay home from church and indulge himself in some of life's simple pleasures : drinking beer , walking around in his underwear , smoking cigars and reading Playdude magazine . In this case our intrepid hero is Dan , who sits on the couch drinking beer and playing with his nipple while sniffing his armpit hair as he bemoans the fact that he is on the outs with his girlfriend Lisa . The film is an exchange of dialog between the two and soliloquies that explore just what is wrong with the relationship - a lot ! Dan is basically a slacker and self-absorbed . Like all slacker relationships , it is the girlfriend that displays more maturity . The exchange between the two provides an interesting look at people , and relationships from a perspective that is foreign to this viewer . I just wonder if Brett has more USA redneck in him than Canadian . And , lose the hat , dude , it's so last century .
You know how it is , a day where everything's going wrong ?	This was an interesting film that reminded me a little of Groundhog Day , The Matrix , and Harry Potter . Doesn't sound like a horror film , does it ? Mike Vogel ( The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ) is Ian , a man who wakes every day in a different occupation . He will continue to do so until he gets it right . Get what right ? Easy , he just has to forget his past and he will be OK . Every time he wakes in that new job , he is with Jenny , played by Christina Cole ( Casino Royale ) . Jenny is the key , he just doesn't know it yet . The first half of the movie contains little horror except for the fact that he dies every day . It picks up in the second half with graphic deaths at the hand of those dementor-looking creatures . A very hot Jaime Murray ( " Dexter " ) first appears to be his girlfriend , but her real role is soon known . Who Ian is and what they want is the crux of the film and it has a Matrix-type answer . Fascinating to the end .
Strong Turturro performance	John Turturro ( Barton Fink , Quiz Show , and , of course , Monk ) can be depended upon to give memorable performances , but this one stands out as one of his best . I am not familiar with the work of Danish director Nicolas Winding Refn ( Bleeder , Pusher II ) , but if this is an indication of his work , he should be examined further . This was a noir mystery that appears to bring out love or hate from those who view it . It is confusing and mysterious and leaves some questions unanswered , but Turturro's quest keeps us interested . Also features Deborah Kara Unger ( Emile , Payback ) .
Ann ? Mommy says you're not dead . Is that true ?	The movie opens with an attractive young woman putting on her shirt over some perky breasts . A few minutes later a knife is thrust through her skull and out her mouth . Now , I have to say that that was just plain wasteful . This is a typical haunted house movie with some interesting twists . The monster is particularly gruesome , and his blood is like nothing I have ever seen before . The movie is creepy with lots of eerie sound and noises ans some strange music , but not particularly gruesome until the end . Mary Freudstein : Mae , time to go home and remember your manners . Now that Bob is staying with us , be sure to treat him like a Freudstein . For other guests are surely destined to drop in .
It's a Wonderful Muppet Life	I haven't watched the Muppets in years and was looking for The Muppet Christmas Carol when I came across this version of It's a Wonderful Life . Now , I'm not saying that Kermitcan capture the magic of Jimmy Stewart , and Fozzie certainly is not Uncle Billy , but this was an enjoyable trip down memory lane with some outstanding music , a great song ( Everyone Matters ) , and some really funny bits that referenced other shows . Joan Cusack was marvelous as the mean financier who wanted to drive Kermit and the Muppets out of town . Whoopie Goldberg was a great god figure and she had the ultimate accessory - a coffee shrub that produced hot coffee . The funniest bit for me was the old men Statler and Waldorf . i had forgotten how funny they were . An enjoyable Christmas tale .
Gothic horror in Ireland	A Roger Corman production , written and directed by Francis Ford Coppola nine years before The Godfather . A woman's husband dies of a heart attack before she can get mommas money and she hides the body and tries to endear herself to the matron of the family to inherit . Unfortunately , she stumbles upon a hidden secret and is hacked to death . Soon after , a poacher loses his head . Bodies are piling up and no one discovers them . But the family doctor suspects one of the two remaining brothers is off his rocker and uncovers a secret that cost one life . He proceeds to get the murderer in the open . Can he keep his head ? One must watch this interesting tale to find out .
It looks like a fitting cemetery for you .	Not a particularly exciting film . Okatsu's ( Junko Miyazono ) parents are killed by a tobacco smuggling gangster . After Florida increases the tobacco tax a dollar on top of the dollar increase in the federal tax , we may see more of these types here . The gang is after her because there is a Statement of Charges that her father hid . She engages in a couple of fights , but it a stranger that helps her when she is down and almost out . The gang comes after them both and , when they have them surrounded , just leave to fight another day . It seems no one really wants this Statement . The final battle had some excellent swordplay , but this certainly doesn't live up to the pinky violence genre .
You blew it , Inspector	As a James Patterson fan , I was really interested in seeing how this film was adapted from the book . I also wanted to see Angie Everhart . I they knew she was in Bucket of Blood early in her career , it would have helped them solve the murders . I liked all of the leads - Tracey Pollan as Inspector Boxer , Carly Pope as the reporter , Megan Gallagher as Jil , and , especially Pam Grier as Dr . Washburn . Robert Patrick ( The Marine , Flags of Our Fathers , Terminator 2 : Judgment Day ) was especially good as the suspected killer . Fans of the new Women's Murder Club on TV will want to check this out .
Anti-war nazisploitation	While this isn't one of the infamous nazisploitation video nasties like Gestapo's Last Orgy or Love Camp 7 , it would have probably made the list if they tried to release it in Britain . It is nazisploitation , make no mistake , even though it has more of a story than the similar Salon Kitty . A Jewish couple are separated by war and she ( Sirpa Lane ) is sent to a love camp to service German soldiers . It includes an average of about eight breasts a minute , rape , actual penetration , lesbianism , bloody caning , eugenics , girl-on-girl , : all the features of a typical nazisploitation . Soon Hannah ( Lane ) attracts the attention of a Nazi officer ( Giancarlo Sisti ) , who takes her home . She fits right in , which is not surprising for someone who let her mother ( Margherita Horowitz ) die for her before she was captured . Her reunion with her beloved Klaus ( Roberto Posse ) , who was now a German officer , was not pleasant . She ends up running a high-class brothel like Salon Kitty , without the Caberet singing . She re-finds her identity before she dies . WWII aficionados will appreciate the extensive use of actual war footage in the film to stretch it out with little cost .
Makes you almost feel guilty	The stars of this film are Cameron Mitchell ( 232 performances in film ) , Pamelyn Ferdin ( 71 roles , including The Beguiled ) , Wesley Eure , and Kent Kingsley . But , the real star of this mystery is Marianne Walter , who started her film career in the King Kong remake . You thought you were seeing Jessica Lange's breast's didn't you ? No , they were Marianne's , and she really puts them on display here in her first film role . She gets nailed by the slasher after a long masturbation scene in the bathtub . Someone must have noticed her talent , as she changed her name to Kelly Nichols , and made 84 more films , most of them rated X . This movie has some gruesome murders using tools , but it is not overly bloody . The real interest , aside from Marianne , is who the slasher is , and the reason for the murders , and how it ends . It has some real interesting twists and is made all the more interesting by the fact that is it supposedly based on a true story . You will feel a little guilty watching this misogynistic trash , but it is cinematic history as this is one of the 74 video nasties banned in Britain . It was released with 1 minute and 46 seconds cut in 2000 .
Nasty Evil Dead Dog	I know that Jim Carrey is nominated , along with Adam Sandler , Eddie Murphy , and Nickolas Cage for Worst Actor of the Year , but I really think that he gave a good performance in this interesting film - and this coming from someone who can't stand him ! This was a good old fashioned Gothic type horror film that was worthy of Vincent Price . I say that because i was glued to the screen trying to figure it out and was really surprised at the solution - the ending sucked . Virginia Madsen ( Sideways ) is always a pleasure to watch and she was really good as Carrey's wife . And , I do love Rhona Mitra , even if she was in that Ali G crap . Well worth watching .
Axel , you on a coffee break ? Go get that sonofabitch .	You would think that anyone who could do the hilarious Amazon Women on the Moon would be a good director . Sorry , Mr Landis , but you blew it on this one . Maybe it was just one sequel too many , but it fell short of the previous two and is just something to watch if there is absolutely nothing else on TV . Only Billy Rosewood ( Judge Reinhold ) and Inspector Todd ( Gilbert R . Hill ) are back with Axel Foley in this one . Billy is great with Axel , but this film just doesn't have the action of the other two . Theresa Randle provides the eye candy .
. . . but I'm gonna send it back to whatever the Hell it come from !	Now , y'all should know from Deliverance that shouldn't mess with things back up there in those mountains . There's things going on that y'all just don't understand , y'hear . Like , when y'all mess with our kinfolk , we are going to call up something that is indescribable . That's the jist of the late Stan Winston's film , folks . Just your ordinary revenge that got a little out of control . Ed ( Lance Henriksen ) just didn't have a clue what he was asking for when he wanted to avenge the death of his son and began to regret his anger from the very start . Too bad , when you start the pumkinhead , it has to finish the job . Don't look for superior acting , or elaborate sets , or even the usual partially dressed teen ( it doesn't have any ! ) . Just enjoy Stan Winston's take on 80s horror .
July Force with Steven Segal	This is more like the Steven Seagal that I used to enjoy in the early 90s in films like Hard to Kill , Out for Justice and Marked for Death . He actually is this movie and appears in almost every scene . Apparently he has run through enough dead wives that no one would marry him , so he is after the person who killed his son . He is a determined killing machine . As expected from a film that features urban gangs , every other word is fcker or motherfcker . I actually think they have beaten Scarface with this film . The only real criticism I had was the lighting . Almost the entire film took place at night and it was hard to watch . I guess that is to be expected in an urban environment . My man , Danny Trejo , gets his 15 seconds of fame in the movie .
Mine is the vengeance , sayeth the lord .	Once I saw this was a Golan and Globus production , I knew I was in for some real action . I didn't even know they did westerns , and I was initially thrown off by director Gianfranco Parolini's pseudonym of Frank Kramer . But closer inspection reveled this to be a spaghetti western done with Italian and Israeli casts and crews . What was I in for ? The cast was the main attraction : First , there was two-time Oscar nominee and Oscar winner ( City Slickers ) Jack Palance . Now I know there is going to be some major league craziness here , and I wasn't disappointed . he was off the charts with his comic gunslinger . Then , we have Lee Van Cleef ( The Good , the Bad and the Ugly ) playing a duel role . You might have even thought this a zombie western - the bad guys certainly did . We mustn't overlook Sybil Danning ( Chained Heat ) who managed to give us a peak at her right breast as she was recalling a rape that produced her son ( Leif Garrett ) . There was some real excitement as we wondered if Johnny would find out who his father was . Richard Boone ( " Have Gun Will Travel " ) was a drunken sheriff , and Pnina Rosenblum was a strange dance hall girl named Chesty , who provided some adult conversation . I say strange as she was a Member of Knesset in Israel until a couple of years ago . Do they know her past ? It doesn't have a great script and the production values are typical of spaghetti westerns , but it was an interesting story and we just don't see too many adult westerns .
No , no my dear Misti . I don't want you to serve appetizers . I need you to " be " appetizers .	We start off Herschell Gordon Lewis ' Blood Feast sequel with Miss Louisiana Christina Cuenca screaming her pretty head off as Fuad Ramses III ( J . P . Delahoussaye ) puts her through a meat grinder . We expect a lighter film , and we are getting it as Delahoussaye is a comedian and brings that to the film . Oh , why did he have to go to Laci Hundees ( Michelle Miller ) for the brains and more liver ? She was giving us such a fantastic show when he rudely interrupted . Detective Loomis ( John McConnell ) is played by another comedian , and we get comic breaks during the investigation . After a boring examination of the remains of Misty Morning , we quickly go to a lingerie shower for the new bride , Tiffany ( Toni Wynne ) . We stay her a while why all the girls model lingerie and we enjoy them as they change . Two of the girls go off into the other room and we expect some hot action . No , here comes the killer again . Harvest time . And , what does he have in mind for Candi Graham ( Jill Rao ) ? Well , we can watch some dudes tromping through the jungle using the " R " word , or we can bathe ourselves in blood and intestines and lots of boobies , while having a good laugh . Me ? I'm going back for seconds , thank you .
Mom's ass is so tight , it's vacuum sealed .	I have no idea why this movie is so hated by critics , including some of my flick friends . I felt that Diane Keaton ( Annie Hall , Reds ) was absolutely the perfect helicopter mom . Raised in a generation when you were kicked out of the house at 18 and sent to make it on your own , I find the phenomenon of helicopter parents to be amusing . Mistakes are made by all of us . That is how we learn . It's OK to pick us up when we fall , but it is not OK to run around and try to prevent falls . Keaton as Mandy Moore's mom was the perfect example of the bad parent . I wanted to strangle her ! Moore was really good as someone trying to find love and not doing so well . She managed to make the right decisions at the right time , but for the wrong reasons . No matter . She lands on her feet and mom learns her lesson . Sure , this is a film that will probably land on Lifetime real soon , but it was deliciously funny and people should look at it with different eyes . They may just like it .
Without death , life is meaningless .	If you liked Sin City , then you will want to check out this film . It is done in rotoscope , and has a film noirish hue to it , but the main weakness is the dialog . It features Daniel Craig ( Casino Royale , Layer Cake ) , Catherine McCormack ( 28 Weeks later ) , Jonathan Pryce ( Tomorrow Never Dies , the Pirates of the Caribbean trilogy ) , and Romola Garai ( Amazing Grace ) . Voices only as it is motion capture . The film had a great look to it , but , like I said , the dialog was cheesy and really detracted from the story . Those who are comic book fans will find it interesting .
They might be gods !	Now , the premise of this story is pretty far fetched , but it's horror story after all . Expecting some wolf-man story , you are surprised at what the predator really is . And , the fact that they are providing some societal benefit by clearing the street of the homeless is really getting out there . They would have gone unnoticed had they not killed some high mucky muck and his wife . Albert Finney brilliantly plays Dewey , a detective dragged out of a semi-retirement to solve these hot murders . He is teamed with a delightful Diane Venora ( The Jackal , True Crime ) to do what no one else can . Gregory Hines ably assists in the hunt with his lab expertise and consummate acting skills . It is a mystery that makes no sense until Edward James Olmos , as a Native American , gives the supernatural explanation . Forget all that and concentrate on the great performances , especially Finney's .
A mild disappointment	This is an interesting film about nuns and murder that was shocking in it's day , but suffers in three areas . First , it stars Anita Ekberg in her most skintastic role . No , you don't get to see her 40-23-38 body , just a brief flash of bun as she manages to get a quickie in town while she is stocking up on her drugs . Yes , she is a junkie nun and she also has a mental illness or brain disease . You never know which as everyone denies there is anything wrong with her . However , she is prone to fits of rage . Is she capable of murder ? The murders starts when she returns from town . They are not particularly gruesome , and those looking for giallo will be disappointed . Finally , there is a hint of lesbianism , but those looking for full blown nunsploitation should look elsewhere . Her roommate is Italian Playboy Playmate Paola Morra , in her first film . Now , Paola does swing both ways and does give full frontal . She is definitely something to see as she is incredible beautiful , but there is no action between her and Ekberg - you just have to imagine it . The film was well directed and well written . It was an interesting work , but I feel that it will disappoint more than it will entertain .
I am Tondelayo .	One can only wonder how many posters of Hedy Lamarr as Tondelayo were pinned up by soldiers in WWII . She is seductive and appealing and downright hot as a half African who spends the entire film in bra and sarong . Most of the time she is striking seductive poses and lounging on a couch showing off her magnificent body that matches her unequaled facial features . This is a comedy for the most part , and it is really funny . Frank Morgan is back , not a The Pirate , but as a drunken doctor that has probably been drummed out of the medical establishment and can only get work on this African plantation . Walter Pidgeon , who would go one to capture two Oscar nominations in the next two years ( Mrs . Miniver , Madame Curie ) , was the leader of the plantation and the colonial law . He was hilarious as a succession of new assistants arrived in white , freshly starched clothing from the Mother Country , and all said the exact same words that drove him nuts . Of course , he warned all of them about Tondelayo , even banning her from the camp , but it was useless as they all succumbed to her charms . A must-see for those who appreciate what made our fathers happy in the Big One .
Schoolgirl & Nun fantasies rolled into one !	Monica ( Mónica Zanchi ) is a very naughty girl . She gets caught with her young stepmother ( Dirce Funari ) - " But , dad , you told me to be friends with her ! " - and is sent off to boarding school run by nuns . One nun in particular is Sister Emanuelle ( Laura Gemser , a veteran of many " Emanuelle " films ) . Monica proceeds to seduce her roommate ( Vinja Locatelli ) , sets up an escaped criminal ( Gabriele Tinti ) in the tower , and tricks Sister Emanuelle into breaking her vowels as she lies and schemes . The sex is hot and heavy - schoolgirl on schoolgirl , criminal on schoolgirl , and criminal on nun . There isn't much to distract from the sex as there is little else going on . It's a good story with a really funny twist at the end .
When I look at you , I have a wet dream .	This one was made strictly for the teens . They like Jackie Chan and Jennifer Love Hewitt and what better way to get them to the movies than put them both in a film billed as a comedy . Instead of comedy , we get slapstick . Well , that is comedy , but the lowest form . Chan is wasted as his acrobatics are directed by wires and CGI . His natural abilities are never put to use as he replaces his boss ( Jason Isaacs ) . Isaacs ( The Patriot , Lucius Malfoy ) is wasted here , and I hate seeing fine actors wasted . Jennifer Love Hewitt is pure eye candy . I haven't seen a demonstration of any acting ability and you certainly won't see any here . Stupid story and wasted actors . Jackie Chan is so much better than this .
Well , nice people don't go murdering other nice people .	David O . Selznick and Alfred Hitckcok did not get along , and this is the last film they did together ( previously Spellbound and Rebecca ) . Maybe Hitchcock was glad to be rid of Selznik , but it just didn't seem her had his heart in this one . He used Gregory Peck ( again ) in the lead as a lawyer who falls in love with his client . Peck is always great , but something seemed to be missing here . Charles Laughton was the judge who had already made up his mind . Ann Todd gave a standout performance as the " stand by your man " wife who knew her husband was in love with his client , Alida Valli . Louis Jourdan's role in his only Hitchcock film , was superb ! The most memorable scene comes in court when Peck learns something about the client he's been defending . His whole world comes crashing down , but Hillary , I mean Ann Todd was there to pick him up .
The Jewish conspiracy	Oscar-winner Chris Cooper ( Adaptation ) is featured in this episode where it appears a teacher was killed for ending a grade-buying scam . Things get heated when Jews are found under every bed by Cooper , who is trying to make a name for himself on the Klan lecture circuit . Even Detective Lennie Briscoe ( Jerry Orbach ) is accused of orchestrating the conspiracy because he is a Jew . The fact that he wasn't and was raised Catholic didn't matter , it was enough to get that one juror to hold out . This episode shows why out system is flawed compared to other countries . It only take one bigot to screw things up .
Ex-Yakuza chooses : buddies or babe	The formula is simple : take a long-legged Japanese beauty like Kaori Shimamura , who looks really good with a gun in her hand , and can also display a magnificent body during the sex scenes , and put a shell of a story around it . In this case , we have our girl trying to hit the head of the Yakuza for killing her sister . There is lots of shooting ( both bullets and sperm ) and blood enough to appease the vampires in the audience . There is also some really strange action that will best be left for the viewer to discover . One of the best I've seen .
Colin Firth over Hugh Grant ?	I watched this last night and was sorely disappointed . The first two thirds of the film is Renee Zellweger mooning over Colin Firth . Come on ! He is so wooden . She deserved to go to jail . Of course , the jail scene is the second best scene in the movie . Teaching the Thai women to sing " Like a Virgin " was funny . The best scene was , of course , the seduction attempt by Hugh Grant . She totally left him to go back to Colin . How crazy is that ? And , if that is not enough , she rejects a chance with Jacinda Barrett . Are you out of it ? If you aren't going to pick Hugh , at least pick Jacinda . Of course , Renee played the character brilliantly , the movie just wasn't that funny .
They want life .	J-horror fans may be upset at the way that Wes Craven took a great psychological horror film and turned it into something completely different , but it is really a good film on a different level . Horror isn't always about blood . In fact , it was never about blood in the early days . it's about fear , and this film does a good job of scaring the bejesus out of you . The existentialism of Kiyoshi Kurosawa's Kairo is replaced with a Luddite view that technology is the source of our problems and we are all going to die because we are connected only though computers and phones . CGI was fantastic and Craven gave a good story with a lot of the same scenes as appeared in Kairo . The best feature of the film is Christina Milian , who had some serious booty and really kept me focused throughout . Too bad this is the first movie I have seen her in , and probably the last . I did see Kristen Bell in Deepwater , but didn't remember her . She really did a good job of acting , even if some of her scenes were unrealistic . Horror fans should find enough here to keep their interest unless they are just looking for blood .
Ron Silver gets his due	I do not like Ron Silver . I don't like his politics and I don't like his characters . When he gets it , I am happy . This movie made me very happy for two reasons : he has the absolutely worst haircut in the world , so I get to laugh at him throughout , and he gets his just desserts . He plays a sleazy Senator who is on the take and screwing with Danny O'Neill's ( Pierce Brosnan ) wife ( Lisa Eilbacher ) . O'Neill is an FBI agent specializing in bombs . Not a great job by Brosnan , but the bomb in the film is one of the best parts as it is an original and gruesome device . Did I mention that Silver gets what's coming to him ? Yes !
Don't leave me . He's here . I know it !	This video nasty was initially banned in Britain , but released with 2 minutes cut in 1896 . It is a good tale of suspense with a professional , misogynistic slasher , Michael Ironside ( Scanners ) , stalking a woman ( Lee Grant ) and anyone who gets in the way . The music was really good and added to the suspense . This was old time , jumping-out-from-all-corners excitement . Lee Grant gave a excellent performance as the woman stalking even when she is hospitalized and there are police everywhere . She had young and tanned William Shatner hanging around her like a puppy dog . Well worth the time if you like real suspense . Very little blood .
It really is the end of the world .	Sometimes you can nitpick a movie to death and not really say anything useful . I particularly am distressed when one compares a movie to a book or a video game . A movie may be based on a book or movie , but it stands alone . I watch some movies for intellectual stimulation , some for physical stimulation , some just to have a good laugh , and some just to be entertained without a lot of effort on my part . This movie fits that last motive perfectly . It's sole purpose is to entertain and it did that well . There really wasn't a lot of story here ; just enough to frame the battles with the zombies and those freaking birds ! The mutant doctor was really good and Milla Jovovich is always a pleasure to watch . The addition of Ashanti got my pulse racing , too . Hey , the gals can take about the hot guys ; I'm not interested . Pop some corn , sit back and be entertained .
You shall have a special place in my kingdom for as long as you shall live . .	The cartoonish Ilsa ( Dyanne Thorne ) is the keeper of the Sheik's ( Jerry Delony ) harem , and trains the beauties kidnapped from around the world . She is just what you would expect in the role of a Nazi she-bitch . The Americans are sending a Henry Kissinger type ( Richard Kennedy ) along with a naval officer ( Max Thayer ) to try and overthrow the Sheik and get his oil . So , what else is new ? Ilsa and her henchwomen , Satin ( Tanya Boyd ) and Velvet ( Marilyn Joi ) are ruthless in their methods and devise extreme methods of torture to get what they want . Despite what Ilsa tells the Sheik , it is apparent that she is becoming close to the naval officer . He becomes tired of her delay and devises punishment that was decidedly extreme . Of course , there is a bloody Palace coup after that . And , Ilsa gets her reward . The porn was decidedly soft-core .
The story behind the story	There is certainly no shortage of films about man-eating animals . To have one with a 30-foot croc that is just terrifying is probably not original either . Basically , it is just Jaws with bad skin . And , yes they did put together a cast that is a cliché . The dude with an attitude , Dominic Purcell , who probably got his gig on " Prison Break " from this , the large-chested babe , Brooke Langton , from " Melrose Place , " who can barely keep her shirt on , and , of course , the comic relief in the form of Orlando Jones ( From Dusk Till Dawn 3 : The Hangman's Daughter ) . Add the grizzled guide , Jürgen Prochnow ( Beerfest , The DaVinci Code ) and the cute kid that wants to come to America , Gabriel Malema , and you have a formula for getting butts in the seats . But , there was another story going on that was worth watching . In this beautiful South African locale , we are told the story of the civil war in Burundi that lasted for 12 years and consumed many more people than the croc could . But , no one is going to Tivo a story about deaths in Africa when they don't even care about blacks that are getting killed right around the block . That doesn't mean the story is not important enough to keep telling . Maybe someday we will care about Burundi , Rwanda and Darfur .
Sin City , Pulp Fiction , and this film .	If you like neo-noir , or the real thing from the fifties , then this film is for you . The look and feel of a fifties classic is all over this film from the cinematography to the music to the narration . It is a story about a totally dysfunctional family . The children witnessed their father killed while shagging the cop's wife from across the street . Mom didn't seem to mind , but then she was wacko , too . Why do people play in their own back yard ? The kids grow up totally weird as expected . Gina Gershon ( Bound ) plays the sister , who left a rich husband to become a prostitute . She had that classic look of the Fifties - white skin and the full pouty lips . Style the hair right and she could be Ava Gardner . Is there something going on with her brother ( Billy Zane ) that is more than brotherly love . That is for you to figure out . Sheryl Lee ( " Twin Peaks " , Twin Peaks : Fire Walk with Me , John Carpenter's Vampires ) can always be counted upon to present skintastic moments in her films . She comes through here as a sex-crazed cop who hooks up with the brother . Lots of death , of course , as that is the rule for noir , and lots of passionate and sexy moments . An entertaining Fifties film presented as they never could in the Fifties .
Intellectual horror film ?	I thought I was watching Groundhog Day . Lauren Currie Lewis was fantastic as the girl who was reliving her murder over and over . This is like a thinking man's horror film . You really don't know what is happening for a while . Is she crazy ? It is obvious that it is not real , but what is going on ? There were some bloody parts , and one really gory scene , but most of it was like a thriller . This was the real thing without all the special effects - except for the gory part . Check this one out .
You don't die for women . You kill for them .	It is not often that you see an " R " rated western . It was even initially banned in Sweden , if you can believe that . But , that was for what was considered excessive violence , including a rape . But , there was not much violence when you consider the torture porn of today , and there was no nudity , despite Oscar-nominee Barbara Hershey's long history of flashing her breasts in several movies , notably Boxcar Bertha just four years before . James Coburn plays the role of a tough half-breed that wants to torture Charlton Heston for killing his wife eleven years previous when he was a sheriff . He almost gets his wish , but , hey , this is a western , and you can't ever let the bad guys win . This is the way they should have all been made .
That's my sister , baby , and she's a whole lotta woman .	One of the better blaxploitation films with Pam Grier kicking butt and looking o so fine as she does it . The yellow dress that she wore as a hooker was mouth watering to say the least . Rape and revenge are the main threads running through the film , as she is on the warpath to avenge her lover , who was killed by the scumbags she is now working for . Lots of people die . Also features Sid Haig , who is familiar not only in director Jack Hill's other films like Coffy and Spider Baby , again , with Grier in Tarantino's Jackie Brown , and also in Rob Zombie's films House of 1000 Corpses and The Devil's Rejects .
" Neat " ? Anyone who says my show is neat has to go .	I have always been fascinated with Madonna . I feel that she has been unfairly maligned over the years , as are many who stretch the envelope with new ideas and thinking . I have to admit I tuned into this documentary just to see Pedro Almodovar . I hadn't realized that Madonna had a thing for Antonio Bandaras and she got to meet him at a party thrown in her honor by Almodovar . Unbelievable , that she lost out to Melanie Griffith . Seeing Madonna backstage shines a whole new light on her and makes her out to be someone who really cares about putting on a good show and , more importantly , shows her as someone who loves every - black , white , gay , straight - it doesn't matter . Everyone except Kevin Costner , who had the audacity to call her show " neat . "
I got a bang out of this !	It probably won't last just because I thought it was funny , but the story of two geeks ( Johnny Galecki and Jim Parsons ) and their friends and a ditsy blonde ( Kaley Cuoco ) had some clever moments . Unfortunately , there are only two episodes in the can , so maybe next week will be the last chance to see it . Like I said , I thought the premise funny , and certainly more interesting that " Chuck . " How can you not laugh at friends like Wolowitz ( Simon Helberg ) and Koothrappali ( Kunal Nayyar ) ? Are there real people with names like that ? Check it out before it's gone .
Simplify , Clarify , and Economize	The idea of a $99 computer may have been a big dream in this film , but to those who have seen the documentary TED , it is a reality . Of course , the real $99 computer is nothing like these guys dreamed up ! Andy ( Adam Garcia ) wants to really build something like his father . So , he quits his marketing job and goes to work at a dream factory . They do not accept him and give him the $99 computer project , which no one believes is possible . he has to recruit his own team . He gets the only guys left . When you see them , you will know why they are left - no one else would touch them . Jake Busey , Ethan Suplee ( Randy from " My Name Is Earl " ) , and Anjul Nigam join Andy . While Andy is not busy on the computer project he is trying to make it with Rosario Dawson . You know that she is really the reason I am watching this movie . But , I got a bonus . Besides almost seeing Rosario shine , I got a lot of laughs along the way and I got to see a jerk ( Enrico Colantoni ) get his due . Not bad for an hour and a half .
All the elements of a good slasher flick .	Good story , a sufficient amount of gore , interesting characters , and the requisite titties ; all combine to make an enjoyable slasher film . It may not make the purist's Top Ten for the year , but it was worth the time . With over 100 roles , I should know Lochlyn Munro by now , but I kept thinking he could be Gary Busey's son . He did a credible , but not impressive job in this film . The real roles went to the three blondes . First up was veteran Carrie Fleming , who had me from hello . I spent the whole movie hoping to see more than teeth , and was rewarded in a bizarre scene where she and a wanna be rocker decide to get it on while his groupie ( Sonya Salomaa ) is in the next room nailed to a wall disemboweled , and another was on the front porch with a couple of dozen nails in her back . Just didn't seem to be the time for romance to me . Chandra West had the best role as the girlfriend of Munro . She really gave a good performance , especially tangling with the two hillbillies . P . J . Soles ( Death by Engagement , The Devil's Rejects , Jawbreaker ) played the woman next door that warned everyone about the Tooth Fairy . Nail guns , guts and other body parts on the ground , hatchets , a wood chipper , screams , and two beautiful titties . A good time .
You have a divine animal right to protect your own life and the life of your offspring .	Jennifer Lopez is not a great actress . She wasn't even good enough to win a Razzie for worst actress for this film . That went to Britney Spears ( Crossroads ) and Madonna ( Swept Away ) . But , of course , we do not watch Lopez for her acting ability . This was her fifth Razzie nomination ; she won for Gigli . Now , don't get me wrong . I have seen just about all of her films . As badly as she acts , she is still Selena , and I will always love her for that . So , if you like to see a woman fight back against her abuser , and you want to see Noah Wyle outside his soap roles playing a bad guy , then this is the film for you . Juliette Lewis ( From Dusk to Dawn ) and Tessa Allen ( General Hospital ) as the daughter add to the movie .
You know , for kids .	Come on now ! Even the movies are claiming that it's " for the children . " That line doesn't get every law passed , and it doesn't make every Coen brothers movie a hit . Sure , I like the Coen brothers . Fargo is a big favorite , as is O Brother , Where Art Thou ? I liked Blood Simple , and even The Big Lebowski was good after I watched it twice . Like many people , I am anxiously awaiting No Country for Old Men . But even with Sam Raimi's help , I just don't think this is one of their better works . Sure , the cinematography was brilliant and I loved the art deco style , but art deco is 30's , not 50's . Jennifer Jason Leigh is not " Hildy " Johnson , and there just didn't seem to be a lot of story behind all the flash of the picture . There were a lot of interesting actors in the film : Tim Robbins , Paul Newman , Charles Durning , John Mahoney , Bruce Campbell , Steve Buscemi , and even Anna Nicole Smith . That makes it worth watching - once .
So , is someone gonna unplug me now ?	The idea of parallel universes is based in science , and I found it interesting to see in a sci-fi movie . I have to say that this was really difficult to keep straight , but I tried hard . Going back and forth from the present to 1937 Los Angeles , you never knew what was real and what was created . Of course , at the end , you get a shock . Craig Bierko ( Cinderella Man , The Long Kiss Goodnight ) was very good , as was Gretchen Mol ( Get carter , 3 : 10 to Yuma ) . I always like to see Vincent D'Onofrio , as I am a big fan of his on " Law & Order : Criminal Intent " .
I myself have no future . But I am a force .	Anyone looking for some exciting tale along the lines of the Bourne trilogy in a film named The Secret Agent is going to be disappointed . What you have here is a dark and deep intellectual exercise in the actions of spies , anarchists , agent provocateurs , and the like in 19th Century England . While Bob Hoskins ( Unleashed , Who Framed Roger Rabbit ) leads the cast , it is truly an ensemble film . Hoskins is a man playing all sides . He is an anarchist , but in the employ of the Russians , and under the thumb of a local police inspector ( Jim Broadbent ) . His wife ( Patricia Arquette ) only married him to gain protection for disabled brother ( Christian Bale ) . When the Russian boss ( Eddie Izzard ) puts the pressure on , he has to act and he manages to kill the brother . Everything falls apart at that point , and it is where the film really gets interesting . So , if you bail before that , you miss it all . One of the most interesting things in the film was his actions after his wife found out that her brother was killed . She is leaving , and he orders her to stay . He is stuffing his face while " consoling " her and sits on the couch . He then tells her , " I know what you need . Come over here . " I hope this is not a reflection of the attitude of men towards women in this period , but I am afraid that it probably is . Anyway , it was what she needed , but not in the way he imagined . Things do not end well in this film . There is a good performance by Gérard Depardieu ( Cyrano de Bergerac , The Man in the Iron Mask ) towards the end , and a great performance by Robin Williams throughout . They must really like Conrad's story , as it has been done on TV a couple of times before this film . It is worth your time .
You ate my chicken ass , now I'm going to eat your ass !	There is nothing that compares to a Jet Li movie when you want martial arts action . He is the best there is , and I cannot understand why they tried to make something that I would expect of Jackie Chan . The government is looking for maps to rebel treasure , and Jet Li is in hiding with his son Ting ( Miu Tse ) , who gives a great performance for a 10-year-old . It is almost a Chinese version of Star Wars and features plenty of action scenes , as you would expect . They even come into contact with a couple of con artists , played by the lovely Chingmy Yau , and Deannie Yip as her mother . They both added tremendously to the movie . Everything about the movie was great with the exception of the dialog . The constant effort to be funny just detracted from a good story . Jet Li doesn't need Jackie Chan dialog to be good ; he is great as he is .
The new Van Damme is worth watching .	He will never be mistaken for an " A " list star , but Jean-Claude Van Damme is certainly showing improvement in his acting ability . Despite the fact that this is your standard prison film , with lots of violence , there is an undercurrent here that makes it a good story , and Van Damme does a good job as a man who gets off track and finds his way back . Like 451 says , " Without evil , we would never recognize good . " Lawrence Taylor , formerly of the NY Giants , Grand Theft Auto : Vice City , the Shaft remake and Wrestlemania , did a credible job as 451 , the lifer who philosophizes and , in the end , helps Kyle . One would certainly ask California what they have been smoking after seeing this , as they are going to integrate their cells . Yeah , that'll work ! Plenty of laughs provided by Juan Fernández and his gypsy band of transvestites . Come on , check it out , you know you want to .
Oh God , save us all .	I am not sold on this film . At over two and a half hours , it seemed as long as the investigation itself . Why didn't David Fincher give us a tight and exciting film like Se7en ? Yes , the investigation had an impact on many people other than those who were killed , and Jake Gyllenhaal , Mark Ruffalo , Robert Downey Jr . did a credible job of showing that , but there just wasn't the emotion that we saw with Brad Pitt . It just seemed like a long , boring investigation of little things that suggested who the killer might be . The bottom line is despite a few award nominations , the film won none , and that is because there are many better films out there . I expected a lot and was sorely disappointed .
I shot him 6 times ! I shot him in the heart-but . . . HE'S NOT HUMAN !	May this should have been Halloween Continued as it is part of the first film with the story continuing to it's horrible conclusion . Donald Pleasence was definitely the star of this film as he appeared in almost every scene except in the hospital , where the carnage was continuing without anyone's notice . The therapy session was particularly gruesome , and a complete waste of Pamela Susan Shoop in her only topless role . What is it with these slashers ? Did they all take a vow of celibacy ? This was a methodical stalking of Michael Myers as he had only one objective in mind , and was determined that no one would get in his path . I counted about 13 victims - an interesting number for Halloween .
Well how would you like to have this hot tamale shoved down your throat ?	Now this would make a nice Disney film about a 92-pound weakling that suddenly develops into the muscle-man of the town and falls in love with a blind girl . But , this is Tromaville , and love stories by Lloyd Kaufman are a little twisted . Yes , there is a 98-pound weakling ( Mark Torgl ) who does develop into a muscle-man , but he develops after falling into a vat of toxic waste and becomes The Toxic Avenger ( Mitch Cohen ) . He does fall in love with a blind girl ( Andree Maranda ) after he saves her from being raped . Along the way , he tears off arms , frys one bad guy in hot grease , shoves mops down the throats of several and , well , you get the picture . It is a little nastie for the children . Of course , there are the requisite boobies bouncing up and down ( Cindy Manion ) . Can't have a Kaufman film without that .
Are we worth saving ? You tell me .	This was quite a creepy film for the most part - the scene at the hospital was really creepy : the location , the build up and the pay off were all great . Romero does a good job of showing the savagery of man . I think his vision is that we are not much different than the zombies as our humanity declines . He is also showing that the media and the government cannot be trusted to tell the truth . It is a movie about zombies , and it has the usual excitement . Not a lot of gore , and the girl doesn't get her clothes ripped off , but exciting nevertheless .
Troma release of Argento film	Troma remastered this director's cut of the dark Dario Argento film that features not only cutting edge CGI and special effects that had not been used in Italian horror previously , but also his own daughter in the lead . It had to be somewhat difficult directing a rape scene that includes your daughter . The haunting music throughout is done by none other than the five-time Oscar nominated Ennio Morricone . Seeing the beauty of Florence and Rome in a horror film is certainly a plus . This psychological thriller may not be for everyone , but it is certainly worth watching for Argento's direction , Morricone's music , and the beautiful Asia Argento .
I'm addicted to these stars .	Walter Abrams : After the therapy , and the psychiatry , and the meetings , you know what it all comes down to ? You're all fcked up . Let's face it . If Al Pacino , Matthew McConaughey , or Rene Russo are in a film , there is a better than even chance that I will be watching it . I'd say an 80 % chance . It is not just their acting abilities , but they usually appear in films that are interesting . Adding Carly Pope , who was in the recently seen 1st to Die , and it was a certainty . That is true in this case . The film was a fascinating study of addiction . Not just to gambling , but in the case of Jeremy Piven , to self-importance . Or , in the case of Armand Assante , to power . But , pss on him . This film was a roller-coaster ride all the way and just plain enjoyable .
The fate of the world is in my hands ? That's so . . . sad .	A comedy / adventures in the Indiana Jones style about a nerd who is responsible for saving the world . I am not looking for Emmy quality here , but compared to any other film based upon a cartoon , comic book , or video game , this is just good fun . Noah Wylie is a classic . 30 + years old and still in school . 22 degrees , but zero life experience . Using his mother's words to him , he manages to land a job as savior of the universe . This introductory episode is nothing spectacular except for Sonya Walger , familiar to those who watch " Lost " and " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles " and even " CSI : NY " . Nothing like her performance in The Vice , but she is still spectacular in a tight sweat soaked Tee . In second place for the affections of our nerdy hero is Kelly Hu ( Cradle to the Grave , X2 ) . Girl fight ! And the winner is . . . The bad guy is Kyle MacLachlan ( " Desperate Housewives " , " Sex and the City " ) , and he does a great job in that role . The cast is rounded out by regulars Bob Newhart ( " Newhart " , " The Bob Newhart Show " ) , Jane Curtin ( " Kate & Allie " , " Saturday Night Live " ) , and , as Wylie's mother , Oscar winner Olympia Dukakis ( Moonstruck ) . All play great supporting parts . If you like Indiana Jones , then you will find this equally good . It has great sound and an amazing Himalayan pass sequence .
Japanese Transformers ?	Keeping up with the fireworks on the 4th , we see that Godzilla has to defend Baby Godzill , who is much bigger , against a UN built Transformer-type machine and also Space Godzilla , which was formed by some Godzilla DNA that traveled to space somehow . They keep getting sillier and sillier . This one seemed to drag on forever before we got to the real action . When we did , it wasn't as good as the others . I do have to admit that the finale , when Godzilla destroyed Space Godzilla , was spectacular and one of the best fireworks displays I have seen . The ending was sorta cheesy as Godzilla calmly reenters the sea to some romantic music and a setting sun , as two of the G-Force team walk along the beach holding hand and whispering sweet nothings . Megumi Odaka , Kôichi Ueda , and Kenji Sahara are back from the last film . Watch , if you must , but not as good .
How to become a pet-obsessive in 10 easy lessons .	This was probably not a good movie for me to watch . I have had to put two dogs down and one just died on me . If you are out digging a grave at 5 . am . , bawling your eyes out , then you know what someone goes through when they lose a pet . So , I could empathize with Peggy ( Molly Shannon ) and see how she could be easily swayed by Newt ( Peter Sarsgaard ) . She was vulnerable and was easily pushed over the deep end . It is unrealistic to think that friends , family , and co-workers will be so understanding . That only happens in the movies . But , it was nice to see her follow her passion . That was the plus of the movie that focused just a bit too much on animal abuse .
Neo-noir high school tale	Nikki Reed ( American Gun , Thirteen , " The O . C . " ) , Jonathan Tucker ( In the Valley of Elah , Love Comes to the Executioner , " The Black Donnellys " ) , and Julie Gonzalo ( " Veronica Mars " ) come together in this indy film that has some interesting twists and fascinating characters . There is nothing you haven't seen before in a film reminiscent of classic noirs of the 40s . People aren't who they seem to be , lying and distrust abound , and the final twist is predictable , but getting there was fun as we follow Jordan ( Tucker ) , a rich kid , and Shay ( Reed ) , as they do their dance , with D ( Gonzalo ) as the ignored friend who is called upon only when needed , and who comes through as a true friend in the end . Not DiBella's first film , but certainly the first to get any notice . Looking for more in the future .
Oh my god , I am WAY too stoned for this !	Alfred Hitchcock said that it wasn't the blood and gore that was scary , but the anticipation . That is what makes this film well worth watching . It was full of anticipation of what was to come . Watching Jessica Biel running around screaming , covered in blood , and rats crawling up her legs while she tried to escape those in-bred hillbillies was also fun . I've said before and I'll say it again : You get off the Interstate in Texas at your own risk . Bwahahaha . A great movie with suspense that did not stop . I got the deluxe DVD , so I have much more to watch when I get the time .
Harry Potter . . . You will lose . . . everything .	I actually got the opportunity to see this today and was mesmerized by the increasing maturity of the movies in the series . It actually was more of an adult film that the previous ones and makes me think that we are in for a treat with the next two . The usual gang is back , and there are some great performances . I particularly liked Richard Griffiths ( Vernon Dursley ) in his brief appearance ; Natalia Tena ( Mrs . Henderson Present , About a Boy ) was the first really attractive adult in the films ; Gary Oldman ( Sirius Black ) was also excellent ; Alan Rickman ( Snape ) is a favorite ; and , of course , Ralph Fiennes as Lord Valdamort . I really liked the performance of Helena Bonham Carter as Bellatrix Lestrange . I am looking forward to seeing her again . And the addition of unknown Evanna Lynch as Luna Lovegood was brilliant casting . The ending fights were spectacular and worth the price of admission . This was definitely the best yet and makes me anxious for number six .
I felt like I was watching a documentary	This was New Mexico , but I have seen many such facilities during my time as a foster caseworker over nine years in Texas . The only thing that was outside my knowledge was the isolation . I cannot imagine that any facility has a solitary confinement room . The terrible tragedy of young women depicted in this film was real . Abuse and neglect by parents who cannot and will not take the time to raise their children properly and are surprised when they rebel . Christine never had a chance . She was kicked out by an abusive father and a mother who could not defend her . She was probably getting beaten herself . She was thrown in with too many others who had problems of their own that were not being addressed . After abuse at home and in the system , she hardened just like prisoners do and was forever lost . 15-year-old Oscar nominee and Golden Globe winner Linda Blair was magnificent in this realistic film .
A tribute to Carrie	In the interest of full disclosure , I have to admit that I really wanted to be in California this weekend to meet the director and cast and see this on the big screen . But , I have to be satisfied with my video autographed by the director Jim Hemphill in his first effort at a horror film . The story was basic high school revenge after a rape by Aaron ( Jared Anderson ) after he drugs Michelle ( Angelique Hennessy ) . She gets blamed and duct taped to a tree by Debbie ( Dakota Ferreiro and her friend , while Wendy ( Danielle Noble ) just watches . The whole school is ragging her the next day as a slut , and the school counselor ( T . W . Porrill ) is more interested in getting in her pants than helping her . Well , that takes care of all the great people who also autographed my copy of this movie . Revenge is sweet , as she systematically does them one by one . I won't tell you whether or not she gets away . You'll have to watch it yourself for that . What I will say is that the acting was good for a Grade B film , the dialog was superb and the direction was great . What impressed me the most was the quality of the tape . The lighting and sour were superb , and that is rare in this type of movie . My only complaint : It is really a PG , not an R rated horror . They missed the boat there .
Film does not stand the test of time	Luis Buñuel directed some great films , and this may have been one in 1961 , when the conditions in Spain were bad only a generation after the military coup by Franco . However , it really does not stand the test of time and , despite the fact that one is expected to sing the great director's praises at every opportunity , it is a disappointment . Sister Viridiana ( Silvia Pinal ) is waiting to take her final vows when Mother Superior orders her to return home for a few days to properly show her appreciation to the uncle ( Fernando Rey ) that supported her in the novitiate ( translated : gave the Church a lot of money ) . He is a recluse who is obsessed with his dead wife . Viridiana is a dead ringer . But , her piety and religious devotion cause her to reject his advances and return to the convent . He commits suicide and she feels guilty . Why ? She did nothing wrong . Anyway , she gathers some poor off the street and tries to reform them as her penance . This is where Rush Limbaugh would have a field day . They are the most degenerate lot of beggars , fornicators , and thieves she could have put together . They are in no way appreciate of her help and end up trashing the house in a drunken bacchanal . Meanwhile , the illegitimate son of the uncle is reveling in his new good fortune by kicking out his girlfriend and making moves on Viridiana . After she sees that her efforts at charity are useless ( translation : if first you don't succeed , then quit ) , she resigns herself to probable ménage à trois with the cousin and the maid . Depressing and dated , it is not one I would recommend . Buñuel has done so many better films .
Nothing is a sure thing .	Maybe they should have used the alternate title , " Rat in the Can , " instead of " Strange Hearts . " Of course , if you go looking for " Strange hearts " on cable , you will have better luck trying " Roads to Riches . " But , " Rat in the Can " is a good title to describe just how far Jack Waters ( Robert Forster ) has fallen in his luck . It's his million-dollar idea , and it's a winner if he can manage to go through with it . Forster ( Jackie Brown ) plays a lovable loser , who just can't get his act together . It is going to cost him the love of his life , Moira ( Rose McGowan , who plays what I consider her best role to date as a stripper . ) Smooth talking Texan Henry ( Kip Pardue - Remember the Titans ) is working his charm to drag her back home to keep her barefoot and pregnant . " Friends " fans will find this slow , but it is a good romantic indie film .
Blaxploitation stars kick ass	It's like old home wee when stars like Jim Brown ( Slaughter , Black Gunn ) , Fred Williamson ( Starsky & Hutch ) , Pam Grier , Ron O'Neal ( Superfly ) , Richard Roundtree ( Shaft ) , and Paul Winfield ( Sounder ) get together to teach some young punks a lesson . Heavys of the 70's blaxploitation genre are called home to get some revenge and clean up the town . Lots of talking and shooting and good old fashioned fisticuffs . Pam Grier ( Coffy , Foxy Brown ) is back in the form we like . She was one of the first female action stars in Hollywood . Looking forward to a retrospective this weekend when they replay two of her best .
There is no security .	I cannot imagine why Sylvester Stallone and Rutger Hauer ( Blade Runner , Sin City , Batman Begins ) have not been matched up more . No , I don't do games so I have not seen them in Rambo II , the video game . These two really played well off each other and did a credible job as the cop vs terrorist . They both kept you glued to the screen to see what would come next . Billy Dee Willams ( Brian's Song , Star Wars V and VI ) made a great lethal Weapon-type sidekick to Stallaone and Persis Khambatta ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture ) is the terrorist partner that I definitely do not want to mess with . The ending is not to be missed .
In , through . . . and beyond .	Sometimes you just have bad luck . This was a good movie with dazzling cinematography and special effects . Unfortunately it lost the Oscars in both categories going up against Apocalypse Now and Alien . Despite that , it was worth watching for the action and science . Maximilian Schell ( Judgment at Nuremberg , The Man in the Glass Booth , Julia ) is always worth watching , and he certainly makes a good mad scientist . Anthony Perkins certainly showed that he can do something besides Psycho . And , it had the cutest little robots I have ever seen . they were adorable ! I just thought that it stretched credulity a bit as the spaceship was breaking up . I just can't believe anyone would have lived .
Get away from my boyfriend , you crazy bitch !	OK , I'm a sucker for Uma Thurman and Eddie Izzard . Actually , I prefer Izzard as a transvestite comedian , but I'll take a chance as an actor . Luke Wilson ( Hoot ) is not having luck finding a girlfriend despite the best efforts of his buddy played by Rainn Wilson ( House of 1000 Corpses ) . He hooks up with super girl , actually G-Girl , played by Uman Thurman . Now , it was a little corny seeing someone of Uma's ability acting like a school girl , but Izzard wasn't doing much better . Things get a little silly when he breaks up with her , and she and Anna Faris ( all the Scary Movies ) get it on with Luke as the prize . I'm sure they could do better . Check it out if you are bored and your hair doesn't need washing and there is nothing to read and . . .
Only the third " female " version of A Christmas carol ?	Needless to say , I am a big fan of Dicken's story , and have seen many versions . Susan Lucci did the best " female " portrayal in Ebbie , but I would not dismiss the fine performance of Tori Spelling , someone I initially would not consider worth watching . I am a little biased in this one as her love interest ( Jason Brooks ) is a social worker . The story does not need retelling , as most are familiar with it . It is a story that embodies the real spirit of the holiday . How could anyone not " reform " after being visited by the Ghosts of Christmas , played comically and wonderfully here by Gary Coleman and William Shatner . A very interesting twist here substituting Tiny Tim's affliction with a custody battle . It was nice seeing Nina Siemaszko ( Ellie Bartlet from " The West Wing " ) again .
Ladies , we're gonna have some fun .	This film was supposed to be some kind of homage to the grind house flicks of the past . If so , I am glad that i missed them because it was really a bore with three exceptions . First , Vanessa Ferlito , who I would watch sitting in a chair for an hour anytime . hey , that what I did here , except for one fantastic lap dance . The whole first half of the movie was four girls talking . That's it . Then the lap dance and a short highway incident with the psycho Stuntman Mike ( Kurt Russell ) . To give him top billing was a travesty as Ferlito was clearly the star of this film . What kept me interested in the second half was , of course , Tracie Thoms and Rosario Dawson . I could watch them ride around in a car for an hour . hey , that's what they did ! But I was happy . Finally , we get to the action in the last third of the film . All this time waiting for some fantastic stunt work by Zoe Bell and , of course , the coup de grâce , Rosario's boot in Stuntman Mikes face . heavenly .
We are talking about things beyond science , about the imaginings of men's minds , about good and evil .	While we anxiously await Lesbian Vampire Killers , we can visit a Hammer classic that has loads of naturally endowed women in a finishing school . While the lesbianism that is inferred is probably just normal boarding school hi-jinks , we are able to enjoy the peaks of pleasure exposed to our view . The vampire Mircalla ( Yutte Stensgaard ) has plenty of girls to go skinny dipping with . The teacher Richard ( Michael Johnson ) is quite taken with the beauty that he fellow teacher ( Ralph Bates ) believes to be the reincarnation of a Countess that died 120 years previous . Another teacher ( Suzanna Leigh ) almost buys it after she continues to stick her nose into the problems of dying and missing . As expected , the villagers finally take matters into their own hands to rid themselves of the problem .
You'll really go to another level	Like a lot of psychological horror , you have to invest some time and energy in this film . It appears to be one thing , but you are not prepared for the changes , and certainly not the ending . I really expected that Nagisa ( Yûka in her first film ) was going one way , and then it went a completely different direction and the ending was most unexpected . It challenges you because Takashi Shimizu ( Ju-on and The Grudge and sequels ) has put together something different with characters and actions moving back and forth through filming and the actual location of horror , and you never really know where you are at any time . It is a heavy horror film that has less blood , but more challenge .
I am not human . . . We're better than that .	I so wanted this film to be great . Not just because I have the poster signed by Stan Winston on my wall , but because I love a great werewolf movie . It is so wrong to make a PG-13 werewolf movie . We are cheated out of what makes the genre great . The effort to appeal to a broader audience took away from the picture . The story was great , and there were some great actors in the film . I love Rhona Mitra ( The Number 23 ) so much that I watch Ali G Indahouse , just to see her . I can't wait to see her as a Vampire next year . She was great as the kid's mom . Natassia Malthe was really wasted in the film . She could have made it so much better . Jason Behr was really good , as was Elias Koteas and Sarah Carter . I would like to see a Director's cut of this film . It would have to be better .
Kinda goofy and very gory	This isn't the American version of Shaun of the Dead . It really started out slow and wasn't going anywhere until one of the group started dancing around in a pool of blood on the floor . Every once in a while the action is interrupted by some twanger who is trying to reveal what is happening through song . Once the box is opened , the zombies are unleashed and then things do get interesting with a slew of killings that involve blood , cymbals , blood , garden clippers , blood , claw hammers , blood , decapitations , etc . Lots of spewing and dying . Director Matthew Leutwyler must be doing something right as he is supposedly directing a remake of Creepshow .
The games have just begun .	I can imagine that we will be watching Saw for a few more years . This episode gave us the back story for Jigsaw ( Tobin Bell ) , and now we can feel a little sympathy for him . After all , he didn't exactly go after the innocent , did he ? It was certainly gory and the inventiveness of the traps were still impressive . In addition , there was more story here ; more of a psychological thriller . I imagine that we will see Agent Perez ( Athena Karkanis ) again , and that is worth waiting for . It will be interesting to see if they can keep coming up with interesting gadgets . I await the next installment .
Leck mich am Arsch	I had never seen Franka Potente before The Bourne identity , and I fell in love with her immediately . So far , I have only been able to get my hands on one film featuring her , and it's a real winner for those that like mystery / suspense with a little gruesomeness . No , it doesn't feature her bod , nor that of the incredibly beautiful German TV Star Anna Loos . Anna was hilarious with her " naughty " comments throughout . ( As an aside , she is supposedly the lead singer of , or a member of a band called Leck mich am Arsch , which is also the name of a Mozart composition . You can have a lot of fun googling that bit of German . ) She does do a song in the movie soundtrack . She is a doctor doing some research and stumbles on an old German medical society that does autopsies on people while they are still alive , using some sort of paralyzing drug . Lots of suspense as they discover she knows who they are and come after her - sort of like Extreme Measures . Also stars Benno Fürmann , who was in the superb Joyeux Noël , and who I am sure many will see in next year's Speed racer . Yes , it's not just Frake and Anna ; there are plenty of German hunks for the ladies .
There will always be dark . People will always be afraid .	I don't recall seeing a Witchouse I or II , so I won't be judging this as a sequel , but on it's own . First , the cinematography was outstanding . This , in no way , appeared to be low budget by the camera work or the acting . Things were not as they appeared , and that was a good thing . Stevie ( Debbie Rochon ) , Annie ( Tanya Dempsey ) , and Rose ( Tina Krause ) were doing a ritual as part of a documentary on witchcraft that Stevie and Rose were doing . They conjured up something they didn't count on . Lillith ( Brinke Stevens ) the witch starts to haunt Stevie and Rose . I wondered why she left Annie alone , but that would be giving away the good part . Speaking of good parts , there was a definite good part when Tina Krause came out of the shower . Reportedly not as good as An Erotic Vampire in Paris , Poetic Seduction , or Vampire's Seduction , but good anyway . I guess I'll have to get those films , too . It was a good flick that was worth watching . And , did I mention it had Debbie Rochon ?
You're supposed to say trick or treat .	Sorry , little girl , but I'll take my treat from your neck . She came out OK , as the Flesheater ( S . William Hinzman ) managed to stick his hand into one girls stomach and pull out some organs , and he stuck his hand completely through the body of another victim . You just have to wake one zombie and he can exponentially increase the flock , which is what happens in this film . Soon , you have zombies noshing all over , breasts getting exposed , and a whole lot of redneck on a zombie shoot . Unfortunately , there is collateral damage as no one taught these goobers how to tell zombies from real people . Some really gory stuff and some really juicy stuff . Zombie fun for all .
I'm coming for you O'Shea	At least Paul Kersey ( Charles Bronson ) has justification for responding . He tried the law , and they failed . It's the basic revenge scenario , but without the senseless killing in Death Wish IV . At least this movie spent the first half setting up the reasons for Kersey's revenge and gave his efforts at having the law do their job . He was also original in his dispatches with powdered canolies , recycling , and some dermatology assistance . Criminals don't come any sleazier than Michael Parks ( Kill Bill , Grindhouse ) . he got a needed bath . Good ending to the series .
Another chance to see Halle Berry	OK , not the greatest movie in the world , and the outcome is fairly predictable , but it was another opportunity to see Halle Berry , and I cannot pass that up . Besides that , I am trying to get my teaching certificate , so I watch teacher movies , no matter how silly . I understand that it is also based upon a true story . In addition , it also featured Eliza Dushku ( Buffy , Tru Calling ) , Casey Affleck ( brother of Ben ) , and James Belushi . It wasn't memorable , but it was cute and not a total waste of time . Also , it was written by Barry Morrow , a member of the Association of Retarded Citizens , the National Association of Social Workers , and the Austism Society of America - a lifelong advocate for the rights of persons with disabilities . That puts him solidly in my camp as I am also a member of NASW and work with the developmentally disabled . Morrow won an Oscar for writing Rain Man .
Losing my head over you .	Fans of avant garde film may find this interesting , and fans of Alejandro Jodorowsky will certainly want to see his first film . Those with psychological training my see this as an example of Body Dysmorphic Disorder - an internal dissatisfaction with their appearance . Fortunately , Jodorowsky has a solution - as store where you can find a new head if you , or your loved one is repulsed by yours . But , what is interesting is that there is always someone who wants your head when you don't like it . Luckily , our hero found that out before it was too late and regained his head and a new love . So , don't lose your head over some woman , just keep looking until you find the one that likes your's the way it is .
I'll kill anybody , but I'll only sleep with someone I love .	This is the best so far of all the Chucky films . It isn't that it has more story going on , but the addition of Jennifer Tilly makes it worth watching even if you don't like Chucky . Tilly's best role is unarguably Bound with Gina Gershon , but she has been thrilling us for years in such films as The Getaway and Dancing at the Blue Iguana . She thrills us again in this film and we take due notice . The film also stars " Grey's Anatomy " ' s Katherine Heigl , who shows much better taste in men that she did on screen this year with Nick Stabile as her partner . Lots of laughs and a cool maniac in Chucky .
The worst movie I've ever seen . NOT !	I cannot remember where I first saw Rhona Mitra , but I knew I wanted to see much more of her . That is why I watched Ali G Indahouse . Big mistake ! Even Rhona could not make that film worth watching . I never looked at Sacha Cohen again . There was nothing that he could do that would interest me . However , when I saw him win a Golden Globe and saw this film nominated for an Oscar , I knew I had to watch in the interest of finding out what the interest was . I did not laugh one time during the film . Not once . I do not find his demeaning of women , Jews , gays and others to be one bit funny . Yes , I know he is a Jew , and I know it is satire , but there are limits . he crossed those limits and it diminished the film and it diminished him . For the Golden Globes to put him in the same class as Aaron Eckhart or Johnny Depp is beyond my comprehension . Yes , the concept was good , the performances worthwhile , and the satire was excellent , but I just can't get over the subject matter and I do not like potty humor . I just feel that this film has no place at an awards show .
I wouldn't be praying .	Former cameraman Steven R . Monroe directed this little psychological movie that at times was slow as molasses , but , nevertheless , an interesting glimpse of the beast within all of us . Now , I cannot compare it to Cube , Saw , or My Little Eye , as others have done as i have not seen those films . I only mention them to give you an indication of what is in store for those that have . What I can say , is that I find the premise totally believable . When the pressure is on , our hatreds and prejudices , and inner demons come out rather quickly , especially when fueled with alcohol and hunger . Only Father Duffy ( Dennis Hopper ) and Lea ( Kelly Brook ) seemed to keep their cool , but they broke down eventually , albeit for different reasons than the others . This is not a bloody film , although there is a little , but a psychological one . I was bothered by one killing that occurred off-camera , as i kept thinking the rest of the film that it was fake . The ending was weird , foreshadowing a possible sequel , but , if they do , please get another writer . Philippe Vidal's screenplay just didn't cut it for the most part . I enjoyed the film , but it could have been way better . What a waste of a Maxim magazine " Hot 100 of 2005 " list member . Another cast member was a FHM's 100 Sexiest Girls member , and another gave an outstanding display in Eyes Wide Shut . All were wasted here .
It's all about family .	Andrea Roth was cute as the Ghost of Christmas Present in Chasing Christmas . She is just as cute here , but has a very different role . Seems she is trying to raise her young son and barely scraping by as her cheating husband ran off with his dental hygienist . Isn't that always the story ? But , don't worry , as cute as Roth is , I am sure that Santa will send some cute young man to fill her stocking . The story here is about Howard Hesseman . I remembered him from Police Academy 2 , but where I really remember him is " WKRP in Cincinnati . " It's been a long time , Howard . He plays a crazy old gazillionaire that is giving away all his money . Hundred dollar bills to everyone , sometimes a handful ; of them . Spreading that Christmas cheer around . But he has a secret or two , and one of them involves Roth . It is a sweet and tender story about family and giving and what is really important in life . Check it out .
He is not a man . He is a wolf who becomes human so that he can seduce and murder his victims .	Is her a serial killer or a werewolf ? That question is left for you to answer . Francisco Plaza's thrill / horror film is based upon true events that happened a couple of hundred years ago in Spain . Julian Sands , who plays Manuel Romasanta has appeared in a lot of horror movies . He is also scheduled to be in Ocean's 13 . Will we have a werewolf there ? He dispatches his victims in a gruesome manner , some quickly , and some he takes time to enjoy , like the lovely Elsa Pataky . This is not a great film , but it is slightly interesting . It also stars Ivana Baquero , who was in last year's El Laberinto del fauno . More on that film later .
You know , I don't know who you are , and I don't care . But I don't play games .	There is something about those WWE films that just grab me and make me want to watch . There is always plenty of action , even if they emphasize violence and dismiss the sex to placate their fans . It doesn't matter whether it is The Rock , John Cena , or , in this case , Stone Cold Steve Austin , they deliver movies that are just fun to watch . No thought required ; it is just guilty pleasure . Besides Steve Austin , we also have Rick Hoffman ( Hostel ) , Masa Yamaguchi , and Vinnie Jones , who we first saw in Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels . It was a good cast that kept us interested until the very end , even though we knew the hero would go home to momma . Keep them coming .
This moment is the only thing that matters .	OK , I'll admit it . The only reason I watched this movie was another chance to see Amy Smart ( Crank ) and Agnes Bruckner ( The Woods ) . A sports movie about gymnastics would not normally appeal to me . But , this is not really a sports movie . It is a movie about spirituality . Not too terrible different from The Karate Kid , with Nick Nolte ( Socrates ) as the Mr . Miyagi character and Scott Mechlowicz as the student , here Dan instead of Daniel . It's all about finding yourself instead of chasing after what everyone expects you to do . If you just forget the past and future ( taking out the trash as Socrates says ) , and focus on the present , you can do great things . There is Buddhist awareness as Socrates tells Dan there is never not anything happening and shows his how to be aware of the moment . So , forget the booze , and meat , and sex and you , too , can be great . But , who would want to ? You've seen it before , but I really prefer these actors to the one in The Karate Kid , and you get to see Smart and Bruckner , too .
Welcome to Hell .	When you watch a movie about ex-Special forces guys who are now mercenaries , you know what to expect . When Dolph Lundgren ( Rocky IV , Universal Soldier , The Punisher ) is involved , you know that it is going to have lots of good fights . You are not looking for quality , just an exciting time and good entertainment . This film does not disappoint . Filmed in Thailand , the scenery is absolutely beautiful and the natives girls are pleasant to view . But there are more that native girls as we have Charlotte Lewis , Selected as one of the " 9 Best Bodies For the 1990s " by SHAPE magazine , and Catherine Bell ( " Army Wives " , " JAG " ) . Trevor Goddard ( Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl , " JAG " ) is there to be Mr . Evil ; and Kevin Tighe makes a perfect " Colonel . " B . D . Wong ( " Law & Order : Special Victims Unit " ) provides the laughs . Just sit back and enjoy .
I like the sloppiness of real life .	Fascinating study of two very different women with the ever impressive Stockard Channing ( The Matthew Shepard Story , " The West Wing " ) and Julia Stiles ( The Bourne Trilogy , Edmond ) . Julie ( Channing ) had to scrape her way to the top , apparently coming from the wrong side of the tracks . She is so fearful that , when her boss wants to meet with her , she immediately calls a headhunter to see what's available . Paula , with her multiple tats , is a child of privilege , and just wants to have fun . Can you imagine the clash ? Unfortunately , Nick ( Fred Weller ) gets between them and suffers as a result . It is one of those films that will have you thinking long afterwords .
I'll shovel it . I'll live in it . But I won't take it .	Talk about an undiscovered gem . I never knew this film existed . Denzel Washington's first film role . You could see the potential for greatness even then . Yes , I know that is easy to say now , but I really mean it . Even in this small role , he was great . My personal connection to this film aside , it really hit home the problem in this country . The divide is so great that only the election of Obama will begin to heal it . We still have the separate communities displayed here , and we still have the separate attitudes . George Segal really did a good job in displaying the angst of the two worlds that divide us . Most of the credit has to go to Oscar-winner Stanley Shapiro , for writing and producing this film . He used humor very creatively to spotlight a real problem that has plagued us for many many years .
Almost a cannibal film	If you like this film by Herschell Gordon Lewis , then you will love the remake . I liked this film , which was good for its time , but there is nothing that can compare with having the Suicide Girls in your film . It was almost a cannibal film in that the playing around with the guts was just short of having someone eat them . The only problem I had with the film , out side of the fact that I had already seen the remake and loved it , was the lack of explanation . Sure , it was an illusion , but that still doesn't explain the deaths . Are we just supposed to ignore that ? Why were the girls put in that mausoleum ? It was never answered . And what was with that ending ? It made absolutely no sense . It was fun anyway . Check it out .
. . . with liberty and justice for all white people , Amen .	I really didn't know what to expect when watching this film . I thought it was going to be more of a dramedy , not a mocumentary in the style of Ken Burns . I can say that I did not find it funny in the least , if that was the intent . I sat through the entire thing with my mouth handing open , except for the " commercials . " They were so offensive that I almost turned it off . I have to say that I was surprised and shocked after the movie ended and certain facts were shown . Yes , we still have Aunt Jemima and Uncle Ben , but it was certainly much worse as this film shows .
This isn't America , Jack . This is L . A .	Nick Nolte , Chazz Palminteri , Michael Madsen , and Chris Penn make up the notorious " Hat Squad , " that will stop at nothing to rid L . A . of criminals . This neo-noir film brings back the look and feel of 1950s L . A . and unfortunately was not to receive the acclaim that was given to the similar L . A . Confidential one year later . That is a shame as it is almost as good . Jennifer Connelly is at the center of things as she is found dead and just happens to be Nolte's mistress from the past . A black and white film is found with her and the head of the A . E . C . , General Timms ( John Malkovich ) . I can assure you that Connelly looks as good in black and white as she does in color . Treat Williams is the bad guy here as he tries to protect the general and the secret they share in the desert . Good stuff .
I almost walked out	Yes , I will admit it . There was a point after an hour and a half that I was ready to call it quits . I'm glad I stayed , but it was a struggle . To start off , the Title was stunning . I really felt that was one of the very best I've seen . Too bad I can't identify who did the opening . Not to take away from Tobey Maguire , but Kirsten Dunst is critical to my enjoyment of the movie . I thought the idea of having her sing was terrible . She is just above Celine Dion , who rates just above a screeching blackboard to me . No more singing , Kirsten . Please . Who is Topher Grace ? Get him out of here ! Thomas Haden Church was good . Two demons is good . New Goblin and Sandman - OK . Venom was too much . Needless to say the visual effects and sound and music were exceptional . Fight sequences were way too long . Bryce Dallas Howard and Elizabeth Banks - Hot ! I liked seeing more of Mageina Tovah . She has a quaint cuteness about her and matches perfectly with Peter parker . It sure seemed longer than the listed 140 minutes .
Misses the real story of Cuba	Watching this film , I am so reminded of Casablanca . Like Rick , Fico Fellove ( Andy Garcia ) is seemingly oblivious to the oppression and evil that surrounds him , only concerned with running his nightclub . Unlike Rick , Fico never changes and only connects with the enemy to save his brother or his friend . The movie is just too darn pretty . It presents a Cuba that may be familiar to the upper class and the rich American tourists , and neglects to mention the Cuba that demanded a revolution . This Cuba , one of poor , uneducated peasants that were in virtual slavery on sugar and tobacco plantations and women who sold themselves to tourists , is seen only in Mikhail Kalatozov's Soy Cuba , which will be released in a deluxe edition this month . The movie worth watching for Garcia's performance and the performances of Dustin Hoffman , Bill Murray , and Elizabeth Peña , as well as some great Afro-Cuban music . It probably did great box office in Miami .
You see a hypercube isn't supposed to be real . It's just a theoretical construct .	Take eight different characters and place them in a strange situation , and you will usually have something worth watching . Like the original Cube , these eight are in that situation , except that this cube is beyond the laws of physics and much more science fiction than horror . It even has a room that can kill you , and that's the only death in the first half of the film . Now , the mirror portal was definitely bizarre ! Things get stranger from there . At least Max ( Matthew Ferguson ) and Julia ( Lindsey Connell ) went out in the throes of passion . The ending was just too strange .
Distraction is an obstruction for the construction .	Surrealism is based on the belief in the superior reality of certain forms of previously neglected associations , in the omnipotence of dream , in the disinterested play of thought . It tends to ruin once and for all other psychic mechanisms and to substitute itself for them in solving all the principal problems of life . Surreal is to real as supernatural is to natural . This film is surrealism defined and a visual and musical treat . I had to watch it twice before I dare comment , and I am sure that I would need to see it several more times before I could comment intelligently . Writer / Director Michel Gondry presents eye candy that is mesmerizing to the senses . The music of Jean-Michel Bernard is a perfect frame for the superior acting of Gael García Bernal ( Babel , Bad Education ) and Charlotte Gainsbourg ( 21 Grams ) .
I want the old me back without these bloodsucking tits you gave me .	A group gets trapped in a movie set and the tour guide ( Henry Gibson ) suggests they tell real-life horror stories and they may be let go . In the first segment , Phoebe ( Rachel Veltri ) can't get any parts and figures she needs a boob job . She gets boob implants from a cadaver and gets sci-fi parts immediately . But , those boobs have a mind of their own . In a twist on Teeth , there are teeth in the nipples ! In segment two , Julia ( Lara Harris ) goes on a trip to Japan with her husband Henry ( Scott Lowell ) . Sean S . Cunningham ( Friday the 13th ) directs this segment which combines art , animation and reality in a really creepy ghost story . Henry was hoping to put some spark back in their sex life , but it was Julia that got the spark in this tale of necrophilia . Monte Hellman , who shot some of the footage seen in the US in A Fistful of Dollars , directed the third segment , which focused on movies . John Saxon ( From Dusk Till Dawn , Beverly Hills Cop III ) becomes friends with Stanley ( Tygh Runyan ) , and things went well until Nina ( Amelia Cooke ) shows up . This story has an interesting twist , but that comes at the end . Visual effects supervisor John Gaeta gets his first directing job in the fourth segment . It was really a grotesque tale about a girl ( Michèle-Barbara Pelletier ) who was born with a worm . They couldn't kill the tapeworm in her mother without killing her also , so they grew inside together . Thing is , the worm never died , and it helped her when she needed it most - it was her twin after all . Really great stories , but the ending was weird .
Trying to sell margarine as butter	Daniel Craig is not James Bond despite the fact that we have been subjected to a 2 and one half hour sales presentation . No , this was not a Bond movie but an attempt to convince us that we needed Craig . They failed miserably . Yes , I am upset that Pierce Brosnan was replaced , but I really tried to forget that while I watched this movie . I wanted to give it a fair chance . Some may criticize the title sequence for lack of the traditional Bond women , but I thought it was absolutely brilliant . It was one of the best titles I have seen . The chase in the beginning was also a masterpiece . I kept think that this would make for a real Olympic Decathalon competition . I know it is all movie magic , but I forgot that while I was watching - it was that good . After that , the movie over over . Craig is not Bond . He looks too old and has no sophistication . Bond is not a cold killing machine . He performs his job with flair and style . Craig has none of that . And , what's with this torture ? That belongs in 24 , not a Bond movie . Eva Green is extremely lovely , but was totally wasted in this film . There were no Bond women in this film . That would have distracted us from the sales job on Craig . I'm not buying .
Willis and Jackson shine !	There are great buddy flicks out there - Mel Gibson and Danny Glover probably define the genre ; and , there is plenty of action in all the Die Hard flicks , but this film combines both in a package that is a pure joy to watch . Bruce Willis ( John McClane ) and Samuel L . Jackson ( Zeus ) make an outstanding combination in a film that has non stop action as they try to catch the brother of Han Gruber ( Die Hard ) , Simon ( Jeremy Irons ( Elizabeth I , Kingdom of Heaven ) . McClane and Zeus stretch the limits of believability in taking a beating in this film . You just can't believe that McClane can even get up after his last beating , much less run and jump . So , if you want to see two stars shine in an action vehicle with great dialog , this is your pick .
I ain't a forty-hour motherfcker , man .	I lived outside Amarillo , Texas for nine years and never saw Terry Funk wrestle . I saw him make a lot of car commercials , but was never one for the wrestling game . I used to watch a little on Sunday mornings when I attended church at the Ace Lounge in Tampa about 30 years ago . That was pre-WWF - the time of Gorgeous George . From time to time I have tuned in to see what was going on - honestly , to see Miss Elizabeth - but I tuned out quickly as they spent all their time talking instead of wrestling . So , see what goes on behind the scenes was very interesting . Especially , seeing how the least move is choreographed for maximum crown excitement . It was also interesting to see people like Funk and Jake the Snake after they could no longer make it in the big time and had to resort to the bloody circuit , or ECW , and doing shows outside the big-time because of their drug or psychological problems . I do have to say that taking a four year old to a wresting match to see her daddy beat to a pulp and sustain head injuries that required stitches is just plain child abuse .
You can't escape from me , bitch !	High tension is a perfect name for Alexandre Aja's ( The Hills Have Eyes , P2 ) film . After what seemed like a slow start , the tension picked up to were I was strung wire tight , as was Cécile De France ( The Spanish Apartment ) . Philippe Nahon was a creepy killer who spilled copious amounts of blood ( hence an NC-17 rating ) . We spend countless minutes just walking on our tippy toes with Marie ( Cécile ) as she tries to stay alive and save her friend Alex ( Maïwenn Le Besco ) . But , what is this ? A bizarre switch on us ? I am not sure why they did this . Lots more blood , buckets of it , and a weird ending . I am still not sure what happened . I loved that saw !
I'll show you collateral damage !	OK , here is the premise . A fireman's ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) wife and son get blown up when a terrorist ( Cliff Curtis ) is trying to destroy some target . He googles " terrorist " on his home computer , finds out who is responsible , and goes off into the jungle to capture him . He escapes . In the meantime , he hooks up with the terrorist's wife ( Francesca Neri ) , wins her to his side , and they go off back to the States to catch him . If that is not the most unbelievable plot you can imagine , then there are some twists and turns that are even more incredible . But , who cares ? This is the Governator kicking some major butt like he did in True Lies , Commando , and many other movies that you and I watch over and over . Italian actress Neri ( Live Flesh ) is hot , Curtis ( Whale Rider ) makes a perfect terrorist , and one of my favorites , John Leguizamo ( Land of the Dead ) , plays a great part . Even Monk's agoraphobic brother , John Turturro , is here . Wow ! But , it's all about the damage , collateral and otherwise , that draws you to the movie . The fireman turned terminator turns up the heat ( red , of course ) and proceeds to erase the terrorist .
It's my baby !	This is the part of the series with the people I liked least - Detective Joe Fontana ( Dennis Farina ) and A . D . A . Alexandra Borgia ( Annie Parisse ) . I just didn't like the attitude of his character . He would do things like pull out a wad of cash like a pimp . She just didn't have any character at all - just limp . The story is good , with a wacko mom who stole a baby . But , like all " Law & Order " episodes there are the usual twists and turns that make thing interesting . Jack ( Sam Waterston ) falls short in this one , but Arthur ( Fred Dalton Thompson ) tried to make things right in the end .
Samurai ghost hunter	Tatsuya Nakadai has played in a lot of superior films over his career . Among them Kiru , Ran , and Yojimbo . Here he plays in a fantasy / horror film that results from murder . Iuemon ( Nakadai ) loses his lord and becomes a ronin and is not allowed to marry Oiwa ( Mariko Okada ) , the girl of his dreams . He loses his temper and kills Oiwa's father and two companions . All is not lost as Naosuke ( Kanzaburo Nakamura ) witnesses the fight and has plans on Oiwa's sister Oume ( Mayumi Ozora ) . However , he hasn't a penny and Takuetsu ( Masao Mishima ) is in the way . So , Naosuke convinces Iuemon to blame the killing on someone else . While they are off seeking revenge , they kill Takuetsu . Now , they both have the women they desire . It would have been a standard thriller , but it goes in another direction . Iuemon and Naosuke have a taste for blood and can't stand being broke . They hatch another plot to kill Oiwa and marry Iuemon to a rich girl . This is when the fantasy / horror part begins as Oiwa will not stay dead and comes back to haunt Iuemon . He manages to kill off his new family while being haunted . Oume finds out what happens to her sister and joins forces with Takuetsu , who survived , to seek vengeance . Tatsuya Nakadai does a very good job as a tortured soul who lets another lead him in the wrong direction .
Crime and criminals	Five-time Oscar nominee Sidney Lumet ( Network , Dog Day Afternoon ) directs John Hopkins ' play and gives us an intense and revealing portrait of the effect of years of crawling around in the slime , and what it can do to people . Whether it be child abuse investigators , or social workers , or soldiers , or police ; dealing with the sordid and dangerous side of society takes it toll . It certainly did on Sean Connery , who had 25 years dealing with the worst criminals . he finally lost it all when faced with a child molester . Psychologists would call it " stamp collecting . " Every little injury is placed in an album and cashed in all at once . Couples do this all the time , as do employees . Ignore the hurt for the moment and then cash them in at some insignificant time . In this case , Connery cashed in when he just couldn't take it anymore . Oscar-nominated Ian Bannen ( The Flight of the Phoenix ) gave an incredibly good performance as the molester . A superb film that shows the stress of dealing with society's ills .
If you've got to fight . . . fight dirty !	Sonny Chiba shows up early giving the last rights to a guy on death row ? the ' last Okinawa karate master ' actually . He gives him the means to escape . Maybe he's a good guy . but I doubt it . Chiba just looks mean and ugly . He certainly isn't the Jet Li type . But , we soon find he is a thug-for-hire as the brother and sister show up and they are light in the cash they owe him . brother goes out the window and sister gets sold as a sex slave . This guy is so bad that he can walk out on the Yakusa . He will join any side that pays him more . What a sweetheart ! The film gets gorier and gorier from here . This is the first film in the US to get a X or violence , so expect to seem lots of blood . There are a lot of interesting characters , and lots of fighting , and lots of . . . well , I guess you can expect that from a street fighter .
It doesn't matter what people say unless you believe them .	I am so used to seeing Joe Pesci as a mobster ( Goodfellas , Casino , Once Upon a Time in America ) that I never imagined him in any other role . Well , he certainly surprised me in this noir film as a photographer who took great pride in his work and never let his feeling get in the way - until this one time , and it almost cost him his life . Pesci was outstanding as the lonely photographer who imagined he could have a relationship with the gorgeous Barbara Hershey ( The Portrait of a Lady , A World Apart , The Last Temptation of Christ ) . He trusted and had his heart ripped out . Isn't that usually the case ! This is not a great film ( written & directed by Howard Franklin ) , but it was entertaining to see another side of Pesci . Great work also by Stanley Tucci .
Justice takes a back seat	The man From U . N . C . L . E . , Oscar-nominated Robert Vaughn ( The Young Philadelphians ) appears in this episode as a man with a big grudge against Adam Schiff ( Steven Hill ) , who is fighting for his political life . His Executive A . D . A ( Sam Waterston ) is facing ethics charges , and Jaime Ross ( Carey Lowell ) is testifying as she leaves the department . What will she say ? Lt . Van Buren ( S . Epatha Merkerson ) gets the news in no uncertain terms that the brass wants her resignation for filing a lawsuit , and Lenny ( Jerry Orbach ) is debating on whether or not to make a deal with a con to kill the man who killed his daughter . Among all this , there is a 10-year-old girl that is barely alive after being raped and everyone wants this case closed pronto .
Selling sin is easy .	Actually , this is a favorite Eastwwod film . Not only does Clint do a good job in this film , but also I am not too fond of Gene Hackman , and I like seeing him get his due . Eastwood plays a cat burglar - a really good one . He hit a mansion where the owner is out of town . He finds a secret safe that has one way glass and a chair . Now , here is where it gets a little far fetched . The President shows up with the wife of the owner . She skipped the trip . Eastwood is in the safe watching the action . Does the owner also do that ? Kinky . Oh yes , the owner is old ( E . G . Marshall ) and is wife ( Melora Hardin from The Office ) is young and hot . Well , things go wrong and the Secret service is cleaning up the mess and they discover that someone else was there . To the chase ! Eastwood's relationship with his daughter ( Laura Linney ) plays an important part and provides some of the most interesting scenes . Other very interesting scenes are provided by Judy Davis ( Husbands and Wives , A Passage to Idia ) as one of the Secret Service agents . Ed Harris , Scott Glen and Dennis Haysbert also add to the story . It is worth two hours of your life just to see all these stars in one film .
Your shot at love has ended .	Wow ! This is definitely an interesting twist on reality programming . Anyone who is aware of what is going on in MySpace knows Tila Tequila . It's a little hard to miss her if you keep up with pop culture . Now , she has a show that pits the guys against the girls in a battle of love . Oh , yeah , we've seen that before . The twist here , however , is that all of the girls are lesbians . Tina declares herself bisexual and the lesbian girls have to live with and battle the straight guys for her affection . The first episode is an indication that this will be a hot show . The parade of girls in their sexy outfits was amazing . I wish there was something equally amazing to say about the guys , but the testosterone display at the beginning sort of put them behind , in my opinion . Is Tina bisexual ? Based on the first show , I doubt it . She was definitely more into the women . We'll see as the show progresses .
Here , try this , " Hey , fuggeddabout it ! "	Hugh Grant is funny . He uses his British accent and his naughty schoolboy manner to bring a laugh to any film . This one is no exception . He falls in love with Gina ( Jeanne Tripplehorn ) , who's father ( James Caan ) is a mobster . So we have some of our favorite mobster characters : Burt Young ( " The Last Don " ) , Joe Viterelli ( Analyze This ) , Tony Darrow ( Small Time Crooks ) , Paul Lazar ( 29th Street ) , and . even " Big Pussy " from " The Sopranos " ( Vincent Pastore ) . Hugh Grant playing a mobster is a laugh a minute , and I just was captivated by Jeanne Tripplehorn ( Basic Instinct , The Firm ) . One of his best .
Come on it's 1969 . 69 Let's go .	Now , this is the first sexploitation / grindhouse film that I thought worth paying money to see . I can imagine a whole theater full of men in white overcoats getting a thrill from this feature which had full frontal throughout the entire 70 minutes . Nude dancing and lesbian activity would have thrilled them for the first 60 minutes , then the film , which had a noir overtone , turned darker with sadistic encounters and even death . This is the best Michael Findlay sexploitation film I have seen , and it certainly beats his video nasty Snuff .
Good solid suspense	I saw Statham again this evening in a film that I hadn't noticed - Cellular , with Kim Basinger in the most incredible role I have seen her in since L . A . Confidential . If you haven't seen the film , put it in your Netflix queue as it is taut and suspenseful and as exciting as they come . I featured a great performance by Chris Evans ( Johnny Storm of Fantastic Four ) and William H . Macy , who never lets you down in any role he plays . I always like it when I stumble upon a good film when I am not really looking and this was one of those . Don't get me wrong ; this doesn't fit the category of " great " film , but it is one that will provide some enjoyment to your weekend should you catch it on cable or at the video store .
Are you satisfied with your equipment , Miss Allcock ?	Can you imagine students that love their headmaster ( principal ) so much that they try to sabotage his leaving by playing practical jokes when a district ( ? ) team is visiting the school ? That's the premise of this , one of the early Carry On films . I can certainly imagine the reaction of the visiting psychiatrist played by Leslie Phillips ( Venus ) when he saw Miss Allcock played by Joan Sims ( The Last of the Blonde Bombshells ) . I had the same reaction in Walmart yesterday when some young miss in short shorts and a tight Tee walked by a couple of times . Full of the usual Carry On stars and some guests , it is typical British humor at it's finest .
This place makes me want to kill .	I cannot imagine a better example of religion's failure than the war in Northern Ireland . The land that we celebrate in March as a place of happiness is one where Catholics and Protestants bathed the ground with the blood of their young . Danny ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) is a former IRA member who has spent the last 14 years in prison . he just wants to get on with his life and forget the war , but it is still going on and cannot be ignored . He also has unresolved personal issues with Maggie ( Emily Watson ) to address . They have to sneak around as she is a symbol - a wife with a husband in prison for his activities . Outstanding performances by Daniel Day-Lewis ( My Left Foot : The Story of Christy Brown , There Will Be Blood , Gangs of New York ) and Emily Watson ( Hilary and Jackie , Breaking the Waves , Punch-Drunk Love ) , and Brian Cox ( Zodiac , The Bourne Identity , The Bourne Supremacy ) as the man who was trying to establish a peace . As you would expect of a film set in the war , there is no comedy or romance , just a dark , dirty , grim tale of life as it really is , not what we wish it to be . A brilliant cast giving us a needed reminder of the cost of war .
Reincarnation in creepy flick	I couldn't resist watching a movie with Qi Shu after seeing her in The Transporter . Unfortunately , while she did a great job of acting , the movie itself left a lot to be desired . It was really nothing more than an episode of Ghost Whisperer . She doesn't have " the gift " of seeing spirits until she attempts suicide subsequent to another failed relationship - - like anyone would believe that someone wouldn't want her ! It is more than seeing spirits , it relates to Buddhist beliefs and reincarnation . The key is that the spirits want to be reborn and forget their past lives . They do this by possessing babies as they are born . Of course , she is pregnant , too . She keeps seeing the same spirit and wants to find out why it is haunting her . That is an interesting part of the story and I won't spoil it for you . The only real horror is the fact that she attempts suicide three more times and fails each time . You won't believe the last two attempts . So , I got to see Qi Shu again , but I was hoping for better horror .
A very interesting Dassin film .	I saw that there was a couple of Nazi films on TNT last night and decided to give them a viewing . Sometimes these old black and whites can really have interesting stories . This was true to my expectations . This was a Jules Dassin film . He was one of the most important directors in post-WWII America . Unfortunately he got caught up in the Red Scare led by Senator McCarthy and was blacklisted . he moved to Europe , where he continued to make movies . His most influential film was the heist movie Rififi , which inspired a genre of movies including Ocean's Eleven and Mission : Impossible . The movie stars Conrad Veidt , who is himself a very interesting character . Most movie goers would remember him as Gestapo Maj . Strasser in the classic Casablanca . This is interesting because he was a staunch anti-Nazi who was himself chased out of Germany under threat of assassination . He was to play Dracula in 1931 , but Bela Lugosi got the job . His performance in The Man Who Laughs , was used as the basis for " The Joker " in the early Batman . Veidt give a good performance as a twin whose brother is a Nazi agent . he kills him and takes his place to fight against the Nazi underground in America . It is not a terribly exciting film , but it was suspenseful , and a chance to see one of the great American directors and a great German / British actor .
Goofy police action	Sometimes you just want to sit back and laugh . You don't need any deep thought ; you are just looking to relax . After final exams yesterday , that is what I wanted and Police Academy fit the bill . Nothing spectacular , but it did provide two hours of laughs with juvenile jokes starring Stve Guttenberg , who made four of these films ; the gorgeous Kim Cattrall , who racked up a whole room for of awards and nominations for her role in Sex and the City ; G . W . Bailey from The Closer ; Leslie Easterbrook , seven Police Academy films and The Devil's rejects ; and many funny supporting actors . Not high art , just good entertainment .
Not your daddy's Invasion of the Body Snatchers	I have read a lot of negative comments about this film , and I know I risk being accused of being a Nicole Kidman fan , but I really like what they did here . To us the shuttle crash as a means to introduce the virus was brilliant . The use of " House " - like pictures of what was going on in the body was also very good . The philosophical underpinnings of this film were also worth contemplating . Do we have a world without violence by all becoming dittoheads , or do we have conflict and remain human ? Some may opt for Stepford , but I kinda like having differences . Kidman and Craig did good jobs , and there was enough suspense to make this a worthwhile film . I won't jump on the Jackson Bond bandwagon , even though he was good , as I feel that Rebecca Windheim set the standard for 10-year-olds in Black Swarm .
Frank Lucas don't run from nobody .	Well , he should have run from Russell Crowe . So , he makes a deal and gets off with 15 years . What about all those people he killed , Richie ? I was anxious to see this film as I am a Denzel Washington fan , but I have to say that it does not live up to the hype . I would watch The Godfather or Goodfellas again before I watch this film a second time . Yes , Denzel was good , but he really didn't have a lot to work with as far as a story . The real story was Richie's efforts to bring down the corrupt cops . That's been done so many times , that you just think of New York cops as corrupt . A best supporting actress award nomination for Ruby Dee ? Give me a break . She had one scene of note . She's a great actress , but not in this movie , folks . Me , I'm looking for Thieves and Liars so I can see some more of Lymari Nadal .
Gel is essential when things get complicated .	Nutsa Kukhianidze is one of those actresses that I want to see all their work . Ever since the forgettable Dirty Work , I have looked for another film and finally found this one , as far as I know the only other one on DVD . This Georgian beauty is definitely worth catching and she gives a great performance here . But , the stellar performance is Nick Nolte - a gambling and heroin addict that used to be a thief . I wouldn't say he was very good as he went to prison six times . Nolte was perfect for the part and really kept me interesting in the caper he was planning . God , I love a good caper and this one was magnificent . His buddy , the policeman , Tchéky Karyo , who played Jean Villeneuve in The Patriot , was trying to catch him before he did anything so he would not have to send him back to prison . The cat and mouse between them was hilarious . It also included the always enjoyable Ralph Fiennes in an uncredited role .
A super " buddy " movie	" I've been in prison for three years . My dick gets hard if the wind blows . " That's Reggie Hammond ( Eddie Murphy ) . Getting out of prison , even for a weekend , he has only one thing on his mind . It's a running joke throughout the entire movie and one of the things that makes it hilarious . Now , don't get me wrong . Jack ( Nick Nolte ) and Reggie weren't buddies at the beginning . It took a lot of foreplay before they came together , but it finally happens and it's a beautiful thing . This is Murphy at his funniest . James Horner's music is great , and Walter Hill kept this film moving along without a hitch . Don't miss it .
I want to die .	Robert Harmon , director of Nowhere to Run and the Jesse Stone TV movies gives a great Hitchcockian suspense thriller here that keeps you interested until the end . Rutger Hauer is creepy as the psychopath . C . Thomas Howell is all grown up from E . T . and gives an excellent performance as the confused kid who is being chased by Hauer and blamed for his deeds . Young Jennifer Jason Leigh made this the year after making Flesh+Blood with Hauer . Not as good an ending for her . Now , I would advise people not to pick up people on Texas Highways . Some evil things go on down in Texas . As to Jim Halsey ( Howell ) , we'll just have to wait until Hitcher II to see what happens to him .
Finding Family	In the second part of a twin bill for Ian McKellen , he stars with Deborah Kara Unger in a compelling drama about a man who goes back home after 40 years and has to deal with the past he left behind . In contrast to Cold Comfort Farm , in which McKellan played a small role , this movie is all about him . He goes back and forth from the present to his life in Canada 40 years before . He even engages in conversations with his brothers , who appear in the present . he works to resolve his crisis and , with the help of 10-year-old Theo Crane , is able to come to a comfortable conclusion . For those of us who leave home and return , there is a lot of things familiar in this very good movie .
A comfortable roll in the hay	First part of a twin bill I watched featuring Ian McKellen ( X-Men , Lord of the Rings ) . He played a fire and brimstone country preacher that reminded me of the 17th Century Puritan Minister Cotton Mather . The movie starred Eileen Atkins ( Cold Mountain ) and Kate Beckinsale ( Underworld ) . Beckansale played a girl in 1930s England who went to the rural farm property after the death of her father . In a period comedy she proceeds to change the lives of her extended family in a way that gives each of them what they want and free them from their bondage to the seemingly crazy matriarch ( Sheila Burrell ) . It was a very cute piece and to see Ian McKellen preach his sermon was an experience not to be forgotten .
You are never too old to have fun	What movie with Clint Eastwood , Tommy Lee Jones . James Garner , James Cromwell , Donald Sutherland , and Marcia Gay Harden wouldn't be worth a look . This one has it all , but mostly laughs . This Clint Eastwood produced and directed movie is great simply because the cast doesn't appear to take it seriously . They are just having fun . And special effects ? They are better here than other movies like Armageddon and Deep Impact . If you like movies where people are considered outdated or replaceable and prove the experts wrong , then this is the one . I watch it and keep getting reminded about all those COBOL experts who were back making the big bucks just prior to the millennium change .
The best pies in London	I do not know if the story of Sweeney Todd is based upon fact , but it sure makes for an interesting blend of horror and comedy . One of the criticisms I have heard of the new Johnny Depp version is that you never really know why he becomes a mass murderer . Well , there is no mystery here and , if you take the time to find this film , you will know everything . John Schlesinger , who gave us Cold Comfort Farm , Sunday Bloody Sunday , Darling and Oscar winner Midnight Cowboy , does a great job of keeping us interested in the case of the missing businessman . Campbell Scott was riveting as the American come to London to find the property of his employers ; property in the possession of said businessman when he disappeared . You will be fascinated in the streets of London , the costuming , the atmosphere , and you will see why someone could lose their heads for a few rings . Ben Kingsley is fabulous as the serial killer , and blends humor and horror into a role that has been described as one of the better versions of a half dozen that have been done . I think it will be hard to beat this one , but I am looking forward to examining the rest . Excellent support by Joanna Lumley ( " Absolutely Fabulous " ) and Selina Boyack in her first film .
You are not exactly Superman , but you are awfully available .	I'm dreaming of a white Christmas . . . who am I kidding ? It will be 84 here today and the chance of a white Christmas is about equal to the Dolphins beating the Patriots on Christmas Eve eve . But , I always am a chump for the music of Irving Berlin and the singing of Bing Crosy . I'll even put up with the antics and Danny Kaye and the groaningly awful vaudevillian numbers to see this film over and over . Add to that the crooning of George Clooney's Aunt Rosemary , the absolutely cute Vera-Ellen , Oscar-winner Dean Jagger ( Twelve O'Clock High ) , and seeing snow the only way I can . This is one I watch over and over .
It's all about fathers and sons	I don't know why , but I really like sports movies . I am not a sports fans , per se , but I like movies about sports . This film ranks up with the best that I have seen . I do not say that for the sports angle , because that just framed the real story here . I wish I could repeat the story that writer Erik Kernan Jr . ( Josh Hartnett ) did at the end because it said it all . Fathers sometimes lie to their sons because they want them to think they are the king of the world , even when they are not . It's human nature . The problem is , that sometimes you get caught as Kernan did , and as the Champ ( Samuel L . Jackson ) did . This was a beautiful story about that relationship between fathers and sons and it was also a great story about being a man . It had some great performances besides the two mentioned : Kathryn Morris ( " Cold Case " ) as Erik's wife and co-worker , Alan Alda as his boss , Teri Hatcher as a perfect Cougar , and Rachel Nichols ( The Woods , Charlie Wilson's War ) .
Life is all about choices	Milestone released two films by Charles Burnett last fall . His acclaimed Killer of Sheep , and this lesser known film . This film was originally released in 1983 , but has been re-cut and re-released . This is the 2007 version that I am reviewing . The slice of life that we see in this film is interesting , but confined mostly to dialog , with little action . Everett Silas stars as Pierce , an individual who is torn by his loyalty to his no-good friend , and his family . This is put to the test on Saturday as his friend dies on his brother's wedding day . It is the little things that I found fascinating in this film - the fact that a 16-year-old is constantly flirting with Pierce , who is 30 ; the stark contrast with Pierce , a working man , and his brother the professional , and the siding of Pierce's mother with wealth ; the two people he cares for who can't bathe themselves or take their medicine , and their preoccupation with religion , which also is huge with Pierce's mother . There is a wealth of material to draw upon for reflection , and Burnett has given us a good film . I can't wait to see the original .
Is the past truly the past ?	This was my first Jim Jarmusch movie . I have a friend who I think is in love with him . I wasn't crazy about Lost in Translation , so I thought I would give Bill Murrary another chance to impress me . He didn't . I just don't get that emotionless face of his . He just doesn't seem to express anything . Maybe I am just not appreciative of his subtlety . As to the story , I was very reluctant to watch it . I have taken this journey in my mind many times . I know what is at the end of the trail , but I don't have the guts to face it . I want to , but I have not been able to . I can imagine that I will find the same response as at the biker camp . But , then , one could always run into a jealous lesbian partner and that could be just as dangerous . Maybe someday .
Another Bravura performance by Huppert	In a recent interview , Dustin Hoffman ( Mr . Magorium's Wonder Emporium ) was talking about his upcoming film , Last Chance Harvey . He described it as " the kind of film that has been coming out for years in France . . . We don't believe in middle-aged love stories . " Why wait for Hoffman's film next year , when you can see the amazing Isabelle Huppert ( The Piano Teacher , The Bedroom Window ) , who was an incredible looking 49 when she made this film . OK , a slowly unfolding relationship between Huppert and Pascal Greggory , the same age , doesn't appeal to you . You would rather drool over Keira Knightley , Emily Blunt , Ellen Page or Megan Fox . But , to dismiss one of the truly great actresses of our time would be a mistake . Like many , I love on-the-edge-of-your-seat action and dazzling special effects , but there are time when I just want to sit back with a special beverage and let beautiful cinematography , soothing music , and brilliant acting slowing wash over me . Olivier Dahan's ( La Vie en rose , Crimson Rivers 2 : Angels of the Apocalypse ) film fits the bill perfectly .
Hippos like chocolate . . .	One year later we find out intrepid hero ( Noah Wylie ) , an experienced Librarian and his bodyguard is no longer needed . In a nod to Indiana Jones , he brings back the Crystal Skull in the opening sequence before he sets out on his real adventure that brings him into contact with Gabrielle Anwar ( " Burn Notice " , who did manage to turn in such an impressive performance that the Academy of Science Fiction , Fantasy & Horror Films gave her a best supporting actress nomination . What is it with these English heroines ? We have a new director and a new writer , but we still go back to England for the love interest . Well , this isn't Body Snatchers , so we won't be seeing her ta tas . I won't reveal the bad guy here because it would spoil it . Besides Indiana Jones , you see bits of The Mummy , and even Casablanca in the movie . It is popcorn fun for fans of those movies and Wylie does a great job .
Time destroys everything .	There is really nothing to like about this movie . The title and opening sequence was the worst experience I have ever had in watching a film . I thought I was going to be sick . Some may call it art , but I found it to be disorienting and distracting . Then there is the discussion of the two men . It made absolutely no sense at all - and I even went back and watched it again after the movie . It still made no sense . Then things started making sense . We were watching a movie in reverse . What's up with that ? It was confusing and distracting for the first 25 minutes , but then it really started to come together . The rape scene was the most brutal display of the degradation of women that I have ever seen and something that will be burned forever in my mind . That any man could be that evil is incomprehensible . The ending - or beginning - comes and all is wiped out for a moment as we see two lovers enjoying their lives together and the promise of a good future that we know will be wiped out in a few minutes of terror . If nothing else , this film makes us come to appreciate the moment ; for it may not last . Vincent Cassel ( La Haine , Ocean's Twelve & Thirteen , Eastern Promises ) was magnificent as usual . Monica Bellucci - a treasure .
This is all about survival of the fittest .	Nice quick shower scene with girl washing blood off her whole body , and a flashing on the road made me think that I was possibly going to be in for a treat with a vampire movie featuring WB stars . I was not wrong , as we got a real bodily treat in this one . Sean ( Kerr Smith ) is delivering a Mercedes 450 SL from L . A . to Miami to attend his sister's wedding , and he picks up Nick ( Brendan Fehr ) . They run into Kit ( Johnathon Schaech ) , and we find out that Nick is a " hunter . " I assume a vampire hunter , as Kit and his gang look strange . We soon find out they are not the biting-on-the-neck kind of vampires , but the rip-your-heart-out kind . They pick up Megan ( Izabella Miko ) and we find out about Nick , while we enjoy Megan's body . There is a lot of explosive action as they drive across Texas to escape the vampires . Oscar nominee Carrie Snodgress ( Diary of a Mad Housewife , Iron Jawed Angels ) appears in one of her last performances .
The man is the message .	This particular documentary is not the greatest one to recommend for pleasurable viewing . It is basically 74 minutes of Chomsky speaking . He is a quiet man and not a great speaker , but what he has to say is very important . Lately , his position is to questioning how the U . S . can be engaged in a " war on terrorism " when the mountains of civilian corpses we've left in Southeast Asia , Central America , the Mideast , and western Africa qualify our most sanctimonious of nations as Champion Terror-Monger . His grasp of the facts and ability to recall information and present it in a fashion that all can understand serves to recommend this as a valuable 74 minutes to listen , learn , and ponder .
He said that Han Solo was cooler than Captain Kirk .	Yes , this film would be a whole lot funnier if I was a 30-year-old whole cared more about Star Trek and Star Wars , hung out at comic book shops , cruised Toys R ' Us for the latest action figure , and really cared about William Shatner . Unfortunately , I am not one to mess up a perfectly good time with Lori Lively by getting into a discussion of shoes and engagement rings . Save that for later , dude . And , I am not going to mess up a relationship with Audie England because I would rather hang onto some laser-disks instead of paying the light bill . This is not a slacker movie , as there is really only one , but it is about guys with failed relationships and trying to get their stuff together . Mark A . Altman & Robert Meyer Burnett wrote a funny story , which Burnett also directed . It was certainly a much better job of writing than House of the Dead , Mark ! The finale ? William Shatner rapping Julius Ceasar with Rated R . Hmmm .
Sometimes the people we meet change us forever .	I cannot imagine anything that would be more fun than taking a road-trip with Sarah Lewis ( Sandra Bullock ) . That is why I really think this film is worth watching . Ben Holmes ( Ben Affleck ) got something that very few of us ever get to experience - a couple of days with someone who will truly liberate us from our staid conventions and open our eyes to a world that we never knew even existed . Working with the developmentally disabled , I have to constantly remember that I cannot say they don't want to live or work or do something until I have exposed them to that opportunity and let them make an informed choice . How many times have we made choices without knowing all the opens - or even that there are options . Ben got the opportunity to make an informed choice . I am not saying I would have made his choice , but he knew what he was doing . Don't watch this movie looking for a comedy , even though it is funny ; don't watch it looking for romance , even though there is plenty to see ; but watch it to open your eyes to another world and ask yourself if your world is really what you want .
Whatcha gonna do with that ax ?	Why would I add this to my Christmas list ? Curiosity , for the most part , as it was produced and directed by Barry Mahon . Yes , the same Barry Mahon that gave us Blood of the Zombie , The Diary of Knockers McCalla , Nudes on Tiger Reef , and over 50 more films that make this one an unusual choice . I really wanted Santa and the Ice Cream Bunny , but have not found it yet . No zombies , no knockers , and the ax is just for cutting down a Christmas tree , not chopping off heads . Two cute bears cubs refuse to hibernate after the Ranger tells them about Christmas . They want to wait for Santa . Hal Smith , who played Santa in Billy Wilder's The Apartment , and voiced Santa in many productions over the years , is the voice of the ranger and Santa here . This is a really well done cartoon with great music and a story that kids of all ages will appreciate .
Remembering Bobby 40 years later	It is the 40th anniversary of his death and I watched this hoping for something more in line with a commemoration . Bobby Kennedy was only a small part of the film , but an extremely important part . At least I heard Ted Kennedy deliver the immortal lines that defined him : " Some men see things as they are and say why . I dream things that never were and say why not . " And , of course , the speech at the end of the film with Aretha Franklin's song was memorable . That was pretty much it as a commemoration , as it was mainly a story of the events surrounding Bobby's death . Life goes on , and the subjects of election interference , immigration , prejudice , violence , and infidelity are pretty much the same today as they were 40 years ago . Standout performances were Laurence Fishburne , Martin Sheen , Anthony Hopkins , Helen Hunt , William H . Macy , and Freddy Rodríguez . That is not to diminish the rest of the fine cast , but I remember these actors especially . It was a good film , but I wanted more .
So , I can hurt now , or hurt later .	Some compare this to Lost in Translation . I had to watch that film three times before I really enjoyed it . I can say that I enjoyed Steve Martin's story on the first viewing . I actually tuned in to see if Jason Schwartzman was as obnoxious as I have seen him in other films . I was pleasantly surprised . I could not under stand how Mirabelle ( Claire Danes ) could even give him a second look . She certainly made the right choice in telling him to take a hike after she met Ray ( Steve martin ) . But , he got his act together and came back in the stretch to get back in the game . Ray blew it , and he knew he blew it . He had it all and just let it go . What a shame . Well , all is well that ends well , and this one ended very well . The music was especially great throughout , and Bridgette Wilson was cute as the ditsy blonde .
She knows things that we don't understand yet .	Some familiar faces in this very strange film , written and directed by Francis Ford Coppola , that explores areas like reincarnation and guardian angels . Bruno Ganz ( The Reader , Bread & Tulips ) and Alexandra Maria Lara ( The Reader , The Tunnel ) are prominent . Matt Damon appears briefly as a Life reporter , and Anamaria Marinca ( 4 Months , 3 Weeks and 2 Days ) as a receptionist . The film takes place against the backdrop of WWII , and the Nazis are very interested in Dominic ( Tim Roth ) , who was regressed back to half his age after being hit by lightning . But , soon the war is over and he runs into a double for his old girlfriend , who also appears to be a reincarnation of an Indian mystic . She is able to help him reach his linguistic goal , but the cost is great . A lot of sci-fi is entwined in the story , as well as philosophy and religion . It doesn't seem to make sense at times , but it is interesting enough to hold your attention , and , of course , the cinematography was brilliant .
It Takes Courage	It takes courage to grow up and be who you really are . I would not even pretend to know what teenage girls go through as they mature . Despite the fact that I have experience with many of them , I would not be privy to their innermost thoughts . This film can only give us a vicarious glimpse into their minds and emotions . But , that is enough for now . Piper Perabo has come a long way from Coyote Ugly and has matured into a good actress . She is Paulie , a girl abandoned twice by her mother and who is in a torrid affair with Tori ( Jessica Paré ) until they get caught by Tori's sister Allison ( Emily VanCamp ) . Tori realizes that she must deny her love and end the affair to maintain connections to her family . Another loss is more that Paulie can deal with and , despite her best efforts to get Tori to admit her love publicly , she takes the only step she knows will end her pain . A beautiful story that gives a glimpse so that we can empathize a little and grow a little and maybe find that courage .
This isn't Paris . This is hell .	One of these days Adam Goldberg might win an award on his own instead of being a part of an ensemble cast . There has to be a need for a jealous , hopelessly neurotic nut like the one he played here . Although , I do like his clever way of reducing the taxi line and , after all , they did vote for Bush , so they deserved it . Julie Delpy is a favorite , and she is fantastically sweet here as Marion , although I cannot imagine how she puts up with Jack . Of course , she can really give it , too . The parents ( her real parents ) , Marie Pillet and Albert Delpy , were simply adorable and stole every scene they were in . Even the taxi drivers were really funny . Delpy has written a really funny movie about love and relationships and family that was enjoyable to the end .
What I'm going to need is your standard flame thrower .	Not your normal zombie movie . The original zombie was infected by something from outer space and then cryogenicly frozen for 27 years until two dorks ( Jason Lively and Steve Marshall ) release him in an effort to impress a girl ( Jill Whitlow ) . It also appears that an escaped ax murderer disappeared about the same time 27 years ago . Now , there are people showing up without heads while some slug-looking creature run around . Things get really out of control until a detective decides to flame out with the creatures . But you know that one will always survive . A brief skintastic moment from Jill Whitlow and two girls in the shower . Pretty lame for a sorority house getting ready for a big dance .
You know the golden rule : fck the gold . He who has a nickel-plated makes the rules .	OK , it a piece of trash . It is one of those guilty pleasures of mine . You know , the movie you are not supposed to like , but can't resist every time it comes on . I mean , look at this cast : Kevin Costner from The BodyGuard , one of my favorites ; Kurt Russell from Grindhouse ; Christian Slater and Howie Long from Broken Arrow ; Kevin Pollak from Hostage ; Ice-T as the token rapper ; and the best part of all , Courteney Cox , in a role that is so far from Friends that it is a classic . This film is funny ( Jon Lovitz ) , sweet ( David Kaye ) , and has more action than you could ever ask for in a heist film . It has showgirls , an Elvis convention , and , I don't care if people diss Costner , Russell , and Cox , the film is just fun to watch .
It's ( NOT ) okay with me .	I am familiar with the Raymond Chandler type of detective even though I have not read this particular book . I was curious to see how Elliott Gould would fit in to the preconceptions I had of Phillip Marlowe . I wasn't impressed with his style . He didn't seem hard enough . The constant chain-smoking seemed contrived . He seemed lackadaisical . Then I looked at the director - Robert Altman , the Hollywood-hating director that went against type . Everything made sense . The constant Hollywood references in the movie , and the private eye that hung around with bare-breasted hippies still stuck in the Summer of Love . Done in between Mash and Nashville , it is particularly Altman . It is a caricature of Marlowe , and , in that sense , Gould fits perfectly . I am not happy with the film , but I understand . The cinematography was great and the sound tract was superb . Sterling Hayden ( Dr . Strangelove ) was great as the Hemingwayesque writer , and Nina Van Pallandt ( Clifford Irving's mistress for you literary types ) was also very good as his wife . Good Altman , but not a good Marlowe . See Bogey in The Big Sleep for the best example of how that should be done .
Guess I'll see you in hell , doc .	This is the first horror western that I can recall seeing , and it was really a good story . It was one that has been told in many forms , but with a horror twist . Debbie Rochon looked absolutely splendid as she led her girls ( Melissa Paladino and Mya Sagara ) and her sister ( Jennifer Lauren Grant ) across 15 miles of country on foot from the end of the rail line to the fort to set up business . Jason ( Joshua Park ) , a photographer accompanied them to the fort . There were no soldiers at the fort . It had been abandoned to the settlers . Lots of people were horribly murdered - a girl in a cornfield , two old geezers in a cabin , then one of the girls - soon followed by another . ) Guess there wasn't going to be any business after all unless Debbie planned to do all the work . Jason and the Sheriff ( J . Christian Ingvordsen ) were left to defend themselves and Debbie and her sister . Like I said , the story is familiar to western watchers , so I won't give it away . Billy Drago was especially creepy as the undertaker - a perfect part for him . Like all westerns , the gunfights included six-shooters that never ran out of bullets . And , like all westerns the hero gets the girl in the end . Those aren't spoilers , as anyone who watches westerns knows that will happen . Even though the girls were pros , the only titillation is through sheer fabric while they frolicked in the river , and a very nice surprise towards the end . A very nice surprise , indeed . Thank you Debbie .
It's just you and me now , sport . And I'm going to find you , God damn it .	Not having read " Red Dragon , " I am not biased in my review . As I have always said , a book is a book , and a movie is a movie , and there should not be any comparison in a review . This was an interesting movie in many respects . It was a good thriller ; like an episode of " Law and Order " and " CSI " together . I don't really like Dennis Farina , so I am glad he was just a peripheral player . I like seeing William Petersen long before he was tapped for his " CSI " role . I hardly recognized him at first . It is easy to see why he got the role because he exhibited many of the same qualities in this film . Michael Mann ( Heat , Miami Vice , Collateral ) does a good story in this genre and I really enjoyed his writing and directing of this film . Veteran actor Brian Cox made a great Hannibal Lecktor , and was so much more of what a serial killer should be that later reincarnations of the character . A really interesting movie that was only weakened by the fact that is was in the style of the 80s .
What you sow you reap !	Before Ms . Scrooge , there was this film , one of only two that I am aware of with a female Scrooge . Susan Lucci was just perfect in the role of Elizabeth ( Ebbie ) Scrooge , but it was the Christmas Ghosts that really stole the show . George Kaczender ( Christmas on Division Street ) has another hit with this film that is based on Dickens ' novel . Wendy Crewson ( Santa Clause , Santa Clause 2 , The Santa Clause 3 : The Escape Clause ) plays Roberta ' Robbie ' Cratchet , a single mom with two children , including Tiny Tim . Jennifer Clement and Nicole Parker were fantastically cute as the Ghosts of Christmas Past . They had a " Dreamgirls " look at first , then switched to an " I Dream of Genie " look . It was certainly a different twist . Lorena Gale ( Premonition , Slither ) was the Ghost of Christmas present and was so funny in that role . Molly Parker from " Deadwood " was the sister / niece . This was an interesting and light version that was really enjoyable .
Sometimes risking everything is the only choice you have .	An incredible little film that shows just how we are all interconnected and part of the universe . When one's wings flutter , it affects all around us , and in ways that can sometimes be very surprising . The emotions expressed in the film are all emotions that help us understand how we are interconnected . With the exception of Brandon Fraser and Andy Garcia , all the roles in the film were confined to a particular segment . There were some very good actors in small parts in the film . Fraser was fantastic in a very unemotional role . His first attempts at showing any emotion cost him his life , just as Forest Whitaker's attempt at happiness cost him his . I really like Whitaker's musing that happiness comes from playing by the rules and doing well in school . The reward for doing well in school is more school and more school , and then you can get a job and start wanting things . Do any of us every attain happiness ? Or , as Whitaker , are we stuck in some dead-end job wanting ? Kevin Bacon showed how one risks it all for love and gave a superb performance . I just kept wishing that Sorrow ( Sarah Michelle Gellar ) was that little girl from his past . I bet she was and they just didn't tell us . A very pleasurable hour and a half .
I'm sorry , I'm confused . What's supposed to come out of the piñata ?	There are some nice vampire gore scenes and definitely some major T & A on display in this direct-to-video production . Annika Svedman gave us a great show before she became a vampiress , but I sure wanted to see what Tori White had to offer . There is even a lick-the-salt , drink-the-blood , and eat-the-lemon scene that was cute . Who needs tequila ? It may be an B-indie , but there are lots of gorgeous characters , both male and female . The story is really interesting - a young vampire ( Justin Quinn ) buried for 35 years , and awoken by a treasure hunter , falls for the niece ( Brenda Romero ) of his former love ( Yvonne Rawn ) . If Don Henry has anymore ideas like this , I will look forward to seeing them .
My introduction to Pedro Almodóvar	I am not sure what to expect when the opening scene is a man masturbating to torture porn , a term that was probably not even invented in 1988 . From there we go to alternating clips of Antonio Banderas asking the ex-bullfighter Nacho Martínez about women and he compares getting a woman to bullfighting , while we watch someone do exactly that . We are no , of course , prepared for the necrophilia twist in that encounter . We find our boy , Antonio , and he is a boy in this film , in a strict Catholic household . I would have to guess that his mother was Opus Dei . He attempts to rape his neighbor and confesses to four murders which we know he did not do . This is just Almodóvar's take on religion and repression . He revisits that subjects again in the film , so it must me a theme for him . But , then the story shifts to Nacho and Assumpta Serna , with Eva Cobo in a minor role . This is where the story gets interesting with the police trying to solve the four murders and the real murderers trying to lay it on Antonio . It gets bizarre at the end with Antonio seeing the killers in his mind and leading the police to them . But , they arrive too late as the climax of sex and death occurs simultaneous with an eclipse . How weird is that ?
I'm as serious as an erection problem .	Pierce Brosnan was the best Bond in my opinion . I hated to see him finish that . He was also great in Butterfly on a Wheel and The Thomas Crown Affair . But , it was this dark comedy that got him a Golden Globe nomination . It is one of those men's films that you probably skipped , but should check out . Even international hit men have serious problems , and Julian ( Brosnan ) is starting to cone apart . He meets Danny ( Greg Kinnear ) in Mexico and hopes that he can put him straight again . If you like your comedy Pulp-Fiction style , then this is the film for you .
My nagging girlfriend and her crazy cousin	You know I could stare at a blank screen for two hours when I am presented with music by the Stones , The Chantelles , The Ronnettes , The Miracles , and the Shirelles mixed with some great Italian music . But , I didn't have to . Along with a musical score that really added dimension to the film , I got to see some over the top acting by Robert De Niro and Harvey Keitel , and superb direction by Martin Scorsese . I know that Scorses used some techniques that were original for the time as I have not seen them before . They really worked well . I have to admit that I was looking for something along the lines of Goodfellas and was surprised that there was only one shootout in the film , but I won't complain as the story of Keitel's character and his struggle to work it out with his religion , his girlfriend , and her crazy cousin ( De Niro ) without getting in trouble with the Mob was brilliant . The only criticism of the movie I have is the ending . I hate it when I don't know for sure and this one leaves you hanging .
Before Christ was a time of orgies . Then came love .	How to describe this film in about 25 words . I agonized over that considerably . It really defies a pithy description . Is it a crime story ? Daniel Auteuil ( Caché , The Valet ) is a cop from a family of criminals . His big brother is killed in a botched car theft , and he is piecing things together . Of course , he is not formally investigating as it is his family involved , and also his ( girlfriend , lover , whatever ) is also a part of it . It is , at the same time a love story . A love triangle between Alex ( Auteuil ) , Marie ( Catherine Deneuve ) , and Juliette ( Laurence Côte ) . Alex is just using Juliette to let off some steam , but does grow to love her . Marie is madly in love with her . The relationships and the criminal enterprise are intertwined to the point where you really have great difficulty describing just what the point of it all is . Me ? I just enjoyed the great performances of Deneuve and Auteuil and Côte , as well as Juliette's brother ( Benoît Magimel ) . That was enough .
We're being quarantined here . We're being kept here to die .	This movie had me during the opening credits when I saw that horribly contorted face . It kept my interest as I tried to figure out where it was heading . I really expected a Saw-type film , and got a huge surprise when it turned out to be a thriller with an edge I have not seen done before . Now I'll be honest ; I was certainly hoping for more of the lovely Laura Ramsey , but she did make the movie worth watching for her performance . Seeing her disintegrate was captivating . If you are looking for something that goes way beyond the cookie-cutter horror movies that are currently playing , this is certainly worth checking out .
Mother ! Oh God Mother ! Blood , blood !	The trouble with these sequels is that they invariably get compared to the Hitchcock original . You need to look at them separately and judge them that way . Psycho III is much better than Psycho II . At least there is more TITillation , and even a hint of necrophilia . Anthony Perkins not only stars again , but this time he directs , and he gives us a film that keeps us interested . Diana Scarwid , despite the fact that she has an Oscar and Emmy nomination to her credit , was not very interesting . But , at least she got Norman Bates to act a little human . Jeff Fahey ( Grindhouse ) was little more interesting . Juliette Cummins was definitely TITillating . Too bad she left the business . Check it out .
She's a wild animal ! I've got to have that girl , George ! Tonight	This is real blaxploitation with breasts flying out of dresses everywhere . The biggest ones , of course , belong to Pam Grier , the Best of the Breast . Of course , there is also Lisa Farringer in her only nude scene that I am aware of in her too short 10 year career . There is a story here , too , as Coffy seeks to take revenge on all the dope-pushing scumbags that were responsible for her little sister getting hooked . A sawed-off shotgun to the face adds some action when breasts aren't flying . And , the wild costumes the pusher / pimps wore were are real hoot !
Now , this was interesting	The title sequence to this movie was one of the best that I have seen in years . It was fascinating and creative and it alone makes the entire movie worthwhile . The concept is also believable . I don't recall seeing something in a horror movie that I could truly believe happened . Knowing what we know now about the testing that was done with participants knowledge , we could see something like this for real . We may not , but at least it is possible and that makes the film interesting , too . Aaron Stanford took over this movie and really made it his own . He gave an outstanding performance , and I want to see more of him . Vinessa Shaw , Dan Byrd , and Emilie de Ravin also gave performances that were imminently watchable . hey , they even had Captain Leland Stottlemeyer ( Ted Levine ) .
What am I going to do now ?	I was attracted to this film because of Virginie Ledoyen ( The Valet , Women ) , and to a lesser extent because it was written and directed by Olivier Assayas ( Boarding Gate , Demonlover , Paris , je t'aime ) . I was not thrilled , but I was not terribly disappointed either . Ledoyen , as were all the characters in the film was self-obsessed . Probably none more so than Gabriel ( Mathieu Amalric - The Diving Bell and the Butterfly ) , who seemed to need a constant reaffirmation from his friends , but rejected any criticism of his aimless life . The film revolved around Adrien ( François Cluzet ) , a writer that lived on the margins while composing novels that no one read . In fact , most all of the characters lived on the margins in meaningless jobs . They just floated instead of trying to build something . I guess if I wasn't fascinated with helping someone who seems to live a similar life , I wouldn't have found this film as interesting . But the acting rose above the story and it was , indeed a pleasure to watch .
Ah , dessert ! Chilled monkey brains .	Nothing like bugs , snakes , and other assorted delicacies - for dinner ! Topped off with chilled monkey brains for dessert , and yum yum , you have the makings of a fest . The second in the Indiana Jones trilogy is full of those yucky things that get Kate Capshaw constantly screaming . Indy ( Harrison Ford ) was ably assisted by Short Round ( Jonathan Ke Quan ) , who really added to the excitement and humor . Steven Spielberg made George Lucas ' story come to life with 118 minutes of excitement . And , it was Spielberg , not Indiana Jones , that got the girl in the end .
An inspiration for Almodovar's " Matador " ?	Yasuzo Masumura's story of obsession and pride is definitely one worth watching . Just three characters , with Eiji Funakoshi as the blind man , but there is enough to keep your interest . Michio ( Funakoshi ) relies on touch as his primary means of pleasure . He is a sculptor that has created a warehouse of body parts that will blow you away , But , he wants the perfect form to sculpt and he sets his sights on the model Aki , whom he only knows by touching a sculpture of her . Aki is Mako Midori , an exotic beauty , who is best known to Japanese art-house fans in this country . She is kidnapped by Michio and enters into a bizarre S & M trip to his warehouse . Her attempts to flee result in the eventual death of Michio's mother - the third character in this film . Finally , we see love blossom into a bizarre ending that is both gory and surreal .
Tight thriller with a twist	I do not know why people tend to rate this film low . Of course , I am slightly prejudiced as i always thought that Ray Liotta may be a cousin until I found out he was adopted . That doesn't take away the quality of his acting , especially in this film . He really has to lay it on thick as he takes the mind of others through an experimental drug developed by Dr . Martha Briggs ( Linda Fiorentino ) in an effort to find out who killed his wife ( Stellina Rusich ) . Fiorentino ( Dogma , Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back ) does a really good job as the research scientist who helps him through his ordeal . The film had other favorites : Kim Cattrall and Peter Coyote , who added to the mystery and suspense . I really like Liotta for his range and you could do a lot worse than spend two hours with him as he catches a killer .
The truth about the Global Warming debate	There were a lot of good documentaries last year : White Light / Black Rain : The Destruction of Hiroshima and Nagasaki , Ghosts of Abu Ghraib , and many I haven't yet seen . Add this one to the list . This is not the story of global warming , but the story of the efforts of scientist to get the story out over the last 20 years , fighting the oil and coal interests , and the Bush administration , all of whom are afraid they will lose their cushy lifestyle when the truth finally dawns on the American people . It took Hurricane Katrina to wake America up to the fact that something is wrong , and now they are listening . Is it too late ? That is only touched on in this film , but it is there for you to think about . This was a funny , sometimes cute , and very entertaining film that tackled a subject that few Americans were aware of - how the Bush administration and Fox news covered up the truth about global warming .
It's people like you that make the world think Americans are stupid .	This was just about the craziest movie I have ever seen . It was like being on a roller coaster and feeling that you heart was going to give out . There cannot possibly be any ethnic group that was left out of the insults and racists jokes in this film . It also included every single crude fart and toilet joke they could think of . And , of course , it makes the government look like a complete bunch of boobs . Well , that part was accurate . It was still funny . It didn't hurt that it had Paula Garcés and Danneel Harris in it either .
Dames done him in .	The same year that he starred in Little Caesar and Five Star Final , Robinson made the Oscar-nominated film that shows the rise of a small-town gambler that goes to the big city and gets suckered . Six months later he is back vowing to never let that happen again and he rises to the top of the gambling world . With James Cagney ( Yankee Doodle Dandy , Angels With Dirty faces ) at his side to watch out for him , he manages to elude capture by the authorities - mainly because he has bought off most of them . But , as he says , he has a weakness for women - especially blonds . That will prove his down fall . It was not the " Little Caesar " Robinson , but a happy-go-lucky guy that just seemed to take things as they come . he was smiling and laying odds as they carted him off to prison . A funny film that is only marred by the racism that was typical of the time .
I can see your dirty pillows . Everyone will .	I am sure that I've seen this film before , but I watched it again to see how Stephen King managed to write a story that captured teen-aged angst amidst bullying and popularity contests . Sis Spacek was simply incredible and it is no surprised that she got the first Academy Award nomination for a horror film . Piper Laurie was also superb as her mother and got a well-deserved nomination herself . The effects and cinematography were superb , as was Brian De Palma's direction . I also liked seeing some people in their first or early roles like Amy Irving ( Yentl ) in her first role on the big screen ; RoboCop's Nancy Allen ; John Travolta in his second screen appearance ; and P . J . Soles ( The Devil's Rejects ) in one of her first roles . A great horror movie about teen life .
You can't go . All the plants are gonna die .	He quit his job and lost his girlfriend . before Lost in Translation and Broken Flowers , he was just a wacky pain-in-the-ass recruit that gave Sgt . Hulka ( Warren Oates ) nightmares . When it comes to comedy Bill Murray is a winner hands down . Add in John Candy ; John Larroquette as the peeping Capt . Stillman ; Judge Reinhold ; Harold Ramis ; the quick peep at Roberta Leighton ; and the hot Lois Hamilton and you have a military comedy of errors that will keep you in stitches . Of course there is a lot of beautiful scenery in this film in the showers and in the mud pit .
She's so evil . . . and she's only in high school !	I only watched this because of Rose McGowan ( Grindhouse ) . I guess if i watched Charmed , I would know her , but Death Proof was my introduction . I thought she was so cool , and she was in this film also . It may have been a campy film about high school , but she was just so interesting . I remember Carole Kane from " Taxi " - boy , does that date me ! I always like to see her pop up and she did a great job in this film also . Pam Grier played a police detective and I always like seeing her . I'll be checking her out next in Bones . It's a forgettable film , but it was funny and worth watching just to see some of the cast .
Don't worry , buddy . I won't kill her unless you approve .	What can you say about the guy who wrote Greystoke : The Legend of Tarzan , Lord of the Apes ; Shampoo ; Chinatown ; and The Last Detail ? Do you think that a movie written and directed by Robert Towne might be worth 2 hours of you life ? We are talking about a master romantic tantalizer here . A sample : Michelle Pfeiffer tells Mel Gibson how sorry she is that she hurt his feelings . He replies , " C'mon , it didn't hurt that bad , " pauses , and adds , " Just lookin ' at you hurts more . " You can see the love in his eyes as he looks at the shining beauty of Michelle Pfeiffer . Doesn't that make you want to run out and rent this film ? It should .
There are some things a man just can't ride around .	I decided to take a break from Jodorowsky and cleanse my palate with a trip down memory lane . What better way to reminisce than the Columbia years of Randolph Scott . Before all the electronics and 500 station TVs , there was my childhood . Three station and Saturday mornings filled with cartoons , Sky King , The Lone Ranger and Randolph Scott . I was always amazed how Scott could be on the top of a moving train in a fight with an outlaw and never lose his hat . But , there were no fights in this film . This was the mature Scott under the direction of Budd Boetticher . They made seven films together , and they are some of the finest westerns made . In this film Scott ( Ben Brigade ) plays a bounty hunter who is bringing in Bill John ( James Best ) . Bill John : I don't know how much they're paying you to bring me in , but it ain't enough . Not near enough . Ben Brigade : I'd hunt you for free . That exchange is a portent of what is to come . Along the way they are joined by Pernell Roberts , who made his claim to fame on " Bonanza " and " Trapper John , M . D . " ; James Coburn ( In Like Flint , Our Man Flint , Affliction ) , and Karen Steele . Now , Karen Steele may be one of the most beautiful actresses to work on film , but I have to comment on her bra . It may have been the fashion in the 50's , but that thing looked like a weapon to me . I mean to say that it hit you six inches before she arrived . A man could be seriously injured before he was able to hug her . Roberts and Coburn were hoping to take Bill John away from Scott and trade him for amnesty . They are willing to kill him for the chance to start life over and they tell him so . Sam Boone : Man gets halfway , he oughta have somethin ' of his own , something to belong to , be proud of . Ben Brigade : They say that . Sam Boone : I got me a place . Gonna run beef , work the ground , be able to walk down the street like anybody . All I need is Billy . Ben Brigade : I set out to take him to Santa Cruz . I full intend to do it . Sam Boone : Well , I just wanted you to know how it was . Way I look at it , ain't near as hard for a man if he knows why he's gonna die . But , Brigade never intends to go to Santa Cruz , and we meet the last character in the film , Billy John's brother , Frank ( Lee Van Cleef ) . It seems that Billy John was just bait , and Brigade has a long festering hurt that had to be healed . That led to a great ending , where everybody leaves satisfied .
You really are a dirty bastard , ain't you , Harry ?	I really felt Dirty last night , so I revisited this film along with The Gauntlet and Magnum Force . Sometimes , you just need to immerse yourself into the world of " Dirty " Harry to remember what life is all about . There are sheep and there are goats . Most of us are sheep , but we need goats like Harry Callahan ( Clint Eastwood ) to remind us that " . . . if you want to jerk all these people off , you can , but don't do it with me . " Too often , we go along like sheep while the bureaucrats do their song and dance . Nothing gets accomplished , and people get hurt . I am not a big Tyne Daly fan , but she really did a good job as Harry's partner . Bradford Dillman , who will be back with a different name in Sudden Impact , was perfect as the toady who would kiss any butt to get promoted . Lots of action , and the heart of " Dirty " Harry shines through the rough exterior again .
" What about . . . Italian ! "	I hate seeing my cousins taken out by a vampire , but it sure makes for a good movie , especially when all your favorite gangster stars are there . There's Richie , Rocky , Carmine , & Paulie from the Sopranos ( David Proval , Rocco Sisto , Tony Lip & Tony Sirico ) , Chazz Palminteri , Robert Loggia , Luis Guzmán , and Anthony LaPaglia in a cop role that he never imagined . There's even funny man Don Rickles as the mob lawyer . If you look close you can fine Yoda , Sam Raimi , and Dario Argento , too . Yes , it has porn stars like Teri Weigel , and a whole lot of babes that took it off to just appear in this film . But , the story was funny with the star of La Femme Nikita , Anne Parillaud , as the vampire that needs sex and blood to survive . Well worth the time invested .
Yes ! Yes I do ! I like Christmas ! I LOVE Christmas !	The role of Ebenezer Scrooge was supposed to go to Lionel Barrymore , who was famous at the time for doing the radio version of this film , but he suffered an accident and could not star in the first talking version of this story . Reginald Owen got the role of his career as Scrooge and really did a fine job of playing the old buzzard . There were other fine performances here : Gene Lockhart as Bob Crachit and Terry Kilburn as Tiny Tim . and Barry MacKay as Scrooge's nephew . What really made the film was the starkness of the black and white . While one of my favorite versions of this story is a " Highway to Heaven " episode , this version really excels in showing the bleak life of Scrooge and even in the black and white , the glow of the Christmas celebration .
You look surprised . I thought you expected me .	The lovely Daniela Bianchi joins Sean Connery in her first English film as a Russian who help him get the encoding machine and keep it out of the hands of Spectre . Lotte Lenya is here as the evil Rosa Kreb , the woman who you definitely want to get it in the end . This is definitely a cold war film with the Capitalist Americans battling Smersh and the evil Commies , with a new twist - Spectre in the middle playing them both against each other . Enjoy Bond when it was about wits not special effects . Not the best Connery , but a good one .
I'm sick of you and your perfect world , because it is not perfect !	I watched this movie just to see Margarita Levieva ( Noise ) . I don't usually like Hollywood remakes , but since I have not seen the original ( Den Onsynlige ) , I had nothing to compare it to . It really captivated me : the story of betrayal and death and return as a ghost . If I had a mom ( Marcia Gay Harden ) like Nick's ( Justin Chatwin ) , I'd probably want to die also . Chatwin and Levieva were really good , as was Callum Keith Rennie ( Butterfly on a Wheel ) as Detective Larson . I was on the edge of my seat hoping for a miracle , and that is what I got .
The only way to finish them off is to stab them in the left eye that goes all the way to the brain .	You may remember Ivana Baquero as the cute 12-year-old Ofelia in Pan's Labyrinth . She took home a shelf full of awards , including a Goya . She's 15 now , and still cute . She is among a group of teens that find a thief ( Maru Valdivielso ) dressed as Santa down a hole , and they torture her to get the money she stole . Paco Plaza ( { Rec } , Romasanta ) directs this fascinating film . He is assisted by Luis Berdejo as the screenwriter . Berdejo also penned { REC } . The teens watch Zombie Invasion on TV and decide to perform the ritual on the thief . It works , and they are running for their lives as she comes after them with an ax . They remember the techniques in Zombie Invasion to kill the zombie , but it was Karate Kid that did the job . Valdivielso ( Romasanta ) was excellent as the thief / zombie . All of the kids were super . It was an enjoyable horror film .
Wartime propaganda	On a Nazi twin bill , I watched this film , also known as The Adventures of Tartu , or simply Tartu . It was a much more involved thriller with Robert Donat as a British Officer who goes to Romania to hopefully destroy the latest in Nazi poison gas . Unlike Saddam Hussein , the Nazis really did have WMDs and the release of a gas like this could have turned the war . Donat is best remembered for his Academy Award winning performance in Goodbye Mr . Chips . he was likened to Clark Gable , so it was interesting that his win came at Gable's expense in Gone With the Wind . He is also remembered for Hitchcock's The 39 Steps . Donat was magnificent in the film as a Romanian dandy . He was totally believable and his constant Heil Hitler reminded me so much of Roberto Benini's performance in Life is Beautiful . Maybe Benini modeled his performance on Donat's . We also see an early Glynis Johns , who got an Oscar nomination for The Sundowners , and a Golden Globe nomination for The Chapman Report . Many may remember her as Mrs . Banks in Mary Poppins . The aristocratic Valerie Hobson played the love interest . She is best known for being married to John Profumo , who brought down the British Government in the Christine Keeler Affair . She was a " stand by your man " wife and gave up acting to work with the developmentally disabled . She gave an excellent performance as someone who openly flirted with the Nazi's , but was actually a member of the underground .
You're a super cop , and you have no memory ?	Long before Rush Hour with Chris Tucker , Jackie Chan was doing his own series of cop movies . The formula is exactly the same : a mixture of amazing chop socky with humor and lots of shooting and explosions . You will find more violence in the Chinese versions than the tamer American movies . Instead of Chris Tucker , Chan teamed up with Michelle Yeoh ( Memoirs of a Geisha , Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon ) and Maggie Cheung ( 2046 , Hero ) . In fact , Yeoh actually provided much more entertaining moves in this film . If you like the Rush Hour films , you will love this movie as it is far superior .
Beer and Back Bacon	Before Wag the Dog , Michael Moore gave us this quirky film about a President that uses an invasion of Canada to boost his popularity . Adam Sandler lovers should tune in to see how comedy is really done with John Candy and Rhea Perlman . It is a clever spoof on Americans ignorance of Canadians , and the rest of the World for that matter . The jokes will not hit you over the head for the most part . You really have to pay attention , and you still won't get most of them until you are better educated about Canadians . I married one , so I have an advantage . : - ) This satire shows the genius of Michael Moore and it is a shame that the concept was ripped off by South Park creators .
Increasing our understanding	Today the 3rd Amendment to our Constitution appears to be a forgotten artifact of the Founding Era , for it forbids a practice that no longer troubles Americans - the quartering of soldiers in private homes . This was a big problem until the Revolution . This film demonstrates the practice in the Israli-Palestinian conflict as Israeli soldiers take over a Palestinian families home . The father , Mohammed , struggles to keep his family from harm while he tries to maintain a sense of dignity in the face of this insult . Mohammed Bakri turns in a great performance in this film . The most interesting aspects of the film are the different affects on the young children , and the depiction of some of the difficulties soldiers face in carrying out orders . Well worth your time to see another aspect of war .
Don't let them bury me ! I'm not dead !	Wes Craven ( Red Eye , Scream ) gave us this zombie film almost 20 years ago . It is not your traditional zombies , but more modern day horrors . Supposedly , this is based on true facts . Kind of like the early porn films that had a doctor in the beginning talking about the evils of nymphomania or some such sexual perversion to give the film some credibility . Forget that , it is a horror film and enjoy it as such . One of the interesting facts is that is gives us a glimpse of voodoo . As Marielle Duchamp ( Cathy Tyson ) said , 85 % of Haiti is Catholic and 110 % believe in voodoo . It makes for a strange religion and the film was interesting from that standpoint . It also has political over tones as It occurs in the last months of the Duvalier dictatorship in Haiti . If you are looking for the traditional flesh-eating zombies , they are not here . What is her is psychological horror and great makeup .
I'd like to eat those hams , too .	Bigas Luna is being touted as the new Pedro Almodovar in this Spanish comedy . I don't know about that , but the film is funny and interesting and a chance to see a lot of Penolope Cruz in her first film . Thae fact that you get a bonus with Italian beauties Anna Galiena and Stefania Sandrelli as the mothers just makes it more interesting . The story is basic fare of the telenovella : Rich boy falls in love with prostitutes ( Stefania Sandrelli ) daughter ( Penolope Cruz ) and gets her pregnant ; boy wants to marry her , but can't tell his domineering mother ( Anna Galiena ) ; boy's father is one of mother's biggest clients and doesn't want to get involved ; when mom finds out , she pays her lover ( Javier Bardem ) to break up the pair ; lover falls in love with girl ; rich kid goes crazy ; big fight with ham bones ; death . Let's see , there is a nude bullfight at midnight , some unnatural act with a pig , lots of references to ham , and lots of underwear modeling - male , that is - since that is where they make their money . In fact , it is Javier Bardem's filling out of the underwear that attracts him to momma . Some really weird stuff - almost surreal at times - makes this a must see .
They say what doesn't kill you makes you stronger .	Basic story here is one of situational ethics . This is the kind of thing that the right-wing nut-jobs on radio and TV decry except when it is used to do things like fight drugs or find terrorists . In this movie James Marsden plays a returning Desert Storm vet that got in trouble and is used by the government ( Brian Dennehy & Leo Rossi ) to rejoin his brother and friend ( Giovanni Ribisi and Brad Renfro ) to infiltrate the Philadelphia mob and bring down the drug lord . Torture and murder are government-approved for this purpose . Marsden and Ribisi do excellent jobs here , and this is the best work I have seen by Piper Perabo . It even has a cameo by Tommy Lee , which would have been much better is it was Pamela instead .
I made you the priest's whore .	Only the third feature film by Mexican director Carlos Carrera , it was a Golden Globe and Oscar nominee . I am sure that the Catholic Church was not happy with that ! I can see Bill Donahue of the Catholic League fuming and frothing over a film that features a pastor laundering drug money and sleeping with his housekeeper ; another priest openly defying his Bishop to minister to the guerrillas in the mountains ; a wacky woman who fakes taking communion only to hide it and carry it home to give to her cat ; and , the greatest crime of all , Father Amaro deflowering a young girl , getting her pregnant , and praying for a miracle , which came , but not as the church would approve . There are the book purists who feel that Eça de Queirós ' novel is not given proper respect , but a movie is not a book . Gael García Bernal ( Babel , Bad Education , The Motorcycle Diaries ) is very good as the immoral new priest who impregnates the pious Amelia ( Ana Claudia Talancón - Fast Food Nation ) while spouting Bible verses to her . Of course , he uses the Song of Solomon to talk about her hair and her breasts , which were ample , indeed . Sancho Gracia was very good as Padre Benito , the only authentic priest in the movie - the one the Bishop wanted to excommunicate ! A least they didn't diddle any young boys .
Good thriller - lots of action	First off the technical aspects of this movie were superior in every sense . The sound , the editing , the camera work , all of it was fantastic and made this an enjoyable treat . You have to enjoy all that because , with the exception of Donald Sutherland who is always on , the acting isn't there . Wesley Snipes is one of my favorite actions heroes , but we all know that action heroes can't act . Well , maybe Bruce Willis is the exception . But for an action hero , Wesley is great and does a great job here - for an action hero . And , hey , Marie Matiko was easy on the eyes . If you liked Enemy of the State , you will like this movie .
Happy Birthday Francis	There are more obvious choices for viewing Francis Ford Coppola as a director , but this little gem is worth viewing a Kathleen Turner's best movie , in my humble opinion . For me , it is probably the ultimate fantasy ( except for being the one who makes Halle Berry a happy woman ) . Peggy Sue ( Turner ) is living a crappy life and facing divorce from Charlie ( Nicolas Cage ) , who was her high school sweetheart . She gets to travel back to her high school days with a present awareness . Seeing Charlie deal with the " adult " Peggy Sue is a riot . As this would be my era , I thoroughly enjoyed the trip . Can she change the future as she tries to get back ? You'll have to get this yourself to find out . Jim Carrey fans will enjoy his performance in one of his early films . Coppola does a fantastic job of directing and shows why he is one of the very best .
It does not do to dwell on dreams , Harry , and forget to live .	I went back to look at the two Chris Columbus-directed Harry Potter movies . These were the one that were more light fantasy and enjoyable in that light . Mr . Ollivander : Curious . . . very curious . . . Harry : Excuse me , sir , but what's curious ? Mr . Ollivander : I remember every wand I've ever sold , Mr . Potter . It just so happens that the phoenix whose tailfeather resides in your wand gave another . . . just one other . It is curious that you should be destined for this wand . . . when its brother gave you that scar . Harry : And who owned that wand ? Mr . Ollivander : We do not speak his name ! The wand chooses the wizard , Mr . Potter . It's not always clear why . But I think it is clear that we can expect great things from you . After all , He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named did great things . Terrible ! Yes . But great . This is the film that Harry discovers who he is . Others know more about him than he does . We are introduced to all the great characters that we have come to know and love : Daniel Radcliffe ( with his clothes on ) , Rupert Grint , Emma Watson , Maggie Smith , Tom Felton , and Robbie Coltrane , in particular . We see the spectacular art and set decorations , particularly in the Great hall by Stuart Craig ( art director ) and Stephanie McMillan ( set decorator ) . Costune design by Judianna Makovsky and music by John Williams makes this a film to remember . The special effects were fantastic . With close supervision by author J . K . Rowling and unprecedented approval of all aspects of the movie , we know we are going to get something that will not upset book fans , and we did .
You can go to heaven with this .	Attacked as she was bathing , Ochô was forced to defend herself against a group intent on her death - outside in the snow ! Her magnificent swordplay was enhanced by her nakedness , and soon her creamy white breasts were stained in blood . Creamy white breasts appear in this film more often than swords . There are familiar faces for viewers of pinky violence films like Girl Boss Guerilla and the nunsploitation film School of the Holy Beast ( Yuki - Rie Saotome ) . The director of this film wrote and directed both . Christina gets more action than anyone ; even girl-on-girl with Jun Midorikawa . Yuki manages to get herself into a situation where she is raped by Iwakura and made into a nympho by some magic cream . He is soon to get his in a most clever way , when Ochô finds out he was one of the three men responsible for her father's murder . There is even some nunsploitation in this film as Ochô goes after the second murderer . Ochô is captured by the nun bodyguards , taken to a convent and severely whipped . It is here that she learns the identity of the third murderer - a shocking surprise . Toshiro Mifune never looked so dashing as Ochô in her final battle . Weakened by the torture and with two bullets in her , she managed to spill buckets of blood in pursuit of her objective . Brilliant cinematography in this pinky violence classic .
A good one for Veteran's Day	There is no big action in this film . It could easily be a play . It is , however , a great story of 13 heroic men who stood against impossible odds to do their duty . In that sense , it is a good film for Veteran's day . Most of the soldiers in WWII did not do Audie Murphy style heroics , but did their duty and hung in there to aid in the war effort . The efforts here were of extreme importance and the men died with honor . Tough guy Robert Taylor stars , and there is a great performance by Desi Arnaz . The crazy / heroic ending may be trite , but it was good .
An interesting murder mystery	This may not be Dario Argento's best work , but it is still an interesting story and has some fine performances by Karl Malden and James Franciscus . Some old TV watchers may remember Franciscus as Longstreet , a blind detective , that was out at the same time this film was released . In this film , it is Malden who plays the ex-reporter who is blind and engages Franciscus into exploring a couple of deaths that seem too coincidental . The film has a good car chase and a thrilling battle on a rooftop , as well as some grisly murders in the giallo tradition . It is missing the usual Argento trademarks like the use of color , but the score by Ennio Morricone more than makes up for it .
I'm gonna f8ck you back to the stone age .	How to describe a film so avant-garde that Dirk Bogarde threatened to quit the Cannes jury if it got an award ? A film that references Blade runner , with a burned-out cop ( Michael Elphick ) brought back into a futuristic Europe to find a serial killer . A film that has been described by some as " The Silence of the Lambs " meets " Delicatessen " . Fans of David Lynch may thrill at this futuristic film noir . Many will run for the exits , as it takes quite a bit of time to develop . It is Lars von Trier's first English-language film , and it is in a sepia-tone that adds to the feeling that Europe is crumbling . Water is an element that flows throughout , again adding to the feeling that something is rotten . Elphick hooks up with Me Me Lai in her last film . She had done a lot of cannibal work before this - an interesting combination of actors . Elphick goes into a experimental drug-induced hypnotic state to try and recreate the crimes and catch the killer . Things get really surreal from here . Cinematography , sound , and special effects were all superb in this very strange film .
I am here to get the girl back , sir . And there is nothing I will not do to get the girl back .	I almost thought that I was watching The Shooter again , but this David Mamet film starring Val Kilmer was way above that . It was reminiscent of watching a Kurosawa samurai film . The cold ( Do I need to know that ? If I want camaraderie , I'll join the Masons . ) , calculating warrior , whose only concern was accomplishing the mission ( You had your whole life to prepare for this moment . Why aren't you ready ? . But , something is wrong . The government is up to another one of it's sleazy activities . This one is just beyond anything one can imagine . Now , the warrior has to change ( We would have let her go , but you had to put on your thinking cap . ) Kilmar was great and he was backed up in this intense thriller by Derek Luke , William H . Macy , Ed O'Neill , Kristen Bell , and many more . A great thriller .
I've known buildings that were easier to talk to than you .	The role of Provost Marshall at the Presidio was not real stretch for Sean Connery . He just had to continue the role he played in The Untouchables the year before . That is not to say that he wasn't good , but it was a familiar type for him - tough cop and tough father . This time he was protecting his daughter , played by Meg Ryan in a role that is familiar also , against a San Francisco police detective ( and former MP ) played by Mark Harmon . Ryan gave that sweet role that she played in Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail . The cute smile and the girlish manner that we all love ; not the raw role we saw in In the Cut . I am a big fan of Harmon in NCIS and I always enjoyed his earlier roles . he does a good job here as well . There was plenty of action : car chases , running through the streets of San Francisco , and a final gun battle that ends it all .
What if you kill somebody whose death makes the world a better place ?	It's 1909 and you're alone with a young artist named Adolph . Do you kill him ? A hypothetical question becomes real for a group of friends ( Cameron Diaz , Ron Eldard , Annabeth Gish , Jonathan Penner , and Courtney B . Vance ) that inadvertently have a gung ho ex-Marine ( Bill Paxton ) for dinner . They decide that the world could be a better place if they removed some of those who pollute it with their thoughts , words , and actions . Come on , you've probably thought of the idea too . Wouldn't America be a better place if someone had gotten rid of a few right-wing nut-jobs before they could do serious damage to the country ? They choose one each Sunday - anti-gay ( Charles Durning ) , anti-literacy ( Pamela Gien ) , anti-environment ( Jason Alexander ) , etc . - you guessed it , until they come up with what they consider the ultimate prize - a Rush Limbaugh type ( Ron Perlman ) that causes them to pause . Is he really bad , or just out for money and publicity ? Is that a bad enough reason to kill him ? The answer and ending were a perfect ending to a funny movie .
Before Chuck and Larry . . .	Forget Chuck and Larry . When you have Ralph and Vince , you have it all . These two made for some of the funniest comedy I have seen out of Australia . Vince ( Paul Hogan ) has tax problems and the Australian government has just passed a law that allows same-sex couples a tax break - and it's retroactive . Scheming to save his arse , Vince convinces his best mate Ralph ( Michael Caton ) to pretend to be a same-sex couple to get the break . Laughs ensue as they try to hide their secret from the local town folk , and get ready for an audit to prove they are actually gay . They enlist the help of the only know gay in town , predictable the hairdresser , and find out a clever secret he has been hiding . He helps them , and they go to Sidney to immerse themselves in gay culture before the tax man cometh . While this is going on , Ralph's daughter is coming for a visit to introduce her partner . Everything comes together at the Fireman's Ball with Ralph and Vince , the whole town , the hairdresser , and a select few from Sydney , and , oh yes , Ralph's daughter and partner coming together . Great fun !
Hot for Hedy as a Potuguese beauty	It could only happen in Hollywood . They buy the rights to a Steinbeck novel about Mexicans and Portuguese in California and put all white actors in the cast . Now , maybe I can buy Hedy Lamarr as a Portuguese beauty , but Spenser Tracy and John Garfield as Mexicans ? Ludicrous casting , especially when the story is so ethnic . But , maybe it was genius as common stereotypes about Afro - and Mexican-Americans are played out in the form of Tracy , as a shiftless bum who mooches off his friends and manipulates them into providing him with wine and a roof over his head . Pilon ( Tracy ) is not interested in satisfying anything but his own belly and even goes after a poor wood-seller called The Pirate , in the form of Frank Morgan , who , in a Scorcese moment , got the Oscar nomination he should have gotten three years earlier for The Wizard of Oz . Lamarr was as beautiful as ever , and John Garfield did a great job as her pursuer , even as he had to avoid complete ruin from the machinations of Pilon .
I'm going to get you home .	Unlike Ruggero Deodato's Cannibal Holocaust this film was not one of the infamous video nasties banned in Britain . It was like a test run for his famous film . It goes by the name Cannibal in the UK , and by the name The Last Survivor in the censored US version . This is the full film with all the gore and nudity . It is a beautifully shot film that will appeal to nature lovers . Birds , monkeys , snakes , crocodiles - they are all here . Of course , most of these animals end up as food after not-so-humane butchering . After watching some natives munching on their comrades , two of the survivors , Rolf ( Ivan Rassimov ) and Robert ( Massimo Foschi ) manage to build a raft and they get a nice ride down the rapids . But , they are soon back in the jungle , and this time the cannibals get Robert . They rip off his clothes and spend some time playing with his wienie . Here , we get to finally see Me Me Lai ( Eaten Alive , The Au Pair Girls , The Element Of Crime ) . She puts the other cannibals to shame with her beauty . After Robert manages to escape with Pulan ( Me Me Lai ) in tow , there is one scene too horrible to describe . Pulan escapes , and Robert catches her , rapes her , and she then starts bringing him food . Law of the jungle ? Poor Pulan was not to escape the jungle .
No , I got a better idea . You hate the taste of metal . Well , it's going in your mouth . Open up .	Everyone is always dissing David Caruso . I think he is alright and he really does a good job in this film . He just wants his life back and wants to take care of his family . He went to jail and lost his wife ( Helen Hunt ) . He made a deal with the D . A . ( Stanley Tucci ) and got revenge on the man responsible ( Michael Rapaport ) . But the D . A . is not satisfied . he wants Little Junior ( Nicolas Cage ) . Cage plays one bad mother who kills a federal agent ( Ving Rhames ) in front of Caruso . That's not enough as the feds get put on the ropes by the mob lawyer ( Anthony Heald ) and the D . A . makes a deal and drops the case . With the help of a cop ( Samuel L . Jackson ) , he closes the deal and goes off with his new wife ( Kathryn Erbe ) . That's the story in a nutshell , but it doesn't do justice to what happens . I have seldom seen a neonoir drama with such a list of stars , not to mention eye-candy like Bernadette Penotti . Worth a watch on Sunday afternoon .
Aren't gay Christians like gay Republicans ?	I never could understand Log Cabin Republicans . How can you support a party that wants to burn you at the stake ? Gay Christians are in the same category . It just doesn't make sense to me . Sure , there are churches where you are accepted , like the Lutheran church in this film , but the vast majority wish you would just go away . This was a very interesting documentary of a camp for gay Christian teens . There were 10 , about six boys and four girls . We got the back story , as well as watching the changes they went through in their camp experience . It was revealing . The first thing the camp officials had to face was sleeping arrangements . Most camps have the girls in one building and the boys in another . Since this was a camp for GLBT teens , that wouldn't do . They did manage to solve the problem in a creative way . The rest is just what you would expect at a LGBT Christian camp : Christian music and preaching focusing on the perspective of acceptance , and a lot of bonding among the teens , some who never had a friend before arriving . If you are not familiar with the pain and struggle teens who are gay go through , then this will open you eyes a bit and give you a new perspective . I certainly hope you take the opportunity to see what is going on all around you .
Action & Laughs - what more do you want ?	OK , it may have been stretching it to go for a fourth Lethal Weapon film . I mean , do you remember Rocky 4 or Death Wish 4 ? But , this film was a departure from the rest and , as such , deserves some credit for what it tried to do . You can't argue with a film that includes Mary Ellen Trainor , Mel Gibson , Danny Glover , Joe Pesci , Rene Russo , Chris Rock and Jet Li . There is going to be action , there is going to be comedy , and there is going to be some schmaltzy romance . The addition of Rock , along with Trainor and Pesci was a hoot . The laughs never stopped throughout the movie . I am a HUGE Chris Rock fan and he did not disappoint . The action in the film was hot and heavy . The only thing that was bogus was Gibson defeating Jet Li . Come on , nobody defeats Jet Li . He is indestructible and I refuse to believe that Gibson can beat him . But , I have to admit that this was the best fight sequence I have seen . This is not prime rib , it is chocolate cake . Chocolate cake is good , especially with ice cream . So sit back , and enjoy your dessert . It doesn't much more flavorful than this .
Another song for Christmas	It amazes me how many ways a simple story like Dicken's " A Christmas Carol " can be interpreted . We have the pleasure of watching Cicely Tyson ( Idlewild , A Lesson Before Dying ) in another strong role . John Korty , who directed Ms . Tyson in The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman , again directs her as Ms . Ebenita Scrooge . Veteran writer John McGreevey interprets the familiar tale . Katherine Helmond ( " Soap " , " Whose the Boss " ) was funny as Marley , and Michael Beach ( " Third Watch " , Short Cuts ) was super as her nephew . It was a different twist on a familiar story , told from an African-American perspective , and it really warmed the heart . Of course , you all know how it ends .
All I wanna do is race , Daddy .	I am sure this was a good movie for those who knew who Dale Earhart was BEFORE he died . For the rest of us , it is just OK . The movie stars Barry Pepper as Dale Earnhart . Pepper has done some good work before ( The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada , The Green Mile ) , and puts forth an excellent performance here . J . K . Simmons ( The Closer , Law & Order ) was also very good as Ralph Earnhart , Dale's father . As I said , if you are into NASCAR , then you will enjoy this movie . Of course , if you are a rabid NASCAR and Dale Earnhart fan , then I doubt that 88 minutes will satisfy you .
What are we defending against Sergeant ?	A horror film with religious overtone ? It seems that is just what this little gem is after all . It takes place in WWI , in a trench , in constant rain , among soldiers that have been given up for dead by their command . Are they dead ? Is this Purgatory ? The lone German soldier tries to warn them that they should get out . They think that he has a buddy somewhere that is killing them . He tells them it is evil lurking , but they do not listen . Jamie Bell , who won a BAFTA for Billy Elliot leads a great cast that includes Kris Marshall ( The Four Feathers , Love Actually ) , Golden Globe nominee Andy Serkis ( Lord of the Rings , Longford ) , and Hugo Speer ( The Full Monty ) . Fellow soldiers are dying , the tension is rising , they are going mad and turning on each other . Rats and barbed wired just add to the horror . The horrors of war .
Hot without showing a bit of skin	I really didn't think I would like this film , especially since it got a lousy review and ditto comments , but it really wasn't that bad and I actually watched the whole thing . Yes , I wanted to see Kate Beckinsale . I was thinking about seeing Vacancy and wanted to know if she was worth the price of admission . I was also interested in the comments regarding her doing nudity . Is that her nude in Uncovered or is it a body double ? Only the cameraman knows for sure . But that is off topic . This is about Underworld . But , maybe it is on topic , since I would not have watched had I not wanted to see her . She was hot ! Hot ! Hot ! Hot ! All covered up and I couldn't take my eyes off her . What was the movie about ? Who cares ? I just wanted to see Kate . That was enough o not only keep me interested , but to make me want to see the sequel tomorrow night . Beside Kate , both Bill Nighy and Sophia Myles will be back and they are definitely worth seeing again .
The proud do not endure , like a passing dream on a night in spring ; the mighty fall at last , to be no more than dust before the wind .	One does not usually think of westerns when they think of Takashi Miike . In fact , I would have never thought of a western by the director of Greaveyard of Honor , Ichi the Killer , and Bodyguard Kiba . But then I would never have expected a musical either like The Happiness of the Katakuris . So , Miike brings his themes to another genre and it was fun . That is one thing you have to know about Miike . No mater what genre , the themes are always the same . The impermanence of life , loneliness , and the inevitability of death . It's all there in a film that borrows from so many others . You will see Eastwood in the film , both the spaghetti western Eastwood , and the Dirty harry Eastwood . There is some John Wayne , too . There is even some Jodorowsky . It is sukiyaki after all , a stew that presents many different flavors . You really have to pay attention to see and taste them all . There is a blend of experience , too . You will see veteran Japanese actors along with rookies , and in the middle , some fine performance by some of Japan's best . Don't look for Miiki's trademark extreme violence , but it is a western , so there will be blood .
John Woo's World War Two	John Woo ( The Killer , Hard Boiled ) has finally made " A John Woo Movie " in Hollywood . Finally , hyper-kinetic action and overwrought crises of friendship and conscience in a Hollywood movie . Nicolas Cage's Sergeant Enders has a Navajo code talker to protect and kill , if necessary . Cage's vet is bitter , ferocious and merciless and some of the violence is truly sickening . Just as it should be . The Marines are not perfect . Some are damaged , one is racist , and there is friendly fire . Adam Beach ( Flags of Our Fathers ) does a good job as Private Ben Yahzee , the code-talker Enders has to protect . Absolutely superlative stunt work .
Love , hit-woman style	This was a really good Columbian film that starred Flora Martínez ( Proof of Life ) as a hit-woman who falls in love . That sounds like a formulaic movie that has been made a thousand times , but Martinez really brings home the film in a way that will keep you watching . I don't know much about Columbia , but i was really fascinated with the celebration of death before the funeral of Jonhefe . They borough him to the bar and sat him in a chair and had a party , including a lap dance for the dead man . Makes it kind of a grind house film , but it was a film about love and loss . It's worth a look just to see Martinez .
What do I need manners for ? I already got me a wife .	This charming musical not only took home an Oscar for Best Music , but gathered up a bushel basket full of nominations : Best Cinematography , Best Film Editing , Best Screenplay , and lost Best Picture to On the Waterfront - No shame in that loss ! There wasn't a whole lot of story here , not surprising as it was based upon a short story by Stephen Vincent Benet ; but there sure was some excellent musical numbers , and amazing dance routines . It is a funny story and good enough that they actually made a Broadway musical out of a movie . This is definitely an ensemble performance , and the story is good even 50 years later .
Where do I stand for a corner kick ?	John Huston , Oscar winning director of The Treasure of Sierra Madre , gives us an entertaining film about a football match between The Germand and Allied POWs during WWII . Until the actual game , this was just a routine POW movie with the usual obnoxious British Officers , and the one that thinks outside the box ( Michael Caine ) and makes it interesting . The actual football match was held in Paris and the Germans fielded their National Team ( actors ) against a collection of real players from Belgium , England , Poland , Holland , Scotland , Argentina , Ireland , and the great Pele from Brazil . The field judges were , of course , bought off by the Germans . An escape was planned for halftime , but the game continued and escape occurred later . Like I said , except for the football , this was a routine POW film . Sly Stallone played an American in the camp that met with the French Resistance to set up the escape . He was actually rather good .
It's not Righteous Kill	Not a particularly noteworthy episode , but another opportunity to see Jerry Orbach as Detective Lennie Briscoe . Executive A . D . A . Jack McCoy ( Sam Waterston ) rips him up on the stand , but Lenny gets the last laugh as he really solves the crime - for which Jack just convicted the wrong man . Jill Hennessy as A . D . A . Claire Kincaid is always fun to watch . Eye candy to be sure , but what the heck . Steven Hill is the D . A . Not my favorite . Just an old John McCain-type politician who probably parts his hair on the right side . I must remember to look . Someone said this morning that the new movie Righteous Kill is just like an old Law & Order episode . Even one as bland as this one is worth watching , so maybe I'll go see it .
Life is only worthwhile when you can face death without showing any fear .	There is nothing like a good spaghetti western to pass a Sunday afternoon , especially when Tiger has little chance of winning . This one is particularly good , as it stars the great Lee Van Cleef as a bounty hunter who foils an attempt to rob $100 , 000 from the army . Filled with lots of interesting characters like Banjo ( William Berger ) , Carrincha ( Ignazio Spalla ) , and Indio ( Aldo Canti ) ; more than a few laughs ; and some amazing tricks and gun play by Van Cleef ; it is just the thing for fans of the genre . I have to note that it is a good thing that the bad guys led by Stengel ( Franco Ressel ) have unlimited resources , because they drop like flies at every attempt to kill Sabata .
We both screw people for money .	Julia Roberts got a Golden Globe along with an Oscar nomination for her portrayal of a prostitute in an updated version of My Fair Lady . As ridiculous as the story is , one has to admit that it was just plain funny . No prostitutes I have ever seen on the news that actually work the streets look like Julia Roberts ; not even like her pal Laura San Giacomo - most are just ugly . It is not a pretty business and I think it a flaw of the film to glamorize it . But , it was so funny ! Yes , seeing Julia in a position that was uncomfortable was funny , but why couldn't she have just been a flower seller ? Maybe the speech-writer for a current presidential candidate wrote this script . I can see Vivian and Kit yelling , " Yes , We Can ! " Come on , it was funny ! OK , Julia's slapstick was a little over the top , but Hector Elizondo was amazing funny as the Manager and doesn't get enough credit for his understated performance . It was funny and that makes it worth revisiting .
He was a mook , but he was my mook !	I have only read a couple of Stephen King's books , so I can't comment on whether this is a great adaptation , but it certainly was an interesting movie . One has to stretch their imagination to believe in curses , but if you suspend belief for a while , this film is just plain scary . Not since The Machinist , have I seen such a figure as Robert John Burke ( Good Night and Good Luck ) as he went down to 120 pounds . Joe Mantegna was great as the mob buddy . Michael Constantine was really a believable gypsy , and his daughter Kari Wuhrer ( The Hitcher II : I've Been Waiting , Hellraiser : Deader ) was one of the best parts of the movie . For Stephen King fans , he was in it also .
You two take a lot of liberties .	This is an interesting episode not just for the fact that the judge was the wife of the former Mayor of New York . Ray ( benjamin Bratt ) refers to the printer on which the letters to the paper as a " garden variety bubble jet . " He might as well had been talking about Commodore 64s or 5 inch floppies . Few people remember the bubble jet . There is a lot of Unabomber in this as the brother turns in his brother hoping to save his life . Adam Schiff ( Steven Hill ) wants the death penalty , but Jack McCoy ( Sam Waterston ) pulls a fast one so Jaime ( Carey Lowell ) could regain her credibility . Good performances bu all , including Lennie Briscoe ( Jerry Orbach ) .
Doing what it takes to survive	I enjoyed Ramin Bahrani's Man Push Cart , and this film is equally good . This slice of life is almost a documentary about how life on the edges is lived . Alejandro Polanco and Isamar Gonzales do an excellent job as a 12-year-old brother and a 16-year-old sister who live in a small room over an auto shop . There are no parents ; they are on their own surviving . Ali supplements his income by stealing auto parts , selling bootleg DVDs and selling candy on the subway . Izzie supplements her income working a food truck by selling herself . They are trying to make money to but their own truck . One is tempted to express outrage at the fact that these two children are left to fend on their own , and certainly one can be very upset that Izzie sells her body to willing truckers , but the fact is that this exists today in the world's richest country , not some underdeveloped land . Save the outrage and do something .
This is , I think , a two-pipe problem .	Peter Cushing makes a great Holmes , and the Hammer film was much more enjoyable than the other Holmes film . André Morell makes a better Dr . Watson , and is not so much a bumbling fool as Nigel Bruce . But , I will have to get the 1939 version of this adventure to compare apples with apples . I really liked having Christopher Lee in the film . I always enjoy his performances and he does well with Cushing . The story was very interesting and as old as time itself . Even so , It was well into the film before I guessed it . I guess I won't be quitting my day job to become a detective .
All I wanted was to be a mariachi , like my ancestors .	I bought this film and Desparados on Region 2 by mistake and so it sat on my shelf for a long time . Fortunately , my new computer plays Region 2 , so I got to see it again in Hi Def . It was as good as I remembered . No , it's not high quality , but it is fantastic considering that it was written , directed , shot , and edited by one person - Robert Rodriguez . It was his experiment , and he showed his talent and what can be done for $7 , 000 . He even used his friend to star in the film . The non-actor Carlos Gallardo was perfect for the role and made the film more believable . Even the little town of Ciudad Acuña added realism to the film . An inspiration to filmmakers everywhere .
Little Red Riding Hood meets the Big Bad Wolf	Boy , did I get a surprise ! I was watching the Big bad Wolf ( Patrick Wilson ) as he fed line after smooth line in his attempt to seduce Little Red Riding Hood ( Ellen Page ) . He was o so smooth and said just the right things as he lured her to his lair and carefully got ready to pounce . But , boom ! Just when the noose is ready to be tightened , the prey becomes the predator and we are exposed to a taut , suspenseful film with an amazing new actress . While Wilson was super in his role , Page was over the top . And , I have to say it , I do not believe that Hitchcock could have done a better job of directing a suspense thriller than David Slade . This little film was one of the most enjoyable I watched from last year .
No more deals	Another episode during what I consider the " dark " period of Law & Order , Farina and Parisse just don't do it for me , but at least Jesse martin is there . An investment banker is found murdered in the wrong part of town . When infidelity is discovered , of course the husband ( Martin Donovan ) is suspected . But , secrets remain to be exposed and Keir Dullea is the one that has them all . The key to these secrets is his daughter Sophia ( Lisa Zane ) , who is a rising star on Wall Street . Waterston ends up disgusted at the whole bunch and just wants them all in prison .
She was cut in two . Do you think it's an epidemic , like the flu ?	Robert De Niro and Robert Duvall are brothers . One is a high mucky muck in the LA Archdiocese and the other is a cop investigating a Black Dahlia-type murder in the 40s . It seems that no matter where the cop turns , there is some connection to his brother's associates , specifically Charles Durning , who is a building contractor trying to buy his way into heaven . The interplay between the two is electric and it is not often you get to see two stars of this caliber together . I guess the only other time was in The Godfather , but they were part of a huge cast and not the central focus as they are here . Comic relief was provided by the appearance of Burgess Meredith , as a priest that was always fighting the Cardinal . James Hong played the coroner . The man has had over 300 roles and is still going strong . Joan Didion and husband John Gregory Dunne wrote the screenplay from his novel . They worked together on seven scripts before he died . Great period piece .
The new Jenny McCarthy	I no longer think of Playboy when I hear the name Jenny McCarthy . I now think of Autism , and good acting . She does a superb job in this charming and funny Christmas story . Santa ( George Wendt ) is having heart trouble and so mom ( Lynne Griffin ) calls Mary Class ( she changed her name ) home . Mary ( McCarthy ) is a successful workaholic that has always had a rough time with dad ( WHO HASN'T ? ) . She wants efficiency , while he stick to tradition . She also left a beau ( Ivan Sergei ) when she left home and has new boyfriend in the big city . You can imagine the problems there when the two meet . So you have family struggle on a grand scale , relationship problems and lots of comedy in a great Christmas movie . Also stars Kandyse McClure , who will be familiar to " Battlestar Galactica " fans , who creates a little heat of her own .
Was that the bogeyman ?	This is my first Halloween , so I am not cursed by comparing it to something else and am judging it on it's own . Zon Zombie hit a triple in my opinion and put together a film that was entertaining for the most part and damn thrilling at the end . My score is based on jumping out of my seat three times , and four breasts . What the heck more could you ask for in a thriller ? Sheri Moon was very good as Michael's mother . I was thrilled to see Leslie Easterbrook again . Danny Trejo is always a thrill . Scout Taylor-Compton and Kristina Klebe were yummy , and Hanna Hall was just outstanding . Hey ! There's Sybil Danning and Adrienne Barbeau ! I am hoping to see Tyler Mane again reprising this role . Good Job , Rob .
Hang loose , stay cool , and don't forget your psychic humor .	The suspense never stopped in this film . I sat the whole time on the edge of my seat wondering just what was going to happen next . Two guys , Jim ( Todd Allen ) and Brandon ( Stephen Nichols ) were lifelong friends . Did they have a falling out over Linda ( Tawny Kitaen ) ? They seem to hate each other now , and you always had it in the back of your mind that this had something to do with what was going on . Was there really some evil spirit trying to get out , or was it simply evil in the form of jealousy and hate . The fact that a police detective ( Burke Byrnes ) was always hanging around added to the suspense . There isn't a lot of gore in the film ; it was just eerie suspense that rose to a climax that was really great . As an added bonus we got to see a whole lot of Ms . Kitaen as she was attacked in the shower . Yum .
I'm a fcking piece of sht . That's what I am .	How many movies have we watched about New York natives ? Most of us have seen Little Italy in Martin Scorsese's " Mean Streets . " Spike Lee's " Summer of Sam " shows us the South Bronx . There is the disturbing " Kids " and " The Basketball Diaries , " among others . Dito Montiel's first film , written and directed by him from his book , shows us Queens in the 80s . I do not have a thing for New York . I watched the movie to see more of Shia LaBeouf , who plays Dito as a teen . Robert Downey , Jr . picks up the character as an adult . I also watched for the brief glimpse of Rosario Dawson , who plays his girlfriend , Laurie , as an adult . Melonie Diaz is Laurie as a teen . Is it as good as the billing ? After all , it did gather five wins and another seven nominations at various film festivals . I haven't made up my mind completely . LaBeouf was great , I always love seeing Rosario Dawson , Downey seemed flat - without emotion . I guess you had to be there , and I wasn't .
The world is getting filthy and rotten because of worms like you .	This film focuses on the period when the Samurai were disappearing and Japan was becoming Westernized . I takes place in a village where master-less ronin spend their time eking out a living , and prostitutes are the main characters . We meet people like Aramaki Gennai ( Yoshio Harada ) who is most un-samurai like , and seems to be mad , or Doi , a former samurai who raises birds , or Bull ( Shintarô Katsu ) the bouncer . The beautiful prostitute Oshin ( Kanako Higuchi ) is strangely tied to Aramaki , while Horo ( Renji Ishibashi ) is madly in love with her , but afraid to take her away . It is a story about characters , not action , although action will soon be a part for those who hang in there . Soon , some outsiders ( seven samurai ) start killing off the prostitutes , and the master-less samurai are forced to act like samurai again to save the village , especially when they tie two bulls to Oshin's legs to rip her apart . A beautiful film with all the bloody action at the end . Great acting by Kanako Higuchi , Renji Ishibashi , and Yoshio Harada .
You screwed my wife . I screwed you back .	Sometimes you just want to sit back and laugh , and who better to give you those laughs than Charlie Sheen . He is a ladies man just like " Two and a Half Men " , but this time he screwed the wrong woman and lost it all . After future wife Denise Richards leaves him , he has to find gainful employment . He sneaks his way into writing an advice column . Estelle Harris was hilarious as the editor's ( Angie Harmon ) secretary . Harmon was funny , too . Jon Lovitz gives plenty of laughs as his best bud , and who knew Rosanna Arquette could be so funny ? Paybacks are fun and funny .
Grindhouse action at it's finest	If your cup of tea is martial arts action , then this film is for you . It has lots of action , female nudity , more fighting , some ridiculous Japanese character in black-face , fighting on the rooftops , drugs , burning houses , more nudity , more fights ; it just goes on and on . Somehow there is a point to all of this , but it just seems like Sister Street Fighter's Greatest Hits . A thin story about using chemicals to smuggle gold and a friend forced to be the mistress of the kingpin is just an excuse to have fights . Many of the fights are pretty lame , with the loser going down quickly . But , hey , it's great 70s grind-house fun and the hokeyness is just part of that .
I'd buy THAT for a dollar !	I am really not sure what to make of this film . Director Brian De Palma seemed to put together a mash-up that really goes all over the place and doesn't make too much sense , but I was stuck watching like a deer in the headlights . First off , Jake ( Craig Wasson ) is just plain stupid . I guess that is why his wife was cheating on him . Who meets someone for the first time and then takes a free apartment without wondering what the catch is ? And , can you really trust someone that looks like Sam ( Gregg Henry ) ? This Hitchcokian film noir has voyeurism , pornography , murder with a big drill , and a great performance by Melanie Griffith , who has more bad performances than Paris Hilton could ever dream of ( The Bonfire of the Vanities , Shining Through , Born Yesterday , Too Much , Mulholland Falls , Crazy in Alabama , and Cecil B . DeMented ) . De Palma's movies may not always be great art , but they sure are interesting .
You're all the same the lot of you , with your long hair and faggot clothes . Drugs , sex , every sort of filth !	Non si deve profanare il sonno dei morti ( Do Not Speak Ill of the Dead ) , better known as The Living Dead at Manchester Morgue or Let Sleeping Corpses Lie is a 1974 horror film directed by Jorge Grau , featuring special effects by Luciano Byrd and Antonio Balandin and featuring Cristina Galbó . This video nastie was banned in Britain was re-released uncut in 2002 . One expects some nudity in a horror film , but the nudity in this film was the strangest I have seen . It had nothing to do with the horror . Some woman just stripped naked and ran across London traffic . I am not sure what the point was . The zombies were very realistic and they had a couple of gruesome shots where they were feeding . The real focus of the story was trying to convince the authorities that the zombies existed , and the performances of Ray Lovelock and Cristina Galbó were very good . The ending was a big plus .
Rachel Weisz is fantastic	I got a chance to see Rachel Weisz in a dark movie last night , but she really shines in this film . I continue to be impressed by her range . It's not a great film by any measure , but it is good fun . Weisz's duel with Patricia Velasquez as the reincarnated Anck-su-Namun was incredible . This is , in one sense , a family movie , al la " True Lies . " Dad ( Brendon Frazier ) , mom ( Weisz ) and son ( Freddie Boath ) all fight together to defeat Imhotep ( Arnold Vosloo ) . There is even a kooky brother-in-law ( John Hannah ) - a real family adventure . This is the second film for " The Rock . " He was in " Longshot , " but way down on the billing as a mugger . Here he rises to prominence in a cast , but his character is quite ridiculous . It's something out of a " B " movie . All in all , if you are looking for some mindless entertainment on a Saturday night , this film can frequently be found on USA . Check it out if , for no other reason , another chance to see the incredibly sexy Rachel Weisz .
Viva la revolution !	There is a great old 1965 Jimmy Stewart movie called Shenandoah about a father that finds his family in the middle of the Civil War . The Patriot is basically the same story updated with a different war . They are both worth watching . Mel Gibson plays the father ( with a military past he is trying to forget ) who is just trying to runs a farm and avoid conflict . Neesdless to say that is not going to happen as his sons get drawn into the battle . The old warrior comes back and starts fighting the British . Heath Ledger plays one of his sons , while the ever lovely Joely Richardson plays his sister-in-law ( wife is dead ) . Jason Isaacs ( Lucius Malfoy from Harry Potter ) plays the bad guy . Is that a surprise ? The cast list has several other great players , and you will likely find one that you enjoy . Good movie about the period .
They set Mom up . They set her up .	There isn't a lot of story here . Four brothers come home for mom's funeral and find some suspicious facts that cause them to kick ass and take names . Or , did they take the names before they kicked ass ? It doesn't matter . The movie starred some great names and had plenty of action for those who love action movies . Check it out : Mark Wahlberg ( The Departed , The Perfect Storm ) , André Benjamin ( Idlewild ) , Tyrese Gibson ( Baby Boy , Flight of the Phoenix ) , Sofía Vergara ( one of Maxim's " 100 Sexiest Women " ) , Garrett Hedlund ( Eragon , Troy ) , Terrence Howard ( Hustle & Flow , Crash ) , Chiwetel Ejiofor ( American Gangster , Children of Men ) , and Taraji P . Henson ( Hustle & Flow , Baby Boy ) . What a cast for an action movie ! Only criticism : When a film advertises nudity , I do NOT want to see some guys butt as the only nudity in the film . Cheesh !
According to your blood sample Denys , you've been dead for several hours .	Did you know they had AIDS in China ? It must be a closely guarded secret . However , in the first of three stories on the disease , we see Lucy Liu as a blood smuggler who buys blood for $5 . 00 a pint . In the process , a whole village becomes infected . It is a sad tale punctuated by her delivery of her baby alone in a field . It then moves to Canada where a porn actor ( Shawn Ashmore ) steals blood from his father to hide his infection . After one of the required tests , the technician comes on the set to tell him his blood test shows that he has been dead for some time . He rushes home to find that his father was dead when he drew the blood . His mother ( Stockard Channing ) comes up with a solution to their problems that is quite original , and probably only possible in Canada . The final segment involves some nuns in Africa . Olympia Dukakis , Sandra Oh , and Chloë Sevigny are sent to save souls before AIDS takes them to purgatory . The opening segment of the movie really didn't make any sense until now . It fits into this segment . I wonder why they didn't put it here . Maybe they didn't want to distract from Sevigny's naughty nun bit . Sevigny is a novice that sees her mission as more than saving souls ; she also tries to save lives . She involves the other nuns and they swipe money from the collection plate , but she goes way further . The plantation owner ( Ian Roberts ) wants tit for tat to help her . We did get to see her tit , and he got the tat more than once . Is that what God wanted her to do ? Is saving lives just as important as saving souls , and is some sin allowed for the greater good ? The cinematography in the film was incredible , and the music was also excellent .
You suck , Dick !	This was an absolutely hilarious satire about Richard Nixon and the Watergate cover-up . It was one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time . Of course , the fact that it had Kirsten Dunst ( Spider-Man , Bring It On ) as the lead was what drew me to the film , but there were so many great lines , especially those inadvertently said by Michelle Williams ( Brokeback Mountain , The Station Agent ) . They were just so funny as two airheads that brought down the President . Dan Hedaya ( Shaft , The First Wives Club ) was a perfect Dick Nixon . The only thing that detracted from an otherwise hilarious film was the presence of Will Ferrell and Bruce McCulloch . Ugh !
Zombies that make you laugh	If you are looking for a zombie film , this will not satisfy you . Sure , it has zombies , but they are too busy devising double entendres and references to Abbott and Costello bits or other films to be gnawing on flesh . Speaking of flesh , Fenella Fielding was just about the hottest vampire I could imagine for the day . Her brother , played by Kenneth Williams , was a hoot . He played the gayest Dr Frankenstein character I ever saw . I had never seen Jim Dale before , and he was excellent . I only knew Dale as the reader of the Harry Potter books . I spent many hours with him as i listened to all of them many times over . Now , I find that he is an excellent actor to boot . If you like British comedy , and I certainly do , then this is one film you should see . I can't wait to see more of them .
Snakes rock	This movie was a pleasant surprise . Sfter all the negatives , I wasn't expecting anything this good . I just wanted to see it because of all the internet hype got before it's release . I should have guessed that there would be a bite on the big bare tt , and when the dude was taking a pss , you just knew it was going to get him in the cck . I cheered when the constrictor got the ahole who fed the dog to the snake . The action was great and it was nonstop and had enough twists and turns to keep me glues to my seat when I wasn't jumping out of it . Great Movie . Samuel l . Jackson never disappoints . Julianna Margulies was great . Joey's sister ( Rachel Blanchard ) was hot . , as was Sunny Mabrey .
Watch and learn .	Detective Nina Cassady ( Milena Govich ) and A . D . A . Connie Rubirosa ( Alana De La Garza ) join the show . Detective Cassady gets on the wrong side of Lt . Van Buren ( S . Epatha Merkerson ) immediately when she promises to clear the case of a policeman being shot . Yes , it appears to be Mrs . Spears & Mr Federline in the characters of Sky Sweet ( Barbara King ) and " J-Train " Smolka ( Wayne Wilcox ) . The comments about J-Train's so-called music and an interview with Sky Sweet by Jack McCoy ( Sam Waterston ) were absolutely funny and true . Oops ! Someone made a mistake and Jack pounces . Game over .
Before anybody kills me they got to get my okay . And I don't think I'll give it to ' em .	With a screenplay by Luciano Vincenzoni ( A Fistful of Dynamite , The Good , the Bad and the Ugly , For a Few Dollars More ) and music by Ennio Morricone , a movie has to be good , and this one certainly is . It starts with the murder of a father and then the gang rape of a mother and sister , who are both murdered when the men are through . The boy watches it all helpless . Bill ( John Phillip Law ) , now a grown man , seeks revenge . It appears that Lee Van Cleef is after the same men for different reasons . He has just been released from prison after 15 years , and he wants to collect money from the men , not kill them . Law may have been quite silly at times with his fake accent , but Van Cleef more than made up for it with a stream of witty lines and action that rivals the best of Leone's work .
The sky is blue , water is wet , women have secrets .	Count on Bruce Willis ( 12 Moneys , The Siege , The Jackal ) to make another good action flick . Teamed up with Damon Wayans , who added the comic relief , this flick was most enjoyable . Tony Scott ( Man on Fire , Domino , Beverly Hills Cop II , Enemy of the State ) knows how to make action flicks and he did a good job with this one , even though the story was a bit thin . Danielle Harris ( Halloween 2007 , Halloween 4 , Halloween 5 ) was just so cute as Willis ' 13-year-old daughter . This is type-cast for Willis as he plays the cool cop / PI like no one else can since Dirty Harry .
It was good for me too .	Director Benoît Jacquot ( Right Now ) has taken a script by Jacques Fieschi , based on a Japanese novel by Yukio Mishima , added superstar Isabelle Huppert ( The Piano Teacher ) and Vincent Martinez , in his first acting role to give us an interesting and satisfying look at the older woman / younger man romance . While having a younger man was satisfying for Dominique ( Huppert ) , the effort to keep him was physically and emotionally exhausting . It did not help that Quentin ( Martinez ) earned a living being available to men as well . Huppert is a guarantee for a good show , and she can act , too - a satisfying combination .
Are you afraid ?	Benjamin O'Ryan ( Ben Kingsley ) : I know what you're thinking . " Pain is coming . Will I take it like a man ? " Well , let me put you at ease . You won't . None of them do . Men , women , children , they all weep , they all beg , they pss themselves , they attempt negotiation . You wouldn't believe how many men I've seen lying right where you're lying right now , grown men with wives and children at home , offering all kinds of sexual gratification for a five-minute reprieve . It's pathetic ! The fact that Ben Kingsley can win an Oscar playing Gandhi and do a complete 180 in this thriller is a tribute to his acting ability . I have never seen anyone who was scarier than he was . You just knew you were going to die when face to face with him . The FBI is on the hunt for a serial killer and two stained agents are leading the pack . Aaron Eckhart ( Thank You for Smoking , Conversations With Other Women ) and Carrie-Anne Moss ( The Matrix , Momento ) are hunting Kingley until Eckhart realizes that he is hunting the wrong man . The reason is bizarre and imaginative , and adds to the suspense . This one may not keep you guessing , but it will certainly keep you interested .
You want bread , fck a baker .	French Connection director William Friedkin gives us a tour of the city of L . A . ' s worst spots as an obsessive cop ( William Petersen in only his second role ) goes after the dude ( Willem Dafoe ) who killed his partner . How many times have we heard that one ? It's the adrenaline junkie versus the psychotic . It makes for an interesting thrill ride . Speaking of thrill rides , there is a chase scene that has to be seen to be believed . It will have you on the edge of your seat . You see a lot of favorites in this movie : John Turturro ( Ambrose Monk ) , Dean Stockwell ( " Quantum Leap " ) , Robert Downey's dad and even Jane Leeves ( Daphne from TV's Fraser ) . Be prepared for a genuinely shocking ending .
The Last House Redux	The no-remake purists will be screaming , but the fact is that the 1972 Wes Craven film was just a remake of a film that 99 % of the purists have probably never seen . This film beats the 1972 film by a mile . First , there is the rape scene that one newspaper reviewer called " . . . one of the most graphically brutal and terrifying rapes ever put on screen . " Obviously , he never saw I Spit on Your Grave . That was brutal ! What I am most reminded of in watching this film is Wes Craven's Red Eye . The tension and surprises were continual once that family ( Tony Goldwyn & Monica Potter ) realizes who is responsible for what happened to their daughter ( Sara Paxton ) . You will also note the torture porn elements as the father selects from a shelf full of implements to use in seeking revenge . The use of household appliances was a unique element not seen before , and really gave a graphic and satisfying ending to the film . I was gratified that the final fight sequence was realistic in the sense that , despite the adrenaline rushing through the father , he was still getting his ass whipped until the son appeared . It took a tag team approach to bring that sucker down and prepare him for his just rewards . Fans of the genre have to be a little disappointed that the only titillating scenes came from the killers girlfriend ( Riki Lindhome ) , and only towards the end of the film . All-in-all , it was superior to the 1972 film and a worth successor to the Bergman original .
I wanted the money .	Another great Donald Sutherland film and a great caper film to boot . Sutherland stars with Sean Connery and Leslie-Anne Down in a bawdy and fun caper to rob a train while moving of a gold shipment of £25 , 000 heading to pay British soldiers in the Crimean War . A seemingly impossible task that is complicated at the last minute and has some funny twists and turns is a joy to watch . Of course , the real joy is watching Connery and Sutherland as the plan and execute this caper . Great cinematography and Michael Crichton does not disappoint as director of a film based on his own novel .
My God ! It's full of stars !	This is not a film for the stars , although I was impressed by Roy Scheider ( All That Jazz , The French Connection , Blue Thunder ) and Dame Helen Mirren ( The Queen , Gosford Park , The Madness of King George ) . They really seemed to gel together and made this Sci-Fi epic watchable . Of course the draw of this film is the art and set Decoration by Albert Brenner and Rick Simpson ; the costume design by Patricia Norris ; the visual effects by Richard Edlund , Neil Krepela , George Jenson , and Mark Stetson ; the makeup by Michael Westmore ; and the sound by Michael J . Kohut , Aaron Rochin , Carlos DeLarios , and Gene S . Cantamessa . When you have an outstanding combination like that , you know the film is worth watching .
Post terrorism by our government	It was President Roosevelt that told us , " The only thing you have to fear is fear itself . " The Bush administration has put the country into a constant state of fear since , and the result is that we have been complicit in the removal of the very freedoms that make us unique in the world . Benjamin Franklin said , " Those who would give up essential Liberty , to purchase a little temporary Safety , deserve neither Liberty nor Safety . " The Bush administration is counting on the fear and ignorance of the American people to continue to allow them to build their tyranny in the guise of safety . This is the story of how the government uses their tyranny to come down on those with whom they disagree . As stated so eloquently in the film , they no longer use the civil process , they have turned civil litigation into criminal litigation . They have also passed laws allowing them to lock up any of us at will . This is a story of how an artist , Steve Kurtz , is persecuted by the government for daring to oppose the multi-national corporations that finance these sleazy politicians ; but it is really the story of what could happen to every single one of us if we continue to sit in front of the TV and watch trash and let the government do what they will .
Funny French action movie	Most of us are familiar with the successful " buddy " Movies like 48 Hours and Lethal Weapon . Action and humor make a perfect combination , and it works in this film also . Director Gérard Pirès keeps Luc Besson's ( Léon , The Fifth Element , Nikita ) tale moving right along . There isn't much to the tale ( Besson reportedly wrote it in a month ) , but that is not important . If you look closely , the tales in the films mentioned above are pretty thin also . Daniel ( Samy Naceri ) is a delivery boy that wants to be a race driver . He gets a taxi and modifies it a la James Bond and goes speeding through the streets of Marseilles . That is , when he isn't with the lovely Lilly ( Marion Cotillard ) who manages to give us a quick view of her roses in the film . Caught speeding by the detective Emilien ( Frédéric Diefenthal ) , he is recruited to help the police catch a German gang . These two work well together and we will get to see them again and again . Of Course , we would be remiss if we didn't mention Petra ( Emma Wiklund ) , who manages to steal every scene she is in , and is the object of Emilien's desire . There is a lot of Pink Panther in the police portrayal as they bumble about relying on Daniel to save the day . The action through the city streets is pure fun and a delight to watch . This is entertainment at its best . No pretense of quality , but just good fun .
The search for Dad	Liv Tyler's ( Armageddon , LOTR trilogy ) mother has just committed suicide and she goes to Tuyscany to visit her mother's friends in a coming-of-age adventure . Director Bernardo Bertolucci ( The Last Emporer ) strive to bring out in Tyler what is probably her best screen performance . This was Joseph Fiennes ' ( Shakespher in Love ) first film role , and one of the first for Rachel Weisz ( The Constant Gardener , The Mummy ) . With a great performance by Jeremy Irons ( Elizabeth I , Reversal of Fortune ) , this film is a story about life and death and the search for who you are . It is character focused . Some of the best parts are gatherings where you just watch the characters interact . A good European film for those looking for quality , not action .
Singing is one thing , Slick . Whether people want to look at you while you're doing it is another .	Good movie to watch on the anniversary of our involvement in Korea , and a new base opens down the road to prepare troops to be sent to the war that will apparently never end . But , this movie is worth watching for the music alone . If you like blues and early rock and roll , this is the film for you . But , it isn't just about music . It is also about relations between Black and White in the 1950s South . There are some powerful performances by some powerful actors like Danny Glover , Charles S . Dutton , and Stacy Keach ; and interesting new faces like Yaya DaCosta ( Take the Lead ) . A good story with an great backdrop . Maybe just a little long .
For an uninhabited island , it's getting pretty fcking crowded , innit ?	OK , we take an island and put in a group of social misfits , a group of girls , and one demented man , and you have to have the makings of something good . When the threat escalates , the guys and girls stick together . I don't know how they found an alone spot , but Jo ( Karly Greene ) and Lewis ( Luke Neal ) do manage to get together for a little action . Why is it that the black man ( Richie Campbell ) dies first ? Is that a slasher rule ? Well , things get real bloody , real fast , as arrows start flying and four vicious dogs appear . Jed ( Sean Pertwee ) and Louis ( Alex Reid ) , the adult leaders are quickly dispatched . Now , it's killer vs . kids . The kids figure out who the killer is , but that doesn't matter . It's the hunt that is exciting . There is more nastiness to come - much more . Great ending , too .
They get you when you sleep .	As I move through the original film and the two remakes , I am dropping the rating each time . Does that Bode ill for The Inasion this summer ? We will have to wait and see . They didn't wait 22 years to redo it the second time . This time they used Bad Lieutenant and King of New York director Abel Ferrara , and cast the young beauty Gabrielle Anwar ( The Librarian : Return to King Solomon's Mines ) and " thirthsomething " Terry Kinney in the leads . He went on to do The Laramie Project later and was fantastic . If you want conformity , then setting your movie on a military installation ensures that you have an easier time of it . Younger people will love this version , but just updating to modern techniques and special effects doesn't always make for a better picture . So , as we look forward to Kidman and Craig , we can discuss who did the best job in what will likely be the last remake - well , until our grandchildren's time .
I'm a Supervamp	It's based on a comic book and revels in that history . It has more grotesque scenes than in all of George Romero's zombie classics combined , which is why it is a hit with horror fans . One of the redeeming factors is it's fight scenes . Don't take my word for it . The fight scenes in this movie are better than Green Goblin vs . Spiderman or Gangs of New York , both which lost to it in the awards chase . Blade ( Wesley Snipes , who is so chiseled that his six-pack abs look stocked with 16-ounce cans ) and the Bloodpack are on the trail of of super-vampires , led by Nomak ( Luke Goss ) . These über living dead are pasty , rheumy-eyed monsters whose chins are laced up with seam-like scars . When they eat , their chins open like maws , revealing spiky tongues to do more damage . These guys aren't bothered by silver bullets or garlic . Hey ! Who does vampire tats ? And , why are the vampires in these movies like Versace-ridden Eurotrash you see dwelling in the most perilous areas of nightclubs . Music by Gorrilaz , Mos Def and Ice Cube add to the dark ambiance of the movie .
Historical ?	Josey Wales ( Clint Eastwood ) does a lot of spitting this post-Civil War epic . Is he the Spitting Oulaw ? Fastest spit in the West ? It seems to be an attempt to assert the romantic individualism of the South against the cold Northern invaders . Are you looking for tired and well-worn clichés ? : a hard-luck but cute Indian girl repeatedly gets knocked off her feet or worse ; a sneaky boatman cringes and leers ; a spry old woman ( Paula Trueman ) bustles about with a broom , shrills out hymns , and grabs a rifle to shoot marauders ; a doe-eyed young woman ( Sondra Locke ) opens her eyes reindeer-size to convey fear , passion , or bashfulness ; a young follower of the outlaw ( Sam Bottoms ) manages three distinct and radiant deathbed scenes on one bullet hole . Eastwood , as indicated earlier , doesn't act ; he spits . He is also the director .
The making of a psycho	Nightmare / Nightmares in a Damaged Brain ( also known as Blood Splash and Schizo ) is a video nasty that was banned in Britain and released only after they took out three death scenes ( a total of 62 seconds ) . Looking at the full film , it is easy to see why they wanted those cuts , as it is extremely bloody . In fact David Grant , Britain's " King of Sexploitation , " released the film uncut when the soft-core porn business slowed down , and spent a year in jail for doing so . George ( Baird Stafford ) cuts off a head as a child , and is committed . The story picks up when he is an adult and released as " cured . " Well , any horror aficionado knows what will happen next . It is a race between George , who is after some retribution in Florida where everything started 25 years ago , and the doctors who realized their mistake and want him back . What adds to the excitement is this nine-year-old kid ( C . J . Cooke ) who likes to go around scaring his mother ( Sharon Smith ) , which makes him a suspect in a later killing . Mom had to pay a premium for the babysitter ( Danny Ronan ) , who picked the wrong night to watch little C . J . Special effects by Tom Savini ( Dawn of the Dead , Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter ) . I wonder if he did the work on Candy ( Candy Marchese ) . She was really slashed up good . What an ending !
Starting my Christmas season	Just the thing to start the Christmas viewing of shows to get me in the spirit . Santa barely recognizable as he lay in a pile of sewage . But , yes it is Kris Kringle , and that opens a slew of jokes to make this an interesting Christmas show . I am still not completely thrilled by this series , as the characters in Kathy Reich's books are so much more interesting , but they have to appeal to the Fox and WB viewers , so they bring in the pretty boy . The supporting cast is always enjoyable as they bring some interesting characters to the table . I do like the addition of John Francis Daley as Dr . Sweets . Patricia Belcher as AUSA Julian is also good . I'll keep watching as I like the concept . I just wish it more international like the books . You can't have everything .
Congratulations , liars ! You know who you are and you know who you want . Ain't nothing ' gonna change that , shite !	Focus on the Family is in Orlando this week with big billboards promoting conversion therapy for gays and lesbians . Despite research by the American Psychological Association and other mental-health organizations , they continue to demonize those born with a different sexual orientation . That is the thrust of this film , a comedy , which certainly gives plenty of laughs at those who run a center for " repairing " those who are different . I cannot imagine how they could have made the leaders of this group look more ridiculous . The parents portrayed are just plain ignorant . You can't blame them for falling for the canard that sexual orientation is something to be " cured . " Underneath that story is the pain of the children that are forced into these centers by well-meaning parents . Megan ( Natasha Lyonne of American Pie and Scary Movie ) has no clue that she is a lesbian . The fact that she is a vegetarian and doesn't like the way her boyfriend kisses is enough for her parents . She is sent off to be cured without having a clue as to what she is to be cured of . Graham , played by Clea DuVall ( " Carnivàle " , The Grudge , Girl , Interrupted ) , and Megan are attracted to each other . Graham has no doubts about who she is , but is repressing to please her parents . Love wins out in the end , however , in this campy comedy with a message .
I . . . drink . . . your . . . milkshake ! I drink it up !	I have to say that this is the most powerful performance I have seen from a man . Daniel Day Lewis was just about the most evil , heartless , opportunistic sociopath that I ever hope to come across . His performance was mesmerizing . The cinematography for this film was also very good . It was a real pleasure to watch . Well , that's it . Even though the film spanned several decades , it was too long . It felt like decades before it finished . The final scene was pointless . Plainview had beaten everyone , that should have been satisfaction enough . The final act showed him to really be a madman . The remaining characters in the film were just props for Plainview . They added nothing . They were the straight-men to his insanity . The opportunity to see the outstanding performance of Lewis was enough to recommend the movie . Those that were bored or fell asleep - I can see where you are coming from , because there was not enough to add .
As sweet as strawberry pie . Yum !	I couldn't get the song " Ya Never Know Just ' Oo You're Gonna Meet " out of my mind . You can hear it in Sherlock Holmes " Dressed to Kill , " but it basically says to always look your best because you never know . That is the thing that is so recurring throughout this film . You just never know who someone will find attractive , even if everyone else thinks they are mean , or a grouch , or whatever . That is , except for Jenna's husband , Earl ( Jeremy Sisto ) . The only song that fits him is Goodbye Earl by the Dixie Chicks . You can't really call this movie a comedy , but there were a few moments of mirth . It almost defies the description romantic , as the romance appeared tragic . I just call it a fun movie that makes you appreciate good acting and writing and directing . Keri Russell was fantastic . Andy Griffith was perfect . Adrienne Shelly , writer and director , is a tragic loss to movie making . It is probably not a movie that a guy should like , but I did , if nothing else to see all the wonderful pies . Yum !
I did stay in the Holiday Inn Express .	This could have been a great action thriller had it had a better script . Michael Douglas does his best with a tricky role , but he and Kiefer Sutherland should have swapped roles . As Jack Bauer-lite he would have been more believable in the action sequences than Douglas was . I imagine that we will have to suffer the Russian mole raised as American story for ages , but it did work somewhat here . What didn't work was the Secret service Agent having an affair with the Prsident's wife . How totally unbelievable ! If nothing else , this was a good excuse to watch Eva Longoria . That's enough for me .
love Elvis Presley , I dig the rock and roll , I want to FCK . . . John Wayne	This is a cute little film starring Marisa Tomei ( Wild Hogs , My Cousin Vinny ) and Alfred Molina ( Spider-Man 2 , Frida ) as Cubans who came over on the Marial boat lift in the 80s . Juan Raul Perez ( Molina ) is married to Carmela ( Anjelica Huston ) , who came to America 20 years previous while Juan languished in a Cuban prison . He is stuck in an immigration facility with Dorita Evita Perez ( Tomei ) , who is not related to him , but pretends to be his wife so they can get out . They even pick up a father and a son in their attempt at freedom . While Juan is trying to escape and reunite with Carmela , her brother , Angel ( Diego Wallraff ) is trying to keep them apart . Further complicating the adventure is a cop , Lt . John Pirelli ( Chazz Palminteri ) , who is falling in love with Carmela . It is a sweet little comedy that Tomei does so well and worth spending some time with .
There are hunters and prey , Norman . That's the only fcking truth in this world .	Compared to Straw Dogs or Deliverance , this thriller set in the Basque region of Spain adds that local charm that makes it worth watching . It features Gary Oldman ( The Dark Knight , Harry Potter ) and Virginie Ledoyen ( 8 Women , The Valet ) , and that's reason enough to watch . Add Aitana Sánchez-Gijón ( The Machinist , The Whore and the Whale ) and Paddy Considine ( Hot Fuzz ) , and you should have a great movie . There are other very good actors ( Lluís Homar , Andrés Gertrúdix , Álex Angulo ) familiar to those who watch Spanish movies , and they add immensely to the pleasure . They find a little girl ( Yaiza Esteve ) locked in a cabin in the woods with lobster claw syndrome . They take her to help and immediately enrage the locals . During the hunt for the girl , one of the locals decides he wants some time with Ledoyen , but he didn't count on Norman ( Considine ) possessing some cajones . He couldn't shoot a rabbit , but you don't mess with his wife . A lot died before the chase through the woods was over . Featuring the great music of Leonard Cohen .
What frightens you , what you see or what you don't ?	Tinto Brass ( Caligula , Cheeky ) may not have made a video nasty with this nazisploitation flick , but that is probably because it wasn't released in Britain . This review is the 133 minute director's cut , not the heavily censored 110 minute US version . According to some , both are too long , but at least one person thinks this is the " Citizen Kane of nazisploitation . " We shall explore both opinions . Those looking for boobs and bushes will not be disappointed , but you will find as many , if not more , dangling members in this film as well . Some may be put off by the frequent singing . It's a nazisploitation Cabaret . Helmut Wallenberg ( Helmut Berger ) is an SS Officer put in charge of recruiting girls , loyal party stalwarts , who will staff a recreation center for the Nazis . They close down Kitty's ( Ingrid Thulin ) brothel and open a new one staffed with their girls - - and recording equipment to blackmail high ranking officers . They gathered plenty of information on this perverted lot . But things start to fall apart when Margherita ( Teresa Ann Savoy ) finds out her love Hans ( Bekim Fehmiu ) was executed and she joins Kitty in finding out what is really going on . There is hell to pay .
It's just torture and murder . No plot , no characters . Very , very realistic . I think it's what's next .	What do you feed the American market ? They are tired of watching people eat worms , of people making fools of themselves thinking they can sing , of stupid people locked up in a house . Even Hannity and O'Reilly cant provide the thrill America needs . They want more , and now is the perfect time to give it to them to distract them from what is happening in their lives . It's time for Videodrome . Max ( James Woods ) knows this and is searching for cheap thrills for his TV station . Woods plays the sleazy programmer perfectly . Director David Cronenberg takes us into a world where there are no limits ; just where we are heading in TV and movies with torture porn . What is amazing is that he thought of it over 25 years ago before mindless thrills became the norm on TV . Bizarre and fascinating .
Kirsten Dunst is a princess	Kirsten Dunst was the cutest thing in the black comedy about the pursuit of the American dream . Showing that fantasy and reality often mirror each other , one is reminded in this film of the Texas mother who hired a hit-man to go after the mom and her cheerleader daughter . Here , it is mom ( Kirstie Alley ) herself that uses murder to fix a beauty pageant for her daughter ( Denise Richards ) . The biggest laughs in this satire comes from Ellen Barkin , who played Durst's trailer-trash mom and mom's friend Loretta ( Allison Janney ) . They both had incredibly fake Minnesota accents . Adding to the laughs was the fact that just about everyone in this film smoke and drank constantly - not what you would expect at a teen pageant . Supporting was Sin City's Brittany Murphy and Matt Malloy as a sleazy judge . I know I will leave out some other fine performers as there were too many to mention . It was just a hoot and a thoroughly enjoyable movie about the business of pageants . Worth a look for Dunst and Richards alone .
Big Three go down in defeat	What a perfect movie for the 4th of July ! The fireworks produced by Koichi Kawakita and his crew were spectacular . Both Godzilla and King Ghidorah sent blazing effects that created sparks aplenty for our enjoyment . The basic story was simple . The Big Three automakers in America went on a mission from the future to destroy Japan's capabilities to build quality cars that Americans want because they could not be bothered to build anything but gas-guzzling SUVs . King Ghidorah , with it's three heads representing Ford , Chrysler and GM , set about destroying Japan until Godzilla was resurrected from the deep to do battle . OK , maybe that is not the exact story , but it is close enough . Godzilla did come back to battle King Ghidorah and it was a doozy . The forces of good defeated the evil time-travelers while they battled . This film is a mix of nuclear weapons , time travel , super special effects and good old monster fighting . It is great fun and a spectacular 4th of July fireworks extravaganza .
Don't mess with a wizard's sister .	There are the British video nasties , and the Japanese Pink films ; in Hong Kong , it is Catagoty III . I am not sure what to expect , but I do know they censored Ichi the Killer , so it can't be worse that that . This is a film about hexing and enchantments with some sex and violence thrown in . One guy gets enchanted and starts chopping up his wife and son and guests . It's bloody , but hilarious , too . Four friends go to Thailand and get involved with a wizard . Believe it our not , he turns one into a dick-head . They are forced to watch a wizard battle , and things get really ridiculous and funny . Bon ( Kwok-Pong Chan ) is left behind as the three friends open an enchantment sent to him , and go after the wizard's sister . The wizard comes after them when they return home , and plans to take May ( Ellen Chan ) when he is finished with them . He has a gruesome death planned for each of them . Things get very weird and bloody after he accomplishes his mission . May's friend Mei ( Lily Chung ) is a witch and has a plan you will not believe . Unfortunately , the wizard gets the last laugh . Almost as funny as the movie are the subtitles .
I am the king of my kind .	John Badham directed Roy Schneider in the great Blue Thunder , and here he directs stage actor Frank Langella in a Gothic tale of horror . With Oscar-winner ( Hamlet ) and nine-time Oscar-nominee Laurence Olivier as Professor Van Helsing , this is a classic telling of Bram Stoker's tale that amuses and thrills . Oscar-nominated Kate Nelligan is the object of Count Dracula's desire . Langella is the master of the Dracula character , oozing sexual overtones throughout . With the color drained from the film , it has a creepiness that enhances the story . Of course , Dracula is too powerful here with garlic and crosses and silver bullets having no effect . It was , however , the first time I have seen communion wafer used . He lives !
Hottest thing since Selma Hayek	Not all good movies managed to get US distribution . This one , only played in Columbia and France , but it is still worth the time to explore . Victor ( Daniel Giménez Cacho ) is a bum journalist who drinks too much and mourns the fact that his wife left him . He gets a deal from the Police Chief . In exchange for writing a speech , he can investigate a man who was impaled . He teams up with Estupiñán ( César Mora ) , who is trying to find out where his brother is . Their investigation is reminiscent of Chinatown , in that they are having great difficulty , as we the viewer are , in sorting out the good guys from the bad , as gangsters and politicians and civil servants all appear to be involved in a crooked land deal . Along the way , he is joined by Quica ( Martina García ) , a prostitute , and just about the hottest think out of South America since Selma Hayek . Their adventures take them through a nudist colony , and , before it is all over , crawling over many dead bodies . The ending should be surprising , but it is to be expected in this climate of corruption . Well worth viewing , and not just for Senorita Garcia .
A great Woods performance	I like James Woods , and I thought his performance in this film as a father with Parkinson's was outstanding . The lead , Juliette Marquis , is fairly new , and also did a great job . I was really touched watching her stop her life at times to care for her father , ass-wiping and all . Rosario Dawson made a couple of brief appearances talking about the porn life , and gave some brilliant comments . This is not really a " porn " movie , but a drama shot in documentary style showing the life of someone in the internet porn business . Even leaving has consequences as Michael Rapaport suspiciously shows up just as she was walking out ; and he was not a happy man . I wonder who tipped him off ? It was a good story and worth the time .
I'm for that sponge bath !	In the last episode I was introduced to the girl who would be painted in Goldfinger ( Shirley Eaton ) . In this one , I see Charles Bronson's wife Jill Ireland ( Death Wish II , The Mechanic ) . You just never know who is going to turn up . Of course , the usual " Carry On . . . " cast ( Kenneth Connor , Kenneth Williams , Charles Hawtrey , Hattie Jacques ( playing Matron ) and Joan Sims in her first " Carry On . . . " appearance ) is present to carry on with their gags in a hospital . Most of those gags , of course , revolve around typical male behavior in the presence of pretty nurses . Nothing very original , but it is fun . Check it out .
What the hell were you thinking ?	You cannot mention this movie without recalling the appearance of Hugh Grant on the Tonight Show with Jay Leno . His promotional tour was interrupted by Divine intervention . It is unfortunate that this incident occurred as he was being introduced to American audiences in a big way in a Chris Cloumbus ( Rent , Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets , Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone , Home Alone ) picture . But , events that happened outside the movie makes some of the dialog in the movie even more funny ; though not intentionally . The film has plenty of supporting characters ( Julianne Moore , Tom Arnold , Joan Cusack , Jeff Goldblum , Robin Williams ) to make it funny without the humor of Grant , but he is the star of this funny movie . He is raucously funny and shows that he is a major Hollywood star . He is especially great with Robin Williams , who plays a minor role as a Russian obstetrician . The only thing that could be a flaw in the film is that it starts slow and doesn't really get going until he sees the sonogram .
For 600 years I have fed on your kind at will .	Memorial Day is not all war movies . Sometimes , you have to fight the vampires . I can certainly sympathize with Jack Crow's ( James Woods ) partner Anthony ( Daniel Baldwin ) . I do not know if I could resist turning into a vampire with Sheryl Lee doing the biting . She would make me want to avoid daylight for eternity . This was an action-packed adventure with Thomas Ian Griffith as the chief vampire , and Oscar winner Maximilian Schell ( Judgment at Nuremberg ) , as the Cardinal that did not want to die . Oh , that Sheryl Lee !
Psycho drama captivates	Who knows what is going on in the mind of a serial killer . Is is synapses failing to fire correctly , or the lack of some chemical ? Can psychotropics solve the problem ? Danish filmmaker Kim Sønderholm makes a valiant attempt to show a man who struggles with his impulses , and , ultimately , loses . A hint of child abuse is given in a zombie encounter with his father , who was killed , along with his mother , in a fire . Craig's ( played by the director ) inadvertently put his sister in a coma in the fire . He is plagued by guilt over his sister's condition and seeks psychotherapy . Sønderholm must have a bit of Scientology in him as his psychotherapist is a real loser . Lithium seems to help Craig , but it seems strange that he takes it like breath mints out of a tin whenever a panic attack is revealed . Maybe that is the way medicine is dispensed in Denmark . But the slights to his manhood continue from all directions and , at some point , the medicine loses it's effectiveness and he gives in to his murderous impulses . There is little blood and gore , so don't expect Saw . It is more about the drama going on in Craig's head . His method is usually strangulation . His targets are always women , although he gets most of his insults from men . He ends up chasing a girl though the woods and raping her after he shoots her . This is where I have a problem with the film . Not the supposed necrophilia , but the fact that it doesn't end with his shooting , as it should . It goes on for two more scenes that just don't make sense to me . Those that like their horror more psychological than bloody will find this to be an interesting film . The camera work of Jan T . Jensen and Søren Ulfkjær was excellent , and the soundtrack will please all those who like their music hard and loud . Both really fit well with the script . A little humor and a lot of flesh makes for icing on the cake .
No corpse stinks that much after only 12 hours	Roman Polanski ( Bitter Moon , The Ninth Gate ) gives us another suspense thriller set in Paris . Harrison Ford is in town with his wife on a second honeymoon and to give a speech at a medical conference . His wife disappears while he is in the shower . He starts a search and , despite the fact that he can't speak a word of Frence , makes good progress . He then runs into Emmanuelle Seigner , who was also in Bitter Moon and The Ninth Gate . They work together to solve the puzzle running all throughout Paris . Good story and good action , but it seems poor Harrison Ford has made a career out of saving his wives from terrorists .
Parents always lie to their children , to prepare them for the way they'll be treated later by the government .	This has to be the best Jean-Claude Van Damme action movie he has made . It has it all , and it has it in spades . This movie is 100 minutes , and 95 of those are pure action . You have great car chases through the streets of Nice and New York . You have a whole lot of people the Government is not going to have to arrest and try because they will not be around . You have three , count them three outstanding fights between Jean-Claude Van Damme and the biggest , baddest dude you can imagine . And , you have Natasha Henstridge in the bathroom making love and giving us a view we will long remember . What more can you ask for ?
The line that separates good and evil cuts through every human heart .	This wasn't you usual vampire story with lots of blood and scary scenes . It was more primeval . It was simply about survival and the search for love , which would ensure immortality . It was about someone who was just tired of the whole effort at living . It was about that line between good and evil . Jude Law was fantastic as the primitive being just trying to find the right mate . Elina Löwensohn was captivating and you never knew if she would fall into the spell of Law . Timothy Spall was fantastic as the cop . The film was a good mix of comedy and drama and mystery . It was highly entertaining .
Even after the see the slaughter house , the doors open , waiting for them , they go in quietly , as if they deserve it .	Now , if I hadn't had sex with Bridget Moynahan in a month , I really don't think a car alarm would have interrupted me . Having said that I am in complete agreement with David ( Tim Robbins ) . Car alarms , motorcycles , those damn beep beep phones - they should all be dealt with in the most severe manner . David has the guts the rest of us lack . David did give them a chance . The legal system refused to enforce the law , so he justifiably took matters into his own hands . ( It's in the Declaration of Independence . ) Of course , he did jail time . He was fired , and his wife kicked him out . He eventually joins forces with Ekaterina Filippovna ( Margarita Levieva ) , and they manage to rile the Mayor ( William Hurt ) . But , they do pick up a new partner ( María Ballesteros ) for their after hours fun . This was a hilarious movie about how we need to take a stand for our neighbors . Really . Oh , yeah , his wife takes him back in the end . Good for her .
Welcome to the Maternity Ward . . . from HELL .	OK , so it is not great art , but it sure was an interesting movie . I am not burdened with the fact of seeing this as a sequel , as I have not seen the original , so I can rate it on its own . There is little story line here . Aliens invade US through astronaut . Austronat breeds profusely to spead the species . Anti-hero hunts the astronaut with the aid of immune fellow astronaut . I like Michael Madsen and I thought he did a fair job . He was assisted by Mykelti Williamson , who has the sickle-cell trait , which is key to the movie . CSI's Marg Helgenberger does a James Woods ( John Carpenter's Vampires ) that could lead to a sequel . Natasha Henstridge , what can I say , just incredible . No Oscars for this movie , but definitely some golden globes : Nancy La Scala , Raquel Gardner , and Felicia Deel .
For seven years I spoke with God . He told me to take us all to Heaven .	Spectacular visual experience in this movie as director Danny Boyle keeps things moving along with a stellar cast that includes Cillian Murphy and Michelle Yeoh . The eternal question of who is important to completing the mission , and you gets left behind is a critical part of the film . The mission is paramount and comes before anyone , even if it means elimination of a crew member to conserve oxygen . Things start to get hairy as a supernatural presence is on board the ship , and the film turns from Sci-Fi to horror . Music was perfect for the film , and everyone did a very good job with their characters .
Stand away from the meat .	Yes , this was good old fashioned horror . Bradley Cooper ( Wedding Crashers , " Alias " ) is Leon , a photographer that is trying to find the real New York . He has a good eye and he finds a whole lot more than he bargained for when he snaps a model ( Nora - yes , that's her whole name ) that turns up missing and starts following a man ( Vinnie Jones ) who rides the trains at 2 am . Lots of blood and carnage including a decapitation as the man uses butcher's tools to process bodies . The bodies are never found and we are not sure what is going on , but we keep getting closer and closer . The ending is just about as wild as the ride and well worth the trip .
Blue after yellow kills a fellow .	This episode was a straight kidnapping case . A Chinese boy , the child of Lauren Tom ( Julie on " Friends " ) was taken by mistake by some thugs and The Equalizer is called in to help . He uses his contact in the Triad ( Ching Valdes-Aran - Kung Fu Granny ) to help and calls in an associate ( Keith Szarabajka - The Dark Knight ) for the dirty work . This is the first of 42 appearances for Szarabajka . Lots of gunfire at the end and , of course , a successful conclusion . The cool , calm demeanor of Edward Woodward is what makes this series worth watching . he never gets ruffles and you know he is going to make things right .
Beautiful martial arts action	Qi Shu ( The Eye 2 ) appeared in six films in 2002 , one of which was The Transporter . While we didn't get to see her in action in that film , we sure do in this one . She made me forget all about Jet Li with her moves . But , she wasn't the only one with moves , as her nemesis , Inspector Hong Yat Hong ( Karen Mok ) was equally good , and a battle they had in a parking garage really got the blood pumping as it was just about to get very interesting until the bad guys showed up and they had to join forces temporarily . Qi Shu was the Computer Angel , as assassin , who finally was betrayed and killed . At that time was born an avenging angel in the form of her sister Sue ( Wei Zhao ) , who had equally impressive abilities , including magnificent swordsmanship . Wei Zhao and Karen Mok joined together to avenge Lynn and eliminate the bad guys . I have never seen such fantastic marital arts displayed . It was utterly amazing , mostly due to the choreography of Corey Yuen ( War , Fist of Fury ) and Jianyong Gao . Fortunately , we will get to see Corey Yuen's work again this year in John Woo's Red Cliff , starring Wei Zhao and Tony Leung .
Little support , but fun to watch	OK , face it , Jean-Claude cannot act his way out of a wet paper bag . That is not why we watch him . We watch for the action , and this film has plenty of that . No viewing of Jean-Claude's films would be complete without this one where he plays both himself and his brother . Separated by 25 years , one ( Alex ) stays in Hong Kong as a smugger , and the other ( Chad ) is a fitness instructor in California . That's ladies fitness instructor in pretty blue tights . Hmm , is there something to his role as " Gay Karate Man " in his first film ? California Jean-Claude returns to Hong Kong to join Honk Kond Jean Claude to regain what is rightfully theirs . Luscious scenery provided by Alex's girlfriend Danielle ( Alonna Shaw ) . Hot breathing brought on by action between Danielle and Kara ( Corinna Everson ) . The return of Bolo Yeung ( Bloodsport ) as Moon is a big big plus for the film . Lots of action , lots of laughs , and a good time for all .
A Cirque du Soleil of the mind	If I was able to get an invitation to be one of the 1000 to attend this conference , I would not be able to come up with the $6000 needed to register . Now , I no longer have to . Even if i cannot mix with the superstars in the world of innovative design , and science , and arts , I can still enjoy their presentations . This film gives you just a taste of what the movers and shakers experiences . People from Google , Microsoft , people with ideas meeting people with money and entrepreneurial skills . People from arts and people who are making a difference in the world . Innovators in theoretical physics share the stage with the creator of the $100 laptop . Ideas in how we will interact with computers are viewed along with new ways of viewing and sharing data . People like Majora Carter talk about wanting to make sustainability sexy while schmoozing with Al Gore , who exhorts us to get our act together . Award winners are encourages to rub the magic lamp and present a bold idea that could change the world . Bono did it in the past and One . org was created . Out of this year's conference comes Pangea Day . Now , everyone can share the experience and ideas on Ted . com . It may be post-conference , but the inspiring and innovative speeches are there to watch over and over . Check it out .
Good fights ; not so much nudity	This pinky violence film has less of the skin that one expects from the series . It does not mean it is not worth watching , as it has a good story and there is some excellent acting along with some silliness . It plays more like a soap opera with a little violence thrown in . Five girls leave reform school at different times and their lives are intertwined again by Rika , who looks them up . One ( Midori ) is stealing from her father to finance her worthless boyfriends gambling ; another ( Mari ) is poor and pregnant with an ill husband , who is also yakuza ; and Rika is in the middle of it all , working for the one girl's father , who is being squeezed on the other end by the yakuza . After the father revels he was a notorious gangster , who has retired , they pay off the ill husband to kill him . All this leads to the finale as the five girls don identical outfits bent on revenge . Great cinematography and good music .
Effects were spectacular !	A Japanese soldier travels across the Gobi to chase a deserter , but they have to join forces against a common enemy to reach their destination . Japanese actor Kiichi Nakai and Chinese actor Wen Jiang lead a brilliant cast that includes Xueqi Wang as leader of the desert bandits and the incredibly beautiful Chinese actress Zhao Wei , who will be appearing with Infernal Affairs actor Tony Leung next year in John Woo's The Battle of Red Cliff . She starred with Leung in Chinese Odyssey 2002 . The battles were fierce , but the incredible scenery and special effects are what grabs you as the duel between Kiichi Nakai and Wen Jiang were delayed not only to fight the bandits and the Turks who wanted to control Western China , but to deliver a sacred relic to the Buddists . This relic had special powers that made this film beautiful .
What do you do with dead soldiers ?	Long before Mel Gibson did The Patriot , James Stewart did a similar movie set in the War Between the States . Only Stewart didn't access his inner warrior and go off to avenge his sons ; he realized and accepted the tragedy for what it was - senseless and stupid . Mr Smith may be my favorite Stewart film , but this runs a very close second . The song " Shenandoah " is woven throughout the movie in various stages out loudness and makes a perfect background to a tale of a family affected by war . Charlie Anderson ( Stweart ) tries to keep his six sons out of the war , but is drawn in when the youngest is mistakenly taken prisoner . The search for that son leads to tragedy , and he ends up losing two sons and a daughter-in-law before it is all over . The grave scene with his long-dead wife says it all .
It is not heresy , and I will not recant !	The last Hammer Horror film features Nastassja Kinski in only her third film , and her first major role . The film was banned in many countries because she was only 15 at the time . There are several fine actors in this film . There is Oscar-nominee Richard Widmark ( Kiss of Death ) , Christopher Lee ( The Wicker Man , LOTR ) in what may be his finest performance , Honor Blackman ( Goldfinger ) , and Oscar-nominee Denholm Eliott ( A Room with a View , Raiders of the Lost Ark ) . While Sister Catherine ( Kinski ) is being cared for by novelist John Verney ( Widmark ) on the eve of her 18th birthday at the request of her father ( Eliott ) , we flashback to her bloody birth , bursting from the belly of her mother , presided over by a smiling sinister Father Michael ( Lee ) , as the others present turn away in disgust . While Father Michael is using his Satanic powers to draw Sister Catherine to her destiny , Verney endeavors to protect her . A battle of will and dark forces ensues . Verney realizes the seriousness of his mission as Sister Catherine escapes after burying a comb in the head of Anna Fountain ( Honor Blackman ) . That was one slimy demon that was crawling over Sister Catherine prior to her baptism , and that was a very tempting offer made to Verney at the end . Willpower to resist that offer is more than I have .
I can lose weight . . . but you'll always be an arsehole !	Now , it is completely puzzling why anyone would leave Thandie Newton at the altar , but Dennis ( Simon Pegg ) did it . Now , five years later , he is a loser and Libby ( Newton ) has a new man , Whit ( Hank Azaria ) . As expected , the laughs come in rapid fire as Dennis tries to compete with Whit . He is assisted in his quest by his best friend , Gordon ( Dylan Moran ) , and his landlord , Mr . G ( Harish Patel ) . In fact the only movie that was funnier in 2007 was another Pegg comedy , Hot Fuzz . Pegg gives his own version of Rocky training for the big match and it is hilarious ! David Schwimmer was excellent in his film directorial debut . Somebody needs to give India de Beaufort more movie roles as she was fascinating in her short appearance as Mr . G's daughter . It was sweet and tender and inspiring , as well as funny .
You were expecting maybe Clint Eastwood ?	This episode goes back to the double story . In one , Edward Woodward is going up against the KGB station chief ( Jaroslav Stremien ) in New York . He had his informant ( Joe Silver ) of 15 years killed , and is now after the daughter ( Melissa Leo ) . Robert Joy ( Dr . Sid Hammerback in " CSI : NY , AVPR : Aliens vs Predator - Requiem ) screws up and has to redeem himself with Woodward . Not an exciting scene , but effective . In the second job , Woodward is helping a teen ( J . D . Roth ) being bullied by thugs ( Jorge Noa ) . He helps the boy stand up for himself . Fair episode , but little excitement .
Your daughter is my concern and the world's children are all our concern !	Boy this was the trip to hell . A guy comes to New York on business and brings his family for a little vacation . First he gets ripped off at the airport in a scam with Luis Guzmán ( Boogie Nights , Punch Drink Love , The Limey , Traffic ) . Then the hotel rips him off , and while he is commiserating , his daughter disappears . Turns out that our Government agencies use sleazebags to trap Congressmen and diplomats . One such sleazebag is Adam Ant ( Adam and the Ants ) . He's got the girl , and Edward Woodward has to get her back . It requires a trip to the underbelly of new York City . And , oh yes , Woodward has a girlfriend show up in this episode . Sara Botsford ( Canadian Soap " E . N . G . " ) tries to tie him down . Good luck with that .
Boxing in prison . Hooyah !	" Jesus fckin ' Christ ! This fckin ' state . Who the fck does this fckin ' warden . . . fckin ' think he is ? Doesn't anybody know how to do business in this fckin ' state ? My fckin ' wife and her fckin ' asthma and allergies . We had to move to the fckin ' desert . Goddamn fckin ' chickenshit doctors . . . I should've known better than listen to those shitheels . Fckin ' Palm Springs . . . Lay there in the fckin ' sun and do nothing ' . Then this fckin ' state grabs my ass for taxes . Why the fck I didn't stay in fckin ' Florida . . . where people know how to do fckin ' business . Fckin ' wife and her fckin ' asthma . Sht ! Somethin ' needs to get fckin ' done . . . " Peter Falk is pssed , to say the least . His big fight has just been called off . Is this a big one ? Heavyweight Champ vs . Prison Champ . 15 minutes out of a 90 minute movie . When have you seen that ? This is definitely a guy's film . Cussing , boxing , prison , and two incredibly gifted and talented actors - Wesley Snipes and Ving Rhames . Let the testosterone roll !
How can you shoot a guy taking a dump ? I mean , seriously , that's sacred .	The bona fides say this is supposed to be a solid cop movie . Directed by David Ayer , who wrote S . W . A . T . , Training Day , and Dark Blue . Screenplay by James Ellroy , who wrote dark Blue with Ayer and L . A . Confidential ; and Kurt Wimmer , who penned The Recruit , Equilibrium , and The Thomas Crown Affair . A cast that includes Forest Whitaker and Hugh Laurie , among others . It has all the elements for a great movie . Maybe having Keanu Reeves on point is a weakness , but those that don't like him will take satisfaction that he gets his ass kicked early and well . Me , I'm ambivalent , as I did like him in The Devil's Advocate and Speed , but they were a long time ago and I don't think he has matched those performances . Everybody tries to protect Reeves when his partner is killed , but he just won't let things go . Then they go after him . At the end of it , Reeves and Whitaker made this movie worth watching .
Please come with the money . . . or , you keep the car .	The best thing about this movie is the music . The song " Windmills of Your Mind " and the whole score was just fantastic . Michel Legrand , Alan Bergman , and Marilyn Bergman are to be commended for the excellent work . That , of course , is not to diminish the acting done by Steve McQueen and Faye Dunaway , not Norman Jewison's direction . They were all fantastic and made the whole experience of watching this film a real pleasure . I hesitate to call this a caper film , as the actual caper was just a small part . It is more a cat and mouse between McQueen and Dunaway . It was done with style .
I'm done playing with this one . You want to play with me now ?	I expected some really dark film , but was surprised that the lighting throughout was perfect . The cinematography was also superb , with magnificent shots of the frozen landscape and the sun rising and setting . The story was fantastic with Stuart Beattie ( Shutter , P . O . T . C ) and Brian Nelson ( Hard candy ) joining Steve Niles in adapting his comic for the screen . Josh Hartnett ( Lucky Number Slevin ) and Melissa George ( " Alias " ) were very good in the leads and made this movie a joy to watch . They had some great support from an interesting cast that included Ben Foster ( 3 : 10 to Yuma ) and some really horrible-looking vampires . The makeup was really beautiful and the teeth were terrifying . A really great vampire movie .
Have you ever been laid , Stolen Boy ?	The most telling moment of the film is when they were all together and making fun of the rappers with guns . You had no indication that guns were a big part of their lives , but they were there , just below the surface , and used when necessary . The movie moves on to a life of partying with the drug dealing below the surface until someone stepped over the line . Then things took a real twist when a crime of opportunity presented itself . You always hoped that things would turn out for the best . You were never really prepared for a dark conclusion . It just hit and hit hard . Justin Timberlake was outstanding and the person who really carried this movie . Anton Yelchin did a really great job as Zack . I certainly enjoyed Sharon Stone and was impressed with her part . Dominique Swain was great as Susan . My biggest complaint was the unrealistic lack of skin in situations that really called for it . It was obvious enough to be a distraction .
You killed me ! You took my body !	This is the third version of Harry Segall's play Heaven Can Wait . It was first made into the movie Here Comes Mr . Jordan in 1941 . Warren Beatty and Ealine may reworked it into Heaven Can Wait in 1978 . Now , Chris Rock and company take their script and make this film as a starring vehicle for him . It really doesn't matter whether it is Robert Montgomery or Warren Beatty or Chris Rock in the title role . The story is solid and it is interesting no matter which version tickles your funny bone . Both Montgomery and Beatty were nominated for Oscars for their work in their respective films . Beatty was also nominated for Best Director and the film itself was nominated for Best Picture . Mr Jordan earned an Oscar for Harry Seagall's story and for the screenplay by Sidney Buchman and Seton I . Miller . It also received Best Picture and best Director nominations . The story has a long history . Unfortunately , the only award for this version is an Image nomination for Regina King ( Miss Congeniality 2 : Armed & Fabulous , Ray ) as the women Rock was in love with . Beside Chris Rock , who I think is the funniest comedian out there , and King , we also see Chazz Paminteri ( A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints , The Usual Suspects ) as " St . Peter " : Eugene Levy ( A Mighty Wind , Best in Show ) as the bumbling assistant ; Jennifer Coolidge ( A Mighty Wind , For Your Consideration ) as the adulterous , murdering wife ; Mark Addy ( The Full Monty ) as the butler ; and many more . It was directed by Chris and Paul Weitz ( About a Boy ) . I don't know why this version didn't click like the other two . Maybe they should have waited a few more years so we would not compare it to the 1978 version . It was worth watching for the story , which never gets old , and the characters . Check it out .
. . . that's my job . To serve the truth .	Damián Alcázar ( The Crime of Father Amaro , Lord Sopespian in Prince Caspian ) gives a truly remarkable performance in a compelling film by young writer / director Sebastián Cordero . There are two stories going on at the same time . One is a story of a vicious rapist / serial killer who preys on young boys and girls ; and the other is about the role of the media in our society . John Leguizamo plays a star reported that knows who the killer is and is trying to get the confession for a news story . In the meantime , events transpire that result in the killer's release before he accomplishes this . Leonor Watling ( La mala educación , Paris , je t'aime ) plays the producer who wants to tell what they know , while Leguizamo fights to keep it a secret and play off the hero status he gained . Who will win ? Will his conscience get the better of him ? That is the real story here , as we debate the role of media . Are they reporting the news , and becoming part of the news . The view of rural Ecuadorian life is also a big plus to the enjoyment of this film . Compelling .
Who wants a twig when you can climb the whole tree ?	This was a thoroughly enjoyable movie and the casting selection was excellent . The music , songs , and choreography were all top notch . The lyrics were moving and I really felt stirred , especially when Queen Latifah was singing " Big , Blonde and Beautiful " and " I Know Where I've Been " . Michelle Pfeiffer was super as an aging beauty queen living vicariously through her daughter . John Travolta was brilliant as Edna . Christopher Walken and Amanda Bynes were also excellent choices for their characters . It was funny , heartwarming , and had a message that is still important as we fight for equal rights for ALL Americans regardless of color , race , or sexual orientation .
Stupid friends are dangerous .	We are used to sequels here in the US . Hollywood pumps them out like water . I have even heard that the writer's strike will not prevent a sequel to Transformers , as the first one was made without a script . : - ) Sanjuro came out just one year after Yojimbo , and features Toshirô Mifune as Sanjûrô Tsubaki / The Samurai . He was Sanjuro Kuwabatake in Yojimbo . He likes to take the name of vegetation near him - in this case the Camilla . This is a very light film , but certainly not something just thrown together to take advantage of the popularity of Yojimbo . There is no blood spilled , even though many die , until the dramatic illustration of his dark side at the end . Watch it and you will know why Akira Kurosawa is one of the greatest directors . But , make sure you get a widescreen version to enjoy it at it's fullest . Of course , Criterion is always the best choice .
All right , the cat's out of the bag ; it's fair game for me to chase it !	Charlie Chaplain lost the Best Actor Oscar in 1941 to James Stewart . To see Stewart in action here will tell you why he won that Oscar and was nominated for four more . This is probably the best courtroom action you will ever see with Ben Gazzara on trial for murder after his wife ( Lee Remick ) was supposedly raped . With Arthur O'Connell and Eve Arden assisting him , Stewart goes up against George C . Scott in the courtroom . He does that " little country lawyer " bit so well and , in a fishing metaphor , gently trolls his fly to snare the opposition into doing exactly what he wants . Plenty of laughs in the tale of a couple that deserve each other .
You have no idea what I can do .	Here we go again . Why is it that people have to rate films on whether or not they are close to the book . Yes , I read prolifically , and I also watch many films . They are separate activities . Sometimes I want to see a movie because I love the book , but I realize that you can't do a book justice in 120 minutes . I bet Herman Wouk's The Winds of War was not done justice by the excellent mini-series - and it ran 883 minutes ! I judge a movie on the screenwriter's and director's vision . In that sense Brandon Boyce ( Venom ) did an outstanding job of presenting a story about evil and its affects on others . Bryan Singer ( The Usual Suspects , X-Men , X2 ) also did a superb job of directing so that there was not a wasted minute in this film . What can you say about Ian McKellen that hasn't been said already > He was captivating as a Nazi war criminal that was discovered by Brad Renfro ( The Client , 10th & Wolf ) . Renfro was also dead on as one who became consumed by the evil . This was a film that really makes you think . Stephen King may have originally wrote a great novella , but Bryce , Singer , McKellen and Renfro made a film that was equally great . It's a story that we all need to see and remember , and ranks up there with other great films about the Holocaust .
You do what you have to do , so you can do what you want to do .	This wasn't about my Texas , although I am familiar with many of the topics in this film . I have been to Marshall in my travels over most of the highways in Texas , I know about Paul Quinn College and Prairie View A & M University . This wasn't even about my Daddy's Texas , as he was just a small boy at the time . It was , however , my Grandfather's Texas . he typified the characters in this film . With Denzel Washington directing and acting , I expected an outstanding film . I was not prepared to be so emotionally taken in that I left the theater wiping tears from eyes . This was a powerful statement about the differences in American . Differences that were typified by Franklin Roosevelt's affirmative action program for whites - the New Deal ; differences that would be repeated twenty years later after WWII when the whites again received affirmative action in the form of the GI Bill . Robert Eisele's story really brought home the pain and deprivation of being Black in America , and how some could overcome that deprivation with the right help , but could never overcome the pain . Besides Washington , there were outstanding performances by Forest Whitaker , Nate Parker , Jurnee Smollett , and Denzel Whitaker , as a 14-year-old in college . Tears in my eyes , I will long remember this film as one of the best of the year and of many years .
The day I turn in my own countrymen , will be the day I put a bullet in my own head .	I love this movie for two reasons : Harrison Ford and Anne Archer . I was a big fan of the Tom Clancy novels at one time and loved seeing them turned into films . Harrison Ford is the best person I could imagine to play jack Ryan . he did a fantastic job . I love Anne Archer , too . She was just so damn desirable in this movie . A special shout out to Thora Birch , who played their daughter . She is just so cute ! This film is constant and hot action with a supporting cast that is to die for : Patrick Bergin , Sean Bean , Richard Harris , James Earl Jones , James Fox , and Samuel L . Jackson . What more could you possibly want in a movie ?
I don't remember yesterday . Today it rained .	This is one of Robert Redford's best films . It is the one I remember most when thinking of Redford . All of the glory went to Faye Dunaway and Max von Sydow however . That is not to say that they didn't put in fine performances , but Redford's was superior and I cannot understand how he was ignored . Remembering Sydney Pollack , who died last month , this is also one of his best films , and one of several he did with Redford . Cliff Robertson was also good , and I always like to see the late John Houseman . who I will always remember as Professor Charles W . Kingsfield Jr . If you like tight suspense thriller , then this is a great one , and the message in 1975 is ever so poignant today .
Her only crime was falling in love and being afraid . I'd do the same .	With the Toronto Film Festival going on this weekend , it is appropriate that this is my second venture into Pedro Almodóvar's films , as it won the People's Choice Award at that festival in 1989 . Almodóvar wrote and directed this very funny film that is a far cry from Matador . Antonio Banderas is back , this time with a Lyle Lovette haircut , as the son of a philandering husband ( Fernando Guillén ) , who also cheats on his girlfriends . Carmen Maura ( Volver0 leads a superb cast as the girlfriend that just got dumped . She is hilarious as she appears to be losing it . In comes her girlfriend ( María Barranco ) , who is afraid of being arrested for harboring Shiite terrorists ( this is 1998 ! ) . Add Banderas and his mother to the mix , and you have one laugh after another . It even had a great line reminiscent of " A woman needs a man , like a fish needs a bicycle . " : Ana ( Ana Leza , who was married to Banderas before Melanie Griffith came along ) : I'm fed up . I'm gonna get myself some quick cash , buy myself his bike and split . With a bike , who needs a man ? Pepa ( Carmen Maura ) : Learning mechanics is easier than learning male psychology . You can figure out a bike , but you can never figure out a man . It is almost misogynistic to say the movie was very funny as all the women were hysterical , but it was .
There are a thousand of you . But I fight alone .	Three Samurai : Heihachiro Komaki ( Toshirô Mifune ) , Jutaro ( Jurota ) Karibe ( Akira Takarada ) , and Akaboshi ( Akihiko Hirata ) , all in love with the same woman : Lady Ochii aka Princess Chiyo ( Yôko Tsukasa ) . Komaki is a Japanese version of Cyrano . he has a big nose and knows that no woman would approach him , so he becomes the clown . Jurota is the one who the Princess loves , and , as a childhood friend of Komaki , asks him to protect her love . Akaboshi is in the shadows just hoping for a chance . It is 1621 and a great war occurs . During the war Komaki writes many letters in Jurota's name . Jurota doesn't survive and Komaki goes into hiding as the Shogun never rests and continues to seek out his enemies - even 10 years later . Akaboshi is determined to remove the one remaining rival for his love and is a spy for the Shogun . Mifune is spectacular in a beautifully done remake of Cyrano that has all the great elements of a Japanese movie . There are many fights , and a great battle , but there is no blood , as this is a love story . It is beautiful .
Nice to see the rich folks ' got rats too .	Have you ever ridden a roller coaster ? You go up slowly , reach the top , and then the fun begins . There is nothing like it in the world . Wes Craven's little film is just like that . It starts off slow as we see a family being about to be kicked into the streets by greedy landlords before Leroy ( Ving Rhames ) enlists the son , Fool ( Brandon Quintin Adams ) into a scheme to get some gold coins from the landlord to pay the rent and get medical treatment for his sick mother . Then our coaster starts going down . It picks up speed as we see some strange things about this house - locks on the outside , dead flies piled in a corner - and we wonder what is going on . Out comes the Rottweiler and we know that we are in trouble , but we are starting to fly . Then we meet the weird gun-nut husband ( Everett McGill ) and religious-wacko wife ( Wendy Robie ) ; siblings actually from a long line of incest , and we start to see that the real evil in this house isn't under the stairs , but above them . There are some interesting characters along our journey ; Roach ( Sean Whalen ) who lives in the walls , Alice ( A . J . Langer ) , who was kidnapped and is abused as a " daughter , " and the ones who live in the basement . It is funny and exciting throughout . Sure , there are some gory bits , but not too bad , as the main idea is fun and excitement . So , don't get scared as that coaster hits top speed , just concentrate on the excitement and you'll love it .
I believe I need a steak .	The more I see of Christian Bale , the more I want to see . Bale ( Batman Begins , The prestige ) was just phenomenal in this story of one man's courage and fortitude . Werner Herzog is to be commended for putting together a film that tells a story that should inspire all . From the opening beauty of the Thai countryside , marred by the explosions and fires of war , to the grim reality of a Laotian prison with meals of worms , this film continued to captivate . It is worth watching over and over to remind you of the sacrifice made by those in uniform .
I'd skip the procedure if he orders the chili .	A classic with Lennie Briscoe ( Jerry Orbach ) and Ed Green ( Jesse L . Martin ) , and the best A . D . A . they ever had on the show , Serena Southerlyn ( Elisabeth Röhm ) . Alexis Dziena ( Broken Flowers , Stone Cold ) was magnificent as the sister to a dead model . Jonathan Hogan , who has been on " Law & Order " four times , and is probably the only guest to be on all four of the " Law & Order " series ( Trial by Jury , Criminal Intent , Special Victims Unit ) was the doctor they pursued for the models killing . he was represented by another favorite , Michael Boatman ( " Spin City " , " Arli$$ " ) . Jack loses this one due to an unforeseen twist at the end .
A notable sequel .	Sure , Director Robert Rodriguez created one of the very best indie films with El Mariachi on a shoestring budget . Now , with bucks in his pocket and a name cast , there is room for excellence . Some may say that the low budget effort is better , and I won't totally disagree from an artistic standpoint , but from an entertainment standpoint , this venture with Antonio Bandaras and Salma Hayek is truly a cut above many other films . The state-of-the-art special effects and polished effort Rodriguez put into this film make for an enjoyable and explosive ride . And did I mention Salma Hayek ?
Reena , that stuff really smells .	Wow ! I never imagined Jill Hennessy ( " Crossing Jordan " ) in such a great movie , as the lesbian lover of Reena ( Nisha Ganatra in her first screen role ) . This is a charming tale of families and how they deal with their daughters . But , enough of that , we have a problem . Reena's sister Sarita ( Sakina Jaffrey - Before the Devil Knows You're Dead , " Third Watch " ) has just gotten married and finds out she can't have children . What to do ? Momma needs a grandchild to spoil ! Numerous potions , gimmicks , and superstitions were employed to get Sarita pregnant . When nothing works Reena decides to be a surrogate mom . Boy , do things get funny and complicated on both sides . Where this goes is unpredictable , but it is a refreshing look at Indian and Western culture , with lesbian culture in the middle . It's a blast . It also has a great soundtrack .
Frankenfoods for America	There is probably nothing that we can do to change things as we have given up the oversight of our elected leaders by not voting or by voting on single issues at the direction of our preachers , but we should at least have some knowledge of what is being done to us by politicians and chemical companies in bed together . 97 % of the varieties of vegetables that were available at the turn of the 20th century are gone . The food we now have - corn , soybeans , etc . - had been genetically modified so that there is only one or two varieties . There is no testing or oversight due to the negligence of the FDA and the US Dept . of Agriculture and the fact that members of both these organizations , as well as other politicians , including at least one on the Supreme Court , have been or are members of the boards or in the employ of of the chemical companies . In fact Monstanto said it didn't matter who won the 2000 election , they were covered . The chemical companies have bought all the seed companies and now you buy from them or you do not plant . They have , with the help of the government and the courts , usurped private property to their benefit . As I say , there is nothing that can be done , save buying organic or at farmer's markets ; but this film contains information you should know , especially since as a taxpayer you are contributing $20 billion dollars a year to the chemical companies . If the rest of the world does not accept our frankenfood , why should we ?
I took back me !	This is one of my favorite episodes because it assumes that an elderly gent just can't possibly be responsible for his actions or take justice into his hands . Of course , the fact that it also had my favorite A . D . A . Serena Southerlyn ( Elisabeth Röhm ) makes it a winner , too . Paul Benjamin ( The Station Agent ) gave a great performance as Lonnie Jackson , the 79-year-old man who was the victim of identity theft and all he owned . Ruben Santiago-Hudson ( Their Eyes Were Watching God , Lackawanna Blues ) was the son who didn't have time for his father and wanted him committed . It also features Roscoe Lee Browne as Lonnie's friend .
I thought you weren't allowed to work on Sunday .	The John Wayne Marathon has reached the halfway point - 17 hours of The Dukes action . This is a real departure as Wayne is being ensnared by a Quaker girl ( Gail Russell ) . he struggles to give up his past and there are many pitfalls along the way to a dramatic conclusion when he makes a choice . Harry Carey joins the Duke again ; this time as a territorial Marshall who seems to keep turning up hoping to catch him in a bad deed so he can hang him . He plays a significant role in the choice Wayne makes when the girls is apparently on her deathbed . Excellent movie about the good / bad dilemma .
If you can make her laugh , she's yours .	An Oscar winner for Best Foreign Film , a Golden Globe nominee , and a César winner for the music , this film is said to be what Rushmore wasn't . Raoul ( a very young looking Gérard Depardieu ) is a husband who is trying to make his wife Solange ( Carole Laure ) happy . he thinks he can do it by arranging for Stéphane ( Patrick Dewaere ) to go to bed with her . She really could care less about either of them . This absurd comedy just keeps getting funnier as the two try everything to improve her disposition . Nothing works . They even bring the neighbor ( Michel Serrault ) in on their adventure . The three of them eat and discuss her situation while she sleeps peacefully . It is when they go out to the country to work in a camp for poor children that they find Christian ( Riton Liebman , a 13-year-old in his first film ) , a genius who finally makes her laugh . It gets really funny when they can't remember who slept with her last night , and she suggests that she sleep alone . They really don't mind , as their friendship is now more important than her problem . She ends up sleeping with Christian , and natures takes it's course . Well , she was no match for his superior intellect and he played on her emotions until he got what he wanted . If it is possible , the film gets more absurd toward the ending . It was hilarious throughout , but the ending was magnificent . Every actor in this film was superb !
They are the only reason I am here	The words are Emily Leighton's ( Molly Parker ) , who defied her Senator husband and risked losing her daughters to fight for their right to be counted as citizens of the US . She , and many other women fought long and hard , and endured pain and suffering , to give women what was rightfully theirs . Hillary Swank was magnificent , as was her sidekick played by Frances O'Connor . Swank was the top of a stellar cast and should have gotten more credit for her performance . Hollywood tends to pick favorites instead of the best , and they did so in this case . This is an important film that should be seen by all to remind us that our country has had and still has a history of denying basic rights to it's citizens . The fight is not over for everyone , and sometimes it takes herculean efforts to get what should be everyone's rights in the first place .
Either you fck them or you get fcked .	An excellent hidden gem from writer / director Luis Estrada that won over 20 awards . The Mayor of San Pedro loses his head while trying to abscond with the town's money , so the party puts in a figurehead ( Damián , - Crónicas , The Crime of Father Amaro ) until the elections . Soon , he figures out the way of politics and is enjoying the benefits - and they are hot benefits ! Soon , he is killing his enemies and extorting money like the rest of them . Of course , he manages to rise through his evil as all politicians do . Alcázar was outstanding in this political satire , as was Salvador Sánchez , Guillermo Gil , and Isela Vega .
Don't fear them , my child . We are going to kill them all .	An excellent look at the differences between the Islamic terrorists and Americans , and how we are also so much the same . The movie really started slowly , but that is what happens in all relationships . It took time for Agent Fleury ( Jaime Foxx ) to get close to Colonel Farris ( Ashraf Barhom ) and get the things they wanted . They had to establish that they were professionals looking to end this madness . The rest of the team was also great . I love anything Chris Cooper does , Jennifer Garner was super , and Jason Bateman was great as the reluctant member of the team . Damon Schmidt ( Jeremy Piven ) was a typical asshole bureaucrat , and I loved it when he almost lost it . Then the action really started with some magnificent stunt work . When the convoy moves down the freeway , and an SUV rear ends a Mercedes that explodes , setting off a multi car crash including cannon rolls , T-bones and pyrotechnics , you were just glued to your seat . Even Zoe Bell ( Grindhouse ) was in on the action . A great chase , and real action at the end . But , let us not forget that it will really never end .
Bad , inconsequential thoughts gather in our brain .	I never had a dentist sing to me while he worked . It's just as well as I usually fall asleep . It is just one of the strange things that happen in this rural hospital . But the stories and the characters seem tangential . They focus is on the sets . Whether the hospital , the farmer's market , or the orchid farm ; the sets seem to be what Apichatpong Weerasethakul is emphasizing . People may be talking or singing , but the camera is on a window with the sun shining through , and it stays there for a long time . There is no continuity . Scenes shift aimlessly with no apparent purpose . You almost feel like you are watching a Godfrey Reggio film with some dialog . The film suddenly shifts to a city hospital , and we see some of the same scenes repeated . Where the first half was very feminine , the second half takes on a masculine tone . The dentist doesn't sing , he has an assistant , and everything is sterile . The doctors seem more matter-of-fact , almost uncaring . One thing is consistent , and that is a large white Buddha . It sits on the ground of both stories . After a long shot of a hallway , the screen goes black leaving you wondering . It is a true art film for those who appreciate what a filmmaker can do and who are not upset by the lack of story . A Zen k ? an .
It's easy to be a holy man on top of a mountain .	War can change you . Travel to other lands can change you also . Seeing how many people in the world live and enjoy themselves without a big house and a new car every year makes you a different person . Different enough that the superficiality that once was your life seems meaningless , and you start looking for something more . Larry ( Bill Murray ) found that his old life just wasn't fulfilling , and he tossed it aside to find something else . It is easy to say that he suffered from PTSD , but that is just something to sooth the minds of those that don't get it . It was fascinating to see the similarities between Larry's time - 1929 - and today . People are still committing suicide when they lose their fortunes . They cannot imagine life without fame and fortune . They fall apart in the face of tragedy . Larry was looking for more and that took him to the mountains of India . The cinematography was breathtaking in India . It is not hard to see one's insignificance amidst the majesty of the mountains . Even in a serious role , Murray had his comic genius ; it was just subtle . He was assisted very ably with Denholm Elliott , Catherine Hicks , and Theresa Russell .
Wonders of the deep	I have just watched three hours of the Galapagos on the National geographic Channel , and am preparing to watch 11 hours on Planet earth on Discovery . What a joy to see this film , narrated by Pierce Brosnan in between . Fi9lmed at the deepest ocean where no light can pierce , the colors and lights that are created by the inhabitants outshine any laser show that you can imagine . This is the wonder and beauty of our planet at its best . I cannot imagine why we have to travel to other worlds , when we have this one waiting for us .
Don't tell anyone we went to war over a woman .	This Oscar nominated epic tells of the love between Temudjin ( Tadanobu Asano ) and Börte ( Khulan Chuluun ) . Temudjin is a long way from becoming a Khan . Filmed in China and Kazakhstan , the film offers breathtaking beauty amidst bloody battles . Temudjin's father ( Ba Sen ) is a Khan and is murdered . All their possessions are stolen . He is on his own at nine years old . Fast forward many years , and Targutai ( Amadu Mamadakov ) , who stole all Temudjin's property is now a Khan and is determined to kill him . He captures him twice , and captures Börte on the third attempt . His blood brother , Jamukha ( Honglei Sun ) comes to his aid . He manages to get Börte back - very pregnant . After splitting with Jamukha , he faces him and Targutai , and is captured a third time , but you just can't keep this Mongol down . He managed to unite all the Mongols and his reign was just beginning .
I'm not drunk , I'm . . . celebrating .	What is life for ? That's a question that many people throughout the ages have asked . There is no question in the mind of Tom Bledsoe ( Aidan Quinn ) . Life is for enjoying . His idea of enjoying is playing music and drinking corn liquor . I don't know if I can argue with that . Neither could Lily Penleric ( Janet McTeer ) , Doctor of Musicology , who came up into the mountains to visit her sister Elna ( Jane Adams ) , and discovered music that had not been heard by " outlanders " in hundreds of years . Songs that were originally written in Ireland and Scotland and hidden in the Apppalatian Mountains . She discovered that there was indeed culture among those whom the outlanders considered ignorant , inbred hillbillies , and she was determined to capture and share that culture . In the process , she learned what life was really all about . It was a beautiful , tender story about people and differences ; like the reaction over the discovery of her sister's partner , Harriet ( E . Katherine Kerr ) . The music was awesome , and this was Emmy Rossum's first movie . I loved her in The Phantom of the Opera , The Day after Tomorrow , and Mystic River ; and now add another great performance to the list . I wasn't inclined to see Posiden , but I will make it a point now to see her again . I have to end with a note about Pat Carroll , who played Viney Butlet . Her career is is old as i am and I am sure that I have probably seen her many times over the years and not known who she was . I will not forget now , as she was the most interesting character in the movie . Brava !
You must understand that a Bull Connor can not exist without the nods of the status quo people .	This Oscar-nominated documentary is one that will make you shudder to think that there are people in this country with so much hate that they could do this heinous act . In a sense , the murder of these girls was a blessing as it awoke the American people to the fact that such people existed . America saw the burned and battered bodies of four girls , not yet teens , and realized that action had to be taken to remove the stain of segregation . Spike Lee did a terrific job of showing the attitude and actions of the hate-mongers in the South in the late 50s and early 60s ; and also showed the impact these crimes had on the people who lived in Birmingham , Alabama . A magnificent film .
I'm not afraid of heights . I'm afraid of fallin ' .	It just doesn't get much better that the combination of Wim Wenders , Ry Cooder , and Robby Müller . One provides the direction that makes this film a wonderful experience . The other provides the perfect music to set the mood . The last provides a film that is just a joy to watch , from the craggy desert to the craggy face of Harry Dean Stanton ( Alien , The Green Mile ) . Travis ( Stanton ) had the seemingly perfect life , but he fell . When he fell , he wandered in the desert four four years . He left a beautiful wife ( Nastassja Kinski ) and a beautiful son ( Hunter Carson ) . We see him as he tries to make amends . He knows he has to make things right , but that doesn't include himself as he is afraid of falling again . Like many Wim Wenders film , it moves slowly so you can appreciate the characters , embrace them , and watch subtle changes in them . If you can't savor the experience , you won't enjoy it to the fullest . Ry Cooder's music just makes it so much more enjoyable . It's a vintage port . You sit back and sip . You won't be disappointed .
Don't you care about the people you killed ?	I always like the shows with Lenny Briscoe ( Jerry Orbach ) . He manages to come up with the most sarcastic quips in his investigations . There are two themes running through this episode . First the diagnosis of schizophrenia and the fact that many with that disease do not take their medication regularly . Secondly , the overwhelming amount of cases handles by a District Attorney's office and the necessity to plead out to keep the courts from being clogged . That is what led the defendant , James Smith , played admirably by Denis O'Hare ( Michael Clayton , A Mighty Heart ) to be on the streets . Jack ( Sam Waterston ) and Claire ( Jill Hennessy ) manage to get justice done despite the efforts of the D . A . Adam Schiff ( Steven Hill ) to just make it all go away .
Who knew that people in the Middle Ages all slept naked .	I leave it to others to heap praise upon the writer / director of this film and to discuss his importance in film history . I initially sought it out as it was mentioned as a precursor to the nunsploitation genre , and I wanted to see the first of that , even if it was a silent . It is only vaguely in the genre , as it displays nuns going through what we would now call somnambulism , kleptomania , and hysteria , but in the day were considered signs of witchcraft . I don't know if there is a better film on the subject of witchcraft , but I certainly had a much greater understanding of the subject after watching Christensen's documentary . One can easily see the deviousness and deception used by the pious members of the church as they murdered over 8 million men , women , and children . I imagine that on Stalin killed more - maybe Pol Pot , too , I am not sure . It was highly instructive that most of the so-called witches that were burned in the Middle Ages were old and poor . Sounds like a plan the conservatives would heartily embrace . It was interesting to see what is also most likely the first filmed instance of good cop - bad cop . I found the film to be what I would consider to be very spicy for 1922 , the special effects were amazing considering what was available at the time , and the story certainly kept my interest throughout . I also watched the 1967 remake with William Burroughs narrating and found it to be easier to watch and the jazz score was certainly better than the typical music used in silent films .
The plot to censor what America sees	I remember as a child that all films I saw were approved by my parents . There was no MPAA , so they went by the Catholic Church's rating system . I wanted to see Otto Preminger's new film " Hurry Sundown . " I had a big blowout with my father because it was " Condemned " by the Church . He gave in , I saw the movie , and , while I really do not remember the details , I can safely say that there was nothing earth shattering in the film . Maybe they said something about the Church and that is why it was condemned ; I really don't remember . The next year the MPAA was started and this film really exposes what this board is all about . It is censorship , pure and simple . The most amazing thing that was disclosed in the film was the fact that the MPAA is misogynistic . Any film showing a woman enjoying sex will be rated strictly . It is also homophobic . gay sex will get you in big trouble . I was greatly troubled about the fact that they have no sense of context . A film about the military is judged harshly for language and drug use . As a retired service member that has war service , I can assure you that the language of soldiers is raw and there is drug use . These are facts of life that should not be censored . I was also troubled greatly by the fact that it is OK to show all the violence you want as long as there is no blood . What kind of message are we sending to children ? This film does a great service and should be seen by anyone who enjoys movies and cares about the process . The examples and discussion throughout with actors and filmmakers was stupendous . And , oh yes , the Catholic Church is still there involved in the process making sure that we don't see anything they disapprove of . It's a cinch that there won't be any realistic movies about pedophile priests .
Evil prevails . Only the good die young .	Naturally , sequels are not usually as good as the original . The technically isn't a sequel , but a prequel , giving us a taste of what came before . It is mainly concerned with SP Wong ( Anthony Wong ) and Sam ( Eric Tsang ) . They are much more friendly in this film - before they both get killed in Infernal Affairs . The original actors are replaced . Yan is Shawn Yue instead of Tony Leung , and Lau is Edison Chen instead of Andy Lau . It doesn't matter as they are minor characters in this movie . Francis Ng does a great job of the bosses son , and Carina Lau as Mary , who is in all three movies is superb as well . Kai Chi Liu as Uncle John and Chapman To also turn in good performances . Of course the music was just incredible !
I wish I could stay 16 forever	You just know this is going to be an outstanding episode because of A . D . A . Serena Southerlyn ( Elisabeth Röhm ) , who was the best to appear on the show . But it is again Executive A . D . A . Jack McCoy ( Sam Waterston ) who manages to untangle the mess and solve the crime that eludes the police and everyone else . Stephi Lineburg was excellent as the girl with multiple personalities , and I always enjoy seeing Dr . Skoda ( J . K . Simmons ) . A fascinating story that has it's roots in Texas around where I lived and is still worth watching .
It is accomplished !	How could I not like this movie based on the superlative novel by Nikos Kazantzakis ? Besides being a great film , it has so many of my favorites . Staring with the director , Martin Scorsese , who did this just before Goodfellas . I can imagine that he took a lot of heat for this film , which depicts Jesus ( Willem Dafoe ) doing things that we all do , like getting married , and making explicit and sensual , but not pornographic love with the luscious Barbara Hershey ( with tattoos and lots of mascara ) as Mary Magdalene . Do you think The Davinci Code was right ? here is the evidence . Harvey Keitel , another favorite , was especially great as Judas ; I just like seeing him act . And , David Bowie as Pontius Pilate . Who thought up that one ? He was magnificent ! This is no sappy Christ picture . It is harsh and real and angry . Christ is depicted with a rabble-rousing fervor . He has doubts and doesn't feel that he is worthy . He even steps down from his mission to raise a family . You have to look at this with an open mind and still it may be hard to take . In this film , Christ not above us , and above our weaknesses , but on a level with us , and prone to the same doubts and temptations . With lots of blood and Peter Gabriel's music , the film is a feast for the senses .
A laugh riot	A lot of people criticize this film for not being funnier . If it was , I probably would have suffered cardiac arrest . Barbra Streisand and George Segal are hilarious . Seldome have I seen two great actors paired in a funny movie that really clicks . Barbra is doing this film soon after winning an Academy Award for Best Actress in her first film ( Funny Girl ) . She is a riot as a prostitute that absolutely drives Felix ( Segal ) nuts ! It has to be added that this is the first major film in which a major actress says fck . ( I hear this has been cut from all but the VHS version . ) Segal chose to go the comedy route , rather than drama , for which he is equally qualified ( Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? ) . He starred with Jane Fonda in the original Fun With Dick and Jane . Here he is a perfect match for Doris ( Streisand ) as an uptight writer . I am not stretching the truth even the slightest bit to say that these two will crack you up .
You just killed a helicopter with a car !	If there is a god , then I will live to see at least four more John McClane adventures before I die . I do not know how much longer Bruce Willis can endure the pain , even if it is fake . He has to be tired of constantly killing evildoers . He certainly stretched my imagination this time . Knocking an evildoer out of a helicopter with a fire hydrant was better that Rambo's rock , and who wou7ld have guessed that a semi could beat a jet ? I just saw Justin Long in Accepted the other day and I was impressed with his ability . I am really impressed now , as he was perfect in the role of the nerd who grew some balls and became " that guy . " The amazingly hot Maggie Q was amazing as the " Asian hooker bitch . " Too bad she didn't know that martial arts won't work on McClane as he just keeps coming at you . I've seen Timothy Olyphant in several movies and really not paid much attention to him . I didn't pay too much attention here either as his role was pretty insignificant as the pretentious asshole who thinks he is better than anyone and finally meets a real man and can't last 60 seconds . Willis , you are the man when it comes to action and I hope you are around for a long time .
Yeah , well . The Dude abides .	Maude Lebowski : What do you do for recreation ? The Dude : Oh , the usual . I bowl . Drive around . The occasional acid flashback . That just about sums up this trip : Some bowling , where we meet one of the most interesting characters I have ever seen in Jesus Quintana ( John Turturro ) , and where The Staranger ( Sam Elliott ) pops in from time to time to offer such sage advice as . " Sometimes you eat the bar , and sometimes , well , he eats you . " Some driving around in a comedy of errors where John Goodman really shines as Walter Sobchak . With friends like that , you certainly don't need enemies . We also meet really colorful characters like Maude Lebowski ( Julianne Moore ) , who just wants The Dude's seed ; Bunny Lebowski ( Tara Reid ) , the porn star turned gold-digger ; and , of course , The Big Lebowski ( David Huddleston ) and his faithful servant Brandt ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) . And when Steve Buscemi started talking about the In and Out Burger , I almost lost it . I swore he was going to go into " the old in and out " routine . A visit to Jackie Treehorn ( Ben Gazzara ) brings about an amazing thing that could only be described as an acid flashback . I have to admit I had my mouth open the whole time it was going on . It was just that incredible . You should get the idea that this is not a film about kidnapping and money and criminals ; it was a film about the characters . i only touched on the main ones . There are plenty more interesting gems to find . Only the Coen brothers could have dreamed up the story of a slacker caught up in a bad situation . It was one of the funniest films I have ever seen .
Don't you worry Ketcham : You're gonna be the first to die !	Still hanging in there as we go into the second day of the John Wayne Marathon . This is not one of the best , but it was pretty good . The dialog left a lot to be desired , but it had some interesting characters . Besides Wayne , who was a Yankee Colonel who was looking for two traitors ( Victor French & Robert Donner ) after the war , there was Jorge Rivero and Robert Mitchum's son Christopher , who both fought on the Confederate side and who helped Wayne find the traitors after the war . Jack Elam was there and also George Plimpton , who played in many movies like Good Will Hunting and Reds , and who wrote " Infamous . " Jennifer O'Neill , Susana Dosamantes , and Sherry Lansing all added beauty to the film .
A child learns to think	This is an exciting film from Julie Gavras , the daughter of Oscar winning writer / director Costa-Gavras ( Missing , Z ) . The effect of a rise in consciousness on the part of Anna's ( Nina Kervel-Bey ) parents , played by Julie Depardieu and Stefano Accorsi on the family is examined with humor . Giving up her comfortable bourgeois life so her parents could fight for social justice against fascists like Franco was a real adjustment for Anna . It didn't help that her nanny filled her head with nonsense , but her sacking solved that problem . It was a beautiful tale of a girl growing up to think , and to think about someone other than herself . She learned about solidarity and freedom and the pain of escaping one's past . This little girl has a real future in film .
War is hell !	I've been there . I've had the training . I know what you are supposed to do . But sometimes life happens when you are looking the other way . Two brothers - one a criminal and the other a soldier ; one a respected member of society , and the other the shame of his family ; one just out of prison , and the other off to Afghanistan . Writer / director Susanne Bier presents a compelling drama that examines how people react to stress , and how people can suddenly change when circumstances call for it . It was beautifully shot , it has a compelling score , and it had one of the most beautiful actresses of our time in Connie Nielsen . Nielsen was incredible as the wife of the soldier ( Ulrich Thomsen ) , trying to keep things together when he was reported dead . She had to show even greater strength when he returned damaged by the war . In the middle was the younger brother ( Nikolaj Lie Kaas ) who stepped in to help with Michael's two daughters . The story of this family and how they dealt with tragedy was compelling . Anyone who has a family member come back from war can relate . It is not to be missed .
To love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong romance .	Oscar Wilde's play has been made into movies many times . There was even one made one year before this version . I can't comment on the other versions , but Oliver Parker certainly adapted the play with and very good screenplay and excellent direction to give us a glimpse of 19th century British aristocracy with a magnificent cast to boot . Jeremy Northam ( Gosford Park , Emma ) was excellent as a man who had a terrible secret in his past that was to be brought to the light of day by Julianne Moore ( The Hours , Boogie Nights ) , who was looking to get rich . He had thought that no one knew , and his political career , and even his marriage to Cate Blanchett ( The Aviator , Notes on a Scandal ) was to come to a crashing end . But , Sidney Carlton to the rescue , as his best friend , Rupert Everett ( My Best Friend's Wedding ) got himself another Golden Globe nomination as a friend that would risk all for another . The repartee in this film is what makes it so special , and you cannot help by laugh at all the great lines delivered by the principals , including the ever lovely Minnie Driver ( Good Will Hunting ) . Outstanding costumes and makeup in the period piece that is worth watching more than once for the hilarious lines .
I don't enjoy killing , Mr . Smith . I do it because I'm addicted to it .	I have to give Bruce A . Evans ( Starman ) & Raynold Gideon ( Starman , Stand By Me ) a lot of credit . They have managed to write a script that keeps you guessing constantly as you try to figure out what is going on with Mr . Brooks ( Kevin Costner ) . He has demons that feed his addiction , but just what is the nature of this demon ( William Hurt ) . Demi Moore does a great job as a police detective that is trying to track him down while dealing with a philandering husband ( Jason Lewis ) and a scumbag that wants to kill her ( Matt Schulze ) . Of course , Mr . Brooks has problems of his own in a Mr . Smith ( Dane Cook ) , and a daughter who also may be a killer ( Danielle Panabaker ) . He manages to cleanly take care of both problems ; or does he just create more demons ? Kudos to Megan Brown for a skintastic moment .
Maybe we should study the Amish	This is the hard truth . Not some political statement , but real scientists and oil historians explaining the history of oil and where we are heading . It does not go down easy . If you think it will last forever , then you would be in the company of Texans , Russians and Venezuelans that thought their fields would last forever and now sit on barren land . There is only so much underground and we know where all of it is . If you think " Blood for Oil " is just an anti-war slogan , you will be surprised that the major conflicts going on right now - Darfur and Iraq - are about oil , not religion or ethnic issues . You must also be prepared for the fact that we will have continuous war in the future to keep SUVs on the road . If you think that all the alternatives to oil that have been proposed will solve the problem , then you really need to find out just what we can expect . It will surprise you , I'm sure . Look at the Amish and how they live . That is our future . If you think otherwise , you really need to put this film in your queue .
Your future is all used up .	I had no intention of watching this movie . I actually tuned into a Chinese movie of the same name , but the station screwed up and put this one on instead . I am actually glad they did as it is an outstanding example of a B movie . It had everything you would look for in a B classic : Charleton Heston playing the part of a Mexican cop . How truly unbelievable ! He did it the year before Ben Hur . He was actually in five films that year . He really cranked them out . The film was written and directed by the great Orsen Welles , who also played the bad police captain . He did it all : framing suspects , slandering with talk of drug use to get Heston off his back , setting up Heston't wife ( Janet Leigh ) for murder , and even killing his best friend ( Joseph Calleia ) , who loved him as Marlene Dietrich told us . A superb classic that really had it all , even Zsa Zsa Gabor and Ray Collins , who I remember from Perry Mason as Lt . Trask , and , a special bonus , my cousin , Dennis Weaver in a really odd role as the hotel night clerk . This was a classic in every sense of the word .
Billy Bob is a god !	No one , and I mean no one , could have played the title character better that Billy Bob Thornton . He was just fantastic and supported by a cast that was equally well picked . I never watched " Gilmore Girls , " so I was not familiar with Lauren Graham , who was spot on as Santa's girlfriend . I fell for her immediately , and keep an eye out for more . And Brett Kelly as The Kid . He was just too much . You couldn't help but like him . Of course , I wouldn't want to forget Tony Cox and Bernie Mac . Absolute , total enjoyment at every turn . Direction by Oscar-nominated Terry Zwigoff ( Ghost World ) and a script by the team of Glenn Ficarra & John Requa ( Bad News Bears , Cats & Dogs ) was a home run for laughter . This isn't a Christmas show for the little ones , but it sure will get the big folks in the spirit .
Screw the justice system . It ain't never about justice .	Writer / director Tommy Stovall's first and only film is worth the time to watch for a very good story and some great characters . Brian J . Smith does his first film as Trey , partner of Robbie ( Seth Peterson ) . Trey is the victim of a hate crime , presumably at the hands of the religious kook who just move in next door . Turns out this isn't his first hate crime , but no one locked him away after the last one . Cindy Pickett does an outstanding job as Trey's mother , and Bruce Davison is perfect as the pastor and the father of the kook . Granny Boone ( Lin Shaye ) is also present as a neighbor , and you just have to love her character . The police did not seem interested in finding the person who beat and killed Trey , so it was up to Robbie to find out what happened . Some secrets get exposed , and a killer is found and dealt with in a manner where it could be said that justice is served .
You must find a way to get out .	There is no doubt why Forest Whitaker as Idi Amin grabbed just about every award he was nominated for . He was just incredible in the picture and really played the character just as I imagined he would be in real life . But we would be remiss if we did not also celebrate the performance of James McAvoy ( Wimbledon ) as Dr . Garrigan , a naive young man in the shadow of his father who got in so deep that he had no way of knowing how to get out . It was his supporting role playing off Idi Amin , that allowed Whoitaker to make his character so good . Kudos to a fantastic script ( Writers are important ! ) and a good performance by Kerry Washington ( Ray , Mr & Mrs Smith ) as Kay Amin . I really liked this movie and want to see it again .
It's made me want to wake other people up to understand what is happening .	The idea of " The New World Order " is nothing new . Conspiracy theorists have been shouting about " One-World Government " for a long time . There are a lot of people who really believe that the UN or some organization like it will control the World one day . We have heard about the Trilateral Commission , the Council on Foreign Relations , or the Bilderberg Group . The so-called " mainstream media " has ignored the " threat " according to the theorists , but with the Internet we now have an opportunity to pass the word along . The constant wars , the current economic crisis , and the quest for oil has just fanned the flames of the theorists . Did our government cause ? Did they kill Kennedy ? Is the Washington Monument a Masonic power source ? Waco ? Katrina ? Ruby Ridge ? Are they all part of some conspiracy ? But , this documentary is not about the theories , but about the people who spend their time promoting them . You can dismiss them as crackpots , but they are real people . What drives them to do this ? Is it the same as those that ring your doorbell with bibles or religious tracts ? Is it any different than those of us who scream that you gotta see this movie ? The people in this film seem sincere . Are they just dupes of an angry Austin radio talk show host ( Alex Jones ) ? As much as they try to make these characters real , it is still hard not to laugh at them , especially when they start telling their followers to buy guns and ammunition . It was very informative and no matter which side of the fence you are on , it is worth knowing about .
Happy Birthday Sean	Great sound , great " buy the CD " soundtrack , a car chase that sets the standard , and great acting . This intellectual thriller may be slow at times to some as the characters seem to chat a lot , but look who's chatting . Robert De Niro , Jean Reno ( great in Godzilla ) , Sean Bean ( our birthday boy ) , Natascha McElhone ( Laurel Canyon ) , Stellan Skarsgård ( Bootstrap Bill Turner ) , and Jonathan Pryce ( Governor Weatherby Swann ) . And , if that is not enough to get you interested , there's Katarina Witt . You have the IRA , the Russian Mafia and a superb intellectual thriller . This is what action movies should be .
All I wanna hear is dirt hit that box .	A dysfunctional family of Georgia rednecks . Pop and two sons who have spent their lives a prison guards . Pop Buck ( Peter Boyle ) is a hard case redneck whose wife left him by committing suicide . # 1 son Hank ( Billy Bob Thorton ) learned his racist beliefs at pop's knee . The other son Sonny ( Heath Ledger ) is hated by Pop because he takes after his mother . Hank is worried that Sonny won't be able to do his job in an upcoming execution . He falls for the executed cop-killer's wife ( Halle Berry ) . The deeper their relationship becomes , the more he begins to hate his father for his beliefs . He is changing , and can no longer face the evil in his house . We can overcome loneliness and suffering only through each other . The humanist drama of Monster's ball , though raw and sometimes painful , is powerful in that it reinforces the message that we are all in this life together and need to help each other through it .
You bastards , why are you torturing me like this ? Why ?	This award winning video nasty that was initially banned and re-released uncut in 2001 is one of the 74 films banned in Britain . One can only imagine what will happen in a remote cabin in the woods . Something akin to getting off the main roads in Texas . It doesn't take long for the spookiness to start , and smart people would be running immediately . No , don't touch that stuff in the basement ! Ellen Sandweiss is the first to come into contact with the evil creature and gave us good breast in the process . Boy can she scream ! Then things really get interesting ! It's creepy and the makeup and special effects are great . There is blood aplenty . This was one heck of a horror film and Bruce Campbell was fantastic .
You're a thief and a liar .	I love caper films , and this is one of the best . But , it is more than that . It is also a great love story . Not the mushy kind that appears on Lifetime , but one that really tugs at you . George Clooney and Julia Roberts are delightful in a superb cast of characters . Thie isn't just one caper , but 11 of them , any one of which could fail easily and bring the whole thing crashing down . It is really exciting to see the pieces fall into place as Andy Garcia gets his from the likes of Casey Affleck , Scott Caan , Don Cheadle , George Clooney , Matt Damon , Elliott Gould , Eddie Jemison , Bernie Mac , Brad Pitt , Shaobo Qin , and Carl Reiner . Steven Soderbergh is the man .
Whatever you do , don't fall asleep .	I tuned into this because it was Johnny Depp's first movie and I wanted to see what he was like at 21 years old . I hardly recognized him . I really didn't at first . I had to keep staring and I still wasn't sure . Anyway , Wes Craven has written and directed a classic horror picture . Is it real or is it a dream ? What is real ? It had me on the edge of my seat the whole time . I guess that means it was great horror . I especially liked the bathtub scene . That was definitely creepy . I think I'll stick to showers . An those blades scraping against metal is like fingernails on a chalkboard . I hear the sequels are not as good as this one , but I'll probably be back just to see what happens . And , hey , there's Granny Boone !
43 + years ago - different war , different president ; different times - same problems , nothing changes .	Can aging rockers renew their spirit and use their music to ignite America in a different war . From the song " Ohio " after Kent State , they travel across America with new music and a new war . Mike Cerre , who chronicled Vietnam and was embedded in Iraq travels with the band to report what happens . The title of this documentary is perfect as we have been here before and here we are again in the same mess as another president tries to show his manhood . But , can change occur if enough people rally in support of bringing our boys home ? It is doubtful , and you risk pissing a lot of people off . Good documentary showing the feeling of people over this war and the music of CSNY .
Great baseball movie	Baseball almost seems an afterthought to the story about someone who got sidetracked by a mysterious woman ( Barbara Hershey ) on his way to greatness , but baseball and second chances are what this movie are all about . A great cast led by Robert Redford includes Glenn Close ( The Shield ) , Robert Duvall ( The Godfather ) , Kim Basinger ( Cellular ) , and Wilford Brimley . This film has it all - baseball , second chances , gambling , underhanded chicanery , ambition , friendship , magic ; but most of all , it is just plain fun , romantic , and exciting . It is what a baseball movie is supposed to be - better than the game .
The REAL MAN for all seasons .	As we celebrate prestige films during this Oscar season that you haven't yet seen , we should remember that there are films that every man show see more than once . There is more to life than Talladega Nights and Knocked Up . This war film , which had eight Oscar nominations , fits nicely between From Here to Eternity and Apocalypse Now . There is so much to think about along with great action , that you will miss key moments on your first viewing . I guarantee it . There is a good argument that the nomination for Best Picture should have resulted in a win . This is Steve McQueen's only Oscar nomination and it should have definitely resulted in a win , as this is the definitive Steve McQueen film . He shows more strength and character in this film that most actors of today and established himself as a REAL MAN . Mako was nominated for a Supporting Actor Oscar . I have a hard time choosing between he and Richard Crenna for the best supporting performance . Both were way more worthy than any other nominees . All of the artistic notes in this film - cinematography , sound , music , art direction - were superb . William Reynolds did an outstanding job of editing this 179 minute film so that there was never a lag and the action was all smooth and essential . Four-time Oscar winner Robert Wise did an outstanding job of putting it all together to make a film that stands the test of time and , despite being set in 1920s China , is just as relevant to what is happening in the Middle East today .
Sometimes our sins come back to haunt us .	A breakthrough film by young director James Marsh . This film had me hanging on with bated breath just wondering where it was going . I was totally unprepared for the end , which was dynamite ! Gael García Bernal ( Babel , The Motorcycle Diaries ) was understated but powerful as a young man just getting out of the Navy and going to look for his father , a pastor played by William Hurt ( A History of Violence ) . Bernal was the product of a sinful life Hurt led before he " found Jesus . " He starts a relationship with his half-sister , Pell James ( Broken Flowers ) . You are wondering the entire time about motivation , danger , incest , pregnancy , and the inevitable end . It is not pretty , and it may be difficult for some to take , but I thought it was brilliant . It was creepy , but Bernal was outstanding in only his second English-language role .
Now those residuals come .	I have to say that I fell out of my love affair with Monk after Sharona ( Bitty Schram ) left . I never quite found Natalie ( Traylor Howard ) to be as much fun . However , that being said , I really found her to be perfect in this episode and there seemed to be a sensual connect between the two of them . It was funny as usual with Stottelmeyer wanting to watch the basketball game , and with his frustration with Randy . Randy was his usual obnoxious self . Eric McCormack was fantastic in the guest starring role , and . of course , I always enjoy seeing John Turturro . The twist at the end was clever , as was Natalie's " gotcha . "
Some of the best things in life are mistakes .	Screw the Razzies . They named Ben Affleck the worst actor in 2004 for this and Gigli and Daredevil . I don't care what you think about the last two , but he definitely did a bang up job in this John Woo action film . When it comes to action , Woo is the master . Sure , his American stuff is no where near as good as his Chinese films , but they are still great . This one took a while to get started , but once it did , it never stopped until the finish . Affleck and Thurman were made to star together and they were magnificent in this sci-fi pic . What more can u you want out of life than saving the world , $90 million and Uma Thurman ? Does his get one , two , or all three ? You have to invest your time to find out , but I assure you it will be worth it .
Melodrama Almodovar-style	Only Pedro Almodovar can do a melodrama that crosses genres like this film . In one sense , this is a film that you would expect to see on Lifetime . Marisa Paredes ( All About My Mother , Life is Beautiful ) is nothing less than outstanding a a writer that is going through a crisis with a husband ( Imanol Arias ) that does not love her anymore . There is , of course , a crisis with her mother ( Chus Lampreave - Volver ) at the same time . Then , she finds out that it is her best friend that is having an affair with her husband , and there are profession problems at the same time . Sounds just like a Lifetime movie , doesn't it ? But , Almodovar manages to give us a great story with his twists . Laughs are generous as comedic situations occur throughout . It's like wanting to laugh at something at a funeral . It happens , and we just have to deal with it . Juan Echanove ( who supposedly gave a great performance in Alatriste , the film that I have been waiting for release theatrically , or on DVD ) is superb as Ángel , the newspaper editor who fulfills a dream to write romance novels . and who is in love with Leo ( Parades ) . It is just another great film from Almodovar that defies a description that would ever do it justice . Only experiencing his films can ever be pleasure .
In memory of a great man - Orson Welles	This could have been a film that ranked right below Citizen Kane ; or maybe , even above it . It is an outstanding period piece of life at the turn of the century . The Ambersons represent society that existed before the industrial age and those who hung on to face ruin , and those who joined the revolution brought about by the automobile and prospered . George ( Tim Holt ) rejected modernization and kept his mother ( Dolores Costello ) from the man she loved ( Joseph Cotten ) , who invented automobiles . This film is a beautiful example of Welles work , especially how lighting changes as the movie progresses . I said it could have been his best work , but the studio cut 50 minutes from the film and the result is a little jerky . Welles was not around to fix it and , while the film is still great , it could have been fantastic . Watch it to see a great man's work .
Getting better and better	The best movie out this weekend will not sell the most tickets . JLo and the return of Jane Fonda in Monster-in-Law will probably take that title , or Kingdom of Heaven will repeat as Number One . I am biased ; I will freely admit it . I am a Jet Li fan , not because of the martial art , but because I have seen potential in him since Romeo Must Die , where he played a great role with Aaliyah . The French title Danny the Dog aptly describes the violence in the film . He is a trained attack dog that his cruel owner sics on those who anger him . He knows nothing else and it is only when he is unleashed by music and love that his true self comes out . If you are looking for marital arts , you will not find it here . He is a Doberman who attacks without grace . Sure , if you like violence , then you will get plenty . But if you want martial art , go see Hero , his greatest film . Yes , his English is limited , but so was the Governator's when he started out . He will improve and turn into a great actor . You can see that potential growing here . I highly recommend this one .
There should have been more Day & Gable	Some may complain this film is a bit long , and it does drag in parts , but there are so many laughs and an extremely interesting story in this romantic comedy that one tends to forgive writers Fay Kanin and Michael Kanin for forgetting that " ads go for $25 an inch . and you've just wasted $300 . " Maybe a little less verbosity would have gotten them the Oscar they were nominated for . After all , Michael Kanin's Oscar win was for Woman of the Year - six minutes shorter . But , the film was really funny as Gable and Day went at it - she not knowing that he was the very man she hated . Like Gable , I was also attracted to Day's bodacious booty . I never recalled that she had such a fine figure . Funny and hot . What a combination . Not only did the two stars give us a show , but Gig Young turned in a supporting performance that was so good that it got him an Oscar nomination . I would be remiss if I left out mention of the lovely Mamie Van Doren , who had a bodacious booty of her own . Excellent film on the subject of journalism .
So we throw half in the trash , and see what we can do with the others ?	It always happens . When things get tough , local , State , and the federal government save money on the backs of the poor first . Who , besides the poor suffer , the teachers , of course ? This is a magnificent story of pre-school teachers coping with abuse , neglect , incest , and all forms of child abuse while the government agencies that are supposed to help just make excuses . The school is falling apart and being broken into for food , and the school board , and the police do little or nothing to help . Families are coping with 34 % unemployment and the resulting depression . Sound familiar ? It is also happening all over America , not just in France . The teacher training even tells new teachers that they will be social workers more than teachers . It is difficult to understand how learning can take place with children who are hungry , cold , and abused . Philippe Torreton does an excellent job as Daniel Lefebvre in writer / director Bertrand Tavernier's film . His frustration and anger shows whether he is throwing out a child welfare worker or yelling at the Mayor for cutting lunches . All the while he has to deal with problems at home and his ailing father .
What is a ghost ? A tragedy condemned to repeat itself time and again ? An instant of pain , perhaps . Something dead which still seems to be alive .	A steady diet of the usual horror flicks might lead one to think that all horror must have copious amounts of blood and bared breasts . To see a master craftsman at work like Guillermo del Toro ( Pan's Labyrinth , Cronos ) is a real treat . Like Pan's Labyrinth , this film is set during the Spanish Civil War , during the last days when Franco's invading army was about to defeat the defenders of democracy and freedom . In a small orphanage run by Marisa Paredes ( The Flower of My Secret ) and Federico Luppi ( Pan's Labyrinth , Cronos ) , the children of the left are cared for . Left there after the death of his father is Carlos ( Fernando Tielve ) , who sees the ghost of a dead boy in the cellar . Eduardo Noriega plays the gardener , who thinks there is gold hidden in the orphanage and is screwing the headmistress to find the key . Carlos is slowing learning to trust / accept the ghost and eventually learns the truth of it's death , and it's need for revenge to rest . The film is beautifully shot , and a slowly developing tale of pain . Not only the pain of the ghost , but the pain of Spain as it is dying .
Oh , no , no , this can't be right ; they must mean the Philippines !	I was up late last night watching this great film , so i didn't make it part of my Memorial Day Tribute , but it is one that should be viewed by all , nonetheless . We tend to think of the Ben Affleck vehicle when we think of Pearl Harbor , but war is not about love stories . It is about death and destruction , and there is no greater story about such destruction than this one . It was a brilliant military move made in an atmosphere where no one could believe it was happening . It was great strategy among a comedy of errors . And , as Admiral Yamamoto predicted , " I fear all we have done is to awaken a sleeping giant and fill him with a terrible resolve . " Directed by Richard Fleisher , who gave us Soylent Green ; and by multiple award winning Japanese director Kinji Fukasaku , this film is characterized by excellence in Special visual effects , art direction , editing , sound and cinematography . It is an excellent film all around .
A girl can only be a slut , a bitch , a tease , or the virgin next door .	Let's get the technical stuff out of the way first . The sound , the cinematography , the lighting , the editing , the music : all first rate . This was a film that really made good use of it's budget . It is a horror film , but it certainly is not the best in werewolf films . There is blood , of course there is blood , but there is no carnage . Anyone looking for ripping flesh needs to look elsewhere . There is sex , as Ginger ( Katharine Isabelle ) is experiencing the onset of puberty and , combined with the attack by a werewolf that is changing her , is in intense need of sex . No nudity , however - hey she is supposed to be 16 , you pervert ! Ginger's sister Brigette ( Emily Perkins ) is outstanding as she tries to save her sister . Mimi Rogers is excellent as their mother and really added to the humor of this film . It's a must-see for werewolf fans .
Sorry . That's all - sorry .	This film uses chapter breaks and comic book-style illustrations to highlight the amusing , astonishing , and horrifying absurdity of its central tale : that of an Iraqi that was taken prisoner based upon false information . The same duo that borough us Gunner Palace , a look at the Iraq invasion from the eyes of an American soldier , now presents a view from the Iraqi side in this indie film nominated for an American Spirit Award . Now , one may tend to discount the testimony of an Iraqi about innocence or the conditions at the prisons , or the treatment by interrogators , but the fact is that there is overwhelming documentation written by U . S . military in high positions attesting to the fact that up to 90 % of the prisoners had no intelligence values and were " simply in the wrong place at the wrong time . " These same military officers also knew of the inhumane conditions in the prisons and the fact that basic sanitation was lacking , and that the contractor-supplied food was rancid and infested and caused the prisoners to vomit and experience diarrhea after they ate . This would be obvious to anyone who saw the prisoners as they had all lost weight . The treatment of the Iraqis as documented in this film brings shame upon all Americans as we are the ones who allow those responsible to remain in office .
People actually think I have some kind of a fantastic imagination . It gets very lonesome .	I was thrilled by Todd Haynes work on Glam Rock in Velvet Goldmine , and I looked forward to a film about Robert Allen Zimmerman ( possibly a cousin ) . I was more intrigued about the fact that favs like Christian Bale , Heath Ledger , and Cate Blanchette , and others would be playing different parts of Dylan . Leave it to Haynes to come up with a non-traditional take on this great artist . How else can you show the many sides of an individual than by having different people play the man and expose his artistry . Some may find it difficult as the film bounces from side to side and back and forth with color and greys , but you are rewarded by seeing great performances by Blanchette , Bale , ledger , Richard Gere , and others . For the traditional , there is Martin Scorsese's No Direction Home , but there is also a place for Haynes work on the man .
Who's your daddy ?	I just cannot imagine a Jack Nicholson film that is not worth two hours of my life . This was an excellent example of his acting ability . It's not just me that thinks so , as he was nominated for an Academy Award . Randy Quaid and Otis Young were also superb . It even featured a cute Carol Kane as a prostitute . This was a quiet dramedy about Nicholson being a father figure for Quaid and teaching him about beer drinking , cussing , fighting , and getting laid - all those things he never learned . It was a beautiful character study done by a master actor . They do not make them like this anymore .
I just got a date with Drew Barrymore .	This was really a funny film and a salute to those who persist in their dreams . They can come true if you just keep at it . Brian Herzlinger , an aspiring filmmaker , and his pals Jon Gunn and Brett Winn put together this documentary using $1100 bucks he won on a game show . Its a good first effort , and was an enjoyable film , especially the actual date . We got to see a side of Drew Barrymore that we would not normally see , and it was worth the effort . Remember that great line from Notting Hill : " After all . . . I'm just a girl , standing in front of a boy , asking him to love her . " I am so reminded of that when I see Drew Barrymore in her natural state in this film . What a girl !
We al have our devils to fight .	All the usual cast of Law & Order Special Victims Unit with the addition of Robert Patrick . Patrick is someone who can play a sleaze-bag to perfection . He was spectacular as the robot in Terminator 2 : Judgement Day , magnificent in The Marine , and perfect in First To Die . He has been in many films and always comes through . He was fantastic in this role as a rapist , not for his crimes , but how he played against Christopher Meloni . Using his compulsion as a rapist he could easily get inside Meloni's head because he also has a compulsion . He is a character that explodes easily , and Patrick's character knew it . This is one of my favorite episodes of the show because of these two characters and the two actors who made them so believable .
I'm an integrationist . We shall overcome someday .	It is hard to believe that we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of this film this week . It is even harder to believe that just one week after it opened Divine left the world's stage forever . But , the star of the show was Ricki Lake in her first year as a film actress . She camped up John Water's script and delivered an enjoyable musical movie with a message that is just as important today as it was 20 years ago . It was really interesting seeing people like Sonny Bono , Blondie , Jerry Stiller , Pia Zadora , and , of course , writer / director John Waters himself . A goofy satire that is just as good today as it was then .
If only we could all love as he did .	Not having read the novel , I am not encumber by the fact that 100 minutes of this film was left on the cutting room floor . I am a Kurosawa fan and love Toshirô Mifune , so I approach the film from that angle . The setting on a Japanese mountaintop fits right in with the fact it is based on a Russian novel . It was so cold that I had to put a coat on to watch it . Kameda ( Masayuki Mori ) arrives in town after being released from a mental institution . He is " The Idiot , " a simple man who is so Christ-like in his manner that people are put off guard . he runs into Akama ( Toshirô Mifune ) , a rich man who has come back to claim his sweetheart , who has been a mistress to another wealthy man since she was 14 . Both Kameda and Akama are in love with Taeko ( Setsuko Hara ) , who is promised to a third man . This makes for a fascinating story as the men joust for position , with Taeko playing everyone against each other . There are many other characters that float in and out of this drama , and it makes for some interesting and funny dialog . As mush as I like Kurosawa's samurai epics , his dramas are even better . In the end , there were two idiots .
Loss , respect , family interference , and guilt	This film covers so many different issues that you might think it gets muddled , but they all come out in the course of a story and fit nicely in the puzzle . There is a serial killer on the loose , but that is really just incidental to the story . His latest victim , a woman of color , was found while four men went on a fishing trip . They found the body on Friday , but did not report it to the authorities until Sunday . In the meantime , the had a good time fishing . The basic question is would they have shown the same indifference if the victim was white ? One would think not , and they suffered greatly for that . Gabriel Byrne ( Stigmata , The Usual Suspects ) and his wife Laura Linney ( Kinsey , The Savages ) seemed to have the worst time , as she was suffering the most on a personal level over the ordeal . Of course , he dismisses her concerns as she left for 18 months after their child was born , presumably in some form of postpartum depression . At the same time , she is dealing with an unwanted pregnancy and an interfering mother-in-law . Other issues to come up in the relationships of the other three men are lesbianism , a bi-racial relationship , ad grandparents parenting a young girl after her mother's death . Any of these issues are , in themselves , things that would make life difficult for the participants , but on top of the death issue , it makes for a compelling drama . Really good film out of Australia , that makes you think as you deal with life .
1001 Films to see before you die .	It is reported to be the first use of narrative in a film in this country , and it is certainly the first " western " film . All other cops and robbers films sprang from this one . It is short . Depending upon where you see it ( YouTube , Google , etc ) , it can run from nine to 11 minutes , and some have color painted in . It was not about " stars " as no one is credited in the film , not even the director . It is about an infant industry showing what they can do and what we can maybe expect in the next 100 years . Hard to believe how far we have come from this start . It will keep your interest from start to finish , which is more than can be said about many films today . Any serious film lover has to add this to their list .
1001 Films to see before you die .	It was amazing that , in 1902 , the filmmaker Georges Méliès had the foresight to add showgirls to his little film . Whether from the Folies Bergères or Vegas , the showgirl will always be a part of cinema . This is presumable the first SciFi flick , and the animation was a real joy to watch , as was the lack of scientific knowledge . Imagine going to the moon shot out of a cannon ; imagine astronauts in tops hats and tails ; imagine that to return all you need is to drop the capsule off the moon and it will return to Earth . These are not errors , but part of what makes this film so enjoyable , like the fact that the capsule hits the moon right in the eye like a big pizza pie . That's Amore .
Sometimes angels rush in where fools fear to tread .	Often considered a Christmas film , this is only incidentally set in the season . This five-time Oscar nominated film , with a win for sound , was one of the best pictures of 1947 , the year that brought us Miracle on 34th Street , and the Oscar winning Gentlemen's Agreement . Certainly a great year for films that make us think about what is important . The Bishop , the great David Niven , really doesn't know what he wants . He is trapped in dreams of glory , and has forgotten those around him that need his love and attention . he prays for guidance . Cary Grant , who makes a perfect angel , shows up and helps him understand what the important things in life are and transforms him . He reconnects him to his wife , the beautiful Loretta Young , who won an Oscar the same year for The Farmer's Daughter . The angel , of course , helps many others along the way before he leaves . Like Dr . Lao , he really just opens the eyes of people to look around and see what is really important .
A man's got to know his limitations .	Of all the " Dirty Harry " movies , this is the one that characterizes Harry Callahan the best . Yes , he is a cop that stretches the line between good and evil , just as Danny Lee does in The Killer , but , when it comes to the line , he will not step over . There is even a " Bond " girl ( Adele Yoshioka ) in this one , and in her brief appearance , she shows more than any " Bond " girl ever did . Great action , a little love , and the bad guys ( not who you think ) all get it in the end " Dirty Harry " style . When will they learn not to mess with him ? hey , there is even a cameo by Suzanne Somers . Look close .
Pierce Brosnan and Maria Bello are outstanding !	Pierce Brosnan is one of my favorite actors . This is , without a doubt the best performance he has done , and to beat The Thomas Crown Affair is something . Maria Bello is one of my favorite actresses . She is great in everything I have watch , and she really puts it out in this film . The film starts with a kidnapping , but you quickly learn that the child is just a hostage to take revenge on the husband . His life is torn apart - shattered ; smashed like a butterfly under a wheel . The tension that Gerard Butler and his wife ( Bello ) go is taut the entire movie . Brosnan is magnificent as he puts them through the wringer , sometimes letting them think they have some rope , but he gives them just enough to hang themselves . The ending twists and turns so that you are not fully prepared , but it is a doozey . This is writer William Morrissey's second script , and you can be sure I'll be looking for the first . If director Mike Barker does not win an award for this film , there is no justice .
Feminism and the Church	Who would have guessed that there is a genre out there called nunsploitation . I am not sure what it means , but this film appears to be included . It is the story of a Mexican nun that was decidedly feminist . You can look up Juana Inés de la Cruz on Wikipedia and it will give you more . Apparently this film is historically accurate according to those I have consulted . The main thrust of this film is the intense hatred ( Can one say fear ? ) of women by the Church through the ages , which continues to this day . It examines the Inquisition , by which the Church sought to stifle creativity and thinking . One would do well to know the status of women in the Church at the time to properly understand and enjoy this film . The role of women can be defined : " it is right for ( women ) to pride themselves on being silent , both those for whom it is convenient to cover up their lack of knowledge , and those who might shamelessly reveal what they know , because in all of them it is not only an agreeable condition , but a proper virtue , to speak little and be silent . " Unlike Saint Teresa , Sr Juana is castigated not canonized for the audacity to speak her mind , to seek knowledge , and to think . If you seek the " lesbian passion behind convent walls " that is on the DVD cover , you will be sorely disappointed . While a lesbian relationship might be strongly suggested between Sr Juana and her noble protectress , it is never overtly expressed with the exception of a kiss that would be considered an " air kiss " compared to the one Phoebe gave Rachel on " Friends . " The film was extremely interesting and Assumpta Serna was outstanding as Sr Juana .
The show of shows	It is amazing what you stumble upon when you wake up early Sunday morning . I had seen brief snippets of this and decided to give it a total view . I am certainly glad I did . These women were just amazing . Under the purview of the first Transsexual beauty pageant , you had the opportunity to see six of the women and their families and get to know what their childhoods were like and how they coped as males before they were transformed . You learned that there is some conflict between pre-op and post-op transsexuals . You learned to appreciate another part of what makes up this human race . Were they beautiful ? I would have no problem hooking up with most of them ( post-ops , of course ) . A really great show .
So what's wrong with the Blueberry Pie ?	There's nothing wrong with the Blueberry Pie , just people make other choices . You can't blame the Blueberry Pie , it's just . . . no one wants it . Well , you can have your apple or whatever , I choose Blueberry . Kar Wai Wong ( 2046 ) , in his English language debut , gives us a fantastic journey that is beautifully photographed , and has a score to die for . Sure , it's a " chick flick . " There is no doubt about that , but one that everyone who has any romance in their heart will find enchanting . I am a Norah Jones fan , and certainly wanted to see her debut effort . I was not disappointed . I totally disagree with those who called her effort " amateurish . " As someone who had her heart broken , she could empathize with the others she came in contact with and help them find themselves . She was perfect in the role . This was the first time I really enjoyed Jude Law . He did an incredible job in a peripheral role . I always enjoy David Strathairn , and he was great as a cop who couldn't let go of his wife , Rachel Weisz , who also gave what is probably her best performance to date . Natalie Portman played a character that I would certainly like to see more of . Magnificent and deep . I am so glad I saw this movie and will want to see it again .
A creative piece of film	Creative is the first word that comes to mind when watching this film . Instead of some boring theological piece with lots of talking heads . we get a doc that uses taking heads sparingly , and adds film clips that tell the story along with some really great graphics . Sure there is some humor in the piece . When Jesus went missing for three days at the age of 12 , according to the Bible , Mary and Joseph went looking for him . I kept thinking that someone should have been calling Child Protective Services for their neglect in keeping track of a 12 year old . Then he went missing for 18 years . Was he on milk cartons during this time ? The graphics showing the period in which Jesus lived and the four decade gap before anything was even written about him was very interesting . It gets even more interesting when they discuss all the mythological figures that came before Jesus and the common traits that he had with them - born of a virgin , performed miracles , died on the cross , rose from the dead , etc . This fact alone would cause you some concern about whether Jesus was real or just another myth . What really made the film was the ultra graphic scenes from The Passion of the Christ , a film I have avoided watching . The scenes I saw had way more blood than Hostel : Part II . It would seem that Christians are really into torture porn . You may agree or disagree with this doc , but you certainly should see it to round out your knowledge .
I don't remember college like this	Fun ! Excitement ! Pure party pleasure ! This is the ultimate in fraternity slobbery with some outstanding performances by John Belushi and Tim Matheson , and a special treat with Donald Sutherland . This was the first film appearance for some now great stars like Kevin Bacon ( The Woodsman , The River Wild , Hollow Man ) , Karen Allen ( Raiders of the Lost Ark ) , and Peter Riegert ( Traffic , Barbarians at the Gate ) . Even Blues guitarist Robert Cray was there with Otis Day and the Knights . I cannot imagine anyone who doesn't rank this as one of the funniest films they have seen .
I can understand why playing the Mummy wasn't Lon Chaney's favorite role .	I thoroughly enjoyed seeing the birth of horror and how it has grown up to 1996 . Listening to the actors like Vincent Price , Robert De Niro and Brinke Stevens , directors like Herschell Gordon Lewis , companies like Hammer Films , and others involved in the business was entertaining and informative . It was fascinating to see how well known characters like Frankenstein changes over the years . I didn't even know that Robert De Niro did the character in 1994 . From Frankenstein and the Wolf-man , we move to Hellraiser and Michael Myers , discovering along the way how some films were meant to be a one-time deal and ended up a franchise , and why we are so fascinated with demons . And , then there are dinosaurs , from 1 Million Years BC to Jurrasic park . I love a good Godzilla movie ! Christopher Lee does a great job of narrating .
Everything is going as planned , although it is possible we are a little behind schedule .	I last saw Mathieu Amalric as Jean-Do in The Diving Bell and the Butterfly . Winner of a César for that performance and two others , he is an accomplished actor . He displays his considerable skills in this film , which has him in the role of a psychologist who must interpret words and actions of others . He is charged with assessing the mental state of the company CEO , Mathias Jüst , played brilliantly by Michael Lonsdale , who has two César nominations himself , and a BAFTA nomination for the 1973 version of The Day of the Jackal . This occurs soon after the company undergoes a massive downsizing . The verbal give and take between the two was captivating . It became really interesting when Jüst sprung upon him that he knew he was being investigated , and gave information the reached back to the Third Reich . The involvement of the principles in the extermination of Jews was reveled in a way that was similar to the discussion of the reduction of employees in the company . People were referred to as loads or units in each case , not as humans . The inhuman language of extermination becomes the inhuman language of business , and the children of the Reich are left to deal with their father's sins . Powerful .
Get back in the car , you smirking slut !	Dr . ' Doc ' Daneeka : Sure . Catch-22 . Anyone who wants to get out of combat isn't really crazy , so I can't ground him . Yossarian : OK , let me see if I've got this straight . In order to be grounded , I've got to be crazy . And I must be crazy to keep flying . But if I ask to be grounded , that means I'm not crazy anymore , and I have to keep flying . Dr . ' Doc ' Daneeka : You got it , that's Catch-22 . Yossarian : Whoo . . . That's some catch , that Catch-22 . Dr . ' Doc ' Daneeka : It's the best there is . People don't want to watch movie showing the stupidity of war . They want heroes so they can go to sleep at night thinking all those dead soldiers meant something . Unfortunately , war is just failed diplomacy , or someone showing how big his cajones are . What's the purpose of an Army if we can't use it ? Why are the Japanese now dropping bombs . Because a defensive Army is useless in showing cajones . Alan Arkin is magnificent as Capt . John Yossarian , who just wants to go home . He knows he's crazy to keep flying , but knowing that means he's not crazy , so he has to keep flying , which is crazy . The cast of this movie is one of the best I have seen : Martin Balsam , Richard Benjamin , Art Garfunkel , Bob Newhart , Paula Prentiss , Norman Fell , Charles Grodin and more giving us laughs aplenty from Buck Henry's superb screenplay based on Joseph Heller's novel under the direction of Mike Nichols . And , of course , there is Olimpia Carlisi , reason alone to watch .
Klaatu barada nikto !	The most amazing thing about this film was not Klaatu's ( Michael Rennie ) ability to completely stop all action on Earth for 30 minutes , but the fact that Bobby ( Billy Gray ) wore a tie . Can you imagine some kid doing that today ! Seriously , this was an excellent film that promoted peace and understanding among all nations by attempting to demonstrate the common good and the need for international cooperation . Unfortunately , we have still failed to heed the warning over 50 years later and still act like Tom Stevens ( Hugh Marlowe ) , concerned for our own self-interest . Oscar winner Patricia Neal ( Hud , The Subject Was Roses ) gave a powerful performance as Bobby's mother and a " real " secretary . If you haven't seen it , you should just to hear the final message .
Noir is dead ; long live neo-noir	Film Noir has not existed since the sixties , but filmmakers are incorporating the aspects of the genre into new films . Examples include Fargo , Se7en , L . A . Confidential , Pulp Fiction , The Usual Suspects , Memento , Reservoir Dogs , and Sin City . Canadian Gary Yates has written and directed a film that reminds us of the old days with the low lights and hard criminals , but in a comedy of cons conning cons . It may take a scorecard to figure out who is conning who , but viewers will be thrilled with the ending . Kevin Pollack ( The Usual Suspects ) and Liane Balaban lead this quirky and enjoyable film with a great supporting cast that will keep you guessing .
What if they gave a war and nobody came ?	This Oscar nominated film is destined to be a Christmas classic . It was a brilliantly beautiful film that shows just how much we are all the same , no matter which side we fight on . It also shows the stupidity of using young men and women as pawns in failed diplomacy . We also can closely look at this film and see the same things happening today as happened in 1914 . We who are not fighting are sitting home eating our fat turkeys while our soldiers are fighting and dying . We really don't care as it does not affect us . Sure , we toast our brave men and women , but it is just words . It is they that are suffering and not us . This film was mad even more beautiful by the singing of Natalie Dessay and Rolando Villazón . A film I will never forget .
Free to be me	This was a very beautiful film by writer / director Luis Puenzo , who last blew me away with his film The Official Story . It was two stories in one , connects by threads that ran from one to the other - the whale , a woman and a man , and chance . The gorgeous Aitana Sánchez-Gijón ( The Machinist , Mouth to Mouth ) plays Vera , who is facing cancer and , having her breast removed , is feeling rather hopeless . Chance has her in a hospital be next to an old woman who is connected to events before the Spanish Civil War . Those events , and the story of Lola ( Mercè Llorens ) , Mathide ( Belén Blanco ) , Suarez ( Miguel Ángel Solá ) , and Emilio ( Leonardo Sbaraglia ) , are told simultaneously and she is drawn into the story by a box of photos and a request to do a new book by her editor . Her explorations of herself in the face of cancer , and the story of the showgirl turned prostitute , are connected by a whale that appears in both off the shores of Patagonia . The art , cinematography , costumes , and music are absolutely wonderful and make this an enjoyable experience .
I think the world would be better without Dogville .	Sometimes a movie is hard to watch . This is one of those times . You are slapped in the face with a reality that maybe we are not as civilized as we make out to be . Some say this film is anti-American . I disagree . It is anti-human . We tend to put ourselves up on a pedestal as being so much better than all the other animals , when , in reality , the base instincts that we have in common with the animals are just below that surface . Nicole Kidman was outstanding in this film . She showed just the right range of emotion . She was supported by a great cast that included Paul Bettany and Lauren Bacall , as well as Ben Gazzara , Philip Baker Hall , Patricia Clarkson , Chloë Sevigny , Harriet Andersson , Jeremy Davies , Zeljko Ivanek , Blair Brown and James Caan . The minimalist set allowed us to focus on the actors and we were rewarded with great performances that showed deep down we will act to serve ourselves when our psyches are threatened . This was my first Lars von Trier film . I know I will have to see a couple more before I pass judgment , but he really showed me something here .
The appearance of law must be upheld , especially when it's being broken .	It was nominated for practically everything in 2003 : Best Picture ; Best Actor in a Leading Role for Daniel Day-Lewis ; Best Art Direction-Set Decoration ; Best Cinematography ; Best Costume Design ; Best Director for Martin Scorsese ; Best Editing ; Best Music , Original Song for the song " The Hands That Built America " ; Best Sound ; and Best Writing , Original Screenplay . It won nothing . Sure , it won a Golden Globe for Scorcese and U2 , and 31 other awards at other ceremonies , but it had the unfortunate luck to come out in a year of great films : The Pianist , Almodóvar ' s Hable con ella , Road to Perdition , of course , Chicago , and even Eminem beat out U2 . That doesn't diminish a great story , it just makes it hard to see amongst all the other stars out there in the sky . Besides Daniel Day-Lewis , I enjoyed Leonardo DiCaprio and Cameron Diaz in their roles , and I always enjoy Liam Neeson . Kudos also to Jim Broadbent and John C . Reilly .
Survivor meet National Geographic	Checking out Oscar related movies , I came upon this one that garnered a nomination for screenwriters Clint Johnston and Don Peters . The story was excellent , with Cornel Wilde as a big-game hunter that gets caught by the native along with his entire hunting party . The natives in his group are quickly killed , and his partner , Gert Van den Bergh , is tortured and killed with a cobra . But they have games in mind for Wilde . They shoot an arrow and give him that much of a head start before they send him off naked into the jungle . What they don't count on is his resourcefulness , and this would be a great Survivor series , except for the killing - or maybe with the killing . The South African desert and the action with the animals is stupendous . Wilde actually kills an antelope , but loses it to a lion . He manages to get a snake and eats it raw . Yecch ! Does he escape the natives . Ah , that waits for you to see .
It's like lego , it's all sort of pretend .	This film is basically about two girls who find each other and engage in a tender and passionate love affair . One might stop right there and feel that that makes for a great movie . However , this film is so much more . It had the unfortunate circumstance of going up against Vera Drake , else it might have taken every British and European award for 2004 . Yes , there is a tender and passionate love affair between Emily Blunt ( The Devil Wears Prada ) , in only her second film , and Nathalie Press ( who we will see this year in Brontë ) . But the film is so much more . They don't spend all their time making love ; they do have some fun , and it's really funny . There is the brother , played by Paddy Considine ( Hot Fuzz ) , who found Jesus in prison ( don't they all ? ) and is concerned for his sister's soul . His new-found spirituality is severely tested and found wanting . Things are not what they appear , and director Pawel Pawlikowski does a great job of taking us to the surprising ending . Just when you think you know how it will end , you are fooled and fooled again . This is a must-see .
I want you NOW !	I have been spending my nights enjoying repeats of this show , and this one is one of the best I have seen . Obviously , Charlies has not heard the old saying about " a woman scorned . " Take the incredibly hot Heather Locklear playing a high priced lawyer , and you would be doubly cautious about scoring her . Yeas , i can understand wanting Alana De La Garza , who must have been going to law school in her spare time as she later ends up as an Assistant District Attorney on " Law and Order , " but Charlie , you just have to work something out so as not to offend Heather . One of the best episodes of the show .
Slacker Film Festival	I hadn't seen any of the slacker movies , so I thought I would check them out starting with this one . I wanted to see what it was all about - men stuck in perpetual adolescence . This is about slackers with jobs . Not jobs that interfere with their slacker lifestyle . They can still collect a paycheck and have time to discuss whether it was fair for contractors to die in the building of the Death Star and , if a hockey game had to be played , then just close the store for an hour . Brian O'Halloran and Jeff Anderson were really funny as best friends Dante and Randall . Rabdall understood what slacking was all about and was cool with his life . It was Dante that seemed to be in a quandary . A lot of the film was Randal trying to straighten him out . Their banter was exceedingly funny . Of course , Dante has a problem with Veronica and Caitlan , played by Marilyn Ghigliotti and Lisa Spoonhauer . The women appear to be much more mature than their love interests . Their lives are going somewhere , but they are still attracted to the slackers . What's up with that ? Looking at this film just for what it was , it really told an interesting story and moved very well under the direction of Kevin Smith . There were some extremely funny sequences and I am interested in exploring more of this genre . I do have to say that this movie is definitely not for someone with sensitive ears .
A slice of life in New York	Being a fan of Julia Stiles ( The Bourne trilogy , The Omen , The Business of Strangers ) , I was curious to see her first effort at writing and directing . I was not disappointed . Bill Irwin ( Across the Universe ) and Zooey Deschanel ( Bridge to Terabithia , The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford ) were both fascinating as flawed individuals whose past is a shadow to us , and who chance encounter brings about profound changes . There is so much here that a full length feature is worth making . Head over to iTunes and download your copy to see a great first film by a great star .
You'd like to think the Catholic Church would protect actual live children as much as they protect fetuses .	It takes courage to grow up and turn out to be who you truly are . These four extremely funny women have that courage . The are out and proud and hilarious as they take on the Catholic Church , politics , sex , aging , men and women , and lesbianism . But , they also talk about their lives , growing up , coming out to family , airport security , the gay and lesbian movement , and many other things . If you love to laugh and are interested in another part of America's social history , this is one documentary that is not to be missed . It'll make you want to head to your local gay comedy club tonight !
How can a guy sink so low ?	This was the best role that Tyrone Power ( The Mark of Zorro ) ever got . He made the most of it , and gave a superior performance . He plays an opportunist , who is trying to get an angle . he discovers a carny act that used to be great and finds a way to get their secret . he uses that to build himself into a " mentalist , " but he wants more . he dumps the woman ( Joan Blondell ) that taught him the code and runs off with Molly ( Coleen Gray ) . Molly can't bring herself to help him when he decides to use religion to con the gullible rich . She goes back to the carnival and he is on the lam . The film opens with a carnival geek ( carnival performer often billed as a wild man whose act usually includes biting the head off a live chicken , bat , snake or bugs ) and ends with power sliding down to the same level . He reached too high , the carnival owner says to end an excellent bit of film noir and a super performance by Power . I haven't seen a lot of director Edmund Goulding's work , but this is supposed to be his best film also . It was extremely well written and the cinematography was also superior . If the film had been a financial success , I could certainly see an Oscar for Power .
A person may like pineapple today , and something else tomorrow .	Takeshi Kaneshiro ( House of Flying Daggers ) meets Brigitte Lin ( Ashes of Time Redux ) after a depressing month trying to get over his girlfriend . She has just lost a group of Indians smuggling drugs . He obsesses over her departure and misses on what is right before him . Things don't last forever . The use of frenetic camera shots and flashing lights make this segment a little hard to take , but still satisfying . You can't get caught up in the story because that is not what's important . It's the film itself that is the point . Just when you think something may happen , the story changes . In the second segment , Tony Leung Chiu Wai ( Lust , Caution ; Infernal Affairs ) loses his girlfriend , too , but doesn't obsess , especially with Faye Wong ( 2046 ) available . But , he hardly notices her . She , on the other hand , spends time cleaning and rearranging his apartment without his knowledge . It is a film for film lovers . The medium is the message . Kar Wai Wong establishes himself as a true master of the art film .
What are you getting at ?	An excellent overview for those who are not familiar with Almodovar and a helpful guide even for those who are . The genius that is Almodovar is expressed in this film with interviews from his family , co-workers , and Almodovar experts . One of the interesting things is the way he is always looking for ideas in things that he reads or sees on the news . He may start working on something , but he will not move past a certain point until things are just right . It may mean shelving a film for 10 years or more , like Bad Education , until he can find the right actor . Almodovar's films are not autobiographical , but the express things that he considers important like child abuse and strong women . Things that may seem absurd or surreal to most are just the way life is if you look closely . He puts the audience to the test to find these things . The one thing that is consistent with Almodovar is his strong writing ability . His editor says that his films are probably the least edited films he has worked on because the script is done so well . While many directors may have a period that stands out in their body of work , Almodovar has a body of work that spans decades and is superior from start to finish .
Unusual use of stamp pads !	Imagine coming of age in a time when you are surrounded by sexual images . This Academy Award winning film can be the Czechoslovakian version of so many of the Judd Apatow films we see today . Brilliantly photographed in black and white , it shows Milos ( Václav Neckár ) trying to become a man . His first opportunity with his girlfriend Masa ( Jitka Bendová ) ends in disaster and he attempts suicide . His doctor advises him to get a more experienced woman to teach him , so he goes on a quest to find one . This all takes place during the Nazi occupation of Czechoslovakia , so there are many political overtones to the film . It is hilarious as Milos works at a train station where his coworker Hubicka ( Josef Somr ) doesn't seem to have problems getting action whenever he wants . He does manage to arrange help for Milos , but tragedy strikes before he is able to use his new found knowledge with his girlfriend . An excellent picture and a real funny story that manages to avoid the crudity of modern tales of the same sort .
I hope that donkey doesn't have a heinie troll !	Funny , irreverent and just plain nasty . This film was really great - even better than the first one ! Of course , the addition Of Rosario Dawson ( Rent , Sin City ) was the crowning touch that made it really fun . It was the best role she has played and it was more than I could have asked for in a comedy . Of course , it would not have been the same with Brian O'Halloran , Jeff Anderson , Jason Mewes , and Kevin Smith . The slackers really grew up in this film and became responsible - in their unique way , of course . Randal : I got to rent movies , fck with aholes , and hang out with my best friend , Dante . Does life get any better than that ? Yes , it does . When you can rag on those Ring freaks , too ; it is a bonus .
Truffaut's Halloween ?	François Truffaut got his nomination for Best Director some years after this film for Day for Night . This film got him a screenplay nomination , in which , unbelievably , he was beaten by the Rock Hudson / Doris day film Pillow Talk . Well , we all know the Academy can crash sometimes . By asking if this is Truffaut's Halloween , I am not suggesting a horror film , although some would consider the pervasive juvenile delinquency in our society to be a horror . I would not tend to describe Antoine , the 12-year-old main character of the film as a juvenile delinquent . He is more just stretching and spreading as he finds his limits and comes of age . He does this in an atmosphere of constant bickering by his parents , and finding out that his mother really didn't want him , and that she is having an affair . All this could , in different circumstance , create a Michael Myers character . Truffaut presents a film that , while devoid of startling action , keeps us transfixed as we observe the mundane life of Antoine . That , my friends , is great writing and great direction .
We had to do things that i don't think any animal is capable of doing . . .	It is hard to describe the excitement of these young rugby players , some rich and pampered , who were getting a chance to get away for a long weekend and spread their wings . They were full of anticipation of things to come . In a short time , they experienced their first snow . The only problem was that they were chest deep in it on top of a mountain with dead bodies all around them . But , the crash wasn't the end of it . After settling down to survive , they were caught in an avalanche that took eight more . It was harder to eat the bodies of their friends . They were trapped in the fuselage and couldn't get to the bodies outside . They had to use the bodies that were in there with them . The amazing journey of those sent to find help was unbelievable . Without experience or equipment , they travelled for eight days over the mountains . The story is told 30 years later by the 16 survivors and they make the reenactments come alive with their stories . It is not a gruesome tale . They looked at what they were doing as something spiritual . The fact that they maintained calm and acted as a group is a powerful humanistic comment on men .
Great performance by Ricci	I really really really want to see Christina Ricci in Black Snake Moan , but I was embarrassed to go buy a ticket for that movie , so I watched this instead . I probably saw more of Christina that I would have seen in the other movie anyway . I have to say that she was really incredible and entirely believable as someone who is going through depression , and trying to get off the pills , but finally coming to the realization that you will probably never get rid of them totally . Anyone who sees this movie should have some idea of what depressed people go through . The self-doubts and the irrational reactions to simple things and the suicidal ideation are just three items they have to deal with . I also liked Jessica Lange as her mom . A totally great followup to her performance in Blue Sky . And , hey , I haven't seen Michelle Williams since Brokeback Mountain . Great job as the roommate . Didn't care at all for the rest of the cast . Watching pie-boy doesn't interest me . I would totally be back in therapy for the long haul if Anne Heche was my therapist . I can see some major transference issues here .
I am an island . I am bloody Ibiza !	No , I am not about to say that there is a Hugh Grant film that is better that Four Weddings and a Funeral , but this comes so damn close that it is scary . Grant was absolutely brilliant in a film about a man who was consumed with his own self interests . Reading today's newspaper , there are a lot more out there like him than we realize . Like the children of boomers , he doesn't have concern for others in the world because he was given everything . But , things do change , Sometimes you open the door to let others come in and you will be amazed . He did it by accident , he fought hard to go back when things didn't turn out the way he wanted , and he finally just opened to the world and started to enjoy life . Toni Collette was also very good in this film by three brilliant writers : Peter Hedges , Chris Weitz , and Paul Weitz ( the Weitz also directed ) based upon a novel by Nick Hornby ( High Fidelity , Fever Pitch ) . And , of course , any film gets and extra star when Rachel Weisz is present , even if it was only a small role .
The story of a guilty man	There is no doubt that America lost one of its greatest directors when Roman Polanski fled to France after pleading guilty to having sex with a minor . He already had Oscar nominations for Rosemary's Baby and Chinatown , which won him a Golden Globe . He has gone on to win a shelf full of awards , including an Oscar for The Pianist . There is also no doubt that Polanski was guilty of much more serious crimes against a 13-year-old girl , and this documentary shows the glaring difference that justice in America has for the rich and connected . He could return today and serve 48 days and all would be forgiven . How sad is that ? The one question that the film does not answer is why the girl's mother was not arrested and charged for child neglect . It was obvious that she knew the danger she was placing her daughter in . We do not forgive sex crimes because they happen in Hollywood , or do we ? Polanski is one of the greatest directors in the world , and , as a movie lover , I applaud his talent . But , he still committed a heinous crime and should suffer the consequences . Exile to France may seem punishment to the extreme right wing in this country , but we know different . Marina Zenovich did an outstanding job with this film and should at least receive an Oscar nomination .
This flick is hot !	I know the title I gave this review is trite and a little corny , but how else do you describe a film that has Al Pacino ( Who I loved in The Devil's Advocate ) , Robert DiNiro , ValKilmer , John Voight , Ashley Judd ( one of my very favorites ) , Natalie Portman , Ted Levine ( Hey ! Captain Stottlemeyer ! ) , Hank Azaria , Danny Trejo , and many many more . It was like Hollywood all showed up for this one . I know it's an oldie , but it sure was a goodie . I never enjoyed an action movie so much . The tension and the action were over the top . And , that exchange between Pacino and DiNiro was one for the books . I just don't think they make action movies like this any more .
I want to see her nipples .	I know what you are saying , " Another version of Charles Dickens ! " But this one has Bill Murray and he is funny . Even if you have seen several versions of this classic , you have to see the one with Murray . It'll be the one you watch every year . Murray plays Frank Cross , a grouchy television exec who's obsessed with putting on a $40 million production of A Christmas Carol for his network on Christmas Eve . He really is a Scrooge and is mean to his workers . So , who better to have a visit from the Christmas Ghosts ? . Cross gets a visit from his former boss ( deceased ) who warns him of the imminent visitation of three ghosts . Cross writes this off as a hallucination brought on by stress and his network's big project , at least until the first ghost arrives and yanks him back to the past . The Ghosts are really free and they do a great job , particularly the abusive ghost of Christmas present ( Carol Kane ) . There are interesting cameos from a variety of stars , such as Bobcat Goldthwait , Jamie Farr , Robert Goulet , and Mary Lou Retton . This is my favorite Christmas Carol Movie .
A slice of Southern history .	Writer / director Margaret Brown gives an excellent picture of the Mardi Gras traditions in Mobile , Alabama . Along the way she also gives a very good picture of black / white relations in the South even to this day . Most people think of New Orleans when they hear Mardi Gras , but the fact is that Mobile's traditions date to before New Orleans was a city . Mardi Gras is still mostly a Southern tradition , even though it has spread to Texas , San Diego and St . Louis . It's rich history came over from Europe in the 18th Century to Mobile , New Orleans , and Biloxi , Mississippi , where I am familiar with it , having lived there for a few years . Make no mistake , you can't just walk into the white organizations , even if you are white . You have to have familial connections back to the origins of the city . It is a closed society made up of a lot of former slave owners . Brown weaves the story of slaves into her story of the city and the Mardi Gras traditions . It was an excellent peek into some of the traditions of the organizations , both black and white , and of the Mobile society .
You only find the right woman once .	Before they struck gold with Gigi , Vincente Minelli and Alan Jay Lerner teamed up to write and direct this other story of Paris and love . It didn't win nine Oscars , but it did win six out of eight nominations including Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Color ; Best Cinematography ; Best Costume Design , Color ; Best Music , Scoring of a Musical Picture ; another Best Picture for Arthur Freed ; another screenplay award for Alan Jay Lerner ; a Best Director nomination for Vincente Minnelli ; and a Best Film Editing nomination . Leslie Caron was once again in the forefront of this film displaying her considerable dancing talents along with Gene Kelley who mesmerized us with his fancy footwork , and his singing alone and with Georges Guétary . Oscar-nominated Nina Foch ( Executive Suite ) thrilled us as the woman who kept artists . Great sets and a brilliant production number at the end , along with memorable tunes such as " Our Love Is Here To Stay " , " I Got Rhythm " , and " ' S Wonderful " .
This isn't good cop , bad cop . This is fag and New Yorker .	Robert Downey Jr . ( Chaplin , Short Cuts ) and Val Kilmer ( Heat ) in a Shane Black ( Lethal Weapon , The Last Boy Scout ) comedy featuring Michelle Monaghan and Corbin Bernson in their best movie roles to date . That is really all you need to know to see this film . However , I will add a bit or two . Downey is a small time hood from new York who is on the lam and hooks up with Kilmer , a gay PI from L . A . , and murders start appearing all over the place . Ther is humor , violence , nudity , car chases , plot twists , more humor and a who lot of fun . You really need a scorecard to keep up with what is going on , but that is the fun of this film . And , Monaghan - this is about the fifth film I have seen her in , and it certainly is the most memorable - and not just for her acting .
Hey , there's something down here . . .	If there was ever the remotest chance that I would ever go into a cave , that chance just became non existent after seeing this film . Girls may want to have fun , but these girls - Shauna Macdonald , Natalie Jackson Mendoza , Alex Reid , Saskia Mulder , MyAnna Buring ( Grindhouse ) , and Nora-Jane No one - are starkers ! I'm all for a little adventure , but this was more than my heart can take . Hell , it was almost too much just watching it . If you want to get scared shitless , then you have to see this film . Makeup was incredible and there were some great performance in an adrenaline-pumping exercise in terror .
She'll get some lines , or I'll nail your knee caps to the floor .	Let's face it . I am not a Woody Allen fan . So , I had to pick a movie that was written and directed by him , but I would not have to see or hear him . It was brilliant ! John Cusack was the right shade of neurotic as a director who had to get into bed with the mob to get his play on Broadway . And , who better to represent the mob than Joe Viterelli and Chazz Palminteri . Excellent choices . Jennifer Tilly was a real treat as the mob boss ' girlfriend who couldn't act . And , her relationship with Jim Broadbent was a gem . The movie was as funny as I expected a Woody Allen film to be and the shades of Sunset Boulevard with Dianne Wiest was captivating . There are so many little gems in this show that it would not be possible to repeat them here . You have to see them in context to enjoy them , and you should take the time to do just that .
An ode to excess	There is no question that many of us are slowly committing suicide by overeating , but the idea of eating until you die is probably a very unpleasant way to go . Yet , four men , three-time Oscar nominee Marcello Mastroianni , four time César nominee Michel Piccoli , two time César winner , and three more nomination , and a BAFTA winner Philippe Noiret , and Golden Globe nominee Ugo Tognazzi , join together to eat themselves to death . They are eventually joined by two time César nominee Andréa Ferréol and three whores because Marcello , the airline pilot , cannot manage without them . Needless to say , they eat and eat , engage in eating contests , and make expected noises when their bellies are full . They are constantly cooking and eating , when they are not doing things like using a manifold as a dildo . Michel gets constipated and what do they do ? They manipulate him until he is relieved and then feed him more . The three whores finally get disgusted with the constant eating and leave . Just the four men and the teacher ( Ferréol ) remain . It gets a little creepy after two die and the rest go with them sitting there watching . But they do not last long , as they eat themselves to death . The film is quite funny at times , grotesque at times , and sad that excess is celebrated . The first-rate cast all gave excellent performances .
Cinema is the first art . - Lenin	An innocent enough decision . Filip ( Jerzy Stuhr ) buys a camera to film his new daughter . It costs two months salary and it makes him a celebrity of sorts as he is the only one in town that has one . Now , his boss wants him to film the 25th anniversary celebration of the company . He really gets into filming and soon runs headlong into " rules . " Of course , you have rules in a communist country . His wife is not too excited about his new hobby , but he soon gets his film entered into a film festival . Soon , like all who truly love film , Filip is attending screenings , talking to directors , and reading film magazines to improve his craft . But , more and more his wife is displeased , and his boss is cooling to the idea as he moves from filming the company to social statements . His desire for tranquility gives way to a desire for fame and art at the cost of his wife and family . He also discovers the unintended consequences of reporting the truth . In the end he turns the camera on himself as he realizes he had everything in the beginning and lost it all . A fascinating look at real cinema and finding what you want .
Now's not the time for dick measuring , Stuart !	On thing that is a sure as the sun coming up tomorrow is that a film written by Luc Besson will be thrilling . There's Taxi 1-4 , Transporter 1-3 , Leon , the Professional , and many more . This is just another one of Besson's magical films that will thrill you from start to finish . Darkman himself , Liam Neeson , is magnificent as a father that will do anything for his daughter Kim ( Maggie Grace ) . When she is taken for the sex trade , he springs into action that keeps you on the edge of your seat until the end . I have seen some very good films about the sex trade . Mira Sorvino in Human Trafficking , and Kevin Kline in Trade ; but , Neeson is at the top of the game in tracking though the muck of this business to get to the top . We see all levels of the business on the way , and we glimpse the dregs of humanity in the process . Realistic car chases , plenty of scum left on the floor , and some very satisfying justice makes this the most incredible 93 minutes you can experience .
He's a disgrace to the South .	Johnny ( Buster Keaton ) won't be marching home , as he is not allowed to enlist . His girl Annabelle ( Marion Mack ) won't speak to him because of it . They don't realize he is needed an an engineer . The Yankees steal his train and Johnny jumps into action , not knowing that Annabelle is captured and on the train . The chase is both funny and exciting as a chase should be . The Yankees try all manner of tricks to get away , and Keaton stays after them bumbling along . Soon , he is behind enemy lines still chasing . Soon , he is on foot and finds out the enemy plans and has to rescue Annabelle . The scene with the bear trap is pure magic . The chase is now reversed as he tries to get back to Confederate lines before the Yankees catch him . Annabelle wasn't much help and provided some great comedic moments . As expected , Johnny does , in fact , come marching home finally and is made a Lieutenant .
I think this is going to be Godzilla's last fight .	This was the last Godzilla film in the Heisei series , and it certainly topped all the rest . All the stops were pulled out to make this one a fantastic and explosive film that made July 4th a real firecracker . First , they are trying to develop some new chemical to kill Godzilla and they create some really neat looking creatures that look somewhat like a crab or a lobster with a long neck and a head . I really don't think Godzilla will have any trouble with these things as one spent five minutes trying to get a girl our of a car and couldn't do it before he was destroyed . But , the creatures apparently form in to one Destroyer and this one kills Baby Godzilla . Godzilla arrives to do battle and what a battle it is . The fireworks were spectacular and the sound track was marvelous . Add to the mix a space shuttle-like super jet piloted by a cross between Tom Cruise and Will Smith and these babies don't stand a chance . Since this is the end of the series , you know Godzilla will die , but you can be sure that he will likely comeback in some form in the future .
There is always room for another hero	I don't read Cal Thomas often , but I generally agree with his article the other day decrying the lack of true heroes . Blaming television for creating a nation of gawkers , he has hit on a true fact - there are not enough true heroes around . I can imagine that thousands went to the movies this weekend to see films such as The Number 23 and Reno 911 ! : Miami or The Astronaut Farmer . Even IMDb . com lists Amazing Grace under " more . " It is a shame that a film about a true hero gets such treatment . Amazing Grace is a film that every parent should drag their child to see , just so they know that as Margaret Mead once said : Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful , committed citizens can change the world . Indeed , it's the only thing that ever has . In Amazing Grace , the idealist William Wilberforce , and a small group of thoughtful , committed citizens maneuvered their way through Parliament in 18th century England , endeavoring to end slavery in the empire . Their story , the story of heroes , was masterfully done by Ioan Gruffudd , who children will know from Fantastic Four and " Justice League " . This is the story of passion and perseverance , of love and caring ; it is the story of a true hero . The amazing thing is that there is room for many more heroes such as Wilberforce and it doesn't take magical powers , or incredible bravery , or anything that is outside the realm of everyone of us . It just takes a desire to leave the world a better place . It is hoped that all who see Wilberforce's heroism will dig deeper and find that he devoted his whole life to making the world a better place . Many things we take for granted today would not be here were it not for this man - this hero .
I've been all over the entire universe to find you .	Not just worth watching , but a very good Tarantinoesque film that will definitely reward you for you patience . It has the typical western flavor and the typical western gore , but it is not overdone . The main journey of the film is for our hero to go deep withing himself and face his fears to find out who he truly is . Vincent Cassel ( Ocean's Twelve & Thirteen ) plays Blueberry ( the French Title ) in this Jan Kounen film about the West and mystical experience . He and Michael Madsen ( Reservoir Dogs , Sin City ) get into it over a saloon girl ( Vahina Giocante ) , who was definitely worth getting into a fight over . He leaves Madsen for dead and he is restored by the Apaches . He returns to civilization as the town Marshall and Madsen returns as the evil villain looking for the Apache's gold - not the shiny kind . Juliette Lewis ( From Dusk Till Dawn , Natural Born Killers ) is in the mix after Madsen kills her father and she chases after him and Eddie Izzard ( Ocean's Twelve & Thirteen ) , who is looking for real gold . Blueberry ( Cassel ) and Blount ( Madsen ) are left to battle each other , but not in the way you expect . This is where it gets really good as they go on a mescaline / peyote trip that brings forth some real nasty demons and then they fly through the universe in a 2001 type adventure before they discover their truths . I can only say that Blueberry wins the grand prize at the end when he is swimming with Juliette Lewis in all her natural born glory . Also features Djimon Hounsou in a good scene . Star wars fanatics will recognize Temuera Morrison as the mystical guide and Blueberry's friend .
The only question I ever ask any woman is " What time is your husband coming home ? "	There is little argument that this is one of the best of Paul Newman . He garnered an Oscar nomination for his performance , as did Director Martin Ritt . Melvyn Douglas , who played his father got an Oscar , as did Patricia Neal , who was the housekeeper . This is a classic clash of generations . Douglas played a man of honor and principles whose son , Newman , was a rake that just spent his time not working in the bottle and in any woman's bed he could find - married or not . In the middle was Lonnie ( Brandon De Wilde ) , the nephew , who was trying to follow in his Uncle's footsteps , but had to see the damage he was causing to others . The pain of seeing everything you worked for buried was deeply evident and made for compelling dram with a brilliant script based upon a Larry McMurtry novel , and outstanding black and white cinematography .
He is no driver , he is the undertaker .	As Viggo Mortensen takes his character from A History of Violence to the next step , you can see the effort he put into the role by doing research before the film . Going to a remote village in Russia to learn the mannerisms and studying books to learn the meaning behind the tats really paid off as his character is so believable . His quiet persona constantly belies the machine that lies beneath . He is real and this performance is the apex of his career . That is not to take anything away from David Cronenberg , who had the good sense in using European actors who spoke both Russian and English to make the characters real . A stroke of genius . Vincent Cassel ( Crimson Rivers , Hate ) certainly is always enjoyable , and played the drunken son perfectly . Naomi Watts ( King Kong ) was better than I have ever seen her . Armin Mueller-Stahl made a great Godfather , right up there with Brando and Pacino . A thoroughly enjoyable film that will stand up to repeated viewings .
Alfonso Cuarón does it again	Alfonso Cuarón ( Alfonso Cuarón ) has written and directed another outstanding film with Clive Owen as a burned out activist with the fate of mankind in his hands . Owen , as Theo , comes to the aid of a former partner ( Julianne Moore ) and is enlisted in the struggle against seemingly incomparable odds to get Kee ( Claire-Hope Ashitey ) and her baby to safety . The tension was palpable throughout this film and it never stopped for one second . Seldom have I been on the edge of my seat for an entire film . Michael Caine as an aging stoner was brilliant !
We haven't seen the last of them .	Boy , if this doesn't creep you out , then you just don't live in the South or Southwest , where you are constantly battling the monsters in this film . The special effects were superb considering the limitations in 1954 . James Whitmore ( Oscar nominations for Give ' em Hell , Harry ! and Battleground ) and James Arness , who played Marshal Matt Dillon in over 600 episodes of " Gunsmoke " in my formative years , were compelling as they chased the monsters . They were ably assisted by Edmund Gwenn , who won ans Oscar for playing Kris Kringle in Miracle on 34th Street , and has a nomination for Mister 880 . He won Golden Globes for both roles . He really was great here as " The Professor . " Great Southwest locations and chilling excitement for a Sci Fi classic .
I know what it is to feel lonely and helpless and to have the whole world against me ,	I decided to visits a couple of classics last night and I started with the British Hitchcock movie . It was a few years after this film that he came to the United States , A career that spanned 50 years and some very fine films . This film reminded me of The Fugative . The basic premises are similar . A man is on the run after being accused of a murder he did not commit . He wasn't looking for a one-armed man , but for a spy . Of course , no one believed him and he stayed just a half-step ahead of the law . The climax is a little contrived , but Robert Donat ( Goodbye , Mr . Chips ) made a dashing fugitive , and Madeleine Carroll as the typical Hitchcock blond added humor to the film . A good introduction to the master of suspense .
Judge it in it's class	You can't look at Grindhouse up against Volver or Children of Men . You have to judge it in the same weight class . There you will see a champion . It's a loud , bloody , long homage to the cars , corpses and copulation Z-pictures of the 1970s that captures reverence for the medium that was evident in the original " grindhouse " movies , films catering to an unsophisticated audience in an era when mass movie-going was in danger of fading away . It has roots in films such as Rolling Thunder ( 1977 ) , Dawn of the Dead ( 1979 ) , Zombi 2 ( 1979 ) , Rock All Night ( 1957 ) , and Escape From New York ( 1981 ) . Robert Rodriguez's gives us a knock-off of Night of the Living Dead with Planet Terror , and Quentin Tarantino champions tough-talking chicks and Dodge Challengers in Death Proof . The former is a much more interesting film , but the latter was excellent , too . The previews of coming attractions added immensely to the film . At least we didn't have to watch previews that were " suitable for all ages . " Why would previews at an " R " rated movie not be " R " rated also ? Zoe Bell , Kurt Russell , and Rose McGowan are among a cavalcade of stars that include Nickolas cage and Bruce Willis . You go to Grindhouse for the same reasons people went to the original grindhouses visceral action and visceral sex . You don't go for the acting or an " Oscar " experience .
Marisa was a hoot	Marisa Tomei , from this years " Wild Hogs , " won an Oscar for her performance in this film . Joe Pesci , in a change from his bad boy gangster image was absolutely hilarious . Add in the Karate Kid ( Ralph Maccio ) and you have a movie that will have you busting a gut . This was Fred Gwynne's last movie and he was a hoot as the judge that couldn't figure out how to deal with Pesci as he defended the " youts " accused of a crime . The dialog between Pesci and Tomei was snappy throughout and made this one enjoyable experience . Don't look at the obvious errors like the fact that the judge should have known about Pesci's legal status and the tire man , just sit back and enjoy the show .
Unintended Consequences	I remember from a Sociology course the Law of Unintended Consequences , popularized by Robert K . Merton . Of course , the most obvious example to historians is WWII , which resulted from the disastrous Treaty of Versailles . This outstanding documentary shows again what can happen when we do not think ahead . A predator is introduced into the second largest lake in the world 50 years ago . It destroys the economic basis of the people , but it also gives them a new economy . But wait , this new economy is not going to benefit them like the old ways , and it will not last . Seeing the consequences of our actions makes us think . This documentary will pss you off and make you think . It does not give you the answers ; it makes you come up with them on your own . Let's hope we come up with the right ones .
Oh my God , they found Tom .	Steve McQueen and James Garner lead a great ensemble cast in this great John Sturges directed war movie about an RAF escape attempt from a German POW camp . Outside of the Ocean's movies , there are not many great ensemble movies made these days due to the enormous salaries paid to the stars . It is an escape movie , but it plays like a caper flick . What they are stealing in this case , is their freedom . The setup is extremely complicated and fascinating . Of course , only 76 make it out instead of the planned 250 , and not many experience freedom , but it still plays well after all these years . It is well worth watching again and again to see Steve McQueen's attempted escape on a motorcycle .
I don't need a nicotine patch . I smoke cigarettes .	Of course this film had to end the way it did . If not , then all those existential musings of the author would not mean much . Slightly sappy , but nonetheless thoughtful , it is designed to make you appreciate the little things in your otherwise meaningless existence . Is your life a comedy or a tragedy ? Crick ( Will Ferrell ) tries to answer that question put to him by Professor Jules Hilbert ( Dustin Hoffman ) . Can a cookie from Ana ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ) change your life from black to white ? I know she can change my life ! Author Kay Eiffel ( Emma Thompson ) realizes her life is lonely , as lonely as her character , and decides to make a change . She went for " good , " not " great . " Is that what it is all about ? We can achieve " good " in our lives , but to achieve " great , " we must eschew the sappy and mundane feelings ? This movie gives you something to think about as you try to fit your life into Cricks .
The Kingdom of Heaven is within you	Neither shall they say , Lo here ! or , lo there ! for , behold , the kingdom of God is within you . Luke 17 : 21Leo Tolstoy used words from this passage to title his book on nonresistance : The Kingdom of God is Within You . Mahatma Gandhi wrote in his autobiography The Story of My Experiments with Truth that this book " overwhelmed me " and " left an abiding impression " . It is also the central theme of the movie Kingdom of Heaven , which I finally got around to watching this weekend . Sure , I wanted to see the newest Bond girl , Eva Green , and I loved Ridley Scott's Gladiator , but I was also interested in the subject of this movie . So much so , that I am glad I got the two-disk DVD so that I could catch the commentary that appeared on the History Channel . It really added to to film to see the discussion of what was real and what was Hollywood . They really do a good job of staying close to the facts and , by the way , I think Green will make a great Bond girl . For pure action , the film matched the excitement of Gladiator , even the attack of the Muslim army under Saladin mirrored the attack of the Roman army under Maximus against the Germanic hordes . While it may not be exactly accurate , it was , nonetheless , impressive . But what really got me was the underlying message . It wasn't just the code of Knights : to protect the helpless , safeguard the peace , and work toward harmony between religions and cultures . It was also the message of Luke 17 : 21 and the message of Humanism : the Kingdom of God is within you - in your mind and heart . It is not a place , but an attitude that should guide your life and your relationship with others ; for the Kingdom of God is within them also . Maybe that is too deep for some . OK , Just enjoy the battle , but , now that I have implanted this message in you mind , you will enjoy the movie more because you will be looking for it .
And now for something complete different	I watched the Pie-lette last night and the word that comes to mind is " original . " It is a word not used much in TV as they all tend to copy whatever the other network is doing and you end up with seven nights of crime shows , unfunny comedies , and reality crap . The first thing that hit me like a brick was the presence of Jim Dale . Those not familiar with the British " Carry On . . . " series or those who have not listened to a Harry Potter book , may not be familiar with Dale . I am not sure whether his presence as narrator adds or distracts . I will have to tune in more , but it does give the show a " Harry Potter " atmosphere . Maybe that's a good thing . Lee Pace ( Infamous , The White Countess ) has a gift . It never explains where he got it , but he can bring someone back from the dead for a minute . He teams with Chi McBride ( " Boston Public , " Roll Bounce ) to solve murders using this talent . Everything is fine and funny until he comes across a childhood love , Anna Friel ( Goal ! The Dream Begins , Timeline ) and things really get complicated . He can't send her back and he can never touch her . Boy , would that make a relationship difficult . I will be tuning in to see where this series goes in the expectation that it will continue to entertain .
The dead are not quiet in Hill House .	Director Robert Wise won Oscars for The Sound of Music and West Side Story . he took a break between them to direct this chiller that earned him a Golden Globe nomination . Oscar-nominee Julie Harris ( The Member of the Wedding ) is the troubled soul that is connected to Hill House for some unexplained reason . She knows she is destined to be a part of it forever . She really gives an incredibly good performance and is creepy throughout . She is supported by Claire Bloom , Richard Johnson , and Oscar-nominee Russ Tamblyn ( Peyton Place ) . Look for Miss Moneypenney ( Lois Maxwell ) in the role of the Johnson's wife . Creepy , creepy , creepy .
Must Love Dogs	I must say that I loved Babel , and to see Alejandro González Iñárritu's first feature film ( long before Crash stole the story ) was amazing . It was an early film for Gael García Bernal ( Babel , Bad Education , The Crime of Father Amaro ) also . He played a key role here . This film is actually three stories locked together by a single crash . It is a film about rich and poor - about class . It shows the underbelly of Mexican society : those who fight dogs for money . It is painful to see in that regard as it features many dead animals . But , the fact that some have to resort to this to survive is also painful . It also show the creme of Mexican society : a top model ( Goya Toledo ) who is also in the crash . her life revolves around beauty , which leads to a superficiality and breaking up a marriage . Her dog gets trapped under a floor and this leads to tragic consequences for her . Emilio Echevarría ( Babel , Y tu mamá también ) plays both sides . He was from the creme of society , but gave up his family and wealth to become a guerrilla , as he felt that was doing what was right for them . Now , losing everything , he roams the streets with his dogs . The theme of riches and poverty , and family is strong in this film as is , of course , the love of dogs . It is all interwoven in a film that never bores you . Iñárritu is a master of storytelling .
An exciting fantasy / horror film	Black cats are supposedly common in Japanese history , and this film makes a creative use of the animal . Two women , left alone by the drafting of their son / husband to fight the wars raging in Japan at the time are raped and killed by a marauding band of samurai . We see them again as samurai start dying by having their throats slashed . They have made a Faustian bargain to get their lives back as long as they take revenge on samurai . In comes the farmer , who has slain the bear and is now a samurai . He is tasked with ridding the city of the ghosts that inhabit the bamboo groves . Much to his surprise , it is his mother and wife . It is a great combination of horror and fantasy and also a beautiful love story . Certainly different from the usual samurai stories and well worth seeing .
Everything will become alright because you are joining the EU .	Considered one of the best films of last year , it won 19 awards , primarily for writer / direct Faith Akin's screenplay . It had some standout performances , especially from Tuncel Kurtiz as the drunken father Ali who manages to kill his live-in lover , Nursel Köse , in a drunken rage . She won a Turkish Golden Orange for her performance . Hanna Schygulla , who has won many awards , also got one from the National Film Critics for this one . After her death , with his father in prison , the son Nejat ( Baki Davrak ) goes to Turkey to find the daughter Ayten ( Nurgül Yesilçay ) . He runs smack dab into the Kurdish problem . As he is looking for her , she heads to Germany to find her mother . She meets Charlotte ( Patrycia Ziolkowska ) , who brings her home , much to Mommy's ( Schygulla ) dismay . After Ayten is arrested and deported back to Turkey , Charlotte follows . That loving between them must have been really special . Now two people are in Turkey looking to see her . I am curious how they will hook up , as I am sure they will . A casket left Germany for Turkey , now a casket leaves Turkey for Germany . Fathers and sons , mothers and daughters , Germans and Turks , they all find that maybe they are not so different and there is room for them to come together . They share sorrows and find similarities . It is a beautiful story told in a way that captivates you .
Loneliness & compulsion are part of our being .	All of us have felt loneliness at one time or another . Probably not to the extent that Tony ( Issei Ogata ) felt . His father made sure he would be lonely by giving him an unusual name which prevented acceptance from the beginning . After years of loneliness , he takes a beautiful wife ( Rie Miyazawa ) . He is no longer lonely , but becomes fearful that he will experience loneliness again . The beautiful piano music that plays throughout and the minimal sets remind us that loneliness is ever present . The film moves slowly , just as loneliness might move . Tony is fairly happy after marriage , but another problem crops up . His wife is obsessed with clothes . We are talking Imelda Marcos obsessed . She is addicted to buying and it consumes her to the point that she cannot stop without withdrawal . Her obsession causes her death and Tony is alone again . He struggles through the loneliness in strange fashion . We have moved from the action of his married life , back to the minimalism . Jun Ichikawa did a magnificent job of using voice-over and music and set to create the perfect mood and a perfect retelling of Haruki Murakami's novel .
Where are we going ?	Will Smith gave an Oscar-nominated performance in this excellent film about a father's love and going after your dream . I doubt if anyone could possibly imagine the heartbreak and struggle the Chris Gardner went though unless you have been there yourself . The fact that is was based on the story of a real person made it all the more powerful . I cannot imaging anyone watching this and not feeling tears welling up as they saw the impossible odds that faced Chris and his raw determination to just keep going . he knew that there was happiness waiting for him as long as he continued the pursuit . Isn't that all we are promised - the pursuit of happiness ? It is up to us to keep going and try to reach the goal . Thandie Newton also gave a great performance as his wife in a small and unheralded role .
I is getting ' mighty tired pretending Eskimos are from Virginia .	The John Wayne Marathon continues into the 14th hour with a whole boatload of interesting characters in a story about the gold rush in Alaska . Wayne gets third billing in this movie to Marlene Dietrich and Randolph Scott . Dietrich plays a jealous girlfriend and Scott is the new dude in town that is muscling in . Margaret Lindsay plays the new girl in town after Wayne's heart . Harry Carey is Wayne's partner . This is at least the 4th version of this story and it won't be the last . A tale of gold mining , claim jumping , saloon , muddy streets , brawls and fancy women will always be in style . Hang on to your hat and enjoy another Wayne classic .
Makes seven times this month he's come home swoggled .	The John Wayne Marathon closes the first 24 hours with this rock ' em sock ' em family comedy with a host of stars . It is typical of John Wayne films that things get broken and there are always big fights . Sometimes the fights can seemingly go on forever . There are a lot of broken mirrors ans windows and chairs and tables . North to Alaska , Donoivan's Reef and this film are home to famous mud-brawls . Wayne is joined here by Maureen O'Hara ( Mr . Hobbs Takes a Vacation ) ; Yvonne De Carlo ( American Gothic ) ; Patrick Wayne ( Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger , The Alamo ) ; Stefanie Powers ( " Hart to Hart " ) ; Jack Kruschen ( The Apartment ) ; and Chill Wills ( The Alamo ) .
I love you Shelley ! I love you more than Kodak !	It has only been a week since I saw my first John Waters film ( Female Trouble ) , and I wasn't sure what to expect the second time around . While the previous film was outrageously over the top , Pecker is actually a funny film that satirizes the art critics in New York to a T . Anyone who cannot imagine what these " Experts " find so appealing about modern art , will enjoy seeing these pretentious snobs get so full of themselves over Pecker , a boy who just found a broken camera and starts shooting his friends and neighbors . Edward Furlong ( Pet Sematary II , Terminator 2 : Judgment Day ) was surprisingly good as Pecker . There wasn't a lot of meat on any of the roles in this film , but he really shines . Christina Ricci ( Prozac Nation ) comes in with another great performance as Pecker's girlfriend . In fact , it was a banner year for Ricci ( Buffalo ' 66 , The Opposite of Sex , and Pecker . Lili Taylor , who had the only good role in The Haunting , was also a significant part of the film and really made it enjoyable . There are many funny scenes , but I have to say the best was when a crown gathers screaming , " We want bush ! " " We want bush ! " " We want bush ! " I thought it was a Republican convention until I saw the police hauling off the dancer . I am going to have to look for more of Waters ' work , especially Hairspray , now that that is in the news .
Three from the masters of horror	The first segment from Chinese director Fruit Chan , written by Lilian Lee features the incredibly beautiful and talented Bai Ling . She makes the best dumplings ; in addition , we get to see two incredible dumplings while she is chopping . Her dumplings constitute a fountain of youth . Her ingredients are the secret and they are something that would be unimaginable to those who haven't seen this film . When Mrs Lee ( Miriam Yeung Chin Wah ) finds out what she is being fed ; oh , my ! But , she returns for more treatments . The result is amazing and her husband , the multi-talented Tony Leung Ka Fai is all over her . She even gets pregnant , although told she never could . But there is always a price to pay for what we want . The art direction and cinematography for this film is brilliant . Oldboy director Chan-wook Park from Korea gives us the next segment " Cut . " This is really a strange movie about an " extra " that is upset that the director is such a " good " man along with being rich , and wants to change him . He starts by cutting of his wife's fingers . She is a concert pianist , and then asks him to kill someone to let his wife go . It was really fascinating and sometimes funny while being gory . Won-hie Lim was dynamite ! And then , Takashi Miike's " Box " to finish the selections . It was just strange .
Without mercy , man is a beast .	What kind of a legacy can a man leave to his children . The one in this story hits so close to home . Be kind to others , even if it causes you personal pain . Not only have I personally heard words similar to these , but have seen the example shown in this film of an honorable man who retains his honor no matter what the cost . I wonder if Kurosawa took a little of this film for High and Low . It's theme of honor is so similar . Americans will quickly observe what it was like in the South before the Civil War . It was the same in Japan during this period . People were sold as slaves to work on the Lord's property , or sold as courtesans . Zushiô and Anju are separated from their father after he loses his position and is transferred . They leave with their mother for another town and are kidnapped by bandits and sold as slaves . Their mother was placed in a whorehouse . Zushiô managed to escape after 10 years and miraculously gets a government position over the same province . he immediately frees all the slaves and bans slavery in that province . He then resigns and goes looking for his mother , after finding out that his father is dead and his sister killed herself to aid in his escape . Honor , mercy , and love are interwoven throughout this tale and it is magnificent .
Made for the Big Screen	I kick myself frequently for missing Frank Miller's Sin City on the big screen . I wish they would bring films like that back occasionally . Well , I wasn't going to miss this one and I am glad I didn't . It was a beautiful and impressive film . It was no Sin City , but it was an enjoyable way to spend two hours on a Saturday morning . One is tempted to start reading something into the film . Maybe an allegory about freedom fighters sacrificing their lives against an imperialist machine with their coalition of the bought and paid for and impressive and fearsome weapons , but I will not get drawn into that . I will say that the story of the Spartans at Thermopylae was as exciting as the story of William Wallace in Braveheart . The scenes with the Oracle were stunning and sensuous and one wants to see more of Kelly Craig . The dialog was typical Hoo Rah and seriously detracted from my enjoyment . I really didn't think the blood and gore was anything you wouldn't find in a video game rated M . It was certainly a lot less than Saving Private Ryan . All-in-all a good film and nothing that teens couldn't see . It was really a PG13 .
Women's Equality before it became a buzzword	In following the story of the Hollywood Ten , I came across this excellent film from 1954 , The Salt of the Earth , that was directed by another member of the group , Herbert Biberman . This is not a film that would get people rushing to Blockbuster , but , as the only film in America that was blacklisted itself , it is important for that reason , and for the story it tells . It is not an impressive film for the directing or the acting ( Will Geer , who many remember as Granpa Walton , is a major star . ) , but for the story it tells of the greed and corruption of American business and , more importantly , it is a major statement of feminist power . This was 1954 , long before bra burning and the feminist movement , but the role of the women in this film and the eventual triumph of the miners ( the film was based on an actual strike in New Mexico ) with their help is one that stirs the heart . As prejudice against Mexican-Americans is played out again today , it is worth it to remember that this is nothing new . It is also worth it to remember that there were many women who fought for equality long before it became popular to do so . And , while Kentucky is passing mine safety regulations in the face of recent deaths , this again is not a new issue , and many miners have died in the face of an uncaring government . I wish all would take the time to see this film . It is only 94 minutes and is available for free on Internet Archive . If you want a quality copy , you can go to Ironweed Films for a copy . In fact , you may want to join Ironweed Films so you can get your own copies of important works that are hard to find or unavailable elsewhere .
They can rebuild the White House , but they will never forget me . Not ever .	If there is a Sean Penn movie that isn't worth watching , I haven't seen it . This movie shows more of his range - a pathetic loser that is so far removed from manhood that everyone just walks all over him . Of course , he wasn't able to do this alone . Don Cheadle was very good and Jack Thompson ( The Good German ) really added to the film . Another great film that really makes you think . We think of ourselves as employees , but are we really just slaves to the owner class ? This is a beautiful character study that is still relevant today . The directing , writing , cinematography , and editing are stunning . Don't miss it .
The Lake House	I haven't seen The Lake House with Sandra Bullock and Keanu reeves , but I have seen it . Il Mare is the Korean film that predates it by six years and is the same story . Like many great Asian films , another has been remade in America . Jung-Jae Lee ( Typhoon ) plays a budding architect estranged from his father and he moves into a house that his father designed and built . He finds a letter in the mailbox presumably from another person who has lived in the house . But , it is new and he is the first person there ! Gianna Jun ( an incredible beauty ! ) is the woman who rents the house two years later and is corresponding with the first owner through a magical mailbox . It is a sweet and tender story with absolutely brilliant cinematography and hauntingly beautiful music . And , of course , it has the cutest dog you can imagine named Cola , who binds the two together . A Sci-Fi ending to a sweet romance .
I don't change people .	This was certainly not what I expected . having seen But I'm a Cheerleader , I thought it might me another film about some misguided bigots that think they can change a person's sexual orientation . It was much better than that . Judith Light was fantastic in a subtle and deep performance as the head of a house that gives those with addiction issues , and who also happen to be gay , a chance to find themselves . Yes , it is done from a Christian perspective , but it really seems to be Christian , and not the counter-programming or brainwashing we usually see . Mark ( Chad Allen ) has issues with drug and alcohol addiction and was sent to Genesis House after a suicide attempt . Gayle ( Light ) and her husband Ted ( Stephen Lang ) work to keep the wolf from the door as they help their residents find Jesus and themselves . There always seems to be something going on in their marriage . It really get heated as Scott ( Robert Gant ) and Mark become closer . We never really find out why Ted and Gayle's marriage is so strained . maybe it is because he is coming from an alcohol addiction background and is more accepting , while she is trying to make amends for driving away her son without really understanding that love exists in all forms , straight or gay , and that acceptance of others is the only truly Christian way of living . Judge ye not . . . There were some excellent performances in Robert Cary's film , along with beautiful New Mexico scenery and a great soundtrack .
Dialysis ? What is this , the Dark Ages ?	I am not a trekkie . I may have seen some Star Tek on TV - the original only , and I have seen a movie or two , but I am not obsessed with the show . No matter . You do not have to be a fan to love this one . Made over 20 years ago , it is never more timely . It perfectly illustrates what may happen if we continue on the path of destroying our planet and the inhabitants that share it with us . The consequences of satisfying our current desires may be fatal . Many of us will see the tipping point in our lifetimes if we do not reverse course . The other thing I love about this movie is the time travel aspect . Yes , I know it is not very likely , but it is fun to watch . I especially liked Bones ( DeForest Kelley ) comparing our current medical practices to The Spanish Inquisition . The movie is characterized by excellent cinematography , sound , and effects , as well as good performances from the regulars - William Shatner , DeForest Kelley , James Doohan , Nichelle Nichols , George Takei , and Walter Koenig - and Catherine Hicks . Watch it , be entertained , and be warned .
I pledge allegiance to the Christian flag . . .	I cannot understand why this film , an Oscar nominee for best documentary , was not entered into all the horror film categories . It would have won hands down for the scariest film of the year . If you are not intimately familiar with Christian fundamentalists , then this film will tell you all you need to know , and should make you very very scared of the fact that they worship George Bush and were responsible for his appointment as President . Observing that the children of these people are being constantly brainwashed into repeating mantras without thought is psychological abuse at the very least . There is absolutely no difference in what is going on in these churches and camps than the Muslim madrassas , and they even admittedly take their cues from the Muslim . This is scary stuff .
Not your average Holocaust film .	All François knew was that his father wasn't overly fond of him . Part of it may have been because he wasn't as athletic as his parents . His father would get upset when he talked of an imaginary " brother . " No one talked of the family secret until he was 14 and Louise ( Julie Depardieu ) decided he should know . She tells him of life during WWII , and his father's first wife , and his son . Unbeknownst to him , they were all Jews , even though his father never practiced his faith . During the war they escaped France . All except his wife ( Ludivine Sagnier ) and son . She decided to demonstrate her independence at the wrong time . Of course , she was also upset that her husband ( Patrick Bruel ) couldn't keep his eyes off her brother's wife ( Cécile De France ) . Who could ? What happened didn't become known until François ( Mathieu Amalric ) was older . We , the audience knew what was going to happen , but the Jews at the time had no clue . Julie Depardieu really excelled in this engrossing tale . Cécile De France was also very good . It was a brilliant work of art .
God , Evie , if you were going to turn gay you could've at least chosen someone pretty .	If you like romantic comedies , then you will love this one . It is a small budget indie , but don't let that keep you away . This is Laurel Holloman from " The L Word " ' s debut film . She plays Randy Dean , a girl who lives on the wrong side of the tracks , and is not particularly pretty . She smokes weed , fails her classes , and likes loud rock music . She runs into Evie ( Nicole Ari Parker in her debut performance ) and they slowly fall in love . Now , Evie takes trips to Paris with her mother , listens to opera , and is well-read and well educated . Two more opposite girls you cannot imagine . Yes , it is romantic , but it becomes so funny at the end that you forget that while you are laughing yourself silly .
No . No booze . Sex . I want sex .	The movie was so good that a TV show was created that went on for years . A sterling cast of characters that included Donald Sutherland , Elliott Gould , Tom Skerritt , Sally Kellerman , Robert Duvall , Jo Ann Pflug , Rene Auberjonois , Roger Bowen , Gary Burghoff , David Arkin , John Schuck , Fred Williamson , Indus Arthur , Tim Brown , Corey Fischer , Bud Cort , Carl Gottlieb , Dawne Damon , Tamara Horrocks , Ken Prymus , Danny Goldman , Kim Atwood , Michael Murphy , G . Wood , Rick Teal and Bobby Troup . Robert Altman's movie got an Academy Award for Ring Lardner Jr . for his script , and he also was nominated himself , along with the picture and Sally Kellerman , who played Hot Lips O'Houlihan and who flashed her little wonders for Robert Duval and revealed all her goodies in one of the most famous shower scenes on film . Elliott Gould also turned in a fantastic performance in this film .
Who the hell told you that virile plenitude is obtained by fornication ?	Now , having served 23 years in the military , I have never had the opportunity to have an assignment of this nature . Those damn officers get all the good jobs ! I watched this because of Angie Cepeda ( Love in the Time of Cholera ) , but was impressed with the performance of Salvador del Solar , who played the fortunate Captain who got this assignment . Watching him work out of his element , and try to keep his wife ( Mónica Sánchez ) happy while he was working with such incredible beauty as Cepeda , was a real thrill , and Solar was magnificent . The movie was very funny , as you would expect , especially from those who thought the whole idea sacrilegious . Maybe it was , but it solved the problem . A funny , romantic movie that never fails to amuse and entertain as we wonder if the Captain will falls into the Colombiana's ( Cepeda ) snares and lose his wife , whether the investigative reporter Sinchi ( Aristóteles Picho ) will expose the whole sordid mess , whether the Colombiana and Pechuga ( Tatiana Astengo ) , who also loves the Captain will get into a fight , and how will his service record be after all this . Will he get a medal ? Ah , the questions that must be answered .
Who do you think you are . . . a Kennedy ? You're a Bush . Act like one .	Everything I needed to know about George W . Bush I learned from the late great Molly Ivins , and the fact that I was a Texan while he was Governor . I have no intention of rehashing his Presidency in this review . This is about Oliver Stone's movie , and my feelings about it . There is no doubt that Stone could have been far worse on Bush than he was . He certainly missed the boat on Rove . He almost makes both of them likable . In fact , it can be said that this was a very flattering look at Bush and Rove , as well as others in the administration . Even armed with the information at my disposal , I was captivated by the movie from beginning to end . This is due to Stone's direction , and to Josh Brolin's magnificent portrayal of G . W . I have always had the greatest respect for Poppy Bush until the 1992 Republican Convention , and James Cromwell had him dead on , in my opinion . Super job ! The one surprise in the film was Elizabeth Banks ' portrayal of Laura Bush . She comes across as way more likable than I have ever imagines Laura to be . There were other excellent portrayals " Richard Dreyfuss as Dick Cheney , Bruce McGill as tenet , Ellen Burstyn as Barbara Bush , and Jeffrey Wright as Colin Powell . This was an entertaining film that both sides can enjoy .
With God's help I'll conquer this terrible affliction .	The last time I remember seeing someone going through withdrawal was Frank Sinatra in The Man With the Golden Arm : " You mean just stop ? Cold turkey ? You don't understand ! The pain . . . " Renton ( Ewan McGregor ) was a little more expressive : " I don't feel the sickness yet , but it's in the post . That's for sure . I'm in the junkie limbo at the moment . Too ill to sleep . Too tired to stay awake , but the sickness is on its way . Sweat , chills , nausea . Pain and craving . A need like nothing else I've ever known will soon take hold of me . It's on its way . " The truth about drugs and the awful toll it take is clearly shown here . The most awful moment come after the baby dies and the mother is quick to " relieve her pain . " The most disgusting moment was the toilet : an apt illustration of just what you will do for drugs . The amorality of sex with a schoolgirl is also apropos . This film is funny at times , but certainly there was no glamor . It was just some sick people with their lives going in circles . John Hodge's screenplay was magnificent . Danny Boyle's ( Shallow Grave , 28 Days Later . . . ) direction was super . Along with McGregor , the performances of Robert Carlyle ( The Full Monty , Human Trafficking ) and Kelly Macdonald ( What's her connection to Sinatra ? ) were impressive .
Truth is cool but unattainable . . . the truth is totally amazing , but you can't ever reach it .	Road movie ? Teen sex movie ? Political movie ? Coming of age movie ? You can find a little of everything in this frank and open movie by Alfonso and Carlos Cuarón . Coming from different strata in Mexican society , I was amazed at hoe the two boys , Diego Luna and Gael García Bernal were just like brothers . They were inseparable until they both violated each other by sleeping with their girlfriends , but that was quickly forgotten until society again separated them for good . Forget the girlfriends , Maribel Verdú was spectacular and her efforts to bond the boys together worked for a while . She was just what I would hope to be in her situation . She faced it with courage . Great music , great sex scenes , and a great story about life .
Love and death	I wish i could say this was a great Hugh Grant Movie , but I would be lying . Sure he plays a great part here , and it is interesting that Kirsten Scott Thomas is along as his wife Fiona . Now I understand why she was in love with him in Four Weddings and a Funeral in which she also played Fiona : - ) , but Polanski created a film for Peter Coyote and Emmanuelle Seigner ( The Ninth Gate ) . Cyote is just about the most sleazy person you can imagine as he goes about using and abusing Seigner until she is reduced to nothing , She is willing to do anything to remain with him . Why ? That is a good question and what I see as the whole point here . Why remain in a relationship where there was never any love in the first place and there is clearly no love now ? Wht degrade yourself to " do anything " to stay together ? The degradation continues when they meet Grant and Thomas on a cruise and Grant is panting to get a chance with Seigner . Who wouldn't . But there is a very funny twist at the end before tragedy strikes . Makes you really look at relationships in a new light .
Outstanding Cinematography !	I am looking at cinema from a new perspective and I am enjoying films that have great cinematography even if they don't necessarily have a good story . The cinematography in this film was magnificent and , as a bonus , it had a great story also . The basic story takes place over 60 years . It begins when a husband brings his wife and mother-in-law to a desert portion of Brazil . He builds a house on sand , and the escaped slaves that lived in the area told him the house would sink . The wife ( Fernanda Torres ) wants out immediately , but the husband refuses . He dies and she keeps trying to get out , but her mother ( Fernanda Montenegro ) doesn't want to leave . Soon she has a daughter ( Camilla Facundes ) and 10 years go by . She has a chance to leave , but her mother dies in the sinking house and she briefly loses her daughter . She settles in with one of the slaves and 20 more years pass . Now , she ( Fernanda Montenegro ) has a 30 year-old daughter ( Fernanda Torres ) who she wants out . Did you get that cast switch ? The mother becomes the grandmother and the daughter becomes the mother . Don't worry , it'll happen again . She finally gets the daughter out and she returns years later ( now she is Fernanda Montenegro ) . I hope I got all that right . It really is better than I described it . It is about dreams and wished and lost opportunities , and what's important . And , it has great cinematography .
There ain't nothing too late . . . if you love it .	There may be a lot of people that will dismiss this movie as just another example of John Wayne's typical western persona . If they do , they really didn't pay attention to what was being said throughout the film . In the 150 + hours of John Wayne movies on TV this week in honor of what would be his 100th birthday , this one is an excellent example , not only of his range as an actor , but also of his personal philosophy . You can dismiss John Wayne as just a cowboy actor , but you really don't know him if you do . He played a lot of different characters and showed variation in each one , even if it was just another western . In Cahill , he shows the struggle many fathers have gone through to raise their children and fulfill their responsibilities at the same time . Sometimes , it is difficult to appreciate how much of a struggle that is . Those of us who grew up with Depression-era fathers know that they just wanted to make sure that their children did not suffer as they did . Sometimes , that meant we felt fatherless as they were working all the time . This is very evident in this film . But one thing our fathers did manage to impart was duty and responsibility . You see that evident in every thing that Cahill does . He showed respect for women , regardless of race , he treated everyone the same . He emphasized the need to finish the job you agreed to do even if it caused you pain or hardship . There are many lessons in the film that would speak to all of us today . It is not done in a preachy way - it is just a natural part of the story . Sure , it's just another John Wayne western , but it is so much more if you take the time to really watch it . AMC and Encore Westerns , and TCM would all be doing us a favor to show this film every Father's Day .
Life has it's ups and downs	I was half way through with the new Hollywood issue of Vanity Fair when I came across the excerpt from Robert Evans new memoir " Kid Nortorius . " I had not heard of Robert Evans , but was fascinated enough to get a copy of " The Kid Stays in the Picture " to learn more . I was glued to the tube watching the story of a man who had the incredible luck to get noticed . You all know the story of how some actress was discovered selling malteds in some drugstore . Evan was put into The Sun Also Rises . Both cast and crew , Ernest Hemingway , Tyrone Power , and Ava Gardner included , attempted to have Robert Evans fired during production . Producer Darryl F . Zanuck refused , saying , " The kid stays in the picture , " thus leading to both Evans ' long career as a producer and the title of his book , and this film . He knew he had no future as an actor , but he also knew that the power was in producing . he managed to get named a Vice President of Paramount in another stroke of luck . Then his talent took over and he is the man behind such memorable films as Rosemary's Baby , Love Story , The Godfather , Marathon Man , and his first as an independent producer , Chinatown . It is the story behind these films that is fascinating , especially the fact that he and Paramount were in on Love Story and The Godfather from the beginning - before they were even written ! His story with directors Roman Polanski and Francis Coppola are equally fascinating . His own Love story with Ali McGraw is equally fascinating , though it ended in tragedy . But luck does a strange turn and tragedy really struck in the form of a Hollywood murder case where his name was mentioned . Not a suspect , just on the periphery , but it was enough to send him to the depths of hell - within a hair's breadth of suicide . It was his friends that brought him back to where he is today . Now , he is telling the rest of the story in a new Memoir , " Kid Nortorious " . If you love films as I do , then you really need to see this one to provide a back story to some of your favorites . hey , you probably should be buying his books as well .
Somehow this madness must cease .	An outstanding examination of war from Lydon Johnson and Vietnam up to the present invasion of Iraq by George W . Bush . The illustration of the concepts and strategies used by every president during that time to get the US into war and to keep us there is eerily similar , no matter if it is a Republican or a Democrat . Wars , without exception , are started by lies told to the American people by the government . The " so-called liberal media " conspires with the government to repeat those lies and marginalize anyone who dares to demand the truth . The horror of war is never fully shown to the American public . The knowledge that we are killing far more civilians than ever is not seen as we are show displays of massive American firepower far above the death and mutilation that this hardware causes . In WWI , 10 % of the victims in war were civilians . This has risen to 90 % in the current Iraq war . We go to war based on a lie , we marginalize the opposition , we glorify the weaponry , we ignore the civilian carnage , and , only long after a war is over , do the media finally admit that they were wrong . Is this any way to run a country ?
A seriously funny movie	You certainly don't know what to expect with a title like YPF . Maybe some soft-core action ? What you get from this movie is so much more than what you thought . It is five separate stories : two exes getting together , a first date , a married couple who have lost the spark , BFFs , and two roommates with a girl . Five separate stories that come together in a way you would not expect . Yes , it's about sex , and it's about twenty-somethings , but it is also much much deeper . It is about expectations and relationships and being open to new experience . Sometimes things don't work out , and sometimes they work out in ways that blow your mind . It is seriously funny .
The sword is the soul . Study the soul to know the sword . Evil mind , evil sword .	This was Tatsuya Nakadai's film . He was an evil samurai ( Ryunosuke Tsukue ) that would kill at the drop of a hat . Toshirô Mifune as Toranosuke Shimada had only a small role in the film , but Ryunosuke managed to see him in action and knew not to mess with him . Ryunosuke killed Hyoma's ( Yuzo Kayama ) brother after sleeping with his wife . Hyoma was away at school at the time . He went after Ryunosuke , but the movie ended before he had a chance . It had the kind of ending that was used in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid . After killing a couple of dozen samurai , Ryunosuke was still fighting , although badly wounded , at the end . Did he make it ? I guess director Kihachi Okamoto wants us to guess if there will be a sequel . The film was typically a very beautifully filmed Japanese artwork , and it seemed to have a lot more blood that I would expect for a film in 1966 .
Yoo-hoo ? Osama ?	I got another copy of the Christofascist propaganda film Obsession in the mail yesterday . It is appropriate that I sit down to watch this film after the attempts to scare me . Morgan Spurlock is a genius . He made a highly entertaining film that has a real message that needs to be seen and heard by everyone . No matter where he went - Egypt , Pakistan , Afghanistan , Morocco - you name it , the people were dismissive of Osama bin Laden and felt that he was responsible for their lives being so bad . he was not a hero , but a villain to Muslims everywhere . What was equally impressive was the fact that everyone hates our government . Not us , but out government . Guess what ? We hate it too , but will we have the guts to change it ? I don't mean just change parties , I mean change our government to one that doesn't sponsor dictators and terrorism throughout the world as long as it benefits us . The bottom line in this film was that most people in the world are just like us . We want to earn some money , take care of our families , and live in peace . What a novel concept ! Check this one out .
May the wind at your back never be your own .	Billy Wilder's remake of the Ben Hecht play is a little better than the 1931 original , but not as good as the 1940 Cary Grant version ( The Front Page ) . Still , Jack Lemmon ( won an Oscar the year before for Save the Tiger ) and Walter Matthau ( The Fortune Cookie , Kotch ) give excellent performances , and Vincent Gardenia ( Oscar nominated the year before for Bang the Drum Slowly ) and Susan Sarandon ( a relatively new actress ) support them to the extent that this is still a superior film . Funny , funny film about politics and newspapers and some the the early seventies best actors . Catch this one and also see The Front Page .
Stick it up your bottom !	An Oscar nomination for Peter Jackson and Fran Walsh's script , and winner of numerous awards for Jackson's direction and Kate Winset's acting in her first feature film . But , that was not all . Along with Winslet's outstanding performance was Melanie Lynskey's as the girl she was in love with , also in her first film . The two - one outgoing , and one quiet - made a perfect team in this mix of fantasy and reality that was just captivating . Credit has to go to the brilliant cinematography , the lavish sets , the captivating score and a soundtrack that was superb , with Mario Lanza's incomparable tenor voice . An enchanting love story .
Oh , good . For a moment there I thought we were in trouble .	The Academy Awards were all over this film for music and cinematography and the script , but they completely ignored the actors . BAFTA did a little better in recognizing Robert Redford and Katherine Ross . Paul Newman seems to be given short shrift in the film . There is no denying the quality of the direction by George Roy Hill ( The Sting , Slap Shot ) , and the brilliant script by William Goldman , who won an Oscar for this script and for All The President's Men . He also wrote Marathon Man . But direction , scenery , and a great script are nothing if you don't have great actors to deliver the lines . Redford was outstanding , Newman set him up perfectly , and Ross was dazzling . They all delivered the lines better than anyone I could imagine to make a semi-buddy film ( can't leave Ross out ) . They also had great support from a great cast . Raindrops may keep falling on my head , but Newman and Redford rock .
What is love ?	Daniel Auteuil ( Caché ) and Vanessa Paradis certainly give us a good answer to that question . She is ready to jump off a bridge when he comes to save her and convince her that , if she is going to kill herself anyway , she might as well be his target in a knife-throwing act . But , her luck changes when she learns to trust him and give herself to him . She has a need to sleep with anyone she fancies , but not with him . Their intercourse is in the act , and you can can see the passion on her face as he uses his knives as a means of penetration . Well , not penetration of her , as that would be messy . Auteuil was extremely funny with a script by Serge Frydman . The direction of Patrice Leconte ensured that the film's 90 minutes packed the wallop of a 3 hr film , and cinematography by Jean-Marie Dreujou gave this black and white film a magic that was captivating . Love ? It's trust and concern and belief in your partner .
Four people died from watching this videotape !	Anyone that knows me , also knows that I would never consider a remake to be as good as the original . Maybe one day , but not so far , and never a remake of an Asian film . Hideo Nakata's direction and Hiroshi Takahashi's screenplay are excellent , and Nanako Matsushima was fantastic . Hiroyuki Sanada ( Rush Hour 3 , The Last Samurai , The White Countess ) gave a brilliant performance as the cool , calm ex-husband opposite Matsushima's excitable performance . The special effects were just right and the story was captivating . I really enjoyed this film .
When you've lost everything , you have nothing left to lose	Set it Off , with Jada Pinkett Smith , Queen Latifah , Vivica A . Fox , and Kimberly Elise . The story of four Black women , all of whom needed money , but , more importantly , all of whom suffered at the hands of the majority causing a change in the direction of their lives . Whether it was being fired so a bank manager can save face , or having your brother shot due to trigger-happy cops , or having you child removed by an unfeeling and uncaring child welfare worker , prejudice worked to change the lives of the women involved and , ultimately , lead to their deaths . A powerful film with a powerful message . This was one of the most enjoyable films I have seen lately .
What are you willing to lay on the line ?	You can sit in a University and listen to dry lectures from Psychology profs , or you can watch a great movie like this and understand human nature and desire more than you ever imagined . Yes , we all want more , but most are not willing to make the commitment necessary to get it , and some cannot live with the consequences of failure . Who was it that said , " If you put all you own on one roll of the dice , and lose , and start over , you will be a man . " That's why so many people stay married when they shouldn't - they can't face starting over . This film had more life lessons that you can imagine and some damn fine actors to teach and entertain us . Kim Basinger was magnificent as a struggling writer who falls into a gambling addiction . She really gets pathetic as she falls deeper in debt . Danny DeVito was also great as someone who life passed by and was now picking up crumbs . When faced with total loss , he took the coward's way out . Forest Whitaker gave an excellent performance as someone living on his brother's ( Nick Cannon ) ability . Tim Roth as Victor , the criminal , was dead on . I also enjoyed Ray Liotta and Carla Gugino , and thought Carson Brown was amazing . Funniest Line : " Teenagers . . . they are God's way of punishing us for having sex . "
Sleep well , Mr . Harker .	It just would not be Halloween with seen one of the Hammer Horror Films starring Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing . And , what better one to watch than Dracula . Lee's Dracula is smooth and sophisticated and perfect for the role of a Count . When he bends over the beautiful but helpless woman , she doesn't need to be naked , as you see her breasts heave and the short bursts of breath right before his penetration . Makes me want to roll over and have a cigarette afterwards . Cushing is a magnificent Van Helsing , and he has a professional air about him that is quite endearing . He suffers fools as a gentleman . There may be argument over the nest Dracula , but this is certainly in the running .
You gotta laugh , ain't ya sweetheart ? Else you'd cry .	I saw that two sets of Mike Leigh's films are being issued , and that he is a five-time Oscar nominee . I have only see one of his films ( Vera Drake ) and I was anxious to see how this film showed his obvious talents as a writer / director . I was not disappointed to say the least . I can easily understand through this film what my grandmother went through when my father showed up on her doorstep after 60 years . I imagine that she had the same anguish and disbelief that was so capably expressed by Cynthia Rose ( Brenda Blethyn ) . Blethyn was so good in Little Voice , and just as exciting in this film . The cast also included Peter Pettigrew from the Harry Potter films . He was also Beadle in Sweeney Todd . Timothy Spall played Cynthia's brother Maurice , and did a really super job . I kept thinking whenever the two of them were together that there was something that was tearing them apart ( I was guessing incest ) . Of course , we won't know all until the end , but it was captivating . Oscar-nominated Marianne Jean-Baptiste ( " Without a Trace " ) was the daughter thought to be gone . She was absolutely radiant and quite a great actress . The story wasn't just about the out-of-wedlock child given up , but also other secrets and lies that kept this family from functioning as they should . It is something that can hit home with every viewer of this film . I found personal messages and I am sure that others will , too .
I never thought I'd be so happy to be a virgin !	I have to admit that I was never a fan of teen slasher movies . I have started to get more into zombies lately and I got introduced to Rose McGowan ( Grindhouse ) ; I have always loved Neve Campbell since Wild Things , which she actually did after this , and , naturally I love Courteney Cox ( 3000 Miles to Graceland ) ; and Drew Barrymore , who I hope to be seeing soon in Music and Lyrics . With all those lovely women collected in one movie , I just had to tune in . I am glad I did as it was hilarious . A spoof of slasher films that tu4rned out to spawn a new batch of slasher films . I just can't wait until Friday when i can see the sequel .
Gay life in rural America	Winner of two awards and beaten at Sundance by a documentary on my " must see " list , this is a film about gay life in the Bible Belt . Malcolm Ingram , who also writes , and even crewed on Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back , is changing from comedy with his third film as a director , and doing a great job at it . This film is like a roller-coaster in that one minute you are partying along with the patrons of " Rumors , " a gay and lesbian bar in Shannon , MS ; and the next you are hearing about a brutal torture and murder of a man in Bay Minette ; Then we visit " Crossroads " in Meridian , where anything goes , and are partying big time . Other bars in North Mississippi are also profiled before we end up back at Crossroads and Rumors . Oh , yes , Meridian is the birthplace of Fred Phelps , so you have to feature him in the film , too . Another piece of the puzzle that is this man ? And , of course , you have Donald Wildmon of the American Family Association in Tupelo , so having a gay bar in Mississippi is a challenge . This was an extremely interesting film about people that just want to be left alone to have fun .
Eating Disorders 101	One of the best documentaries of last year . If you know anyone who has an eating disorder , then this film will give you a clear insight into their behavior , and also into treatment facilities , and why they fail . I am so against the behavior-based practices of facilities like the one depicted in this movie . They are so about rules and really do not get into the whys . You will leave this film at the end not having any more understanding of why someone would exist on 200 calories a day , than you did in the beginning . It is no wonder that most go back to their behaviors when they leave . No one addressed the inner demons . It is all " Just Say NO , " and we know how that works on the drug problem or keeping teens from having sex . You can't help feeling sorry for these girls . You know they are destined to continue in their hell . Thank you , Lauren Greenfield , for introducing us to them .
Only unreasonable men ever change things	I remember when I was working on my listening skills . I used to listen to the speeches of David Duke to see if I could get beyond his hateful rhetoric to find some gem that I could agree with . When I started to watch this doc , I could easily agree with James Carville that outside of Jerry Falwell , Ralph Nader was the worst man in America , or something to that effect . I would put James Dobson and Karl Rove on that list . But , all that changed as I examined the facts . Nader did not cost Gore the election . Even David McReynolds got more votes that the 534 that separated Gore and Bush . In fact , every one of the half dozen or so third party candidates in Florida got more than 534 votes . Gore cost Gore the election , Just as Kerry cost Kerry the election in 2004 . Bush should not have won either , and if the Democrats had stood up for the people as Nader did , then they would have won both . We owe so many of the things we take for granted : airbags , seat belts , product labeling warnings on food , clean air ; I could go one and on , to Ralph Nader . He is one of the greatest Americans that have ever lived . No . I would never vote for him , but after watching this doc , I will stop vilifying him .
Hugh Grant & Julia Roberts sparkle	Can a common man ever expect to be in the company of a beautiful star ? Maybe not in real life , but for the many that hope to ever do so this movie is a ray of hope . Hugh Grant was absolutely marvelous as a bookseller who bumps into Julia Roberts . She was equally fantastic in what I perceive to be her best performance since Pretty Woman . Rhys Ifans was absolutely over-the-top as his flatmate . As Lloyd Dobler said in " Say Anything . . . " My goal in life is just to be with her . What a goal . Lloyd achieved it and so did William Thacker . There is hope ! I would be remiss if I did not mention the fantastic music in this movie . It was just incredible . Shania Twain , Al Green , Bob Marley , and on and on . It was a perfect soundtrack . That seems to characterize all of the romantic comedies that Grant is in . Damn , this was one great movie !
We can't wait for Michael Moore	Soon after , Jim Terr wrote a beautiful song called " Remember September 12th . " Google it if you haven't heard it . How can we forget the day , Three thousand got blown away . But what a shock to start to explore How that day , and the day after , and the day beforeTwenty-four thousand dropped like flies Right before the world's uncaring eyes . So while you bask in our bounty and wealth Remember September 12th . The tragedy that is going on in Darfur today , where 400 , 000 have been murdered , countless numbers of women have been gang-raped , and 2 . 5 million people are in virtual prison in refugee camps makes September 11th seem like a traffic accident . Yet , despite the carnage and the real evidence that what happened in Rwanda is occurring in Sudan , we do nothing , just as we did nothing in Rwanda . Darfur is not a threat to anyone and is of no benefit to anyone , so no one cares what happens to them . Add to that the fact that they are Africans , and you can understand the message of this film very clearly . George Clooney narrates a compelling story that should be seen by everyone . He is assisted by standout journalist , Nicholas Kristof , and Elie Wiesel , who is there to remind us that we did say at one time , " Never Again . " Well , it is happening again , and we do nothing . The Bush administration gives lip service to Darfur , while they are dealing with the government of Sudan to obtain information to aid them on their terror campaign . Sudan has something we want ; Darfur doesn't . The actions this administration is taking against Iran , would have solved this crisis long ago if they were implemented against Sudan , but Iran has something we want ; Darfur doesn't . Almost 3 , 000 Americans died on September 11th , but thousands are dying every day in Darfur . Can we continue to look the other way and call ourselves a " christian " nation ? The only flaw in this compelling film was the fact that it didn't seem to flow smoothly . But what is that compared to the message it is sending to the world ? Michael Moore could have done a better job , but we can't wait any longer .
Wetbacks - the other side of the coin	Wetback : The Undocumented Documentary is an excellent film by Arturo Pereze Torres and Heather Haynes . It shows the issue of immigration into the US from the side of the undocumented worker . We all know the side of the vigilantes . All we have to do is watch anyone on Fox to get that side . But , what do we really know about the other side . The Smoking Gun's expose of A Million Little Pieces showed us that what we think is true often isn't . Wetback shows us the poverty that drives workers across our borders . Poverty that causes them to literally risk life and limb to get something for their family . It also shows the gains to the US and other American countries from the undocumented workers in this country . But , it is really all about survival . Survival is what drives them to travel thousands of miles , facing Mexican police and gangs that rob and rape them , and the Border Patrol and the vigilantes in the US . Survival - something many of us have never faced and , hopefully , will not face . It is helpful to know the other side of the coin . I think it makes us a better person .
World AIDS Day	In a small recognition of World AIDS Day , I spent some time watching this outstanding documentary about the origin of the disease . There is no debate as to where and when HIV-1 originated , but there has been some discussion as to exactly how . Was it naturally occurring , or did we somehow do it ourselves ? This film answers that question and leaves little doubt as to the origin of these terrible disease . The answer will certainly surprise you and cause you to wonder about the way we are all treated as guinea pigs in the name of science and profits .
These women were great !	I have never seen a wrestling match with women . I don't know how common it was in the early seventies when I used to see some wrestling on TV when sitting at the bar on Sunday morning , but there was never any on . I have never seen the cuties that wrestle for the WWE now . So , I have nothing to compare , but I was just simply fascinated listening to these women and seeing clips from their matches in the 40s and 50s . These women were the real thing . They were out there putting their bodies on the line and giving it all they had . Some complained that they were financially abused , but then I see them talk about all the things they could now buy that they couldn't before , so I don't know . These were athletes in every sense of the word ; not bimbo's that are doing it just to titillate .
Closer to " Chicago " than " Dreamgirls "	There are two reasons I tuned into this film . One , I love Terrance Howard ( currently on the big screen in " Pride ) , and two , I was hoping to see another " Chicago " - style musical extravaganza . I was definitely disappointed with " Dreamgirls . " It just didn't measure up , but " Idlewild " comes much closer to the gold standard . Forget the story of the cigarette girl who wants to be a singer ( Paula Patton ) , or the mortician wanting to be a piano player ( Andre Benjamin ) and their eventual romance . That was just a side story . Just as was the story of Trumpy ( Terrance Howard ) and Rooster ( Antwan Patton ) . They added interesting bang bang , sweet love , and tremendous moaning to what is essentially a musical extravaganza . And that is just what we got with the tunes of Benjamin and Patton along with the golden trumpet of Autouro Sandoval in the background . Outstanding choreography and luscious costuming adding to the mix and gave us a punch that was straight to the gut . If you are not tapping your feet and clapping you hands at the end , then you are ready to be laid out .
Oh , the choices we make .	Veteran director Michael Skolnik joins with writer / director Lori Silverbush in her sophomore venture and they combine to create a work that will stand the test of time . We all make choices , some good and some bad . But , what if the choices we make are really not ours ? What if we want to make the right choice , but can't come up with an option ? What if we are driven to make a choice based on our environment ? These sociological questions are some that many of us never know as we are given good guidance in making choices . Life in the inner city is nothing like life in the ' burbs . The pressure to make wrong choice like drug use or sex before you are intellectually and emotionally ready , or dropping out of school are sometimes just too easy to make as there is no guidance driving you in a better direction . You only know one route . This compelling film tells the story of three girls who have driven to make wrong choices . One doesn't feel things are " right , " but does it anyway . Another wants to escape , but doesn't know where to go . The stories of Oz ( Judy Marte ) , Marisol ( Paola Mendoza ) , and Suzette ( Anny Mariano ) will captive you through the film . Like Oz , sometimes you just want to scream and pound on someone to make them see . It doesn't work . The whole culture needs to be improved and , until that happens , we will have a million more stories like this . Probably none told so well .
Fair Trade for Coffee growers	I have to admit that I have been drinking coffee for forty years and I will be drinking coffee when I finally give up the ghost . I found this story to be so exciting , but also sad . I really enjoyed seeing the process of coffee growing , roasting and sale , but I was totally distressed at the fact that a cup of coffee sells for 25 times what the farmers in Ethopia get for growing it . It is further distressing that a small increase in the amount paid would make tremendous effect on their lives . They just want to educate their children and buy them a pair of shoes . Paying them a fair price would probably not increase what we pay for a pound of coffee in a measurable way , but it would make all the difference in the world to them . What is the alternative ? They are now growing plants used as a narcotic in East Africa because they cannot get a fair price for coffee . The shame is not on them , but on us . This was a great film and the only criticism I could ever make about it was that it was not in Indonesia , where they make my favorite Sulawese coffee .
Inside the mind of John Waters	Coincidentally , I saw this one-man show right after watching Trantasia . How appropriate . Getting to know John Waters and his mind was a worthwhile experience . He talks about how he got started and gives brief discussions on all of his films , interspersed with some of the things that interest him . Believe me , you will find out about things that you never knew existed ! It is not a comedy act , just a chance to see some of the things that make Waters tick . Of course , if you are not a Waters fan , it will bore you , but for those who appreciate his art , it was enchanting . Check it out .
What I do not give , you must never take by force .	This was a grand opera of incest , political intrigue , infidelity , and murder in a style that is not equaled by any other production to come from China . Yimou Zhang ( House of Flying Daggers , jet Li's Hero ) has outdone himself in this lavish production that is unequaled in its opulence in the Imperial palace . The battle among the chrysanthemums was better than anything I have ever seen . The costuming was absolutely sumptuous . No expense was spared to present extreme extravagance in costumes . The visual delight presented was captivating . The story itself was one that had everything you could imagine - poisoning , sleeping with step-mom and sleeping with sister , political intrigue against the throne , martial arts and army techniques that dazzled . The martial arts were given sparingly , as it was the story of the Royal Family that was the centerpiece . Li Gong ( Zhou Yu's Train , 2046 ) was at her very best as the Empress . She demonstrated a range of talent that ranks her among the top tier of actresses . Yun-Fat Chow ( Pirates 3 , Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon ) was masterful as the Emperor . Jay Chou and Ye Liu also gave outstanding performances as the Princes .
The ultimate Peckinpah	Sam Peckinpah's most nihilistic film stars Warrens Oates as a sleazy gringo messing with a whole bunch of sleazier bad guys . This is a film that should be on every " Guilty Pleasure " list . It has it all - sex , gunfights , revenge , disgusting gore , and a lot of action . This is a typical grind house film that will keep you captivated until the end . Featuring Kris Kristofferson as an attempted rapist , banned in Sweden , Germany and Argentina , and the absolute worst smog-belching autos you have ever seen . Watch a burned out bum , willing to do anything for money , end up doing something nice - even though that is completely out-of-character and I cannot explain it a bit . This is just one damn good grind house flick .
The military-industrial complex	Eisenhower warned us about the military-industrial complex . It was not well know at the time of Kennedy's presidency . Oliver Stone presents a long and confusing argument that it was behind Kennedy's assassination . The film show Keven Costner as Jim Garrson battling the US Government and it's cronies : the ultra-right-wing fanatics represented in the movie by Clay Shaw ( Tommy Lee Jones ) , some unidentified Cuban exiles and a former F . B . I . man named Guy Bannister ( Ed Asner ) . Also involved are various fringe types like David Ferrie ( Joe Pesci ) , a pilot for hire ; the small-time mobster Jack Ruby ( Brian Doyle Murray ) , and Oswald ( Gary Oldman ) , whose place in the conspiracy has become utterly mysterious by the time the movie ends . Garrison would have had an easier time convincing a jury today as the Iraq war is the very embodiment of the military-industrial complex . WhatStone suggests was behind Kennedy's death is business-as-usual in Washington . We start wars to sell bombs . It was unfortunate that Stone's film came up against The Silence of the Lambs , which cleared the table at the Academy Awards . He took home two , but lost four times that many . It was a great film to go back and see . It was a reminder of a different age . An age when the Judge , the lawyers , and the defendants sat there cooling smoking as the trial went on . Bizarre .
Superb courtroom drama	I just finished watching Live Free and Die Harder for the second time . I was blown away by the special effects , and Bruce Willis ' capability to take more punishment than a human could be expected to and live . After that I wanted something that had the same fireworks but done with acting and not special effects . This film fit the bill nicely . The acting in this film was so spectacular that calls for every superlative in the book . While I have watched Billy Wilder direct comedy , I never expected to see him do something that rivals Hitchcock . In fact , if you didn't know it was Wilder beforehand , you would easily call this a Hitchcock film . Tyrone Power as the defendant was so smooth that you knew he was a guilty man . You just knew it , even though he kept denying it . He was perfect as the cad that preys on elderly women . Marlene Dietrich gave what I thought was the performance of a lifetime as his wife . She definitely provided the fireworks and the surprises to this film . Charles Laughton as the barrister that tried the case was magnificent . There are not enough words to describe the performance he provided . Supreme enjoyment every time he opened his mouth . Of course , you cannot ignore Elsa Lanchester as the nurse that failed miserably at trying to control Laughton after a heart attack . The two of them provided so much humor to this film that one would want to see it again and again just for that . Nothing can be said about the film without spoiling it for those who haven't seen it . It is well worth the time in finding it on cable or adding it to your queue .
Why have I missed these films ?	So who was the " Best in Show ? " Was it the incredibly neurotic Meg Swan ( Parker Posey ) . I mean , can you believe how she went ape over that bee toy ? Can you believe that she or that husband of hers ( Michael Hitchcock ) should ever be allowed to own a dog ? How about Gerry ( Eugene Levy ) and Cookie ( Catherine O'Hara ) ? I was just cracking up over how he had to deal with her promiscuous past . Then , there is Scott ( John Michael Higgins ) and Stafan ( Michael McKean ) . Naturally , they would own the Shih Tzus . Scott's costumes were too much , but they were supposed to be . I cracked at the line : What Shih Tzus need rescuing anyway ? You don't see Shih Tzus straggling around the streets in an old coat " help , alms for the poor " . The repressed lesbian , Sherri Ann ( Jennifer Coolidge ) and her new partner Christy ( Jane Lynch ) , who said , " The heart and the soul which was what my mom did , that was her role , she was there for the unconditional love and it worked for my family , you know . . . until my mom committed suicide in ' 81 . " Or , was it Harlan ( Christopher Guest ) , who looked just like his dog . Do people still do ventriloquism ? Best in Show ? It goes to Buck ( Fred Willard ) . He was a hoot , and he didn't even have a dog ! You can be sure that I will be watching the other mocumentaries to see these actors again .
This should be big in the Gunshine State !	This was a pure adrenaline rush . Clive Owen can run circles around Angelina Jolie with her curving bullets . I felt like I was on a roller coaster ride and I didn't want to get off . Paul Giamatti was perfect as the head of the bad guys who were trying to take Owen down . He pulled so many amazing tricks , that I could not imagine that anyone could come up with a sequel . They just couldn't think of anything else for him to do . And , they couldn't come up with anymore lines like the ones in this film . There were so many gut-busting laughs , I though I was watching a comedy . Well , maybe I was . Monica Bellucci was simply gorgeous and make a superb match for Owen . Their chemistry was pure magic . I haven't seen a movie this fun in ages .
Hits hard and never lets up	I actually thought this was just some routine picture about a low level hood that lost a gun , but I was dead wrong . Sure , it starts that way , but this film is as good as Sin City , Pulp Fiction , and many others that stylize violence . I have to note that performance of the kids in the film . Cameron Bright and Alex Neuberger in his first film , really held their own throughout the movie . Paul Walker really impressed me and played a tough part that really kept me on the edge of my seat . Vera Farmiga was equally impressive , especially when she was dealing with the scumbags in the middle of the film . Putting that scene in was a stroke of genius as it really set the tone for the ending , which was a bang , and then another bang , and then another bang . Every time I though we were ending , it just kept getting better . I have to say that when I see written and directed by Wayne Kramer , I will be there to watch . Nice eye candy , too .
There are two versions of this film	This film sat in a can for 23 years due to the death of the financier and it being tied up in his estate . There are two versions . Bava's original , " Rabid Dogs , " is grittier and more unpolished . His son redid it as " Kidnapped , " adding scenes and Americanizing the dialog a bit . One goof was the thief's comment about getting " the chair . " You can't get the chair in Italy , only in more uncivilized countries . Like " Reservoir Dogs , " this film is all about what happens after the robbery ; and , like " The Sugarland Express , " almost all of the action takes place inside of a car - well , three actually . There is really a lot going on with two really crazy thieves , and the leader trying to keep things together until they escape . And , the ending will blow your mind !
Everything you have seen here has been an illusion .	Edward Norton and Paul Giamatti gave what I consider Oscar-worthy performances in this film . I was mesmerized from the beginning with what I consider an outstanding story by writer and director Neil Burger . This was an incredibly beautiful love story made even more spectacular by the use of illusion to achieve happiness . Jessica Biel gave what I consider the performance of her career . It is a shame that she lowered herself to appear in I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry this weekend . Hopefully she will give us more performances like this one . With outstanding cinematography by Dick Pope , and a brilliant score by Phillip Glass , with costumes that dazzled , this is one of my favorite films of last year .
Woma or Man gets her Man or Woman	I like strong women . Maybe i am weird in that way . George Sand was a strong woman . She knew what she wanted and she was willing to wait until she found it . In the meantime , she took a man's name , she dressed like a man , she smoked and cussed like a man , and she didn't call her lovers the next day either . That didn't keep them from running back panting and that made this movie hilarious . I had never seen Judy Davis before . She was in two movies last year ( The Break-up and Marie Antoinette ) , but I'v not seen either one . She was magnificent in her role as George Sand . I think I use the word magnificent too much , so let's say she was stupendous and tremendous . Then she found him . The one she was waiting for . She knew the moment she heard his music . he could talk to angels . He was Frederic Chopin , and he was definitely not interested . No matter she plowed ahead , despite the interference of her best friend ( Bernadette Peters ) and . . . well , I won't tell you if she succeeded as that would spoil it wouldn't it . With Hugh Grant , Mandy Patinkin and Emma Thompson helping Peters support Davis , this film had all one could wish for . It was an enjoyable romp through the countryside , funny , and a charming love story .
A quirky comedy / drama	Oh , Tannenbaum , Oh , Tannenbaum - oops , this isn't a Christmas movie . It's Tenenbaum . It's a quirky film about a weird family of burnt-out neurotics . Let's just say it is not set on Walton Mountain . But , at least it's not Zoolander , either . I always have that fear when I see Ben Stiller . Of course , Gene Hackman gets all the accolades , but Gweneth Paltrow gave the better performance . It's not gut-busting funny , but you will smile at it's sly and dry humor . At least there are no fart jokes . Loss of two stars for having Owen Wilson in the film and for killing the dog .
Let's take it to the limit one more time .	Well , they didn't Michael Mann ( The Insider , Collateral , The Aviator ) failed to produce the magic on the big screen that he did as producer of the TV series . Colin Farrell ( Phone Booth , Daredevil , Minority Report ) and Jaime Foxx ( Ray , Collateral Jarheal ) never seemed to have that chemistry that partners should have . This was all about special effects and car chases and shootings and explosions ; and nothing about the characters in the movie . It wasn't a total waste as I had the opportunity to once again see Li Gong , and that's enough to satisfy me .
A difficult review to write	I am having a hard time with this review as I am a recovering Catholic who spent the first 18 years of his life totally immersed in the Church , even to the point of a year in seminary . It wasn't until these scandals broke added to the fact that I was a child protective services worker dealing with sexual abuse of children at the time , that I made a break with the church . I even requested excommunication and removal of my name from the church rolls , but that process was halted when my parish priest was removed for sexual abuse himself . With that disclaimer , I can say that this was certainly a hard film to watch . The lies , distortions , cover-ups , and stalling of church officials in Los Angeles will just serve to make you more angry after watching the film . Amy Berg did an outstanding job of showing just how the actions of the church damages the faithful , how the predators rationalize and deny what they have done , and how politics and promotion are more important to church officials than protection of children . Knowing how pervasive this sin is in the clergy will only make you more angry . This is a must-see documentary for all Catholics .
She's the one I have waited for .	This is one part horror film and partly a commentary of sociological events that are all to common in this country right now . After an almost exclusively male role as sexual predators , we hear more and more stories of female teachers who have prey upon children . Debra Lefebvre is in trouble again and Mary Kay Letourneau , Catherine Paul , and here in Florida , Jennifer Tarkenton was just arrested for having sex with a 14-year-old boy . She could have waited another couple of years as 16 is the age of consent in most states ( Males should teach in Iowa or South Carolina as 14 is legal - and we give these people preference in selecting our President ? ) See Cate Blanchett trapped in that scenario , we cannot feel sorry for her , but I can celebrate a dramatically outstanding performance . I can also experience some schadenfruede as she gets to be the prey in the horror portion of the film . Judi Dench was also magnificent as the predator who sought out young women to satisfy her lusts . No laws broken , but she was scary as hell in a Dracula role . Kudos also to Bill Nighy as the suffering husband . Super performance .
Thelma & Louise for grownups	This was not one of the infamous video nasties , but it is nonetheless a nasty video . The sex is raw and the violence is in-your-face , just like the title , which was translated into " Rape Me " in the US , but is more appropriately " Fck Me . " I noted that it was supposedly banned in it's home country , France , and it was certainly banned in other countries like Australia or heavily cut . Do not think for one moment that it was banned for sex or violence . It was banned because of the depiction of men in the film , not a single one with any redeeming social values . It is a hard film to take because all the men in it are pigs . It is based upon a novel by Virginie Despentes who , with Coralie wrote and directed this film . This is a women's film about women's rage . If this is the way women really feel when they are pssed , then you better be warned . It open with a rape that leaves nothing to the imagination . There is no doubt about the pain being felt . One of the victims , and another woman who just saw her friend killed , join together in an adventure across France . It becomes more and more violent as they go on . Not cartoonish , like Natural Born Killers , but raw violence ; uncaring , unmerciful , and brutal . The sex is real , but it is like nothing you see in porn films . The sex is driven by the women's needs , it shows the vulnerability of men during orgasm , and the men are discarded like used tissues , if they are not killed , when the women have been satisfied . They even have a Thelma and Louise plan to die together by jumping off a cliff . Circumstances do not allow that to happen , and the ending is rather abrupt and somewhat lacking . Men joke about PMS , but if it is anything like the rage depicted by the women who made this film , you better watch out . This rage is nothing to joke about .
There's no love in your violence .	Kano : Older Brother Kakihara , you were in love with Boss Anjo , weren't you ? But it wasn't because you were queer or admired him or something . It was because you loved the pain you felt when he beat you up . That's why you're looking for him so hard , isn't it ? Director Takashi Miike has given us a film that is like nothing I have ever seen . I thought I had seen some horror , but this is the ultimate that I have experienced . Kakihara ( Tadanobu Asano ) is a sado-masochist of the highest form . He has brought torture to an art . He works for an equally sadistic boss who loves to beat up women . As to the title character Ichi ( Nao Omori ) , I am still trying to figure him out . I know he is a tool of a hypnotist , used to fight the Yakuza in horrible fashion . Do not watch after eating if you have a weak stomach . The funniest comment I have heard is comparing him to Adam Sandler in The Waterboy . I haven't seen that film , but I don't think Sandler has made any movies like this . I would call this torture-porn and only for those who have seen Saw and Hostel . O , yes , I have seen Takashi Miike's Audition , and there is no comparison .
Today people want sensationalism ; the more you rape their senses the happier they are .	This film was disturbing on so many levels . In fact , I could not even sit through it all at once . I had to take a break and come back and finish it the next day . I have not seen a film as disturbing as this since " I Spit on Your Grave . " One shouldn't be disturbed at seeing animals slaughtered if you eat meat . After all , you have to kill it to cook it . But , the animals slaughtered in this film seemed still alive when they were being cut up . The chopping of the monkey head to get at the brains was especially harsh . It made me want to join Peta and become a vegetarian . The punishing of a native woman for adultery was hard to watch . It would have been easier to just stone her and not have to go through this ritual . I felt sorry for the four adventurers when I saw what happened to them , but I changed my mind when I saw what they did in the village just before they met their fate . Good riddance to such trash ! Watching the last few chapters today was even more difficult with gang rapes , disembowelment and decapitations . This is the ultimate cannibal movie and the only one that anyone needs to see to experience this type of film making .
We can't forget who we are .	Sanming ( Sanming Han ) goes to the village of Fengjie looking for his wife , Missy Ma ( Lizhen Ma ) , who had run off 16 years prior . Her village was flooded for the Three Gorges Dam . His quest is complicated by the fact that over a million Chinese were relocated and scattered because of the dam . While Sanming is working and waiting , Shen Hong ( Tao Zhao ) arrives looking for her husband Guo Bin , who had left her two years prior . The separation has taken a toll on her and she decides it's time to end things with her husband . Zhang Ke Jia gives us a beautiful , but tragic film about how progress has affected so many lives .
If food is life , should one give their life for food ?	Before The Diving Bell and the Butterfly , Mr . Bean's Holiday or The Science of Sleep , there was Short Order . While it has just reached our shores a couple of months ago , it is not a new film . It is , however , a film for those who like fantasy and lightness and beauty . Of course , the great beauty in all the films mentioned is Emma de Caunes , the star of this film ; a short order cook who is actually a great chef , but is afraid to step out and let the world judge her . De Caunes is enjoyable in every film I have seen above , and she is most enjoyable here . Running a close second is her friend in the film , played by Cosma Shiva Hagen , whom I have not seen before , but certainly want to search out . The rest of the cast , which included John Hurt and Vanessa Redgrave , as well as an enchanting Tatiana Ouliankina in her first film added to this strange fantasy about life and food in a way that can only be appreciated by viewing ; mere words do their performances no justice . There are two themes running throughout : one the quest for the whale al la Moby Dick , and the continual referencing of sex and food . It is quite hilarious to hear those references , and made the film well worth watching .
You want some meat ? I have a long sausage .	Roman Polanski's film is raw and exciting as you are literally on the edge of you seat wondering just what is going to happen next . It is based upon a play , so there are only three characters , but that is all it needs . Sigourney Weaver is a torture survivor from a Latin-American country . Pick one , we have been complicit in torture in many of them . She is married to Stuart Wilson , who has just been picked to head up a new commission to bring torturers to justice , but only those who have killed . There will be nothing for survivors like Weaver . Enter the great Ben Kingsley , who just happens to pick up her husband after a flat tire . She recognizes the voice - or she says she does . The rest of the story is how she is convinced he is her torturer and captures him to force a confession . This is where it gets raw and powerful as she recounts what was done to her while trying to get a confession . Her husband is caught in that trap where you support your wife , but you don't quite believe her to be right . It was compelling , and all three actors made it a film that should have gotten wider recognition .
In memory of Aaliyah	It was four years ago on August 25 that Aaliyah was tragically taken from us and the life of another great musical talent cut short . I decided to watch Romeo Must Die with Jet Li in her memory as it has a lot of her music ( Come Back in One Piece " , " I Don't Wanna " , " Try Again " and " Are You Feelin ' Me ? " ) , and it is one great movie that I watch over and over again . DMX was also in the movie and he joined Jet Li again in Cradle 2the Grave , another movie with great action and great music . Thanks , Aaliyah , for the music you gave us . I never get tired of watching Jet Li in action and look forward to many more movies with him .
1001 Movies to see before you die	Oscar-nominee Luis Buñuel ( That Obscure Object of Desire , The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie ) , the father of film surrealism , joins with another surrealist , Salvador Dalí , in his first film as a director . The film opens with a man cutting a woman's eyeball , but it get stranger as we see ants come out of a man's hand , and , well , it just keeps getting more bizarre . Don't look for a plot as it is more like free association , where psychoanalytic patients are invited to relate whatever comes into their minds during the analytic session , and not to censor their thoughts . Programmed for a short run , this film lasted eight months in the theater .
I may be bad . . . but I feel gooood .	Is this Sam Raimi's best film pre-Spider Man 2 ? Some would argue that this A-List director made his best mark in Evil Dead 2 . That was certainly a great film , but I have an affinity for time-travel , and found this film to be as good , if not better . The makeup and horror was superb , but Bruce Campbell was just so funny in a land where he stood out like a sore thumb , I could not help but enjoy myself immensely . In fact , I really cannot comment on the rest of the cast except to say that they supported Campbell well . It was his movie , and he delivered his lines in a manner that makes me a fan . Why don't they turn those video games into more Evil Dead movies so I can see more of his crazy antics ?
Chinese , Japanese , Dirty knees , look at these !	Ron Zombie ( House of 1000 Corpses , Grindhouse ) has certainly put together an interesting film about just about the worst Texans you would ever want to come across . The action starts from the beginning of the movie and never ends . There is not a lot of time wasted in conversation . We are presented with evil in it's purest form and left just to observe . Bill Moseley and Sheri Moon make just the cutest couple from hell that you could every imagine . Matthew McGrory , with his size 29 feet certainly added extra zest to the film . I always like seeing Danny Trejo , and I could not even recognize Police Academy's Leslie Easterbrook as Mother Firefly . What a makeup job ! What a waste of her true talents . I am looking forward to more Ron Zombie madness .
I want to make love to a ghost once .	Shintarô Katsu , who played the blind swordsman " Zatoichi " in a total of 27 movies , ends the Hanzo trilogy with this excellent film in which he gets to make love to a ghost , Mako Midori ( Blind Beast ) . The big stick , used often in the pursuit of justice , is retired forever . Katsu was his usual impudent self as he pursued those who would steal from the treasury to lend at usurious amounts to those who could not afford to pay . The usual amazing swordplay and skill of the big guy was present , along with the blood . I'm going to miss him .
Let's start building some hurting bombs .	I really thought that I would be disappointed by this movie . The thought of Sylvester Stallone boxing at 60 was funny . I mean the guy is four years older than I am and I wouldn't even think of doing that ! But , I was surprised that the boxing was not the main focus of this movie . It was about standing up in the face of adversity and staying the course no matter how many times you get knocked down . Like the boxer Husky Miller says in Carmen Jones : " Big boy , remember , You mus ' remember . . . Stan ' up an ' fight until you hear de bell , Stan ' toe to toe , Trade blow fer blow , Keep punchin ' till you make yer punches tell , Show dat crowd watcher know ! Until you hear dat bell , Dat final bell , Stan ' up an ' fight like hell ! " Rocky knew he had another fight in him and wasn't going to listen to the naysayers . he just stood up and did his best . This is a great film to watch when you are feeling that the whole world is against you and things just aren't going your way . Keep punchin ' till you make yer punches tell
This country is gone to sht .	I was really trying to think about every word in this film written by Lawrence and Meg Kasdan . and directed by Lawrence . It gets weird in parts , but it is the conversation that really makes you think . Like when Simon ( Danny Glover ) is trying to explain to Mack ( Kevin Kline ) about the Grand Cayon : You ever been to the Grand Canyon ? Its pretty , but thats not the thing of it . You can sit on the edge of that big ol ' thing and those rocks . . . the cliffs and rocks are so old . . . it took so long for that thing to get like that . . . and it ain't done either ! It happens right there while your watching it . Its happening right now as we are sitting here in this ugly town . When you sit on the edge of that thing , you realize what a joke we people really are . . . what big heads we have thinking that what we do is gonna matter all that much . . . thinking that our time here means didly to those rocks . Just a split second we have been here , the whole lot of us . That's a piece of time so small to even get a name . Those rocks are laughing at me right now , me and my worries . . . Yeah , its real humorous , that Grand Canyon . Its laughing at me right now . You know what I felt like ? I felt like a gnat that lands on the ass of a cow chewing his cud on the side of the road that you drive by doing 70 mph . So , how do we keep from going crazy when the world around us is going to sht ? We keep a perspective . We are pretty insignificant and our problems are insignificant in the grand scheme of things . We take it as it comes and deal with it . No , I don't buy the miracle thing that appears to be a thread in this film , but we have to be open to things that can and do happen and just go with it . We also have to keep our eye on the bigger picture as Davis ( Steve Martin ) tells Mack : The point is there's a gulf in this country ; an ever-widening abyss between the people who have stuff , and the people who don't have sht . It's like this big hole in the ground , as big as the fcking Grand Canyon , and what's come pouring out is an eruption of rage , and the rage creates violence , and the violence is real , Mack . Nothing's gonna make it go away , until someone changes something , which is not going to happen . And you may not like it , even I may not like it , but I can't pretend it isn't there because that it is a lie , and when art lies , it becomes worthless . So I gotta keep telling the truth , even if it scares the sht out of me , like it scares the sht out of you . Even if it means some motherfcker can blow a big hole in my leg for a watch , and I'm gonna walk with a fcking limp for the rest of my life and call myself lucky . We gotta keep telling the truth , and the truth is that this movie is worth your time . Mary McDonnell was really great , and I am in love with Mary-Louise Parker , always have been and always will be .
Follow the dream !	When you have had Halle Berry ( Monster's Ball ) and been married to Angelina Jolie , one would think there are no more mountains to climb . But , Charles Farmer ( Billy Bob Thornton ) had a dream to go into space . The fact that life gave him lemons didn't stop that dream . The fact that the FAA ( J . K . Simmons ) and the FBI tried to stop him did not stop that dream . He had a wife ( Virginia Madsen ) that supported that dream and a family behind him and he realized the dream . So what if the premise is crazy . Aren't all big dreams a little crazy . I bet people thought Barack Obama crazy when he set out to achieve his dream . If he has half the determination of Charles Farmer , he may just make it . For all the dreamers out there , and for me , this is just about the most feel-good movie I have ever seen . And , isn't that why we watch movies ? That and the chance to see Halle Berry and Angelina Jolie naked .
We want you to get out of New York . . . Permanently .	Do not kid yourself . This is the way anyone who has experienced personal loss would probably act given the same circumstances . We want to lash out at those who are scum and prey upon us and others . Maybe we just limit ourselves to reading the obits every day and hoping to see a name , but Paul Kersey ( Charles Bronson ) took the step that we all have wished at one time or another that we had the guts to take . Being a liberal , opposed to the death penalty , that is hard to say , but it is true . The need for revenge must be ingrained . Why else would we watch this and the four sequels as well as other revenge movies like Death Sentence or The Brave One . In fact , I know one critic that categorizes all movies into love stories or revenge movies . Interesting observation . Bronson was made by this role , turned down by Frank Sinatra . Those of us that Like Paul Kersey and Harry Callahan are thankful for that decision . Vincent Gardenia ( Moonstruck , Bang the Drum Slowly ) was also great as the police inspector that sent him packing . One of Christopher Guest's ( Spinal Tap , For Your Consideration , A Mighty Wind ) first film , although it was just a small part at the end .
Not quite blonde , are we ? More of a dirty blonde .	Mary Harron ( The Notorious Bettie Page ) writes and directs another great film that I am still trying to categorize . Christian Bale ( Batman Begins , El Maquinista ) is absolutely terrifying as someone who proceeds to rape , murder , and torture in gruesome ways without one bit of remorse . His filmed encounter with two prostitutes was revealing . He was so focused on himself ! It was bizarre to see the self-absorption . I have no earthly idea what Reese Witherspoon ( Walk the Line ) is doing in this movie , but she is Bale's fiancée . Willem Dafoe ( Spiderman ) was creepily persistent . Did he know more than he let on ? And just what happened ? Did he do all this or just imagine it . I think I need another viewing .
Cage and Connery at their best	OK , the premise is just a little wacky . Nickolas Cage , with the assistance of Sean Connery are going to bust into Alcatraz to stop some crazy general from destroying civilization . Well , that's a little exaggerated , but that's the basic idea . The General ( Ed Harris ) has some nasty stuff that only Cage can neutralize , but he needs Connery's assistance to get into Alcatraz to do the job . Connery is some British spy that once escaped from Alcatraz and is locked up in a secret prison because he has information on our government , including who killed Kennedy . That would have been very helpful to Oliver Stone in the making of JFK . The premise is wild , but Cage and Connery are rocking and the supporting cast is a beauty , including the ever-lovely Claire Forlani and the ever-evil John Spenser . Enjoy .
A real teacher	I not only consider this to be the best film that Jon Voight ( Midnight Cowboy , Coming Home ) has ever done , but a real tribute to teachers . Despite incredible odds , Pat Conroy ( Voight ) managed to reach a group of students and bring them from nowhere to a basic literacy and awareness of the world . His methods made be criticized by bureaucratic dinosaurs like Mr . Skeffington ( Hume Cronyn ) , but teachers like Conroy will always be winners . Voight really showed that he had a love for teaching and that it was a natural high for him . he didn't overplay the role , and I found him to be totally believable . Voight is Conrack . Besides a love of teaching , we also see another important point in this film . No matter how good you are at your job , if you rock the boat , the bureaucrats will get you .
The root of man's problems is memory .	Most viewers of this film will know the back story . Kar Wai Wong ( 2046 ) collected pieces of his 1994 film Ashes of Time and remastered them to make this film . The first thing you notice is the magnificent cast : Maggie Cheung ( 2046 , Hero ) , Tony Leung Chiu Wai ( Lust , Caution , Hero , Infernal Affairs III ) , and Tony Leung Ka Fai ( Zhou Yu's Train ) . A hint of excellence to come . Christopher Doyle's cinematography is the next thing to capture your attention . While the area is in the midst of a drought and it is desert , it is painted in a way that draws you into the scene . It is simply a visually stunning film from the opening to the end . The swordplay was a dance of magic and added to the film , but was not the central focus . It was love , lust , betrayal , vengeance , pain and yearning that was displayed beautifully by the magnificent actors to a soft and stirring soundtrack . We want to remember ; we want to forget . The seasons come and go as does our lives .
Rape and revenge	Looking like a schoolgirl ( probably intentional ) as she was reportedly only 17 when they made this film , and mute , Thana ( Zoë Lund ) is the perfect victim . After two rapes , she manages to find the strength to kill her second rapist and proceeds to dispose of him . She disposes of the body parts from her rapist in some very innovative ways . It gets funny . There is not the rage of Death Wish , but terrifying flashbacks and slow transformation into a killing machine . She starts to really get into her role . We get a bit of nunsploitation when she goes to a party as Sister Thana . I never had any nuns in school that dressed like her ! Things really got fired up at the party . One can argue that a man got her in the end . Look for the symbolism . A great revenge movie .
That man sitting over there in the white suit . . . is the biggest thing to come out of this country since sliced Beatles	I have to admit that I totally missed the whole Glam Rock experience . I spent the seventies immersed in R & B . That said , I have to say that Todd Haynes ' film was absolutely fabulous and a real pleasure , both visually and aurally . The music was excellent , and the costuming was definitely Oscar worthy . I thought Christian Bale really nailed his part , as he always does , and Toni Collette , as Brian's ( Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) wife was the best I recall seeing her . Of course , Meyers made the film , and gave a look at the phenomenon that was indescribable . I certainly always enjoy Eddie Izzard , and he was perfect as the agent who made Brian a star . Ewan McGregor as Curt Wild was amazing . This was a real pleasurable experience and an interesting look at rock history .
Are you watching closely ?	Olivia Wenscombe : It won't bring your wife back . Robert Angier : I don't care about my wife . I care about his secret . Christian Bale ( The Machinist , Batman begins ) was absolutely stunning in the tale of two magicians who are constantly trying to outdo each other . X-man Hugh Jacman was his rival , who ostensibly wanted revenge for the death of his wife , but who was really more interested in being number one . The is the basic story , but it is what is going on beneath that that makes this a superior film . While you are watching the rivalry , the magicians are preparing a trick that will amaze and astonish you . You know it has to be a trick , but they pull it off anyway , and that is what makes this film . The outstanding camera work was by Wally Pfister , who did Batman Begins , and who will be doing The Dark Knight . The superb direction was by Christopher Nolan , who also did the two mentioned films . Both stars were admirably supported by Michael Caine , British star Rebecca Hall , and the ever-lovely Scarlett Johansson .
Tying up loose ends	While this is a great film with an incomparable score and outstanding cinematography , it leaves a lot to be desired . It is really not necessary as the first two films really give us all we need . It is light on action and heavy on psychological trauma . Andy Lau as Inspector Lau has taken care of all the moles - or he thinks he has . he is not sure and wants to be clear there is nothing tying him to Sam so he can be the good cop he wants to be . SP Leung is a creepy fellow and we are never sure just what he is . Is he a mole , or just a crooked cop . It is never clear . I was glad that Kelly Chen got a much bigger role as Dr . lee , but it would have been even better if we saw a relationship with Yan . It was obvious that she had love for him , but it never blossomed on screen . Yes , I know that would be a violation of the doctor-patient relationship , but it was there under the surface . Why didn't it come out . We got to see quite a bit of Tony Leung in this film , and that is always a good thing . It was very distracting the way the film jumped back and forth through time . It was trying to tie up the loose ends , but it was disconcerting . It could have been an outstanding film , but it'll just have to be great to see the actors and enjoy their performance .
Keep your friggin ' hands to yourself	Inspired by a true story , North Country follows Josey's ( Charlize Theron ) journey on a road that will take her farther than she ever imagined , ultimately inspiring countless others , and leading to the nation's first-ever class action lawsuit for sexual harassment . It is a story of courage and persistence ; of overcoming incredible hardship . It is a story of sacrifice and love . It is a story that needs to be told over and over until everyone " gets it . " It's not about men and women ; it's about equality and fairness and respect . It's about recognizing that we all have children to feed and rent to pay and deserve a chance to go to work without being subjected to someone else's insensitivity . If you haven't seen it , catch it on cable or rent it . If you have seen it , watch it again .
I'm your holiday in Goa ?	Funny and educational , this is the story of outsourcing . Todd ( Josh Hamilton ) has to go to India to train call center workers in how to do it the American way . It is a riot as they try to learn American customs , and he has to learn Indian ways . Ayesha Dharker ( Queen Jamilla in Star Wars : Episode II - Attack of the Clones ) really made this film . She was funny and pointed out Todd's errors and educated him in Indian ways . Of course , things do get heated between them . A funny twist at the end causes Todd to reevaluate his life and focus on what is really important .
Women and children first .	I could not help but think of my Grandfather , who came over to this country in steerage fro0m Sicily . Fortunately , his ship did not sink or he would have been treated as the passengers were on this ship . They really had not choice as there were 1000 more passengers than there were lifeboat spaces . This was an excellent film about the sinking of the Titanic without all the silliness that accompanies more modern films . You can see clearly that , besides not having enough boats , the actions of the first class passengers leading up to the crash with the iceberg was largely responsible for the death toll . There were some outstanding actors in this film like Kenneth More , Honor Blackman , David McCallum , Sean Connery , and more . Blood good film , I say !
War don't ennoble men . It turns them into dogs . . . poisons the soul .	We have to take this rock . Director Terrence Malick made us look at something else . It wasn't a rock , it had trees , and people , and wildlife and real beauty before anyone outside the rock ever appeared . It also has human emotions and thoughts and dreams along with those who came to take this rock . Can you come back the same ? Not likely . You will be changed by this rock and you will be a different man because of it . Some great actors appeared in this film , some in small parts , and some crucial to the film . I won't forget Nick Nolte as Lt . Col Tall . I've known many like him - passed over for promotion and looking for a chance at glory , no matter what the cost . Or Elias Koteas as Capt Staros , who cared about his men and looked at them as more than sacrifices for the war effort . Of course , you can't forget Sean Penn as that Sergeant that manages to keep it all together . Others will have their favorites , and everyone will take what they want from this movie . For me , it is war's futility . Everyone will experience a beautifully shot film that really was a pleasure .
An accident , speculation , and looming disaster	It seems appropriate as houses are falling in value all over due to sub-prime loans and speculation to look at another area that fell victim . The Salton Sea was formed by the Colorado River to create Imperial Valley . In the Fifties , it was a resort area with great Tilapia fishing , boating , swimming , skiing , etc . But two big storms in the Seventies flooded the are , and they have been plagued with other problems , and all the speculation is gone . Now , there is a community of very interesting individuals : a seventy-year-old man who stands completely naked by the highway , an artist who is creating some kind of holy mountain , lots of minorities that have escaped the dangers of LA , and older whites who have been there from the beginning . If you can stand a die off of 7 million fish or bird botulism , it really looks like a place to escape to . In any case , it is another unique part of American that most people have never heard of .
Is this how our revolution started ?	I cannot watch this film without thinking that this must be the way the American revolution against the British started . If one just believes a small part of this portrayal of the British to be true , then there is ample justification for all revolutions against them . The soldiers in this film would make great customers for Hostel . Ken Loach tells a great story here about a ragtag band of freedom fighters that go up against the British occupiers . Cillian Murphy ( Red Eye , 28 Days Later . . . ) is excellent as a doctor that joins the IRA after seeing abuse after abuse by the British . Padraic Delaney as Teddy and Orla Fitzgerald as Sinead added immensely to the film . Of course , the freedom fighters are sold out by their friends , the church and the landowners , and it is many more generations before Ireland can taste freedom . Barry Ackroyd's cinematography in County Cork was stupendous , as was the fantastic soundtrack .
God bless her mom and dad .	This is one of the infamous video nasties that were banned in Britain . It was eventually released uncut . It is notable for several film debuts : Oscar Winner Holly Hunter ( The Piano ) , Jason Alexander ( " Seinfeld " ) , Fisher Stevens ( Short Circuit ) , Brian Backer ( Fast Times At Ridgemont High ) in his first credited role , and Brian Matthews , who went on to star in several daytime soap operas , such as The Young and the Restless from 1983-1985 . Cropsy ( Lou David ) gets burned in a camp prank . After five years in the hospital , he gets out and immediately goes for some nookie . Things don't work out too well for the prostitute in one of the nasty scenes . He then heads back to the camp for revenge . Karen ( Carolyn Houlihan ) goes skinny dipping and gets a warm blood bath when she gets out . Trying to get out on a raft doesn't come out any better in the other infamous scene . Poor Sally ( Carrick Glenn ) gets the short stick when Glazer ( Larry Joshua ) leaves her high and dry . Before he gets another chance , they both are dispatched . The killings are coming rapidly now . Will the rest survive , or will Cropsy get more revenge ? A good slasher film by any standard .
Tell me Miss Trench , do you play any other games ?	I went back to revisit this film that started all the Bond nonsense . It doesn't age well and the performances seemed a little silly , but I am judging it in it's time when I give it a rating . One of the funniest things about this film is that it is considered an " action film . " In fact , it won an award for best action film of 1964 from some group . Now , how anyone can consider this film to be in the class of John Wayne's McClintock or Steve McQueen's The Great Escape is beyond my understanding . There was so little action in this film , that it should be categorized as a dramedy . A little fisticuffs here and there , and some ridiculous moves , was just about it . That's the comedy part . Most of the film involves talking , and not good dialog at that . But , we are introduced to Sean Connery as Bond , James Bond and SPECTRE , and the whole gang . We get to enjoy Ursula Andress , who won the only award of her career for Most Promising Newcomer for her first English-language film . They didn't have very high standards evidently as all she did in the film was walk around half dressed . Even her dialog was dubbed . Connery would half to do until Brosnan came along to make Bond the real star that he is , however , there are some that are still strangely attracted to this hairy character .
Mother always said you were greedy .	John Landis has directed a brilliant original screenplay by Timothy Harris and Herschel Weingrod . Eddie Murphy is absolutely hilarious as a street hustler that was placed in the world of options trading by a couple of old farts who just like to bet with each other . Of course on the opposite side , the real options trader , Dan Aykroyd , is dumped on the street . Coming to save the day is Jamie Lee Curtis , who is funny and hot as a prostitute who feels sorry for Winthorpe ( Ackroyd ) . Denholm Elliott is positively lovable as the butler . Don Ameche and Ralph Bellemy play the betting Duke brothers .
You'll simply never understand the true nature of sacrifice .	An absolutely outstanding film and way superior to the remake , Edward Woodward , who went on to do " The Equalizer " ten years after this , was brilliant as Sergeant Howie , a devout Christian who was absolutely shocked at the goings on on the island . The best part was when he was mesmerized by Willow's ( Britt Ekland ) sensuous dance in the adjoining room . He couldn't deal with the copious nudity and symbols of sex all around him . Christopher Lee was also extremely good as Lord Summerisle and lay a brilliant trap that we are all familiar with . Ingrid Pitt also gave great delight when Sergeant Howie was searching the village . The music was captivating and the whole scene was perfect for the story .
You are just an ordinary man in a cape !	I just do not believe that it is possible to gather a cast that includes the definitive Batman Christian Bale ( El Maquinista ) , the perfect butler Michael Caine ( Children of Men ) , the imposing Liam Neeson ( Gangs of New York ) , the always watchable Morgan Freeman ( Danny the Dog ) , the good cop Gary Oldman ( Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire ) , the superb Ken Watanabe ( The Last Samurai ) , the strong and sexy Katie Holmes ( Phone Booth ) , and the creepy Cillian Murphy ( Red Eye ) under the direction of Christopher Nolan and not have a winner . I have never enjoyed Batman so much as I did in this film . It was exciting from start to finish and my heart was still pounding after I left the theater .
The inhumanity of war	I watch movies for two reasons : to be entertained , and to be informed . This is one of the most informative movies that I have ever seen . The actions of the Japanese soldiers in 1937 as they invaded China was on a par with many of the atrocities that we have seen in our lifetime in Bosnia , Darfur , etc . It is a story that will stick with you for a long time . This is the story of a handful of foreigners who stayed behind as others fled and tried to save as many Chinese as they could . They saved over 250 , 000 by setting up a safe zone . Another 200 , 000 were killed and 20 , 000 women , between 12 and 60 , were raped by the Japanese soldiers . The Japanese killed all young men just because they may be soldiers . They gang raped every night as many women as they could . It was an atrocity that clearly shows the level to which soldiers go in time of war . It is easy to commit these heinous crimes when you look upon the enemy as gooks , or nips , or chinks . A powerful film that should be seen by everyone .
It can't be stopped . It's self-sustaining now .	" He knows a hero when he sees one . Too few characters out there , flying around like that , saving old girls like me . And Lord knows , kids like Henry need a hero . Courageous , self-sacrificing people . Setting examples for all of us . Everybody loves a hero . People line up for them , cheer them , scream their names . And years later , they'll tell how they stood in the rain for hours just to get a glimpse of the one who taught them how to hold on a second longer . I believe there's a hero in all of us , that keeps us honest , gives us strength , makes us noble , and finally allows us to die with pride , even though sometimes we have to be steady , and give up the thing we want the most . Even our dreams . " I went back to look at this one , my favorite , again . If it wasn't for the success of Sam Raimi's Spider-man 2 , there would be no 3 . The direction , sound , special effects , and the characters all combined to make an enjoyable adventure . This had Mary Jane ( Kirsten Dunst ) at her best and really focused on her relationship with Peter Parker ( Tobey Maguire ) . Alfred Molina was fantastic as Doc Ock . I am not a comics fan , but I do love Spider-Man and this is the best Spider-Man movie .
Looking for my place in the world	Damien Nguyen is incredible in his first film role as a child with a Vietnamese mother and American father , who is trying to find out where he fits in the world . As a mixed race child , he is shunned by the Vietnamese and cannot even hide in a small village with his grandmother . He sets out on a journey to find his mother and , ultimately , his father in America . It is a long and hazardous trip . Along the way he is befriended by the incredibly beautiful Bail Ling and by Tim Roth . He eventually finds his father ; played tenderly by Nick Nolte . It is a film for drama lovers . It moves slow , but that is necessary to develop the story . There is never a dead spot as the tapestry of his life is carefully woven . Loss , hardship , fear , embarrassment , love , sacrifice - they are all there and critically important to the story . The ending is surprising , tender , and fitting . It is a movie that will not disappoint .
The Goblet of Fire burns bright	There was an old Mel Brooks film that I remember called The History of the World : Part I . The tag line suggested that " from the dawn of man to the distant future , mankind's evolution ( or lack thereof ) is traced . " Of course , mankind's history cannot be touched in 92 minutes , and do not expect J . K . Rowling's work , Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire to be given just weight in 2 hours and 37 minutes - it cannot be done . Forget the book and just sit back and enjoy what Mike Newell has prepared for your enjoyment . My anticipation was palpable : a Mike Newell film from a J . K . Rowling book . There is no film on the planet that is funnier or more touching than Four Weddings and a Funeral . Newell directed his greatest achievement there . With Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire , he has taken a great leap forward and given us a movie that is enjoyable to lovers of the books and anyone else who just wants to see a great movie . I totally agree with reviewer Desson Thomson who states : Director Mike Newell and screenwriter Steve Kloves ( who has written all the Potter films ) know their primary responsibility : to create three-ring spectacles like the whiz-bang , airborne game of Quidditch , or Harry's mighty tussles with otherworldly creatures . But they also allow time for the characters to breathe . ( WP ) This film was the best of the bunch , I would not be surprised in the least to see this film exceed $100 million in it's first weekend . I was at the first showing at my local theater yesterday and it was full . I do not know what all those kids were doing out of school on Friday ! If nothing else , you have to see Brendan Gleeson as the latest addition to the Hogwarts staff , Mad-Eye Moody . As Manohla Dargis of the Times describes him : a man of garrulous temperament and removable parts , including a googly eye that he wears like a pirate's patch , Mad-Eye is a pip . A pip he was and the film was stupendous .
The story of life in the trenches	It is a good thing I did not read Salon . com's review of Million Dollar Baby before I watched it . They derided it by stating that " Clint Eastwood's boxing movie floats like a lead balloon and stings like a dead bee . " Well , I remember watching a lot of boxing at the National Guard Armory in Tampa 30 years ago , and I can assure you that this was not a " boxing movie . " The boxing was incidental and only provided the backdrop . This was a story of dreams and failures , of backstabbing and cruelty , of wanting more than life gives you , working for it , and then having some slime ball steal it all when you are not looking because of jealousy . It was about those who take and never give , like the people who grabbed FEMA money in Miami for a hurricane that never came near them . It was the story of life . Real life in the trenches , not life as experienced by those who never worked for anything . It is not about Bush's or Kerry's life , it is about you and me . In that , it succeeded beyond all imagination and I plan to watch it again .
Superb music and great cast	It is no secret that I am a Law and Order buff . I haven't completely embraced the cast changes and , am , in fact , still upset at the replacement of Elisabeth Röhm with Annie Parisse . But I wanted to see how Jesse L . Martin did in Rent . Regulars know Martin was absent from the last four episodes of the fifteenth season . He left the show temporarily to work on Rent . His character , Det . Green , was shot in the line of duty . For those four episodes , Martin was replaced by Michael Imperioli as Det . Falco . I scanned the reviews and they were not positive . Generally , I believe they all agreed on two stars . However , the reasons given were not valid , in my humble opinion . Almost everybody pans Chris Columbus ' direction and Nelson Pressley in the Washington Post was most specific when he said one of the problems was fear of music : It's why Columbus and co-adapter Steve Chbosky added maybe 20 minutes of dialog to what was a sung-through show , almost every bit of which has the opposite of the intended effect . Instead of making things more realistic , it exposes the hokey material . This may be right , but it is comparing the film version to the stage version . Those of us who have not seen the latter would not be bothered unless the dialog didn't work . Maybe Columbus is the second worst director in Hollywood as Roger Moore of the Orlando Sentinel says , but that doesn't mean the film is not great . It's about the music , and that was superb ! Tango Maureen with Tracie Thoms and Anthony Rapp was worth the price of admission by itself . Of course , La Vie Boheme , featuring the entire cast , was also fantastic . And , if Adam Pascal doesn't want to light Rosario Dawson's candle , there are many who will . She may be the newcomer to Rent , but she really added to the film . In fact , she gives me another reason to look forward to the special edition of Sin City next month . I saw her The Rundown and was captivated - she's even better in Rent . Idina Menzel's performance also made the film a treasure . I can't remember the reviewer who panned Columbus ' heavy rock background , but I can assure you that it did not interfere at all with the lyrics . They were clear and touching . A . O . Scott of the Times gave the most positive account and I do agree with him partially on one point . He again , makes the mistake of comparing the film to the stage version . He states that some of the performers look a little old for their parts . I found every character , save one , to be perfect . I don't know if it has to do with his character on Law and Order , but I did feel that Martin did not fit in with the rest . I went there to see Jesse and was disappointed , but I was thrilled with the rest of what I saw and heard . Despite the critics , Rent is definitely 3 stars .
You had it all , and you threw it away , you dumb fck !	Where do you start with a film like this ? With the director ? Spike Lee put together a magnificent film that really kept your interest throughout . There really wasn't a dull moment . The theme of losing was woven throughout the film . Not just with Edward Norton's character , but with all of them . They all were in the same situation in their lives and he just got caught . Norton ( American History X , Primal Fear ) was nothing short of magnificent as he ran the whole gamut of emotions in this film . He knew he screwed up , and blaming it on others or dreaming of an escape wouldn't help . he just had to face the music , and he did it like a man . Rosario Dawson ( Rent , Clerks II ) gave a great performance as well . She really is becoming a favorite with me . The more I see , the more I want . The supporting cast was so great - Barry Pepper ( The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada ) , Philip Seymour Hoffman ( Capote ) , Anna Paquin ( The Piano ) , and Brian Cox ( The Bourne Supremacy ) . The story was great , the music was great , the acting was superb , and I really enjoyed this one .
Make war on corruption and liberalism and on indiscriminate liberty .	For all those who do not realize that the US government loves dictators as long as they are anti-communist ( leaves Fidel out ) , and as long as they do what they are told ( sorry Saddam ) , this true life depiction is a must-see . It doesn't say Greece , but it is , under the rule of The Colonels . The Government tried to keep the film out of the US , but it was nominated for several Oscars and , while Midnight Cowboy took away the Best Picture and Best Director honors , it won the Oscar , the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film , and the critics picked it as Best Film and named Costa-Gavras Best Director . Scenes in the streets were like the fascists that invaded the vote counting in South Florida in 2000 . Student protesters were beaten by angry mobs supporting the military junta . On 22 May 1963 , after delivering the keynote speech at an anti-war meeting in Thessaloniki , two far-right extremists ( Yago & Vago in the film ) driving a kamikazi , struck Grigoris Lambrakis with a club over the head in plain view of the police and a large number of people . He suffered brain injuries and died in the hospital five days later , on 27 May . This was depicted in the film and Grigoris Lambrakis , simply called The Deputy in the film , was played by Yves Montand . The result was the eventual downfall of the junta . It was the Magistrate played brilliantly by Jean-Louis Trintignant ( Best Actor at Cannes ) that uncovered the plot to kill Lambrakis . They say it can't happen here , and maybe no one was murdered , but people were imprisoned without access to lawyers and courts during the eight year rule of Bush . We need to be aware of what happens when the power is in the hands of the Government , and not the people . The film featured the fantastic music of Mikis Theodorakis ( Zorba the Greek , Serpico ) .
Give me the money , fcker .	An all-star cast and a great story about6 a bank robbery that just plain went wrong . You know I love caper films . In this one Christopher Plummer ( The Inside Man , Syriana ) played a really evil person . You would not believe how evil until you see what he does in anger after being cheated in a bank robbery . It seems that our bank clerk ( Elliott Gould ) managed to get the bulk of the money in the robbery and this just pisses Plummer off . Gould seems to get the upper hand and Plummer ends up in jail . When he gets out things get nastier and someone loses their head over the situation . Ugh ! Who wins in the end ? O , you just have to watch . I couldn't get out of my chair . This movie has some incredible eye-candy on display : Susannah York ( They Shoot Horses , Don't They ? , Superman ) ; Céline Lomez ( lost the role in Charlie's Angels to Tanya Roberts because they thought she was too sexy for prime time ) ; Gail Dahms ( " Oooo , I love Turtles " ) ; and real candy , the late John Candy . If you like capers , don't miss this one .
Happy Birthday Max	When I think of James Woods , I have to go back to this classic by Sergio Leone , who directed those great Clint Eastwood spaghetti westerns . He also did this film and Once Upon a Time in the West . This is an outstanding gangster film with Woods and Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci . There are several versions , and the director's cut is the best for the intended non-linear style . The studio released the movie in chronological order , but that is not what Leone intended . The score is an integral part of this film that sets the mood and acts without dialog in many instances . This is not a movie for those wimps that did not go to Grindhouse . It is 229 minutes in the preferred version , which is over a half an hour longer .
An indictment of the Bush Administration	This outstanding film , the Oscar winner for Best Documentary this year , is a clear indictment that the Bush Administration should be held accountable for war crimes . Unfortunately , as it is also pointed out in the film , they managed to insert some clause of immunity in a law . The fact that they did this - for the administration , not the soldiers who actually carried out the prisoner abuse in Afghanistan , Iraq and Guantanamo Bay - is a clear indication that they knew what they were ordering was inhumane and against the Geneva Convention . The taxi driver that was the starting point of this film lasted only five months in prison before he was dead . A simple taxi driver , caught up in an overzealous attempt to cover for the fact that they could not get Osama bin Laden , and had to round up anyone to justify their jobs . It is clear throughout the film that the military higher-ups have convinced themselves that what they were doing was right . Maybe it will sooth their consciences , but if there is a god , they will suffer forever for their crimes . This torture that is well illustrated in the film will be stain on America for some time to come .
Ray , you are about the worst tourist in the whole world .	You cannot say much about this film without giving it away , and I wouldn't dare do that as it is so full of surprises that everyone should see it . It so reminded me of Crete . I spent two years there and visited all the Minoan sites . Of course , all the tourists go to Knossos , and my wife didn't mind that as it is partially reconstructed , but the other four were a real pain to her . One is way on top of a mountain that is accessible only by a one lane dirt road . All the time you are going up , you hope a bus isn't coming down . You finally get there and you see the site as it is - a 5000-year-old , unreconstructed site . In my wife's description , " We climbed up here to see a pile of rocks ! " It is exactly how Ray ( Colin Farrell ) felt when sent to Bruges with his partner , Ken ( Brendan Gleeson ) . Ken , like me , of course liked the sites . The banter between the two is priceless . Martin McDonagh not only directed a winner , he wrote some of the best dialog that I have heard in a long time . Imagine a Hugh Grant film with hit men . Well , he did one of those , didn't her , but this was far superior . And , it has Fleur Delacour ( Clémence Poésy ) in a very un-Harry Potter-like role . She was really great . There are so many great characters in this film , and some great actors , too , like Ralph Fiennes ( The English Patient , Schindler's List , and two Harry Potters ) . This is definitely a don't miss .
The trick is to enjoy life , accepting it has no meaning whatsoever .	I recall seeing a Woody Allen film before . I believe it was Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex But Were Afraid to Ask . I don't really recall it , and it was so long ago . If this film is a typical Woody Allen film , then I have been cheating myself out of great pleasure for a long time . Rebecca Hall , Scarlett Johansson , Javier Bardem , Patricia Clarkson , and Penélope Cruz were all fascinating , especially Cruz , not to diminish the fine performances from all of them . The story was amazing . I was mesmerized for the entire 96 minutes . I could not miss one word of the dialog . The direction was perfect and it was definitely one of the best films of 2008 . And , did I mention that Penélope Cruz deserved her Oscar and every other award she got for this role ?
You're not the only one that had an unhappy childhood , there are millions like you , and , in my eyes , they are the tough ones , not you !	I heard they were going to remake this French classic in 2007 , and I see it is in development for 2011 . This will be a shame , as Hollywood kicked writer / director Jules Dassin out because of the infamous blacklist . They should not have the right to remake any of his films . I love " caper " films and " film noir , " and this combines the best of both . Tony ( Jean Servais ) gets out after doing a nickle , and after he beats up his old girlfriend ( Marie Sabouret ) , he plans a big score with his friends Mario ( Robert Manuel ) and Jo ( Carl Möhner ) , What makes this a great caper flick is the attention to detail in planning the robbery . You see that reflected in the George Clooney Vegas capers . Nothing is left to chance . The caper goes off great but Grutter ( Marcel Lupovici ) sends his sons , Robert Hossein and Pierre Grasset after Tony and the gang . After blowing it with Mario , they kidnap Jo's son . Lots of bullets fly before it is over . A great film by a great director . The standard by which other caper films are measured .
Ah , but that is no match for wishful thinking . If you focus on what you left behind . You will never be able to see what lies ahead . Now go up and look around .	I , of course , will be biased in my review of this film . As a food lover , I can relate well to Remy and his search for food that explodes in your mouth with taste . Brad Bird and Jan Pinkava have created one of the funniest movies I have seen - and it stars a rat ! How anyone can make a rat appealing is beyond me , but they have done it . The story flows as if it starred real humans , but the fact that it is animated makes it even more appealing . It has constant humor amidst the deviousness of the chef . Along with that , we get a very positive message about challenging ourselves to keep pushing the envelope . It is not just a cartoon for kiddies , but an enjoyable film for all ages . It should definitely have a sequel .
A 40 year old virgin ? Yeah , right .	The premise is unbelievable , but very funny . How can a man , in the time when nearly half of high school students and one in five middle school students said they have had sexual intercourse , be a virgin at 40 . Maybe it's something in the packaging of those action figures . Hey , Star Wars geeks , the packaging is bad for you ! Yes , I know , I am probably the last person in America that has seen The 40 Year Old Virgin . I am not a Steve Carell fan . Dude , you don't watch The Office ? No , I don't ; there was always something better on . Let's just put our cards on the table , I don't watch Arrested Development , either , so there . Although , I don't know what that has to do with it . I just felt like getting it off my chest . I did like Carell as Uncle Authur in Bewitched , which I only watched because I am a Nicole Kidman fan . But , that's it . Nothing else . Sorry . Neither have I seen Paul Rudd in anything but Friends , and was a virgin on all the other characters , with the exception of Catherine Keener , whom I've seen in The Interpreter , S1m0ne , and Out of Sight , and who I hope to see soon in The Ballad of Jack and Rose , which I immediately ordered , and Capote , when it gets to the hinterlands . She is definitely a fine actress that deserves all the awards and nominations coming her way . Having said all that , I thought the film was great and I really like Carell's performance . It doesn't mean I'll rush out and see Get Smart , but I may take a look at The Office and Little Miss Sunshine does sound interesting .
Jean Louise , stand up . Your father's passing .	With three wins among eight Oscar nominations , this is one of the best pictures of all times . Gregory Peck won one of those Oscars for what is certainly his best performance . It was Mary Badhams first film , and she received a well-earned nomination for her performance as Scout . It was also Phillip Alford's first film . Both of these children performed as well as many actors with years more experience . Of course , Horton Foote's Oscar-winning screenplay , based upon Harper Lee's novel contributed immensely , but the two young actors really made you believe you were watching real characters . In an interesting note , it was also Robert Duvall's first film . He was the " Boo " Radley referred to throughout and not seen until the end . The summation given by Peck has to be one of the greatest of all times , and he truly was , in the words of Miss Maudie , " born to do our unpleasant jobs for us . . . " Which , of course , includes reminding us of when we fall from what we should be a humans .
Be White . Live White . Like this .	Why ? Why in the world would Danny Boyle think for one second about remaking this film . It is a classic with Yeong-ae Lee as the star , and Chan-wook Park as the director . I am so tired of Hollywood stealing great Asian movies to remake them with so-called stars that can't come close to the originals - Infernal Affairs and Il Mare , to name two . Yeong-ae Lee was brilliant as she plotted her vengeance and I have to say that I was blown away . The prison scenes were funny and so perfect . Well , maybe their could have been a shower scene . I was so expecting her revenge to be so predictable . The last half hour of this film is just simply brilliant . Park and Seo-Gyeong Jeong wrote a masterpiece . No , it would not be better with a Hostel finish . It was perfect as it was . It was art instead of torture-porn . How could you possibly improve on this ? Stay away from this , Hollywood . It doesn't need you .
Everybody is right when it comes to the issue of abortion .	It seems fitting that I watched this on the very day that I read about the atrocious state of child protection in Oklahoma . It is a reminder of the definition of " Pro-Life " that I believe so strongly : they only care about life before it is born , and are not concerned with life after birth . It was an outstanding documentary that gave both sides of the issue , even to the point of showing an actual abortion being performed . I could have done without that . This is however , the definitive film on the issue . Some may consider it slanted as it showed the pro-life advocates as crazy loons , but when they are self-confessed bigots like leader Randall Terry , and Klan members / ministers like John Burk that consider murderers " patriots , " what else can you call them . This film will give you a good picture of where this issue started , and why it continues to this day . You will learn just who is keeping this alive and their reasons for doing so . You will also be well informed on the types of people who are using this issue for their personal causes . Great film to educate you on this sensitive issue .
We were all in love with love .	Even if the Academy didn't allow this film to compete for an Oscar because half of it is in English , it has won 38 awards around the world , including three at Cannes . I never heard of a film winning three awards at Cannes , so you have to figure it is something special . It is certainly one of the funniest films I have seen . Just imagine an Egyptian police band lost at an Israeli kibbutz out in the middle of nowhere . That premise makes you start laughing before you have seen a single frame . Ronit Elkabetz is outstanding as the Israeli that takes the band under her wing while they wait for transportation to get to their destination . Sasson Gabai was a riot as the band leader . Stiff as a board , he made it a joy to see him in his discomfort . But this trip brought the band together , brought some Israelis and Egyptians together , and just showed that there are not really many differences between us . You'll laugh , you'll cry , you'll simply enjoy this great film .
One final thing I have to do . . . and then I'll be free of the past .	Oscar ignored this fantastic film by Hitchcock starring James Stewart . It gave nomination for Art and Set decoration and Sound . Small acknowledgment of an outstanding film . James Stewart was outstanding as a detective that was duped by his " friend ( Tom Helmore ) . " We were all led on an adventure that made absolutely no sense until we were shown the result . This film really had me going ! Kim Novak was also excellent in her role as the wife . She was so good that I had no idea that she was anything more than object of Stewart's obsession . Hitchcock had me going her also . This was an excellent movie and should have had more recognition .
To flee is life , to linger death .	What grabbed me right from the start was the music of Johan Söderqvist . It was absolutely captivating and perfect for the pace of the film . After the music , the cinematography of Hoyte Van Hoytema was brilliant . The film was like a painting . It is a coming-of-age story as Oskar ( Kåre Hedebrant ) , small for his 12 years , is picked upon by the other boys at school . He becomes friends with a new girl in the apartment , Eli ( Lina Leandersson ) . Oskar has no knowledge of Eli's particular circumstances or the fact that her father does some heinous things . As they become friends , he finds new strength to fight his oppressors . He discovers her secret , and they still remain friends . There is blood , and vampire action , and great special effects , but it's not your normal horror story . It is more a tender love story . Director Tomas Alfredson really got the best out of the young performers in their first film .
Why do we send our boys to battle monsters ?	It has been said many times that war movies are not doing well because America is not ready . They are not ready to face the truth that we are creating young men who must battle demons that they are unprepared to cope with . The fact that we have a record number of suicides by soldiers this year , and will easily break that next year , is proof that we are stretching these young men and women to the breaking point . All this underlies Hank's ( Tommy Lee Jones ) desire to find his son , and then find out why he was killed . Just the presence of Jones gives a movie three stars , and this Oscar-nominated performance is no exception . His face may be craggy , but he still has the same steely determination of Marshal Samuel Gerard in The Fugitive and U . S . Marshals . His performance of writer / director Paul Haggis ' script was utterly amazing . He was almost overshadowed by the outstanding performance of Charlize Theron ( Monster , North Country ) . As a victim of a sexist police force , she has to work doubly hard to prove her worth , and prove it she does in this film . It is getting to the point that her name also guarantees a film to be worth watching just for her presence alone . America may not be ready for war films about Iraq , but anyone who still thinks we should be there needs to see this film .
A man never apologizes .	Baba ( Homayoun Ershadi ) would never have to apologize because he lived his life in such a manner that he always did the right thing . For him , an apology is just a formality of speech , not something that he offers out of shame . It is too bad that his son Amir ( Zekeria Ebrahimi & Khalid Abdalla ) did not learn from his father until it was too late . Sure , he managed to do the right thing in the end , but he would never reach the stature of his father or even the man who sold everything he had to care for orphaned Afghans . Sure , he decided to go for redemption in the end , but that redemption is born out of the same misguided beliefs that our young men and women in Afghanistan today . Somehow , it must be better to have freedom in American or freedom by America . Well , how much freedom have we achieved when this film is banned by the Afghan government we installed . We have traded the freedom of our forefathers , born out of the Enlightenment , for a false freedom that means only freedom to make money . This story was beautifully done and the Chinese scenery was incredible , and the music was splendid , but one must never forget the underlying false message included .
There is no room for failure now . The innocent must die !	If you like it loud , then this is the film for you . If you like blood , then you will love this film . If you want action , you won't find any more anywhere else . John Woo is the master of hard hitting , loud , bloody action flicks . You think the first 20 minutes of Saving Private Ryan was loud and bloody ? It is nothing compared to the last 20 minutes of this film . The bad guys come out of the wall like cockroaches , and Supercop ( Yun-Fat Chow ) is there to blow them away . Yes , he's the same Captain Sao Feng from Pirates of the Caribbean : At World's End . He is working with another superstar of Chinese film Tony Leung Chiu Wai ( Hero , 2046 , Infernal Affairs ) . You will not believe the action at the end . The battle takes place in the most unlikely of places . The bad guy is so bad that one of his own men tries to kill him for crossing the line . I guarantee that no Mel Gibson , or even John McClain film can match this action . Action not enough ? There is even full frontal nudity - in the hospital nursery . : - )
It wouldn't be Christmas without this movie	It just wouldn't be Christmas if I didn't see this film . I never get tired of watching it . Edmund Gwenn was fantastic as Santa and got a well-deserved Academy Award for his performance . This would have been the Best Picture of 1947 , had it not come up against Gentleman's Agreement . The supporting cast was also excellent . Maureen O'Hara , John Payne , young Natalie Wood , and William Frawley all gave performances that make this picture one that cannot be duplicated . Don't buy into those remakes . The original black and white with a cast that can't be topped is the one to watch . This is a movie for the kid in all of us and we better not forget that magic . Besides , it divulged " The Secret " long before the current bunch . " I believe . I believe "
What is truth ?	Whew ! This has to be the most exciting film I have seen this year . The heart-stopping action doesn't stop and you are sitting on the edge of you seat wondering what is happening . This is actually the same story - the same 15 minutes - told from the perspective of different people . Just when you think you may know what is happening , you go to a different perspective and you have to change your thinking . You may think that you are watching the same thing over and over , but there are subtle differences in each viewing depending on who the focus is on . The direction by Pete Travis in Barry Levy's script was flawless . The casting was stupendous . Dennis Quaid as a secret service agent back on the job after a tragedy , a la Clint Eastwood in In The Line of Fire was brilliant . Quaid gave a first rate performance as a focused agent with deep emotional problems . He was a joy to watch . But , he wasn't the only joy . Forest Whitaker was stupendous as an American tourist who gets in the middle of things . He was not the hero type , but he came through in a magnificent performance . Ayelet Zurer ( Munich ) was a fascination to watch ; Sigourney Weaver was amazing as a hardened news-person who showed her humanity at just the right time ; William Hurt as the President had gravitas to be sure , and his role has to be viewed to be appreciated ; and Eduardo Noriega will go to the top of my list of actors to look for in the future . He was perfect for his part . Those who think that truth is an absolute need to see this film . It should be required for the first day of every history class to let students know that there are always different perspectives on history . Prosecuting attorneys may want to add this to voir doir , because if you have seen it , you will not be likely to take just one opinion for anything . Finally , the car chase through Mexico City has to be the greatest of all time . Bullitt can't touch it !
Revenge is good for your health , but pain will find you again .	After watching The Dentist and this film , I don't think anyone is going to be touching my teeth again . Dae-su Oh ( Min-sik Choi ) is imprisoned for 15 years and has no idea why . When he gets out , he starts trying to find the answers , and that is when the violence gets started . But in a Hitchcockian ending the answer was thought to be one thing and turned out to be completely different . This is when Min-Sik Choi really performed . He was outstanding ! A compelling story that kept your interest until it completely blew you away , outstanding acting , and perfect direction . This is a classic .
I am the super mother bug !	This film fits right in with Polanski's Repulsion . Those looking for typical horror will be disappointed with both films . This is the slow psychological horror that takes some effort to appreciate . Ashley Judd ( De-Lovely , Norma Jean & Marilyn ) plays a trailer-trash bi-sexual ; hooked on meth and at the mercy of an abusive ex ( Harry Connick Jr . ) . Looking for love , she lets Peter ( Michael Shannon - Revolutionary Road ) , a paranoid schizophrenic into her life . Director William Friedkin ( The Exorcist , The French Connection ) doesn't hit you over the head with the facts . He leaves clues to pick up on and lets you put together what is happening . As Judd gets further into Shannon's delusion , it becomes real to her and she even turns on her friends . It isn't long before the tinfoil comes out . Then comes Dr . Sweet ( Brian F . O'Byrne ) , and things really get exciting . He uses her delusion to gain her trust , but he didn't count on Peter totally flipping out . What an ending ! What a magnificent performance by Judd .
Hate breeds hate !	Hubert ( Hubert Koundé ) : Heard about the guy who fell off a skyscraper ? On his way down past each floor , he kept saying to reassure himself : So far so good . . . so far so good . . . so far so good . How you fall doesn't matter . It's how you land ! Society is in free fall . There have been at least 300 " accodental " deaths at the hands of the French police . The current President of France considers the minorities in France to be " scum . " This is the story of three of these minority youth and 24 hours in their life after another was murdered by a French policeman . Mathieu Kassovitz ( Crimson Rivers , Gothika ) has directed a masterpiece showing the youth that are alienated from their parents with their love of rap music and American films , and a culture that is alienated from those in society that are consumed with their incomes , and cars , and fancy houses . The film stars three fantastic actors : Vincent Cassel ( Ocean's Twelve & Thirteen , Crimson Rivers , Brotherhood of the Wolf ) , Hubert Koundé ( The Constant Gardener ) , and Saïd Taghmaoui ( The Kite Runner , Hildago ) . Watching 24 hours in their search for meaning was both funny and sad . Considering that they represent thousands all over the world makes you cry . The photography by Pierre Aïm was magnificent . " The peacemakers , those who are supposed to spread democracy and justice on behalf of our sate and self-satisfied societies , are spreading death , contempt , racism , and humiliation . They are creating a world of hate . " - - Costa Gravas This is an important film that will stand the test of time ; a classic that will remind us of what we are doing ; and a warning to change direction .
You want to see it opened as well as I . Indiana , we are simply passing through history . This , this is history .	This is the big one - four Oscars for sets , editing , sound , and effects , and four more nominations for Best Picture , Best Director , Cinematography and John Williams music . They just don't make them like this anymore . Harrison Ford was at the top of his game here as Indiana Jones . You could believe that he was the greatest adventurer of them all . Karen Allen was a perfect partner , and I am so glad they are bringing her back in Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull . I thoroughly enjoyed John Rhys-Davies and he added immensely to the film . This is just pure entertainment as the excitement never let up for a second , and the ending was simply spectacular .
The ship will automatically destruct in " T " minus five minutes .	Ridley Scott directed a winner here . I don't need to list all the awards this film won and was considered for ; let's just say it was a shtload . I have never been a sci-fi buff , but I was attached like glue to this film from start to finish . The horror was minimal , but the suspense was incredible . Sigourney Weaver was everything I was expecting . She was just incredible and made this film worth watching . Tom Skerritt was the jerk that I expected him to be . He did not disappoint . There was a great supporting cast and this film is a must for all suspense buffs .
I'm young , I'm handsome , I'm fast , I'm pretty and can't possibly be beat .	Leon Gast created the best documentary of 1997 . Of course , he had the greatest fighter of all time as his subject , so it wasn't too difficult . I could not watch this film without significant reminiscing . I was in the seminary in 1964 when Cassius Clay defeated Sonny Liston . I vividly remember all of us gathered around to listen to the fight . Of course , those in the know predicted a Liston victory . No one knew what to make of the brash young fighter that said what he felt and refused to bow to the establishment . I was in Vietnam when he was in jail . I did not feel one bit of animosity towards him . I was doing what I felt was expected of me , and he was doing what he believed was right . If he had been anyone else , he would not have lost five of the best years of his life . I can only admire him for having the courage to stand tall in the face of hatred . After Vietnam in the years leading up to the " Rumble in the Jungle , " I was very much into boxing . I was living in Tampa at the time and would catch the fights at the National Guard Armory , both amateur and closed-circuit . I would also be there to see acts like James Brown . By the time he was ready to retake his crown , I was out of the country again ; this time in a remote section of Iceland . I was overjoyed to see him on top again . It was something of a vindication of his decision . He was always a classy individual and was concerned about those who were not leading lives that were in their best interests . He gave back more than he ever got from his country . After he retired , I lost interest in boxing . Those who followed him as Heavyweight Champions did not have the class he had and it was hard to get excited about them . Mohammed Ali stands alone in the sports world . Sure there were greats like Babe Ruth and Willie Mays , and I remember great pitchers like Warren Spahn , Don Drysdale , and Whitey Ford , but the were replaced by even better players . I played basketball for a while , so I watched Bob Cousy , The Bird , and Abdul Kareem Jabbar , but they were replaced by Michael Jordon and others who were better . We forget Nicklaus and Palmer as we now have Tiger Woods . It is the same in any sport except boxing . I was there from the beginning to end of the career of the greatest boxer of all time , and there is no need to look at anyone ever again . He was The Greatest , and i am grateful to Leon Gast for bringing this story to the screen and giving me another opportunity to see him , as well as relive the music of the late James Brown .
Never take a pretty woman . . .	There is an old Calypso ditty that states " If you want to be happy for the rest of your life , never take a pretty woman to be your wife . " If you want to have a career in the Army , you might also want to avoid bi-polar women . Tommy Lee Jones ( The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada ) was an Army Major , a nuclear engineer working on atomic tests , that had a gorgeous wife who was a little crazy . Jessica Lange ( Broken Flowers ) was awesome as his wife and won every award that year for her performance . She deserved every win in a movie that was a testament to love . No matter how crazy , Major Marshall ( Jones ) was there for her because of his love . And her love brought her out of her disorder long enough to save him . This was director Tony Richardson's last film and he made it a winner all the way .
An action movie dream	You just can't add enough praise for Akira Kurosawa and for this film . It is a cinematic masterpiece that affects many movies made since . It certainly is one of the greatest of all times . Everyone is familiar with the approaching band of riders coming into view as they crest a hilltop . This is the first film in which it was used . This is the first modern action movie . Certain elements in this movie are banded together for the first time by Kurosawa to produce a film that is brilliant in it's cinematography and costuming and sets . Sure , it's long at over three hours , but that gives us time to really get to know the characters and feel pain when they die . Unlike it's successor , The Magnificent Seven , the motivations of the samurai are not clear , and we are left to surmise why they would take a job that pays nothing . That is the magic of this film . It certainly belongs in the queue of anyone that calls themselves a movie lover .
I can't help what I do ! I can't help it , I can't . . .	We see the beginnings of film noir in Germany's first talking picture . It also has some remnants of German Expressionism . But what is most impressive is the story itself . Anyone that has followed cases of missing children know what the police go through , and watching this crime / psychological thriller and the search for a child serial killer is just like watching the 6 o'clock news today . The acting is superb , and the story is compelling . It is not so much about the killer , but about the people's reactions to the fear he has filled them with . Of course , the thieves and prostitutes are too happy either with cops everywhere . It was absolutely hilarious to watch the cops planning how to step up raids while , at the same time across town , the underworld was trying to figure out how to catch the murderer and get back to business . Both the police and the underworld get a break at the same time . But the underworld has him cornered and things are getting really tense . You cannot image what they do to try and find him . This was the most innovative story I have seen . The " trial " was magnificent ! The print was absolutely perfect and the lighting was superb . The sound was even OK for the first use . Gustaf Gründgens was superb as the leader of the underworld , Theodor Loos equally so as the head of the police , and Peter Lorre was great as usual .
Mon frere a une gentille petite amie .	This film has two of the giants of the fifties : Humphrey Bogart ( The African Queen , Casablanca , The Caine Mutiny ) as an industry tycoon , and William Holden ( Stalag 17 , Sunset Blvd . ) as his playboy younger brother , both of whom are enchanted by their chauffeur's daughter , Audrey Hepburn ( nominated for Oscar for this film ) . This film was nominated for six Academy Awards including two nominations for Billy Wilder : Director and Screenplay . It is a funny and charming film with Hepburn in another great performance only a year after she won her Oscar for Roman Holiday . Bogart won for The Caine Mutiny this same year . It is a statement to his capability that he could put two great performances on film the same year . A beautiful example of Wilder's capabilities directing romantic comedies .
Love those little creatures	I cannot explain why I find these creatures so fascinating . It's like manatees . Who could love sea cows ? I like them both . As a fan of the show Meerkat Manor , I was anxious to see the film of the beginning . I was not disappointed . Whoopi Goldberg did a great job narrating what we can only suspect was the thoughts of the Whisker family as they went about their daily lives in the Kalahari Desert . To see the birth of Flower ( known to all who watch the show ) and see her beginnings was really fascinating . Outstanding cinematography and a great score make this an enjoyable film that the whole family will enjoy . This really ties up some loose ends and gets me anxious to the next season which , like Star Trek , seems to go on and on with The Next Generation .
What else is there to say ?	Two-time Oscar winner Hillary Swank WAS Brandon . There just wasn't any doubt about it . She gave one of the most powerful and magnificent performances on the screen . There is no not knowing the pain , the fear , the anguish of someone who is struggling with their sexual identity after seeing this magnificent film . Chloë Sevigny had given many good performances over the years , but her performance here was worth of all the awards that she received . She was caught up in something she didn't understand and gave a tender and moving picture of love . With the job that writer / director Kimberly Peirce did here , there is no doubt that I am going to see Stop-Loss as soon as I can .
Life is what happens when you are making other plans	I am so in love with Celine . She is the perfect woman - caring concerned , intelligent - I could listen to her forever . And , take her and put Juile Delpy's voice into her and i am in heaven . Delpy ( Hoax , Broken Flowers ) turns in an enchanting performance with Ethan Hawke ( Training Day ) , as two lovers who lost each other nine years ago and meet again in Paris . It is obvious from the start that Jesse ( Hawke ) has never went a day without regretting what happened . Celine appears to shrug it off but , no matter how hard she tries , it comes out that her life has also been affected . The entire film is a conversation between the two that says so much . I know the century is young , but this is definitely one of the best films so far . Director Richard Linklater ( screenplay / story ) , Julie Delpy ( screenplay ) , Ethan Hawke ( screenplay ) , and Kim Krizan ( story ) have written a wonderful film that will stand the test of time .
That's the test , ain't it ? Test of true love .	I love Frances McDormand . Every movie she is in is great . This was her first and it is great also . Simple enough ? Well , I can't make it any simpler . This is a Coen brother noir , and it is their first film also . Joel and Ethan have done some marvelous work ( Fargo , O Brother , Where Art Thou ? , Intolerable Cruelty ) and I am looking forward to their next ( No Country for Old Men ) . You know what has happened , but the characters are all in the dark . It is interesting to see what they do when they haven't a clue . It is a mix of merciless violence and black comedy . No one could have seen this film when it came out and not know that we would have many more great ones from the Coen Brothers .
God is not on our side because he hates idiots also .	How many accolades could one add to previous reviews of the film . There is only one other western that comes close to this , Once Upon a Time in the West . This is the ultimate western , not made by John Ford , or starring John Wayne , by a great film by Sergio Leone , and starring Clint Eastwood , Lee Van Cleef , and the great Eli Wallach . You want shooting ? There is so much you will get a headache from the sounds of guns and cannons . You want laughter ? The competition between Wallach and Eastwood was a constant stitch in my side . Yes , it is probably the best western ever .
Hangin ' is any man's business that's around .	There is no shame at all in losing a Best Picture Oscar to Casablanca as this excellent western did . Henry Fonda was superb as a cowboy that was caught up in a lynching that was unjustified . Fonda , who already had his first Oscar nomination for The Grapes of Wrath , was with his sidekick , Harry Morgan ( MASH ) , who tried to keep him out of trouble . Fonda ended up the sensible one at the end doing the right thing for the wronged victim . I couldn't even recognize Anthony Quinn , as he was so thin in this film . An excellent film about justice as the condemned man wrote to his wife : " A man just naturally can't take the law into his own hands and hang people without hurtin ' everybody in the world , ' cause then he's just not breaking one law but all laws . Law is a lot more than words you put in a book , or judges or lawyers or sheriffs you hire to carry it out . It's everything people ever have found out about justice and what's right and wrong . It's the very conscience of humanity . There can't be any such thing as civilization unless people have a conscience , . . . "
You're gonna break a lot of hearts .	Thanks to the Venice Film Festival for being the only ones that recognized that the real star of this artistic masterpiece is Brad Pitt , not Casey Affleck . This is another western that doesn't fit the mold . It is an art film in every sense of the word . From the brilliant cinematography by Roger Deakins , a seven-time Oscar nominee ( Fargo , No Country for Old Men , O Brother , Where Art Thou ? , The Shawshank Redemption , The Man Who Wasn't There , Kundun , and this film ) , to the superb acting in an ensemble that provide a thrilling experience for 160 minutes . Yes , Affleck was very good , and probably gave the performance of his career , but Pitt was clearly the star as Jesse James , a man possessed . He could go from friend to unemotional killer in an instant . He possessed an uncanny ability to discern the thoughts of others . He knew his time was over and committed suicide the only way he could . The film was an interesting study of the celebrity cult that we experience today . Ford would have been right at home in People , or Entertainment Weekly , as someone who had style , but no substance . If you are looking for bang , bang , shoot-em-up , look elsewhere . This is a film to be watched and studied .
An enchanting experience	I really had no idea what to expect out of this movie . It was billed to me as a " chick flick , " but with enough eye-candy to keep the guys interested . Boy , were they wrong . The movie is simply enchanting and a deep story about love and all it should mean . Claire Danes has somehow escaped my notice until now , but after her fantastic performance in this film , I am going to be looking for more of her . Michelle Pfeiffer was simply wonderful as the witch and really gave a great performance in every scene . And , Robert De Niro . Just what can I say about his gender-bending performance ? He was a real pleasure to watch . The whole movie was hilarious , with jokes just spread throughout . It was just what you want from a fantasy film . You can have your hobbits , I'll take Danes , Pfeiffer , Kate Magowan , and Sienna Miller anytime .
Hard to get a handle on at first .	It was really difficult to get a fix on this film . I wasn't sure if it was a comedy or drama . It was a little of both . I had not seen a Hungarian film before and this was certainly a good introduction . It was written and directed by Nimród Antal , who has now moved to America after his film won so many awards . It is a move about choices . We often make choices to escape a painful life . Some do drugs , or drown themselves in a bottle , but some just completely withdraw . Sándor Csányi , who won three awards for his role as Bulcsú in this film was escaping the world above . he lived 24 hours a day in the underground . He worked there and he slept there . he never went up to the life he was escaping , and I surmise it was a successful life . This was basically about his life - - his co-workers , his friends , and a strange girl in a bear suit - - but it was his life . He alone could make the choice to return to the sunshine . I have never seen an underground , much less the Budapest one , so I don't know if the situation with the ticket-takes is realistic , but it was certainly funny . They really give these folks a hard time , and there are many laughs . The cinematography was outstanding . I really enjoyed the perspectives underground . This is a must-see film .
You can change yourself into gold .	How does one describe this film ? How does one describe any film by Jodorowsky ? Is there any explanation that will give a clue to the workings of his mind ? Any attempt to interpret Jodorowsky's thoughts and ideas would be an exercise in futility . he uses symbolism , mostly religious , to make a point , but what point is he making ? He certainly has no hesitation to use the human body as a statement , as a canvas , as a message , as . . . I don't know . The use of color in the sets and the costuming was spectacular . The costumes ( when people wore clothing ) were exquisite . The set pieces were mind boggling . Any attempt to explain this film would prove futile . It is not meant to be explained , but to be experienced , enjoyed , and , maybe , to create a sense of wonderment , awe , and , yes , freedom . Your favorite mind-altering substance would certainly enhance the experience .
At last ! My arm is complete again !	It is a scene worthy of Charles Dickens : gray buildings , gray skies and gray-faced people , living and dead . Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham Carter shine as Sweeney , the barber with a grudge , and Mrs . Lovett , who is in love with him . Narrator : This is the tale of an ordinary man , who had everything . . . Mrs . Lovett : Barker , his name was . Benjamin Barker . Narrator : Until a man of power stole his freedom , destroyed his family and banished him . . . for life . And in his sorrow a new man was born . Todd vows to have his pie in the form of revenge over the cruel Judge ( Alan Rickman ) who sent him to prison to steal his wife ( Laura Michelle Kelly ) . Sweeney Todd : " There's a hole in the world like a great black pit , and it's filled with people who are full of shite , and the vermin of the world inhabit it . . . " One can hear a socialist screed against those of privilege who will give to the poor for once , transforming Mrs . Lovett's pies from the worst to the best in London . Sweeney Todd : " They all deserve to die / Tell you why , Mrs . Lovett , tell you why / Because in all of the whole human race Mrs . Lovett there are two kinds of men and only two / There's the one staying put in his proper place and one with his foot in the other one's face . . . " The singing , while not what one would expect on Broadway , was on-key and the songs ( " The Worst Pies in London " , " My Friends " , " Johanna " , " A Little Priest " , and many more ) were a pure delight . Tim Burton's adaptation was absolutely marvelous with outstanding acting by Depp , Carter , and newcomer Ed Sanders . I even have to say that I thoroughly enjoyed the performance of Sacha Baron Cohen . I really never thought I would say that ! Timothy Spall was a delight with his rat face , and the only thing that detracted from perfection was the absence of Carter's meat pies in their full glory .
I used to tell Walter , " Never start a fight . . . but always finish it . " I didn't start this fight . . . but by God , I'm going to finish it .	Barely two weeks after Christine Collins ' ( Angelina Jolie ) son Walter disappears , the Rev . Gustav Briegleb ( John Malkovich ) is raging against the Los Angeles police department in his church and on the radio . We quickly realize that things in 1928 are not good in the City of Angels . What is going on ? Why is Capt . J . J . Jones ( Jeffrey Donovan ) so adamant that the boy they found is Walter Collins ? Can't they believe a mother knows her own son ? Angelina Jolie is beyond fantastic in this film . She plays the distraught , then doubtful / angry mother to perfection . When the LAPD is faced with an embarrassing situation , we see just how corrupt they , and the animals that run the County psychiatric facility , are . Detective Lester Ybarra ( Michael Kelly ) discovers what really happened , and , despite the efforts of Capt . Jones , manages to reveal the horror . With the help of Rev . Briegleb , she gets a pro bono lawyer ( Geoffrey Pierson ) and all hell breaks loose . The cinematography was outstanding and added to the overall feeling of the period . The screenplay , the sound , the costumes , and Clint Eastwood's direction were all superb . Jason Butler Harner was absolutely perfect as the slime-ball that was only marginally worse than the police and the staff of the psychiatric facility . Angelina Jolie . I rest my case .
They're coming outta the walls . They're coming outta the goddamn walls , we're fcked !	Again , it would take me all night to talk about the awards this film won and was nominated for . Suffice it to say that James Cameron directed a masterpiece of sci-fi horror . Although she didn't wear those skimpy panties that showed some ass cleavage in Alien , Sigourney Weaver was just as hot in her grey underwear and she kicked some major butt in this film . I was initially turned off with all the military hoorah that was going on in the beginning , but the film turned out to be even better than the first . There was some real horror to go along with major suspense and , even though I had to go so bad I almost wet myself , I could not tear myself away for the last 20 minutes . It was fucking awesome ! Lance Henriksen was also great , and i look forward to seeing more of him . You know I will be looking for Alien 3 and 4 !
For a one-leg rancher . . . he's one tough son of a bitch .	I really hate remakes . They take a good foreign film and put in some WB stars and it is never as good as the original . Even The Departed , with a stellar cast list . was not as good as Infernal Affairs . So , I really didn't expect a lot from a remake of a great western , even though I am a Christian Bale fan and really wanted this to be good . It was not only , good , but it was spectacular and I expect to watch it several times . Bale was in the best form of his career as a farmer trying to keep things together for his family . I could easily see everyman in his character , and he played it masterfully . Russell Crowe was also the best I have seen him since Gladiator . He really played a much more nuanced character than I could have imagined , and I really enjoyed the ending where this nuance came out strongly . Ben Foster was born for the role of Charlie Prince . He was as evil as evil gets and made you cringe every time he appeared to see what he would do next . All of this suggests that director James Mangold had a tight rein on this film and delivered what will go down as a western classic . The screenwriters , Halsted Welles , Michael Brandt , and Derek Haas brilliantly turned Elmore Leonard's story into a compelling tale that had a lot of the flavor of the original , but was different in areas that mattered . They really did remake a film that was as good , if not better that the 1957 version .
A Fistful of Dollars at High Noon	The first " man with no name " was Toshirô Mifune , who made 16 films with writer / director Akira Kurosawa , starting with Drunken Angel in 1948 , and ending with Red beard in 1965 . This is one of his greatest performances . Anyone familiar with American or Italian spaghetti westerns will instantly see the story here . The loner walks into town and sees an opportunity to play both sets of bad guys against each other to make money from each . It is funny , and has lots of action as any western does . Forget any idea of foreign films when watching Mifune and Kurosawa . They are as familiar to you as films you grew up with . For great entertainment , they cannot be beat .
I ain't that boy ! I ain't that boy !	Andrew Garfield was magnificent as Jack , who was trying to live a normal life after serving 14 years for a murder committed as a boy . Everything seems to be going great . He has a job and a girlfriend ( Katie Lyons ) , and he even performed a heroic act saving a little girl . But , all good things must come to an end . His secret is discovered , as one would expect . But , how it came out was a huge surprise . Peter Mullan ( Session 9 , Trainspotting ) was also excellent as the mentor who tried to help Jack . John Crowley has established himself as a great director with this film . It was really a thoughtful and beautiful story .
Life is worth living	Anyway , I was talking about a friend the other day who is struggling with depression , among other things , and the question of suicide came up . It just so happened that I caught the 2005 Oscar winning film , Mar adentro yesterday also . Something came up halfway through and I restarted it from the beginning because I didn't want to interrupt the flow . It was magnificent , and if you have not seen it , you must . Those who visit frequently know I work with the developmentally disabled . I know that the disabled activists were not happy with this film , or with Million Dollar Baby . It is interesting when you think about it . We are constantly reminded to promote choice with out clients , but when that choice goes against what the activists want , they get upset . Sometimes , you just don't want to fight the fight anymore . The Oscar winning film , directed by Alejandro Amenábar , stars Javier Bardem , who some may remember as Felix in Collateral . I remember him as the Cuban poet and novelist , Reinaldo Arenas in Before Night Falls , a superb film for which he was nominated for a Best Actor Oscar that he lost to Russell Crowe in Gladiator . The fact-based story concerned a quadriplegic who spent 28 years trying to die . The interaction with his friends and family will cause you to question the wisdom of his decision . Which ever side you come down on is OK , as he points out , for him , " A life without freedom is not a life . " I am sure that is what upsets the activists , but it is clear that it is his choice . There is nothing I like better than a movie that makes you think , and this certainly accomplishes that task .
How tragic that man can never realize how beautiful life is until he is face to face with death .	The opening of this film was just what everyone would think of bureaucracies that we deal with every day . The people wanted a park and they just got shuffled from one office to another . No one wanted to do anything that they could later be criticized for . Wantanabe ( Takashi Shimura ) was no different . He spent 30 years in government and rose to section chief without doing a thing . He just came to work every day and avoided " rocking the boat . " His life was so boring that others called him " The Mummy . " When he found out that he had stomach cancer and less than a year to live , he searched for something to give his life meaning . He went out with a writer ( Yûnosuke Itô ) to bars and strip clubs to find something , but it wasn't enough . He started hanging around with a young office worker ( Miki Odagiri ) who gave him pleasure ( non sexual , you pervert ) until she was tired of being with him . But , before she left him , she gave him an idea , and he started his life anew trying to build that park . Even as a Section Chief , taking on the bureaucracy was an uphill battle . We do not see the struggle until after he dies and all the other functionaries at his wake start telling his story as they try to figure out why he did what he did . Kurosawa and Shimura gave us a treasure about life and one that would do us well to watch over and over . Sacrificing yourself to serve the many . What a message !
Outstanding Film Noir	I tried to watch Jeanne Moreau in François Truffaut's Jules and Jim the same day I saw this . I really tried and , despite the fact that it was the best Europen film of 1963 and Truffaut won a couple of awards for directing it , I couldn't make it more that a half hour . It was just plain boring . Not so with this film noir classic . Jeanne Moreau was simply captivating as a woman who was having an affair and could not figure out what went wrong with the murder of her husband and why her lover played by Maurice Ronet ( The Scandal ) was driving away with another woman . What she didn't know was that he was actually trapped in an elevator and his car was stolen by some young kids . What happens to the kids and the effect on the adulterous couple was totally captivating . This was film noir at its best and director Louis Malle gave us a classic worth watching again and again .
Real Human Rights & Democracy	Purification is the process of rendering something pure , i . e . clean of foreign elements and / or pollution . In this film , the village elders purify all young girls to make them fit for marriage . Some die as a result , but that's just too bad . It is like the young men and women who must die to purify the world in the image of the neocons now in power in America . We must purify the World . Let's not mince words here . Purification in this film is genital mutilation , performed on children without their consent for some archaic , often wrongly held beliefs , reason . Death can be the result , as they do it in this film with some bloody , dirty knives . The basis of the film is one woman who manages to say no and protect four children who ran away . Two others ran away , but they were most likely caught and murdered . Sure , the film says otherwise , but we often don't hear the whole truth - like when our leaders say America doesn't torture . Yes , she suffers tremendous pain for what she is doing , but fortunately Mel Gibson didn't make this film or it would have been much worse . In the end , there is a new respect for human rights as the village rises up against the murdering elders and puts them in their place . If you care at all about what is happening in many parts of the world and the effect it has on women , then this is a " must-see " film .
Absolutely superb thriller .	François Cluzet won a Best Actor César for his performance as Alex , and director Guillaume Canet won also . These are about the only two award taken away from the outstanding Lady Chatterley . While Marina Hands starred in Lady Chatterley ( two great performances in one year ; who does she think she is Kate Winslet ? ) , she plays a smaller role as Alex's sister Anne here . Alex's wife Margot ( Marie-Josée Croze ) is presumed dead , but apparently shows up eight years later . Yes , this is a thriller . Not only that , but there are some old photos of her with lots of bruises , causing the police to drag Alex back in for questioning . Someone else is after Margot , and kills her best friend , setting Alex up for the killing . The police come to arrest him just as he was supposed to meet her . I have to say he is in excellent shape for someone who smokes , as he runs through the city trying to evade arrest and meet Margot . The only one who believes there is something more and Alex may be innocent is out friend François Berléand ( Inspector Tarconi from the Transporter movies ) . Everyone else is anxious to put him away . The climax was outstanding , as was Cluzet's performance , ably assisted by Berléand , Kristin Scott Thomas , and Hands . As expected , the cinematography was brilliant , and the soundtrack was superb . Don't miss this one .
Brilliant performances	I was reading about the chocolate Jesus controversy yesterday and thinking about Tom Waits song " chocolate Jesus " - actually , singing it : Well its got to be a chocolate Jesus Make me feel good inside Got to be a chocolate Jesus Keep me satisfiedAnd there , on the Fisher King , was Tom Waits sitting in a wheelchair in Grand Central Station . Weird . I am not a big fan of either Jeff Bridges or Robin Williams . I only watched this film because a friend recommended it . I did like Willams in Good Morning Vietnam and Good Will Hunting ; and I like Bridges in K-PAX . But I have to say that both turned in performances that absolutely blew me away . I mean stay up past my bedtimes , and not to watch Florida win it's third championship , but to watch this movie . I am not into summarizing , others can do that , but just to say that this film will keep you on the edge of your seat by the performances of the actors involved . Besides Williams and Bridges , Mercedes Ruehl , whom I don't ever recall seeing , turned in an Oscar-worthy performance . Even Amanda Plummer ( Pulp Fiction ) , in a small but significant role , turned in a performance that immensely added to my enjoyment . The only thing I guess I missed was the director , Terry Gilliam's use of symbology from Monty Python . Not having seen those movies , I was not in on the meaning , But , that aside , I was definitely in on the story of pain , trauma , love , and life that this movie represents . If it is not one you are familiar with , see it now .
De Niro was outstanding !	I actually saw this for the first time this morning . I couldn't sleep and it was on at 4am . It was every bit as good as I was led to believe . Comparing the two , I cannot see how this lost to Rocky at the Academy Awards . Scorsese fans will also agree that he deserved a directing award for this film . While De Niro and Foster were fantastic , I feel that Cybill Shepherd was equally good , and should have been recognized for her performance . This film won 18 awards out of 27 nominations . Basically only the Academy didn't get on the bandwagon . But , in all those nominations , none for Sheperd . I really think that was wrong . Great film , and I will watch it again and again .
It's better the second time around	Sometimes I watch a movie and I just don't get it . The accolades flowed for this one and I really couldn't see what all the fuss was about . Maybe it is the deadpan way that Bill Murray plays his characters . He just seems so emotionless to me . I watched it again this morning and it made perfect sense to me . It was an extremely funny movie that showed how things do get Lost in Translation . Not only the obvious cultural differences from the land of my birth and the land of my heritage , but the differences between men and women . Not only was it a funny film , but it was sweet and tender at the same time and the obstacles were overcome in the end to where both understood each other perfectly .
Amazing episode	This was an amazing episode on so many levels . The suicide of one woman was unexplained until they happened to talk to another , who was also a bank teller , and discovered a link that was just incredible . I am not sure this is possible , but it made for a compelling and funny story . The husband who pulled his wife's tubes after eight years of suffering was touching , even as it mirrored the relationship of Grissom and Sidle , and the need that Grissom had for Sidle to break the relationship . But , the most amazing story was the woman who was murdered in an alley , and her " son . " When this all came out , it was a shocker that was not to be believed and an outstanding piece of creativity on the part of the writers .
Yeah , a landlord's dream : a paralyzed tenant with no tongue .	There is no one who could argue against the fact that if you put Brad Pitt , Morgan Freeman , Gwyneth Paltrow , and Kevin Spacey together in a film , it is going to be a hit . I have watched countless hours of murder mysteries in movies and TV and have read innumerable books , and there is no finer murder / serial killer story than this one . It has every element that one would look for in this type of story and it delivers with a punch to the gut that is visceral and lasting . This is one of those films that you can watch countless times and never tire of .
This is a job for the Australian !	French actor Dominique Pinon ( The Return of Martin Guerre ) as Louison was absolutely outstanding in the farce about survivors of a nuclear war . he plays a clown who stumbles into a situation where an apartment full of people are looking for their next meal . The plan is for him to be the main course ! The butcher's daughter , Marie-Laure Dougnac , was equally good , as the one who falls in love with Louison , and tries to save him from her father ( Jean-Claude Dreyfus ) the butcher and the rest in the apartment . There is too much going on in this film to comment on all of it - the " tea " ceremony , the mattress test , the failed suicide attempts - suffice it to say that the entire 99 minutes is packed with laughs and macabre comedy . The script and direction ( Jean-Pierre Jeunet , who also directed Amelie and Alien : Resurrection ) were superlative . The cinematography was brilliant , and the sound , costumes , and music were also first rate . If you like the British Carry On . . . , you will love this film .
Obama dream	I don't much care for porn . I can truthfully say that I find most of it boring . I bought The Da Vinci Load just to see what porn parody was like . As much as I enjoyed that , this film is just too good to miss . It starts with Lisa Ann as Serra Paylin and two Russians . That was funny enough . Then , Holly West plays her intern who has a tryst with Serra's husband . Really good . Serra makes it with an environmentalist , and her old college prof ( Evan Stone - Prof . Lee Teabag in The Da Vinci Load ) as young Serra ( Sindee Jennings ) , and Condi ( Jada Fire ) and Hillary ( Nina Hartley ) in a threesome . But , the ultimate is the last chapter , called Obama Dream , where she is despondent over losing and he arrives on a horse to comfort her . It was fantastic !
Yimou Zhang & Li Gong equals much pleasure	This Oscar-nominated film which was the favorite of many film critics represents the eighth collaboration between Yimou Zhang ( Hero , House of Flying Daggers , Curse of the Golden Flower ) and Li Gong ( Miami Vice , 2046 , Zhou Yu's Train ) . They make an incredible team and this is an incredible movie . It provides an inside look at Chinese custom as four wives fight for the right to have the lanterns lit at their house each night representing whom the Master will sleep with . There are really only three , as the Master is not going to choose old wife number one . Wife number three is a former opera singer and a diva that pouts when not selected , even though she has a backup plan or two . Wife number two is devious and uses others to get what she wants . But , this is about wife number four , who had to become a concubine after the death of her father . It is a magnificent performance by Li Gong and the costuming and set decoration serve to enhance her incredible beauty . I never tire of watching her and can never tore of watching any Yimou Zhang film .
There's only one Johnny Rocco .	What an apt time to revisit an old classic . With Tropical Storm Barry banging at the door , I tune into John Huston's classic . Huston directed and co-wrote ( with Richard Brooks ) this amazing story of gangsters coming up to Key West from Cuba to do a deal in the middle of a storm . Starring the greats Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall , with Edward G . Robinson as Rocco , the quintessential gangster , this was a joy from start to finish . Lionel Barrymore was outstanding as the father wanting to hear about his son from his commanding officer ( Bogart ) , and the gnat that was irritating Rocco . Claire Trevor won her Oscar as the drunken girlfriend . She was magnificent . Not Casablanca , but darn close .
Cleaners need love , too	It is easy to praise the father-daughter relationship that Leon ( Jean Reno ) and Mathilda ( Natalie Portman ) display in this dark and compelling film , but I feel that would be superficial . The relationship appeared to be much deeper - almost sexual - as the two tried to find some meaning in their lives . Leon was just slouching through life doing his job and not caring about much else . A wired cop ( Gary Oldman ) thrust Mathilda into his arms , and he became her protector and trainer . This relationship unfolded slowly and beautifully and was truly a joy to watch . Sure , there was action , but it framed the story , which was really about Leon and Mathilda . Reno and Portman were brilliant and aptly supported by Oldman and Danny Aiello .
It's a long and winding road to Glory	I was discussing affirmative action the other day and encountered the usual argument about those things that happened in our great grandfather's day . Having grown up in the South , I am well aware that many of the things that happened in " my " day are still going on to some extent . I was high enough up the food chain in the military to hear conversations behind closed doors . In the small Arkansas town I grew up in , blacks lived across the tracks and up the hill - they probably still do . A . O . Scott comments in the New York Times about Glory Road : " Glory Road finds its true story at a point where sports history intersects with the struggle for racial equality . The annals of postwar America are full of such moments , but few of them are as astonishing and consequential as the 1966 N . C . A . A . championship game , in which Don Haskins , coach of the Miners of Texas Western ( now known as the University of Texas at El Paso ) , sent five black players onto the floor against Adolph Rupp's all-white University of Kentucky team . " Forget about Josh Lucas , Tatyana Ali , Emily Deschanel , or Jon Voight . They were incidental to the film and could have easily been replaced with others . The story of the Texas Western basketball players in 1966 is what Glory Road is all about . It happened in 1966 . I was a sophomore in High School . I knew no more about Civil Rights or black oppression that the next guy . The only thing I knew for sure was that we used a two-handed set shot , not jumpers or Michael Jordan moves . It's the same criticism that I have of Hoosiers , another great basketball film . It wasn't my great grandfather's day ; it was mine . It still is . If you are not moved by this film , then you are part of what was wrong then and what is not corrected to this day . It was about respect and the need for humans to give each other their due and not dwell on stupidity . We were all cut from the same cloth many many generations ago in Africa . I came to Florida from West Texas and know the area well . Color is not important there when it comes to sports . We've gotten past that . It is time to get past it in other areas of our lives . If Glory Road can help a little bit in that , then it is well worth your time . Well , it's well worth your time anyway as it is a great movie . As Ann Hornaday of the Washington Post said : It's one helluva story , and if this moving , and even thrilling little movie finally brings Haskins and a truly great American sports story to light , then three cheers and hooray .
The real American heroes	Chuck Yeager didn't believe in " The Right Stuff , " even though he had it in spades . A military hero and a top test pilot , he was truly the stuff heroes are made of . Sam Sheppard's portrayal of him in this film may have been exaggerated a bit , but he still was head and shoulders above the rest . Just like Yeager , the Mercury Seven also had " The Right Stuff . " They went up every time not knowing whether or not they would be blown up and not come home - some didn't . They were there in the beginning ; long before Disney made Florida famous , and long before the space program was turned over to scientists . These were military pilots and they borough America into the space age . Anyone who want to know what real heroes are made of and the history of our space program during the Mercury Program should invest the time in seeing this film .
An original concept in horror	You knew that this film was going to be different from the very beginning . When the sentence was read and the crowd reaction , it was obviously something so unspeakable that it would keep you on the very edge of your seat . Then comes the description of Paris : " In the period of which we speak , there reigned in the cities a stench barely conceivable to us modern men and women . Naturally , the stench was foulest in Paris , for Paris was the largest city in Europe . And nowhere in Paris was that stench more profoundly repugnant than in the city's fish-market . It was here then , on the most putrid spot in the whole kingdom , that Jean-Baptiste Grenouille was born on the 17th of July , 1738 . It was his mothers fifth birth , she delivered them all here under her fish-stand , and all had been stillbirths or semi-stillbirths . And by evening the whole mess had been shoveled away with the fish-guts into the river . It would be much the same today , but then . . . Jean-Baptiste chose differently . " To see the conditions under which Jean-Baptiste was born was profoundly repugnant - entrails , rats , filth , maggots - you could smell the stench through the screen , and you could only wonder what horror awaits from someone born into these conditions . What follow is not some story in the tradition of Saw or Hostel , but a horror tale told amid beauty . A man ( Ben Whishaw ) in relentless pursuit of a legend told to him by master perfumer Giuseppe Baldini ( Dustin Hoffman ) . A dream that brought him to the door of the exquisite beauty Laura ( Rachel Hurd-Wood ) , who , among the 12 virgins that perished in quest , seemed to be the culmination of a dream . And , despite the efforts of her father ( Alan Rickman in a magnificent performance ) , was to provide the ultimate rebirth of the legend . But , like all , he realized that nothing can top that first love ( Karoline Herfurth ) that was now denied to him and was discontent . What else to do but return to the source of life in disappointment .
What a cast !	Sidney Lumet has one more great film before he left us . He took Kelly Masterson's first screenplay and gave it to Albert Finney , Rosemary Harris , Ethan Hawke , Philip Seymour Hoffman , Brian F . O'Byrne , Amy Ryan , Michael Shannon , and Marisa Tomei . They performed magnificently and he directed flawlessly in a caper classic that is more than a caper . I will never get tired of looking at Marissa's perky Tomeis , and I fail to see why Philip Seymour Hoffman wanted anything more . Just being with her should be enough to satisfy anyone . You landed the perfect trophy wife , not enjoy your good fortune . But , he wants a do-over , and plans a caper with his loser brother , Ethan Hawke . Why would anything go right ? he is suddenly going to grow a brain ? In fact , watching Hawke play this character was really painful . The world is an evil place . Some make money and some get destroyed , often while some are making money . The family of Albert Finney is a picture of the world , and it is not a pretty picture to see as it unravels . I am sure that many will see themselves or people they know in this film , as it is so real it is scary .
Nothing new here	Academy Award winning director and writer Michael Moore gives us a visual and auditory treat as we look at the lies and deception of the Bush Administration and their handling of the events post , including the theft of our personal liberties with The Patriot Act . There is nothing new here to those who pay attention to what is going on in America . Political columnists like the late Molly Ivins and others have kept us abreast of the machinations of the Bush family . We know how George Bush has benefited with his relationships to the Saudis and seeing them get special treatment was no surprise . We know that Crogress doesn't read what they vote on , and many of us knew that the Patriot Act was written prior to . But , what Moore does is wrap everything up in a nice neat package that is easy for the uninformed to digest and learn . He is a master at using humor to make a political point . This film should be watched every year on his birthday . Besides that , we get to see again just what a twit Britney Spears is .
Why would you want to do this ?	Now , why would anyone want to live with grizzlies ? I keep driving down the roads near where I live and hope one day to spot a Florida black bear , but I have no intention of moving to the Ocala Forest and have them looking in my window . I leave that to the Rainbow people and those who are avoiding society for some reason - maybe because they have meth labs in their kitchen . But , for 13 years , Treadwell spent his summers with the grizzlies . This was his mission in life - a life that was scarred by alcohol and drug abuse . He found some peace in the wilderness and overcame his addictions . That's great , but you are still living with grizzlies ! The footage he left us was tremendous , and it certainly added to the film and made it a pleasurable experience , but , make no mistake , this film is not about grizzlies , but about Treadwell . He was an interesting character , and I do mean he was a character in every sense of the word . I would not doubt that he was probably bi-polar and , had he been on meds , would not have done this . But , like many of us , the level feeling produced by meds is not the personality we wish to exhibit and so we quit them . I was fascinated by his paranoia at the end . At one point he used the F-word so many times ( hence , the " R " rating ) that I thought I was watching Tony Montana in Scarface . It was a great film and certainly deserving of the numerous awards given to it and to the director , Werner Herzog . If I was not already rooting for March of the Penguins , I would hope it won an Oscar . Maybe it will at least get a nomination .
An amazing story of history and freedom	While theatergoers in 1997 were being amazed by special effects on another ship , this magnificent story given to us by the master director Steven Spielberg gives us the true story of our country and what it means to be American . We are not free as long as one of us is in chains . As John Quincy Adams ( Anthony Hopkins ) so eloquently put it , " . . . what are we to do with that embarrassing , annoying document , The Declaration of Independence ? What of its conceits ? " All men created equal , " " inalienable rights , " " life , liberty , " and so on and so forth ? " The Civil War was , indeed , the last battle of The American Revolution . What a cast ! You can search for Fool's Gold or you can watch Matthew McConaughey in her greatest performance as the lawyer who risked it all . Djimon Hounsou may Never Back Down this year , as he certainly didn't in this film . Morgan Freeman certainly knows about " Freedom : A History of Us " and he helped the Africans find theirs . One of the very best films I have ever seen .
Who wasn't in this ?	Wow ! Are you a Tim Robbins fan ? He was the lead . Do you like Greta Scacchi ? She was there , too . How about Fred Ward ? Count him in . I really like Vincent D'Onofrio . Sorry about that , Vince . Wacky for Whoopi ? No problem , she was a hoot . Hey , there's Lyle Lovett . Where's Julia Roberts ? Oh , she's there too . Bruce Willis was there to save the day as usual . And there's Andie MacDowell . I loved her in Four Weddings and a Funeral . I could go on and on , but you get the idea . This was more the Acadamy Awards than a movie . It had everyone . I didn't even scratch the surface . Did I mention that Gina Gershon was there , too ? I loved her in that movie with Jennifer Tilly . Hot ! And , Dean Stockwell - funny . It had everything you want in a movie also : romance , sex , nudity , murder , suspense , and , of course , an ending that Hollywood would be proud of . I can't believe I never saw this picture before . I turned it on just to see Bruce Willis , and I was captivated . I've never been a Robert Altman fan , but this was superb ! Sorry if I left one of your favorites out , but I'd be here all day .
Earth , man . What a shithole .	Amélie director Jean-Pierre Jeunet did a fantastic job and gave us the best Alien film of the lot . I loved the first two , but this was so much more . First , there was the lighting . It may seem trivial to some , but this film was much more enjoyable due to the fact that everything didn't happen in the dark . I do not think the darkness enhances the thrill of the series . The creatures are awesome themselves , and the new creature was magnificent . Seeing them in brilliant lighting made them even more thrilling . Sigourney Weaver and Winona Ryder were awesome together . They made an almost erotic team and I loved seeing them act . The " too humane to be human " line was a stroke of genius . I have always liked Gary Dourdan , and he did well in this film - a positive addition to the cast . And , no one could have done General Perez better than Dan Hedaya . Really enjoyed this one !
For the many unsung heroes who resisted the Communist regime ,	An absolutely brilliant film by writer / director Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck . His first feature film was more than deserving of the awards it receives , especially last year's Oscar . Ulrich Mühe totally captivated me by his performance as the Stassi agent trying to please his boss , who was trying to get a promotion by helping a Minister get a lover , the incredibly beautiful and talented Martina Gedeck ( The Good Shepard ) . The fact that government officials would use their office for carnal purposes would not surprise anyone but the most naive , but the pervasiveness of the State into the lives of the East Germans was something that was incredible to believe . The fact that good people are forced into doing something that is opposed to their nature by constant forces was a major theme , but the most important thing shown by Captain Wiesler ( Mühe ) was that even the most evil can find some good in them and sacrifice themselves for others . It was inspiring and captivating to watch .
This here's Miss Bonnie Parker . I'm Clyde Barrow . We rob banks .	I just had a hankering to go back and look at some of the classics of 40 years ago . This film was one of the adult films made in 1967 before the MPAA took over . Warren Beatty made this classic and also starred in it . t was innovative and a powerful drama about two outlaws : Clyde Barrow ( Beatty ) and Bonnie Parker ( Faye Dunaway ) . It was innovative in that it was a violent film . Sure , we have films like Scarface now , but not in 1967 . Not only did the film have Beatty and Dunaway , who turned out Oscar-worthy performances , but also Michael J . Pollard , Gene Hackman , and Estelle parson's who did win an Oscar for her supporting part . This was not only a best movie for 1967 , it stands the test of time .
Not for the feint of heart	I cannot recall seeing any other Romanian film , but if this is what we have to look forward to from writer / director Cristian Mungiu , then we will have some great pieces of art coming from that country . I will not pretend to have any idea of what a woman ( Laura Vasiliu ) goes through in having an abortion , but I have a better idea after watching this film about a woman going through a " back alley " procedure . It is not just about abortion . It is also a strong and powerful statement of friendship and what it truly means . There is no way that Otilia ( Anamaria Marinca ) is a " fair weather " friend . She experienced the same pain as her friend . She was there for her . Watching this , one can only realize the importance of being there for all women . As the forces of evil want to return us back to pre-Roe days , just like Communist Romania , we have to be eternally vigilant lest these procedures once again become common in our country and women are mistreated as they are in this film . This is the most powerful film I have ever seen . It will wrench your gut and really cause you to experience some emotions that you'd really not wish to experience . Strongly recommended !
Outstanding study of the difficulty of change	Kevin Bacon was fantastic . His torture was appropriate for someone trying to expel the demons that haunted him . Parents might also be warned that these demons are not easily expelled , as he had been in prison for 12 years and was still struggling . In fact , the recidivism rate for sex offenders is about 14 percent , although the percentage is much higher for pedophiles attracted to boys and for rapists . Of course , here in Florida , he would not be living across from a school . In fact , two cities are trying to make their laws so restrictive that he might have to live in the middle of a swamp and worry about alligators . Some would think that fitting for his crimes . I was more interested in the struggle he was going through , and not the crime that got him there . I have worked with many of his type and nothing could ever explain why . I do not believe it possible to change , and the struggle here is evidence of that . With a good friend and a caring brother-in-law , and lots of therapy , he may have a chance , however slim , but I still like the cop , superbly played by Mos Def to keep an eye on him . I understand that this was the first major film directed by Nicole Kassell , and she also wrote the screenplay . Both were brilliant . Word of advice . If Eve ever offers you a chicken salad sandwich , take it . She definitely doesn't like to be turned down !
What does Iraq want ?	You cannot watch this movie without thinking about that question . What do they expect to get out of this war ? A gross mistake by us , it will not end until we find the answer to that question . In this film , Iranian film maker Bahman Ghobadi takes a look at this question , through the eyes of children . In a refugee camp along the Iraq / Turkish border early in 2003 , what they want is a satellite dish . They want the satellite dish so that they can pick up a foreign news broadcast . They so desperately wish for a foreign news broadcast so that they can watch the advance of US troops into Iraq to take out Saddam Hussein . Satellite ( Soran Ebrahim ) , the chief racketeer of his village cum refugee camp , calls the shots . He finds work for his pack of orphaned children , he deals in retrieved land mines , and he is the unofficial census taker of his domain . So , when a mysterious girl , armless boy and blind baby show up together in the camp , Satellite is the first to take notice . The strange trio turn out to be the center of the news starved hovel - the boy can foresee the future and the girl with the baby are walking , talking records of the brutal past . I loved this film . It was funny , had a child's insight and was well worth the time .
I'll dream of you , Officer Yan .	One cannot relate all the superlatives of this film without the risk of missing something . This is the film " The Departed " wanted to be when they tried to duplicate it - - they didn't come close . Felix Chong and Siu Fai Mak wrote this incredible story of and undercover cop in the mob , and an undercover mobster on the police force ( Andy Lau ) . Directors Wai Keung Lau and Siu Fai Mak ( again ) did not waste one second of the hour and a half that this story runs . The sound was superlative . The art direction , cinematography , music , visual effects and editing were top notch , and the action choreography was the equal of any Chinese action film - just breathtaking ! And then there is Tony Leung ( Jet Li's Hero , Hard Boiled ) as Yan and Anthony Wong as SP Wong . What could you possibly say that hasn't been said in the over 100 reviews of their performances ? If you liked The Departed , then check out the original . You will not be disappointed .
Cinema at it's finest .	Seldom do we get to see such a beautiful and moving picture . Director Julian Schnabel ( Before Night Falls ) and writer Ronald Harwood ( The Pianist ) gave us a story that warms the heart and makes us appreciate just what we have in life . " . . . two things aren't paralyzed , my imagination and my memory . " We get to share both in a fashion that was dazzling , largely due to the outstanding camera work of Janusz Kaminski ( Saving Private Ryan , Schilndler's list ) . Kaminski's work makes me more excited to see Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull , on which he also did the cinematography . Mathieu Amalric was magnificent as Jean-Dominique ' Jean-Do ' Bauby . Even when he was imagining , we saw almost everything through his eyes . Schnabel gave us a perspective that made the acting of Amalric seem so real . Emmanuelle Seigner ( La Vie en rose , The Ninth Gate ) was also magnificent as the mother of Jean-Do's children . There was always a sensuality present in her appearances , and the scene where she had to translate a cal from his latest mistress was excruciating to watch . Anne Consigny was also amazing to watch as Claude , who translated the book for Jean-Do . This is one of the best films I have seen this years - no , it is the BEST film I have seen this year .
Oh man , the sht piled up so fast in Vietnam you needed wings to stay above it .	This film deserved every single award it got , and deserved some that it didn't get . The winners for Best Picture and Best Director and best supporting Actor paled in comparison to this film and Driector Francis Ford Coppola , and Robert Duvall's portrayal as Lt Col Kilgore . Duvall's performance was just one of some really great performances in this film . Martin Sheen held it all together ; a young Laurence Fishburne , Albert Hall , Aurore Clément in her prime , Dennis Hopper , so many more that it is hard to mention them . Naturally , we have to mention the absolutely brilliant performance of Marlon Brando . The music and cinematography were first rate , worthy of the many accolades they received . " The Ride of the Valkyries " will forever be associated with this film . The stunt work was also superb . Every aspect of this film stands out as a classic right up there with Gone With the Wind .
You can't stop what's coming .	West Texas is a perfect setting for a movie like this - - no trees , just desolate land for miles around . The chicken farmer ( Richard Jackson ) was from Alpine - a place in the middle of nowhere with a long long stretch of road that literally - I kid you not - has turkey buzzards on the fence posts along the way . Annie Proulx ( Brokeback Mountain ) described it perfectly in her 2002 book , " That Old Ace in the Hole . " I've been gone from there for five years , but it hadn't changed much from the 1980 setting in the film , an I suspect it hasn't changed much more . Llewelyn Moss , played brilliantly by Josh Brolin ( Grindhouse , Hollow Man ) thought he hit the jackpot . But , he didn't account for Anton Chigurh ( Javier Bardem ) . Chigurh was methodical , intelligent and psychotic . He is the human equivalent of the terminator robot after John Conner . Those who believe in souls would not say that Chigurg has one . Tommy Lee Jones ( The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada , U . S . Marshals ) is a tired sheriff that comes from a long line of lawmen . He knows that he is no match for Chigurg . It's not Richard Kimble or Mark Sheridan he's chasing , but a man who has no match . The dialog is dry and things are not always explained . There is constant tension knowing what may lie on the other side of the door . Jones ' buddy Ellis had it down : Whatcha got ain't nothing new . " This country's hard on people , you can't stop what's coming , it ain't all waiting on you . That's vanity . " Dying with your boots on is still dying .
It wasn't only Jews !	I would imagine that 99 % of those questioned would think that only Jews were killed in the Nazi death camps . In fact , gypsies , homosexuals , politicals , and Jehovah's Witnesses were also given special stars and faced extermination . There are only about 10 homosexuals left from this tragedy , and they interviewed eight for this special film . It was incredible and moving and , if you are not touched by their stories , then you are cast in stone . The film did mentioned that this punishment was reserved primarily for men , but they did not explain why . I wouldn't take anything away for that , but it should have been discussed as they had many lesbians in the movie . Did they just want to show nude women ? Gratuitous monties ? I remember my visit to Dachau and the memories I have of this shame on humanity . This film will have to hold me until I can get to the Holocaust Museum in Washington to see more . It is not to be missed and everyone should be checking HBO to see when it plays next .
Beautiful Opera	If you want to see a perfect example of Chinese acting , storytelling and cinematography ( Christopher Doyle ) , as well as one of the best directors in the business , then you can't go wrong with Hero . It won 21 awards ( It should have won 23 , but the Golden Globes and Academy voters were idiots ! ) Director Yimou Zhang ( House of Flying Dragons , Curse of the Golden Flower ) has given us a stunning ballet of China two thousand years ago . The cast includes some of the very best in Chinese movie epics and includes Jet Li ( KIss of the Dragon , Romeo Must Die ) in his greatest role ; Tony Leung Chiu Wai ( Infernal Affairs or the real " Departed " ) ; Ziyi Zhang ( Memoirs of a Geisha , TMNT ) ; and Maggie Cheung ( 2046 ) . Like great opera , this film bears watching over and over .
I'm Al Gore , I used to be the next president of the United States .	In The Da Vinci Load , Dr . Nadia Saint decries bad sperm and asks " Why is Goerge Bush president ? " It may be because of bad sperm , but it more likely because of the machinations of Jeb Bush and Katherine Harris that the star of this film , Al Gore , is not out current President . Say what you will about his wooden manner , but he has spent years studying the facts and travels the world to present them so that we may take action . I am convinced that we would not be taking about the topic of global warming as we currently are , were it not for Al Gore and this film . If you watch no other documentary in your lifetime , then you should be watching this one .
War is not for children .	The total estimated human loss of life caused by World War II , irrespective of political alignment , was roughly 72 million people . This figure includes military and civilian . It includes six million Jews exterminated by the Nazi , and it includes the over 200 , 000 who died on August 6th and 9th as the bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki . As one of the children born in Japan during its occupation after the war , I feel a special affinity for the country and its people . As one of those who are concerned about the fate of the world , I feel a special affinity for this film , as it shows the utter horror that can occur when we are relentless in our drive to develop new and more powerful weapons . It can be argued that the number of deaths caused by the war would be much higher had these 200 , 000 not been sacrificed , but the larger concern is that we have 400 , 000 times the power today than that which was unleashed 62 years ago . That should concern every citizen in the World . This was a moving and powerful documentary . The horrors shown were sometimes hard to stomach . They equal the most horrific horror films on the market today . The part most difficult to think about is that horror films are mostly for adult , but the horrors of these bombings were experienced by children as young as six . To see your mother crumble to dust in front of you is a pain that is incomprehensible . It is so horrific that some children could not take it and ended their lives . To see children with horrific burns all over their bodies , in excruciating pain for many months , with no relief and wanting to die will touch the hardest hearts . Many questioned if we were ready for a film like United 93 so soon after September 11th . This film took 62 years before it was decided we were ready . It would be a crime not to see it for yourself .
I am big . It's the pictures that got small .	Released the same year that I was , this magnificent film ( # 16 on AFI's 2007 Top-100 Movies ) was the greatest of Billy Wilder's many achievements . Wilder enraged the big-wigs in Hollywood with his film . It would probably won many more Oscars had the voters been honest and not let their hurt feelings get in the way . Gloria Swanson was magnificent as a silent film star wanting to return to movies . The fact that she was a real silent film star made it all the more incredible . She dominated the screen every time she appeared . Her co-star , William Holden ( Stalag 17 , Network ) , was equally brilliant as a hack screenwriter who allowed himself to be kept by Swanson . The sets and music were beyond compare . The cinematography was brilliant . Actor / Director Erich von Stroheim played the butler flawlessly . This was only Nancy Olsen's third film , and she played Betty like a veteran . There have been so many great things written about this film , that I can only sound like a parrot , but to see Wilder at his best and some of Hollywood's greats from the silent and contract period , this film is a must .
I shall make you the greatest king that ever lived	When I heard that Ray Winstone was cast as Beowulf and was only 5 ' 5 " , I wondered why . Seeing him act , I have no doubts that they knew what they were doing . The benefit of CGI and Motion capture puts a great actor in a mythic role . A perfect fit . Another perfect fit was Angelina Jolie as Grendel's mother . I mean she was just an animated figure , but Oh what an animated figure . Angelina never looked so beautiful as she did here . There is no doubt why no one could resist her charms . The movie was just an incredible experience with fine actors ( Anthony Hopkins , John Malkovich , and a really believable Crispin Glover , as well as Winstone and Jolie ) , and an ending battle that will leave you breathless . The beauty of this film is something to behold . Robert Zemeckis has outdone himself and told a tale that will last until some greater technology comes along . We have a true hero her - it is Beowulf !
He should just be castrated . Just snip , quick and easy .	Todd Field ( Eyes Wide Shut ) presents a slice of life in suburbia that is both fascinating and sad . This is the first time that I have watched a movie where a narrator ( Will Lyman ) provided hints as to what was going on . It worked beautifully as I felt that I was watching an anthropological study on suburban life , much as watching gorillas in the jungle . In our study we see : a trio of suburban wives that thought they were special and shunned outsiders ; a wife ( Kate Winslet ) that was disconnected from her husband ( Gregg Edelman ) , who spent his time on porn sites with panties over his head ; an immature husband ( Patrick Wilson ) that had a wife ( Jennifer Connelly ) that was married to her work and her child ; and , to make things really interesting , the conflict between a disgraced cop and a newly released sexual predator ( Jackie Earle Haley ) . It was touching , bizarre , amusing , and aggravating . It was just what makes a movie that you want to watch over and over to see what else is in there . Winslet was absolutely magnificent , and Haley was perfectly cast . They both really made this film .
Thank Heaven for little girls .	It has to be unprecedented . Like the 1972 Miami Dolphins . Nine Oscar nominations and nine wins : Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Black-and-White or Color ; Best Cinematography , Color ; Best Costume Design , Black-and-White or Color ; Best Director - Vincente Minnelli ; Best Film Editing ; Best Music , Original Song for the song " Gigi " ; Best Music , Scoring of a Musical Picture - André Previn ; Best Picture ; and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium - Alan Jay Lerner . One of the greatest musicals of all time with incomparable stars like Leslie Caron ( The L-Shaped Room , Lili ) , Maurice Chevalier ( The Big Pond , The Love Parade ) , and Louis Jourdan ( The First Olympics : Athens 1896 , Octopussy ) . The sights and sounds of this film will stay forever , and the songs we all know are repeated here : " Thank Heaven for Little Girls " , " It's a Bore " , and " I Remember It Well " . What a show !
Exceeded all expectations	I know back in the day when I listened to Air America that Rachel Maddow was something special . She impressed me then as someone who had a keen grasp of what was happening and could translate it into terms that anyone could understand . I believe that it is not only her impressive academic credentials that contribute to this , but a serious work ethic that causes her to do copious research on a subject . This was evident as I watched her tonight . She knew her stuff ! She is a charming personality that makes the news worth watching . The mainstream media on every evening during dinner can learn a lot from her . So , skip Charlie and Brian and Katie , and get you news from Rachel . You will be a better informed American .
An exciting tale of espionage	When I think of a Paul Verhoeven film , I think of excitement - Total Recall , Flesh+Blood , Robocop , etc . He hits another home run with this tale of the Dutch resistance against the Nazis and the sacrifice made by one woman ( Carice van Houten ) to avenge the death of her family . Van Houten , who we will see again as Tom Cruise's wife in Valkyrie ( although we will certainly not see her to the extent that we saw here here ) , was magnificent and really made this picture . There was a superb cast of supporting characters that made Gerard Soeteman's and Verhoeven's story come alive on the screen . Nobody stand out like Van Houten , and she made this one of the best film experiences of the year .
I am Shiva , the god of death .	This is an adult film in every sense of the word . If you are looking for car chases or flatulace or crude sexal humor , go elsewhere . The poker games that Michael Clayton George Clooney ) take part in are a means to control a life that appears way out of control . His investments are bad , his custody of his son is hanging on , and he really doesn't have much of a life . His job is to fix things for a big law firm . A janitor , as he describes it , not a moracle worker . He is called in by the senior partner ( Sydney Pollack ) to fix a proble with the firm's big litgator ( Tom Wilkinson ) who appears to have goon off the farm . While he is fixing the problem , the firm's client , headed by Tilda Swinton , is trying to fix things as well , but she hires people who have no morals . Clayton ends up in the middle , making his life more of a mess . Back to the poker game , but this time as metaphor for his battle with Swinton . They are both raising the stakes while trying to figure out if the other is bluffing . Remember these names : George Clooney , Tom Wilkinson , Tilda Swinton , and Sydney Pollack . You will hear them again come awards time ; especiallly the first two . Trust me on that .
A visual and auditory feast !	I hadn't watched The Phantom of the Opera even though it had been on my shelf since the day it was released on DVD . I bought it for my wife because she was in love with Andrew Lloyd Webber's music . I think she was more in love with the Michael Crawford CD . She can dream of Michael Crawford as long as she doesn't mind me dreaming of Halle Berry . I like Webber's music also , especially Evita and the end title song from Notting Hill , but I was not prepared for the visual and auditory feast that was The Phantom of the Opera . The sets were magnificent , especially the graveyard and the catacombs , which seemed to go on forever . The singing by Gerard Butler and Emmy Rossum was incredible ! And Rossum's beauty was a real feast for the eyes , as was Jennifer Ellison . This is a love story for the ages and I anticipate watching and listening to it many times . In fact , there is a 2-disc DVD available with an extra scene , and I want it all !
Film Magic	2004 was a great year for films . This was one of the very best . Don't just take my word for it ; look at the 27 nominations and 20 wins it took . Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu must have been practicing for Babel . They have a similar style of telling three interlocking stories , but Babel flowed a little more smoothly that 21 Grams . That is not a criticism of this film . You need to invest your time to follow along . It takes a little more work than most movie goers are used to , but it is worth it . I got distracted the first time I tried and had to stop and start all over . I'm glad I did . The acting by Sean Penn , Benicio Del Toro , and Naomi Watts was over the top . All three put in first-class performances to tell a story that was intense from start to finish . What can I say that all the film critics have not said ? Invest your time in this film to see great actors and a great director work magic .
